{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Welcome to the Ubuntu Local Community (LoCo) team project!'''

With the incredible success of Ubuntu around the world, the LoCo project is here to help groups of Ubuntu fans and enthusiasts work together in regional teams to help advocate, promote, translate, develop and otherwise improve Ubuntu. Our worldwide network of LoCo teams is providing a strong backbone to our already vast and extensive Ubuntu community. Why not go and <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/|see the full list of teams]]</nowiki>!

* '''I want to JOIN a LoCo team!''' - To join a LoCo team, take a look at the <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamJoining|Joining]]</nowiki> page and get in touch with the contact of the team you want to join.
* '''I want to START a LoCo team!''' - To start a team, or contribute to one, read the <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamHowto|LoCo Team HOWTO]]</nowiki>!

=== I Want to Get Involved!! ===

Outstanding! Hop on over to <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net?channels=ubuntu-locoteams|#ubuntu-locoteams]]</nowiki>. It's where the LoCo enthusiasts like to hang out. No, you don't have to be a leader, we won't bite, we swear!

It's a great place to chat to other members from different teams, get ideas off them and learn how other teams interact.  Why not join and idle and learn from one another. 

Encourage your team to join this channel, by adding it to your wiki information on IRC, or in your channel topic also. 

=== Loco Team Directory ===
The <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com|Loco Team Directory]]</nowiki> or LD for short, is code that is developed by 
The LoCo Directory Developers.The LoCo Team Directory is a central place where you can find information regarding LoCo Teams.
=== Why Local Teams? ===

Ever since the birth of computers, enthusiasts and fans around the world have collected together in garages, universities and pubs to talk about their interest, learn from each other and help promote their interest. Combine this with the huge popularity of Ubuntu, and you have the Ubuntu LoCo project.

There are a huge number of Ubuntu LoCo teams spread out across the world including Australia, Belgium, Chile, China, Croatia, The Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Italy, Hungary, Japan, Kurdistan, Netherlands, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain and Latin America, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Tunisia, United Kingdom, United States and many, many more places. See <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/|the full list]]</nowiki>.

=== Things to do! ===

* '''LoCo Docs Day''' - we held our LoCo documentation day on Saturday 3rd March 2007 in #ubuntu-locoteams on Freenode. See LoCoDocsDay for details.
* '''LoCo IRC Meetings ''' - we have regular meetings to discuss the LoCo project. See LoCoTeamMeeting for details, agenda and more!
* '''Ubuntu IRC Events''' - The calendar of Ubuntu events held each cycle are a great way to involve people. See UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek, UbuntuOpenWeek, UbuntuDeveloperWeek, UbuntuCommunityWeek and UbuntuDeveloperWeek for details.
