{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== LoCo Team Regions ==

Every team in the Lo``Co project covers a certain geographical region. This can vary from some teams who cover a state or some teams who cover an entire country. How do you decide what size region your Lo``Co should cover? This document aims to explain some of these issues.

There is no single rule of thumb for how big an area a Lo``Co team should cover. For some countries it makes sense to divide LoCos at a state level (such as the USA), but for some regions it makes sense for each Lo``Co team to be at a country level (such as countries in Europe).

=== How to figure out which region you cover ===

To determine which region you should cover, follow these steps:

* '''Step 1''' - Look at the ''Region Guidelines'' below and see how your area is categorized. Always try to remain in these guidelines.
* '''Step 2''' - Look at the LoCoTeamsList and see if an existing team exists in your area. If a team does exist, get in touch with the contact and work together.
* '''Step 3''' - If a team does not exist in your area, follow the details in LoCoTeamHowto to create your group.

If you are unsure, get in touch with the LoCo Council at loco-council@lists.ubuntu.com.

==== Covering smaller regions inside existing teams ====

If you would like to set up a Lo``Co team for a smaller region (such as a county or town district), you should work to do this within the existing wider team. As an example, within the ubuntu-uk team some people may want to organise regional meetings around Northampton. This should not be done as a seperate ubuntu-northampton team but as part of the ubuntu-uk team.

It is recommended that each team has a page with regional meetings within that area. This allows closely matched Ubuntu users to meet up and have closer regional meetings.

'''The Lo``Co project always seeks to work within existing team structures where possible. If a team for your area already exists, do try to work with them.'''

== Region Guidelines ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Area'''
| '''Recommendation'''
| '''Example'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| USA
| State Level
| ubuntu-us-tx
| Each team should cover a state in the US
|-
| Russia
| Federal subject Level
| ubuntu-ru-loco-spb
| Each team should cover <nowiki>[[http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%A1%D1%83%D0%B1%D1%8A%D0%B5%D0%BA%D1%82_%D0%A0%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%81%D0%B8%D0%B9%D1%81%D0%BA%D0%BE%D0%B9_%D0%A4%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B0%D1%86%D0%B8%D0%B8|a federal subject]]</nowiki> in Russia
|-
| Europe
| Country Level
| ubuntu-uk
| Each team should cover a full country
|-
| Africa
| Country Level
| ubuntu-za
| Each team should cover a full country
|}

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
