{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: Ubuntu LoCo Team 12th February 2018 monthly meeting, 12 Feb at 20:04 &mdash; 21:14 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2018/ubuntu-meeting.2018-02-12-20.04.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''Vote:'' MyanmarTeam 1 month extension to update application (Carried)
==== Ubuntu Switzerland LoCo re-verification ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Switzerland LoCo re-verification" started at 20:41.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/PastActivities goes to 2013
** ''Vote:'' Provisional 1 month extension for SwissTeam and move application process to Launchpad. (Carried)
** ''Vote:'' Position statement: political activism that is related to Ubuntu, Free Software, or Open Source Software is acceptable, in accordance with each LoCo team's interest and their local laws. (Carried)

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2018/ubuntu-meeting.2018-02-12-20.04.log.html#226 Position statement: political activism that is related to Ubuntu, Free Software, or Open Source Software is acceptable, in accordance with each LoCo team's interest and their local laws.]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/1)
** Voters kyrofa, Letozaf_, Gsilvapt_, nhaines, kenvandine
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2018/ubuntu-meeting.2018-02-12-20.04.log.html#128 MyanmarTeam 1 month extension to update application]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/1/0)
** Voters kyrofa, Gsilvapt_, Letozaf_, kenvandine, nhaines
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2018/ubuntu-meeting.2018-02-12-20.04.log.html#173 Provisional 1 month extension for SwissTeam and move application process to Launchpad.]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 5/0/0)
** Voters kyrofa, Gsilvapt_, Letozaf_, kenvandine, nhaines
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2018/ubuntu-meeting.2018-02-12-20.04.log.html#112 for Myanmar LoCo Team re-verification]]</nowiki>
** Deadlock (For/Against/Abstained 0/0/0)

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* meetingology (55)
* Letozaf_ (39)
* kyrofa (34)
* kenvandine (34)
* nhaines (33)
* kokoye2007 (26)
* Gsilvapt_ (23)
* thohi (5)
* krofa (0)
* gsilvapt (0)

=== Full Log ===

 20:04 <Letozaf_> #startmeeting <Ubuntu Loco Team monthly meeting>

 20:04 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 12 20:04:03 2018 UTC.  The chair is Letozaf_. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:04 <meetingology> 

 20:04 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 20:05 <Letozaf_> #chair <Letozaf> <krofa> <gsilvapt> <nhaines> <kenvandine>

 20:05 <meetingology> Warning: Nick not in channel: <Letozaf>

 20:05 <meetingology> Warning: Nick not in channel: <krofa>

 20:05 <meetingology> Warning: Nick not in channel: <gsilvapt>

 20:05 <meetingology> Warning: Nick not in channel: <nhaines>

 20:05 <meetingology> Warning: Nick not in channel: <kenvandine>

 20:05 <meetingology> Current chairs: <Letozaf> <gsilvapt> <kenvandine> <krofa> <nhaines> Letozaf_

 20:05 <kyrofa> Letozaf_, don't include the brackets

 20:05 <Letozaf_> oooh...

 20:05 <kyrofa> That syntax indicates a placeholder

 20:05 <Letozaf_> lets try again

 20:05 <Letozaf_> thanks

 20:06 <Letozaf_> #chair Letozaf_ krofa gsilvapt nhaines kenvandine

 20:06 <meetingology> Warning: Nick not in channel: krofa

 20:06 <meetingology> Current chairs: <Letozaf> <gsilvapt> <kenvandine> <krofa> <nhaines> Letozaf_ gsilvapt kenvandine krofa nhaines

 20:06 <Letozaf_> #chair kyrofa

 20:06 <meetingology> Current chairs: <Letozaf> <gsilvapt> <kenvandine> <krofa> <nhaines> Letozaf_ gsilvapt kenvandine krofa kyrofa nhaines

 20:06 <nhaines> #unchair <Letozaf> <gsilvapt> <kenvandine> <krofa> <nhaines>

 20:06 <meetingology> Current chairs: Letozaf_ gsilvapt kenvandine krofa kyrofa nhaines

 20:06 <Letozaf_> sorry for the mess

 20:07 <nhaines> All better.  :D

 20:07 <kyrofa> Unchair that krofa fellow and you're good

 20:07 <Letozaf_> #unchair krofa

 20:07 <meetingology> Current chairs: Letozaf_ gsilvapt kenvandine kyrofa nhaines

 20:07 <Letozaf_> is someone missing ?

 20:07 <kyrofa> Nope, I think we're good

 20:08 <Letozaf_> For the topics, shall I get them from the Wiki ?

 20:08 <kyrofa> Indeed, from our agenda

 20:09 <Letozaf_> #meetingtopic Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team re-verification

 20:10 <Letozaf_> #meetingtopic Ubuntu Switzerland LoCo Team re-verification

 20:10 <kyrofa> Letozaf_, ah, one at a time

 20:10 <kokoye2007> :)

 20:10 <kyrofa> Once we finish one, change the topic, etc.

 20:10 <Letozaf_> I was just wondering that

 20:10 <Letozaf_> :)

 20:10 <Letozaf_> let's do it again, ok ?

 20:11 <kyrofa> Sure thing

 20:11 <Letozaf_> #meetingtopic Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team re-verification

 20:11 <kyrofa> Alright, everyone take a few moments to look over the Myanmar application. Note that the URL is incorrect, including wiki.ubuntu.com too many times

 20:11 <kyrofa> Do we have anyone from the Myanmar LoCo here?

 20:12 <nhaines> The correct URL is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MyanmarTeam/VerificationApplication2017

 20:12 <kenvandine> i noticed the wiki page hasn't been updated since november

 20:12 <kokoye2007> yes me

 20:12 <thohi> yes .

 20:12 <kenvandine> hi kokoye2007!

 20:12 <kyrofa> Indeed, nothing seems to have changed at all since November

 20:12 <kenvandine> and thohi!

 20:12 <kenvandine> but we have representatives here this month, woot!

 20:12 <kokoye2007> we need update for 2018 3 event

 20:12 <kyrofa> Very nice, welcome kokoye2007 and thohi

 20:13 <kyrofa> kokoye2007, how about 2017? Did anything happen?

 20:14 <kokoye2007> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-mm/events/history/

 20:14 <Letozaf_> I see some pictures here : https://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntu-mm/pool/ about the 17.10 release party

 20:14 <kokoye2007> 19 event and still need update

 20:15 <nhaines> Lots of activity there.  Were those events not important enough to be considered in the verification application?

 20:15 <Letozaf_> maybe we didn't see them then

 20:16 <kyrofa> Letozaf_, they're _still_ not on the application :)

 20:16 <kenvandine> great turnout for the 17.10 release party

 20:16 <kokoye2007> thanks

 20:17 <kokoye2007> we make a lot of event and distribution

 20:17 <thohi> We make other open source and open data events use with "contributed by Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team".

 20:17 <kokoye2007> we never missed release party

 20:18 <thohi> Is that also options for good ?

 20:19 <thohi> If we put such events , We said in local Ubuntu is everywhere :)

 20:19 <kyrofa> Just to remind everyone about our previous review, here are the relevant minutes: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-12-11-20.07.log.html#l-63

 20:20 <kenvandine> kyrofa, thx

 20:21 <kenvandine> kokoye2007, thohi: it would be nice to list those events on the re-verification

 20:21 <kyrofa> kokoye2007, thohi the questions that are coming up this time are the same: it seems you're active, but your application still looks incomplete, the most recent event being in 2016

 20:21 <kokoye2007> wooo

 20:21 <kokoye2007> thanks for kindly

 20:21 <kokoye2007> we missed this re application meeting

 20:22 <kyrofa> kokoye2007, and you put yourselves on the agenda last month as well, with no changes

 20:22 <kokoye2007> bcz of timezones and date. apologize. sorry

 20:22 <kyrofa> We gave you this time to prepare your application, and I personally see no changes

 20:22 <kenvandine> agreed

 20:22 <kenvandine> we can see activity though, but it's not being documented on the reverification

 20:23 <kokoye2007> yes. it's my bad

 20:24 <kokoye2007> try to collect best event and photo. I still open in re application wiki edit

 20:24 <kokoye2007> also we make user guide in local language

 20:26 <kokoye2007> hello

 20:26 <kokoye2007> ubuntumm.sf.net

 20:26 <nhaines> kokoye2007: it doesn't look like the reverification application mentions a local language user guide.

 20:28 <kenvandine> kokoye2007, that's great

 20:28 <kokoye2007> sorry for application updated

 20:29 <kokoye2007> bcz missed many event and activities

 20:29 <kokoye2007> https://github.com/fossmyanmar/ubuntu-mm-wiki?files=1

 20:29 <kokoye2007> it's one of old project. now we printed and share at event

 20:29 <kokoye2007> like that we missed on wiki

 20:29 <nhaines> That looks very comprehensive, but hasn't been updated in over two years.

 20:30 <kenvandine> kokoye2007, thohi: it's great to see all that you have done, but I'd still really like to see it all on the application

 20:30 <kokoye2007> yes

 20:30 <kenvandine> i suggest we vote to approve ubuntu-mm for 1 more month to allow time to include all this awesome stuff on the application

 20:31 <kenvandine> shall we vote?

 20:31 <Letozaf_> #vote

 20:31 <meetingology> Please vote on:

 20:31 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 20:31 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:31 <kokoye2007> every reapply and when we apply Ubuntu member application. we need more improve at wiki

 20:31 <nhaines> Let's restart the vote.

 20:31 <kyrofa> Letozaf_, the vote should have a topic (what are we voting on)

 20:31 <kenvandine> hang on... include a description in what we are voting

 20:31 <kokoye2007> thanks for your ...

 20:32 <Letozaf_> sorry guys

 20:32 <nhaines> #undo

 20:32 <meetingology> Removing item from minutes: LINK

 20:32 <nhaines> #endvote

 20:32 <meetingology> No vote in progress

 20:32 <Letozaf_> #vote for Myanmar LoCo Team re-verification

 20:32 <meetingology> Please vote on: for Myanmar LoCo Team re-verification

 20:32 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 20:32 <kyrofa> Letozaf_, that's okay! First time is always a bit weird :)

 20:33 <kenvandine> Letozaf_, can we try one more time specifying extension :)

 20:34 <Letozaf_> #vote approve Myanmar LoCo 1 month extension

 20:34 <meetingology> Voting still open on: for Myanmar LoCo Team re-verification

 20:34 <kyrofa> #undo

 20:34 <meetingology> Removing item from minutes: LINK

 20:34 <kyrofa> #endvote

 20:34 <meetingology> Voting ended on: for Myanmar LoCo Team re-verification

 20:34 <meetingology> Votes for:0 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:34 <meetingology> Deadlock, casting vote may be used

 20:34 <kyrofa> Darn

 20:34 <Letozaf_> sorry for the mess

 20:35 <kenvandine> no worries

 20:35 <nhaines> #vote MyanmarTeam 1 month extension to update application

 20:35 <meetingology> Please vote on: MyanmarTeam 1 month extension to update application

 20:35 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 20:35 <kenvandine> +1

 20:35 <meetingology> +1 received from kenvandine

 20:35 <nhaines> +1

 20:35 <meetingology> +1 received from nhaines

 20:35 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:35 <meetingology> +1 received from Letozaf_

 20:35 <Gsilvapt_> +1

 20:35 <meetingology> +1 received from Gsilvapt_

 20:35 <kyrofa> -1 we have already granted an extension for exactly this, and it was not utilized

 20:35 <meetingology> -1 we have already granted an extension for exactly this, and it was not utilized received from kyrofa

 20:36 <Letozaf_> #endvote

 20:36 <meetingology> Voting ended on: MyanmarTeam 1 month extension to update application

 20:36 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:1 Abstentions:0

 20:36 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:36 <Letozaf_> (fiew)

 20:36 <kenvandine> kokoye2007, thohi: please update that application including all this great stuff

 20:37 <kokoye2007> thanks

 20:37 <nhaines> kokoye2007: The application indicates that the LoCo is not active at all and has done nothing in the past year.  But we see that this isn't true!

 20:37 <kenvandine> and please try to attend the meeting next month

 20:37 <nhaines> So we need that to be in the application, because that's what we read a week before the meeting to help us make a decision.

 20:37 <kenvandine> we'll vote then for full reverification

 20:37 <Letozaf_> it's a pitty that all the work you do is not documented in the Wiki

 20:37 <thohi> thanks , I will put other related events.

 20:38 <nhaines> Plus, it will be helpful to you and to other LoCos to have that all in one place.  :)

 20:40 <Letozaf_> #meetingtopic Ubuntu Switzerland LoCo re-verification

 20:40 <Letozaf_> Anyone from the Switzerland LoCo around?

 20:41 <Letozaf_> #topic Ubuntu Switzerland LoCo re-verification

 20:42 <Letozaf_> #meetingtopic Ubunut LoCo Team 12th February 2018 Montly meating

 20:42 <kyrofa> As a reminder, our previous review of SwissTeam was an extension. Minutes: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2017/ubuntu-meeting.2017-12-11-20.07.log.html#l-320

 20:44 <kyrofa> That was the big DRAFT one, heh

 20:45 <Letozaf_> #meetingtopic Ubuntu LoCo Team 12th February 2018 montly meeting

 20:45 <nhaines> In the meantime, they removed "DRAFT" and added a link to one event to plan for an 18.04 release party.

 20:46 <kyrofa> Similar to before, I like their Linux Day site, which seems active

 20:47 <nhaines> I still don't see any activity on the mailing list, Facebook page, or Flickr.

 20:47 <kyrofa> This list of current events on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam#Events_and_other_activities jumps from 2014 to 2018

 20:48 <kyrofa> And 2018 events are "in planning"

 20:50 <kyrofa> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/PastActivities goes to 2013

 20:50 <nhaines> I have questions about their activity, but no one is here to answer them.  :/

 20:51 <nhaines> I think we should move this application to Launchpad and get more information.  That way they don't need to be online at the meeting.

 20:51 <kenvandine> nhaines, +1

 20:51 <Gsilvapt_> Agreed

 20:51 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:51 <nhaines> #vote Provisional 1 month extension for SwissTeam and move application process to Launchpad.

 20:51 <meetingology> Please vote on: Provisional 1 month extension for SwissTeam and move application process to Launchpad.

 20:51 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 20:52 <kenvandine> +1

 20:52 <meetingology> +1 received from kenvandine

 20:52 <Letozaf_> +1

 20:52 <meetingology> +1 received from Letozaf_

 20:52 <nhaines> Lets make it official  :)

 20:52 <nhaines> +1

 20:52 <meetingology> +1 received from nhaines

 20:52 <Gsilvapt_> +1

 20:52 <meetingology> +1 received from Gsilvapt_

 20:52 <kyrofa> +1

 20:52 <meetingology> +1 received from kyrofa

 20:52 <nhaines> #endvote

 20:52 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Provisional 1 month extension for SwissTeam and move application process to Launchpad.

 20:52 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:52 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:53 <nhaines> Okay, that should give them a chance to respond.  It *looks* like they're up to good things, but we need some more proof.

 20:53 <Gsilvapt_> What's next in the agenda? There's something I'd like to ask the council but that can be done in the end

 20:54 <Letozaf_> I think that's all with the agenda

 20:54 <kyrofa> That should be it

 20:54 <nhaines> I think that's all the agenda items.

 20:55 <Gsilvapt_> Ok, so I want to ask something that also has to be asked to the Council. I don't know how many of you are aware of the Framework in the European Union about to be approved that can harm free and open source software

 20:55 <Gsilvapt_> It's about copyright and such: https://savecodeshare.eu/

 20:55 <Gsilvapt_> This covers most of it.

 20:56 <Gsilvapt_> The Portuguese local team is considering helping other open and not-for-profit organisation but we are concerned about whether its part of our responsibility or not

 20:56 <kyrofa> Whether what, exactly, is part of our responsibility?

 20:57 <Gsilvapt_> If on one hand it is related with Ubuntu's core philosophy, we understand if this can be seen as taking a political stand point

 20:57 <Gsilvapt_> And, obviously, we don't want to cross our limits as a LoCo

 20:57 * kenvandine isn't a lawyer, but i think in general it's good to support such causes

 20:57 <nhaines> Ubuntu is comprised of Free and Open Source Software, so raising awareness of issues that impact the FOSS community and thus Ubuntu is definitely in your scope.  And it's okay to not take positions on such things, too.  That's for every LoCo to decide.

 20:58 <kenvandine> spreading awareness is harmless

 20:58 <nhaines> Some countries may allow this or disallow this, based on whether the LoCo is registered as a non-profit organization or not, so I think we can leave the decision up to every team.

 20:59 <Gsilvapt_> Can we somehow mark it as an official decision? Just for the record

 20:59 <kenvandine> oh, there are some loco's that are registered as non-profits?

 21:00 <Gsilvapt_> I can still consult the Community Council, as I was expecting doing so anyways, but it would be great to have the LoCo Council's opinion

 21:00 <Gsilvapt_> Well, the Portuguese is not @kenvandine

 21:00 <nhaines> kenvandine: very popular in Europe as I understand.  :)

 21:00 <kenvandine> i was just surprised to hear there are some that are

 21:01 <nhaines> Allows them to take donations legally and to qualify for cultural grants and other nice things.

 21:01 <kenvandine> true, but lots of paperwork :)

 21:02 <Gsilvapt_> May make it worth it if they use its advantages often

 21:02 <kenvandine> that's great

 21:02 <Gsilvapt_> s/make/be

 21:02 <kenvandine> i just hadn't considered that

 21:02 <kenvandine> cool

 21:02 <kenvandine> Gsilvapt_, i think our stance has to be that it's up to the individual locos

 21:02 <kenvandine> as laws differ, etc

 21:02 <Gsilvapt_> Regarding the previous issue, is there a way to record the Council's opinion on the issue I brought up?

 21:02 <Gsilvapt_> Either by vote or something else

 21:03 <Gsilvapt_> Makes sense @kenvandine

 21:07 <nhaines> I'm trying to think of the right way to word that.

 21:08 <nhaines> #vote Position statement: political activism that is related to Ubuntu, Free Software, or Open Source Software is acceptable, in accordance with each LoCo team's interest and their local laws.

 21:08 <meetingology> Please vote on: Position statement: political activism that is related to Ubuntu, Free Software, or Open Source Software is acceptable, in accordance with each LoCo team's interest and their local laws.

 21:08 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 21:08 <nhaines> +1

 21:08 <meetingology> +1 received from nhaines

 21:09 <kenvandine> +1

 21:09 <meetingology> +1 received from kenvandine

 21:09 <Gsilvapt_> +1

 21:09 <meetingology> +1 received from Gsilvapt_

 21:09 <Letozaf_> +1

 21:09 <meetingology> +1 received from Letozaf_

 21:09 <Gsilvapt_> Thank you everyone

 21:11 <kyrofa> +0

 21:11 <meetingology> +0 received from kyrofa

 21:11 <nhaines> #endvote

 21:11 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Position statement: political activism that is related to Ubuntu, Free Software, or Open Source Software is acceptable, in accordance with each LoCo team's interest and their local laws.

 21:11 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:1

 21:11 <meetingology> Motion carried

 21:12 <Gsilvapt_> I guess everything is carried out then :)

 21:12 <nhaines> Gsilvapt_: good luck with that work.  :)

 21:12 <Gsilvapt_> Thank you!

 21:12 <kenvandine> i think that's everything

 21:13 <Gsilvapt_> Should we end it?

 21:14 <Letozaf_> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
