{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/sub-nav-usability
* '''Created''': 2011-02-20
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ronnie.vd.c]]</nowiki>
* '''Sites affected''': http://loco.ubuntu.com

=== Summary ===

The navigation between the pages is not very usable at the moment. For example: It is hard to go to your own team page. Also the sub-navigation is very inconsistent and changes on every page. There is no logic!

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

Consistent UIs are intuitive UIs.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design Rules ===

* Only links to pages on LD should be navigation links
** No external links
** No links to feeds (rss/ical/etc)
* Sub-nav links must be relevant to the page contents
* Action links (those that affect page content) should be in-page.
* Sub-nav should be consistent on multiple pages (page groups)

==== Proposed Rules ====

* "Add" action links should be above the list or table they will add to

==== Needed Rules ====

* Where should Edit/Delete/Copy links be placed?
* Where should feed links be placed?
* Should in-page action links be short text, icons, or both?
* How should external links be styled to indicate they are external?
* No sub-nav on main page
* Rule needed for capitalization. What in nav menus gets caps and what doesn't?

=== Implementation ===

* Separate search and sub-nav as on ubuntu.com to add the ability to remove the sub-nav on main page.

==== UI Changes ====

* New "top-nav" section above "main-nav" for login/logout and current user links
* Separate sub-nav and search areas.

==== Sub-menu ====
'''Teams''': My Teams | Approved Teams | All Teams | Join a Team | Create a Team (first 3 views (from less  to much) and then 2 informative pages about changing team membership)

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

Should be none.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== Comments ===

----
CategorySpec
