{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The Ubuntu LoCo Council is comprised of dedicated members of the Ubuntu Community appointed by the Community Council after an open nominations period. They have diverse backgrounds, but have a firm understanding of what makes up successful Lo``Cos. The Lo``Co Council was set  up to govern Ubuntu Lo``Co teams, and utilizing their past experiences, provide guidance and help when needed to these teams and lead them by example.

The Lo``Co Council governs the Lo``Co community, make decisions on resource allocation, deals with conflict resolution and make decisions about where the project should  move forward. 

The Lo``Co Council governs the Lo``Co Community; responsibilities include but are not limited to the following:

** To provide independent guidance for the Lo``Co Community.

** To maintain quality of governance in the Lo``Co community.

** To assess and re-assess teams for verified state.

** To provide input and feedback to other Ubuntu governance boards regarding the needs and achievements of the Lo``Co  community.

** To act as an independent, objective, third party to resolve conflict in teams by acting as mediator for a group or individuals

** To govern key Lo``Co  resources such as mailing lists and key web properties. ie. if you log a Request Ticket (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MailingLists#Requesting%20a%20list|RT]]</nowiki>) regarding your LoCo and don't hear anything after 2 weeks contact us.

** Influencing and recommending how Lo``Co  resources are allocated

** Influencing the direction and goals of the Ubuntu Project and greater Lo``Co  Team effort
      
** To motivate and encourage Lo``Co s to be the best they can 

=== Membership ===

The current membership of the council is can be found on the Launchpad group: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-lococouncil

You can reach the council via mail: loco-council<at>lists.ubuntu.com

Keep up to date with our Blog http://lococouncil.ubuntu.com/
=== Meetings and Business ===

All related on Lo``Co  Council meetings and dealings is on the <nowiki>[[Agenda|Agenda]]</nowiki>.
