{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; background-color: #f1f1ed; "> <nowiki>[[..-ca|català]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[..-cs|čeština]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[..-de|deutsch]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[..-es|español]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[..-it|italiano]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[..-kor|한국어(Korean)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[..-el|ελληνικά]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[..-he|עברית (Hebrew)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[..-pt_BR|Português do Brasil]]</nowiki>
| Add your language here
|}

Ubuntu LoCo Council se skládá z volených zástupců komunity Ubuntu. Všichni členové jsou různí, ale všichni jasně chápou, jak by měl vypadat úspěšný Lo``Co tým. Lo``Co Council byl vytvořen, aby vedl místní komunity Ubuntu, čerpal z jejich dřívějších zkušeností, v případě potřeby poskytoval vedení a pomoc a šel jim příkladem.

Lo``Co Council řídí místní komunity Ubuntu, rozhoduje o přidělování zdrojů, řeší konfliktní situace a dělá rozhodnutí ohledně budoucího směřování projektu.

Mezi hlavní (ale rozhodně ne všechny) povinnosti Lo``Co Councilu patří:

** To provide independent guidance for the Lo``Co Community.

** To maintain quality of governance in the Lo``Co community.

** To assess and re-assess teams for approved state.

** To provide input and feedback to other Ubuntu governance boards regarding the needs and achievements of the Lo``Co  community.

** To act as an independent, objective, third party to resolve conflict in teams by acting as mediator for a group or individuals

** To govern key Lo``Co  resources such as mailing lists and key web properties. ie. if you log a Request Ticket (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MailingLists#Requesting%20a%20list|RT]]</nowiki>) regarding your LoCo and don't hear anything after 2 weeks contact us.

** Influencing and recommending how Lo``Co  resources are allocated

** Influencing the direction and goals of the Ubuntu Project and greater Lo``Co  Team effort
      
** To motivate and encourage Lo``Co s to be the best they can 

=== Členové ===

Současnými členy Lo``Co Councilu jsou

Lo``Co Council můžete kontaktovat na: loco-council<at>lists.ubuntu.com

=== Setkání a úkoly ===

Termíny nejbližších setkání Lo``Co Councilu a aktuálně projednávané záležitosti naleznete na stránce <nowiki>[[..-Agenda|Agenda]]</nowiki>.
