{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Creating a Planet for your LoCo Team ==

=== Installing and configuring ===

1. Go to http://www.planetplanet.org/ and download the latest tar archive (tar.bz) planet-x.x.tar.bz2
2. Extract this into a non public directory.

For example: 
<pre>
/home/user/planet/ 
</pre>

3. Copy one of the example directories for your own planet. 

For example:
<pre>
cp /home/user/planet/examples/fancy/ /home/user/planet/myplanetname/
</pre>

4. create an output directory, this should be the directory which is accessable by the public over http.   

For example: (some common locations would be)
<pre>
mkdir /home/user/public_html/planet/
</pre> or 
<pre>
mkdir /var/www/planet/
</pre> or 
<pre>
mkdir /home/user/htdocs/planet/
</pre>

5. Now navigate back to your myplanetname directory. In this directory you should find a config.ini and an index.html.tmpl. Open the config.ini file with your favorite text editor. 

For example: 
<pre>
edit /home/user/planet/myplanetname/config.ini 
</pre>

6. Important options to configure: 
 
* name =
* link =
* owner_name = 
* owner_email = 
* template_files = 
For example: template_files = myplanetname/index.html.tmpl examples/atom.xml.tmpl examples/rss20.xml.tmpl examples/rss10.xml.tmpl examples/opml.xml.tmpl examples/foafroll.xml.tmpl 
(the example xml templates for most people will be fine so leave them) 
* output_dir = 
For example: (some common locations would be) mkdir /home/user/public_html/planet/ or mkdir /var/www/planet/ or mkdir /home/user/htdocs/planet/ NOTE this must be the directory that you created in step 4. 

7. Add feeds to your config.ini. There should be examples already in your config.ini file. The syntax is: <nowiki>[[http://url/to/my/feed]]</nowiki>
name = bob

8. Generate your planet's page: execute the planet.py file with the config.ini file, planet.py  path/to/config.ini

For example: 
<pre>
/home/user/planet/planet.py /home/user/planet/myplanetname/config.ini 
</pre>

9. You now find that the output directory now has files in it. Navigate with your browser to check that it looks OK. 

=== Automating ===

Automating can be done using the crontab facitily. 

# To edit your crontab type: crontab -e  
# Input the values for how oftern you would like the planet to run/update/generate.

Here is a reminder of the cron syntax. 
<pre>
minute (0 - 59) hour (0 - 23) day of month (1 - 31) month (1 - 12) day of week (0 - 6) (Sunday=0) command to be executed
</pre>
For example 
<pre>
0 * * * * cd /home/user/planet/ && ./planet.py ./myplanetname/config.ini
</pre>

This means when the minute is 0 , every hour, every day, every month and every day of the week. run "cd /home/user/planet/ && ./planet.py ./myplanetname/config.ini" 

3. Save and quit the crontab editor.

For more information on crontab https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CronHowto

=== Customising ===

Customise the look of the planet page by editing the index.html.tmpl which should be located in your /home/user/planet/myplanetname/

Make sure that any files you use in your template are put into your publicly accessable directory that you created in step 4. 

Example: 

http://www.ubuntu-uk.org/planet/templatefiles/

Feel free to use these and modify these files to your liking.

Produces: http://www.ubuntu-uk.org/planet/

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
