{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== LoCo Team Meetings ===

The Ubuntu LoCoTeams meetings are scheduled whenever there's something we need to talk about. ;-)

Meetings are held at #ubuntu-locoteams, irc.freenode.net. They are open for everyone interested and/or participating in LoCoTeams.

We are now utilizing the ScribesTeam Mootbot.
* Leaders, <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-SubmitMeeting|submit this meeting]]</nowiki> a few days in advance.
* Participants, use the <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot|Mootbot]]</nowiki> commands.

=== Next meeting ===
* '''When''': First Tuesday of each month
* '''Start''': 1700 UTC
* '''End''':  18:00 UTC
* '''Timezone''': <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=2&day=28&year=2009&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|UTC Details]]</nowiki>
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-locoteams on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JonoBacon

=== Agenda for the next meeting ===

These items will be discussed at the next meeting (specify your name in brackets of you suggest an item):

* Update on LoCo Directory (Just a database or LoCo portal?) (<nowiki>[[mdanielski|Mean-Machine]]</nowiki>)
* Conference Packs (Adi / Efrain / Jono)
* Status on ticket handling process of hosted locoteams? (<nowiki>[[TimoJyrinki|Mirv]]</nowiki>)

Add your items for the agenda here. Remember, agenda items should be issues of interest to the ''general LoCo community''.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryLoCoTeams
