{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/venues-usability-improvements|Improve the Usability of Venues]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': 2010-02-27
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': <nowiki>[[Launchpad:loco-directory]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

The Venue list is going to quickly grow to the point where finding your desired option from a random list is going to be difficult.  There needs to be a way to present the user with a friendlier list, so that their desired option can be more easily found.

=== Release Note ===

TBD, but likely the order and visibility of venues in the list will be changed.

=== Rationale ===

Venues selection isn't user friendly, and will only get worse as the number of venues grows

=== User stories ===

Alice is registering an event at a venue she has used before, but the list is long and unordered, so she must scroll through them looking for what she wants.

Bob is registering an event for a venue he hasn't used before, he should be able to create the venue listing from the event creation screen.

Carol is registering an event and needs to find a venue in her area, but the list is long and unordered, so she must scroll through them looking for events in her area.

Dan is registering an event for outside of his area, he would like to find a venue from another LoCo's area, but he isn't familiar with local cities, so he doesn't know which venues are close to that other LoCo.

Erin is registering a new Venue without realizing it's already in the list, she should be shown a list of possibly related venues before her new one is created.

=== Assumptions ===

# The user will most likely be using an event in their area
# The user will most likely be re-using a venue (especially as the list builds)
# The user will sometimes want to search for a venue in a given area

=== Ideas ===

* Make the Venue selection list search-able

* Associate Venues to a loco team's area

** Show ''venue.country = team.country'' at the top...
** and all others alphabetically by venue name
** and all others alphabetically grouped by country
** and all others hidden, but accessible through some user action

** Add State/Province/Region field to Venue, ''venue.state=team.state'' at the top...
** and show country=team.country alphabetically below
** and all others alphabetically by venue name
** and all others alphabetically grouped by country+state
** and all others hidden, but accessible through some user action

** Add 'locoteam' field to Venue, show ''venue.locoteam=team.id'' at the top...
** and all others alphabetically by venue name
** and all others alphabetically grouped by team
** and all others hidden, but accessible through some user action

* Before creating a new event, look for venues in the same country/state/city/zipcode and display them as alternatives

** List for events is too long and largely irrelevant. 

** Venue LIST should be specific to each LoCo allowing with easy addition of venues to the list. 

  

=== Design ===

TBD

=== Implementation ===

TBD

==== UI Changes ====

TBD

==== Code Changes ====

TBD

==== Migration ====

TBD, may require changes to table structure using django-south

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

TBD

=== Unresolved issues ===

TBD

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

None

----
CategorySpec
