{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



==== Joining In ====
If you don't have an IRC client installed, or don't even know what an IRC client is then you might want to try connecting to the channels using a web browser.

Click <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom%2Cubuntu-classroom-chat|here]]</nowiki> to join in the discussion directly in your browser

Use your IRC client (such as xchat, irssi or mIRC) to connect to the freenode IRC network at irc.freenode.net. You can do this manually by typing:

 <code>/server irc.freenode.net</code>

Then join #ubuntu-classroom for the time and date of the session you want to attend. You can manually join the channel by typing:

 <code>/join #ubuntu-classroom</code>

You may also want to join #ubuntu-classroom-chat to ask questions and participate in discussions about the current session.

 <code>/join #ubuntu-classroom-chat</code>
==== Ignoring Noises ====
To quiet various noise that happens in the IRC channels during the talk use the following commands, according to clients:

IRSSI:
<pre>
/ignore #ubuntu-classroom CRAP NOTICES SNOTES CTCPS JOINS PARTS QUITS KICKS MODES WALLOPS NICKS DCC DCCMSGS CLIENTNOTICES CLIENTCRAP CLIENTERRORS HILIGHTS
 }}}
X-Chat:
{{{
/set irc_conf_mode on
</pre>
X-Chat Gnome
<pre>
Right click on channel and click Ignore Join/part messages
</pre>
qwebirc, webchat.freenode.net
<pre>
Click on the small blue box on top left corner and click "Options."  Add a tick to "Hide JOINS/PARTS/QUITS:"
</pre>
==== Participating ====
You should also join #ubuntu-classroom-chat which is the general discussion channel for the session. Questions should be posted there. You should prefix your questions with "QUESTION:" to make them easier to spot and to ensure that they get detected by ClassBot.
==== More on IRC ====

For instructions on how to use the various IRC clients, see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|XChatHowto]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Irssi|Irssi]]</nowiki>.
General information about IRC is locate at InternetRelayChat.
For Windows users just getting started finding out about Ubuntu, you can use XChat for Windows from http://silverex.info/download/ or Gaim/Pidgin from http://gaim.sourceforge.net/ (both free). For Ubuntu users of course these come from the repositories.
