{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/json-interface|JSON Interface]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': 2010-04-28
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': <nowiki>[[Launchpad:loco-directory]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

This spec is currently a work in progress.

Provide the functionality necessary for community applications to access data in the loco directory.

=== Release Note ===

TBD

=== Rationale ===

Current access to data from external applications requires screen scraping.  The increases the fragility of the application, and negatively impacts the further development of community applications.

=== User stories ===

Dan wants to develop an mashup that leverages data in the loco directory with snapple demographics.

Dan wants to develop native mobile applications that the loco community could use to access the loco-directory data.

Dan is sad.  Currently he has to depend on not having changes to the markup of existing web pages to get his data programmatically.

=== Assumptions ===

1. Launchpad can handle an influx of requests from mobile devices.

=== Ideas ===

Needed

=== Design ===

TBD

=== Implementation ===

For example, a call to http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/json could return a file containing something like this
<pre>
{"teams":[
  {
    "id": "91",
    "name":"Ubuntu Florida",
    "link":"/teams/ubuntu-us-florida",
    "lpurl":"~ubuntu-us-florida",
    "location":"United States, Florida",
    "teamowner":"Chris Crisafulli",
    "expires": "20yy-mm-dd",
    "admins": [
      {{
      "name":"Chris Crisafulli",
      "lpurl":"~itnet7"
      },
      {
      "name":"Dan Trevino",
      "lpurl":"~dantrevino"
      }
      ...
    ]}
]
},
  {
    "id": "92",
    "name":"Ubuntu Georgia",
    "link":"/teams/ubuntu-us-georgia",
    "lpurl":"~ubuntu-us-georgia",
    "location":"United States, Georgia",
    "teamowner":"Joshua Chase",
    "expires": "20yy-mm-dd",
    "admins": [
      {{
      "name":"Joshua Chase",
      "lpurl":"~linuxcrypt"
      },
      {
      "name":"Nick Ali",
      "lpurl":"~nali"
      }
      ...
    ]}
]
}

</pre>

==== UI Changes ====

TBD

==== Code Changes ====

New Code, possible changes to existing code

==== Migration ====

???

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

TBD

=== Unresolved issues ===

TBD

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

None

----
CategorySpec
