{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Previous Agenda ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| LoCoCouncil
| Approvals
|}

=== LoCo Teams ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Country or area
| Wiki page
| Homepage
| Contact
| Date
| Reason
|-
| Uruguay
| <nowiki>[[UruguayTeam-ApprovalApplication|Application]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.uy]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[PabloRubianes|Pablo Rubianes]]</nowiki>
| 14/05/2010
| Approval
|-
| México
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuMxTeam-ApprovalApplication|Application]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntumexico.org]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Toluxero|Arturo Hernández]]</nowiki>
| 14/04/2010
| Approval
|}

=== Summary ===

Ubuntu-UY was up for first. Their website has been re-branded with the the new Ubuntu branding, and they have been very active. Their Approval Application was dynamite and easily reflected their recent events as well as their hopes for the near future. Congratulations to the Uruguay Team! We really appreciate your hard work and look forward to what your team will achieve for Ubuntu. 

Ubuntu-MX has done some extremely great things for the community. Their Podcast is doing great, and they are beginning to recover from some huge hurdles (quarantined areas to help contain N1H1 for example). The LoCo Council felt unanimously that Ubuntu-MX should take a little time to get themselves back on track, asking them re-apply in September. LoCo Council members volunteered to help guide them through the re-approval process, and answer any questions they have while preparing.

=== Standard IRC Logs ===
<pre>
16:00 < paultag> Hey all
16:00 < jorgevazq> hi paultag
16:00 < paultag> we will be starting in one sec -- hold on
16:00 < paultag> :)
16:00 < jorgevazq> paultag: ok
16:00 < PabloRubianes> hey paultag!
16:00 < jorgevazq> umm
16:00 < paultag> howdy PabloRubianes :)
16:00 < jorgevazq> ubuntu-mx contact should be here soon
16:00 < PabloRubianes> paultag: :S :D
16:00 -!- jamesjedimaster [~jedimaste@189.149.194.166] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:01 < jorgevazq> he was literally rushing home from work
16:01 < paultag> As per usual Ubuntu protocol we will be starting this meeting just a few minutes late :)
16:01 < jorgevazq> howdy, jamesjedimaster
16:01 < jamesjedimaster> hi jorgevazq
16:01 -!- ghostcube [ghostcube@unaffiliated/ghostcube] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:01 < jorgevazq> paultag: thanks, pal!
16:02 < juancarlospaco2> lol
16:02 < huats> who is late ?
16:02 < huats> :)
16:02 < huats> not me:D
16:03 < popey> :)
16:03 < juancarlospaco2> not late, just different UTC   :)
16:03 < juancarlospaco2> XD
16:03 < paultag> Ha!
16:03 < paultag> UTC+0010
16:03 < popey> ok, lets get started
16:03 < jorgevazq> 'k... brb, gotta brush my teeth... I kinda feel weird to speak in public right after mealtime
16:03 < popey> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
16:04 < popey> So first item on the agenda is Uruguay LoCo Team reapproval..
16:04 < popey> er approval :)
16:04 < paultag> there it is ;)
16:04 < PabloRubianes> Here
16:04 < popey> hey PabloRubianes
16:04 < PabloRubianes> hello popey
16:05 < popey> anyone else here for Uruguay?
16:05 < efebe> i'm from uruguay ;)
16:05 < PabloRubianes> yes sofiavitale and Julin digan hola
16:06 < Julin> hola!!!!
16:06 < sofiavitale> hola!
16:06 < Julin> vamo arriba ubuntu uruguay!
16:06 < Julin> eso se podia?
16:06 < popey> :)
16:06 < PabloRubianes> most people is working at this time here
16:06 < itnet7> PabloRubianes: same here
16:06 < juancarlospaco2> yeah im "working"
16:07 < popey> :)
16:07 < juancarlospaco2> :)
16:07 < popey> PabloRubianes: do you log your irc meetings?
16:07 < PabloRubianes> the important ones yes, and the others we provide a sumary on the website
16:08 < popey> I see you hold events recycling computers, how successful has that been?
16:09 < paultag> Yeah, Hardwaraiser, what's that about
16:09 < PabloRubianes> very nice
16:09 -!- Nuun [~94e98853@gateway/web/freenode/x-uxvpfpjkwilbraax] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:09 < PabloRubianes> we try to ask for unused hardware and put together computers
16:09 < PabloRubianes> then we give them to poor schools in the rural areas
16:09 < paultag> PabloRubianes, about how many machines do you donate each year?
16:10 < PabloRubianes> about 5
16:10 < paultag> outstanding
16:10 < popey> I love the Centros de Distribucion idea!
16:10 < PabloRubianes> every year, we are about to start this year
16:10 < popey> thats brilliant
16:10 < PabloRubianes> popey: the thing is here internet is not so fast
16:11 < PabloRubianes> we have to give alternatives to download
16:11 < paultag> PabloRubianes, can you tell me a bit about some of your past events? Have you held installfests and the like?
16:11 < popey> Sure, but i love the idea of people burning CDs for the price of a blank disc
16:11 -!- magu42 [~magu42@unaffiliated/magu42] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:11 -!- Toluxero [~toluxero@ubuntu/member/toluxero] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:12 < PabloRubianes> yes we been part of the last two Years "Flisol"
16:12 < huats> PabloRubianes, that was something I was about to ask you, if you exchange with other Locos
16:12 < huats> that is great
16:12 < PabloRubianes> there you take your computer and a voluntary install Ubuntu for you
16:12 -!- pcapeluto [~chatzilla@r186-48-128-112.dialup.adsl.anteldata.net.uy] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:13 < PabloRubianes> huats: lately we start to work on #ubuntu-es-locos we are trying to work with other locos which speak english
16:13 < PabloRubianes> spanish sorry
16:13 < paultag> :)
16:13 < paultag> PabloRubianes, do you guys participate in translation work?
16:13 < huats> PabloRubianes, yeah I have figure out
16:14 -!- rkgarcia [~rkgarcia@207.83.222.68] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:14 < juancarlospaco2> i was, but the translator team rejected me :(
16:14 < PabloRubianes> not many people here know english that's the problem
16:14 < PabloRubianes> juancarlospaco2: me too
16:14 < paultag> Ah
16:14 < itnet7> PabloRubianes: what are your teams plans for the near future?
16:14 < PabloRubianes> we are going to publish a magazine
16:15 < itnet7> I see some listed, but what I mean is what are you most passionate about
16:15 < PabloRubianes> and form a Education Team in order to give online courses
16:15 < juancarlospaco2> mayor colaboration with Bleachbit, until translator member becomes mandatory, they reject me, cant collaborate anymore
16:16 < PabloRubianes> and lately education institutions are asking us to give talks to parents and teachers
16:16 < itnet7> Very cool
16:17 < PabloRubianes> the Plan Ceibal was a huge success for linux here
16:17 < huats> Have you been part of the global jam ?
16:18 < huats> or do you plan to ?
16:18 < PabloRubianes> no, we have problems to find a place, without having to pay, but the next one I think we are going to join
16:18 < paultag> PabloRubianes, how do you plan to change how you operate if you become an approved team and have access to the resources of an approved team
16:18 < huats> PabloRubianes, for the record I have done my first one in a bar with an internet connection
16:18 < huats> it might be an idea...
16:18 < paultag> huats, +1 !!
16:19 < popey> http://www.ubuntu.org.uy/main/?q=node/1304  who made those tutorials?
16:19 < PabloRubianes> huats: that's good idea
16:19 < huats> PabloRubianes, the idea behind jam was a group of people gathering around a pizza to ork on bugs...
16:20 < huats> so you can even do that in someone's house... I think efrain did that:)
16:20 < PabloRubianes> huats: we are weird we held the release party on a university and gave talks
16:20 < juancarlospaco2> mmm pizza
16:20 < huats> PabloRubianes, why do you say weird ?
16:20 < PabloRubianes> there was a too formal party
16:20 < paultag> Bah!
16:20 < popey> :)
16:20 < paultag> I did that too. It's awesome
16:20 < popey> each to their own
16:20 < paultag> PabloRubianes, how do you plan to change how you operate if you become an approved team and have access to the resources of an approved team
16:21 < PabloRubianes> no, I think we are gonna provide with the cds canonical send to the approved locos to the Centros de Distribucion
16:22 < PabloRubianes> but we set a course when we form the community council and we are gonna stick to it
16:22 < itnet7> PabloRubianes: popey was interested in who created the videos, were you involved, or is there a part of your team that contributes through tutorials?
16:23 < PabloRubianes> no I want't part
16:23 < itnet7> http://www.ubuntu.org.uy/main/?q=node/1304
16:23 < paultag> PabloRubianes, do you know who created them?
16:24 < PabloRubianes> I think Julin found them on other page and put it there,
16:24 < popey> useful resource
16:24 < itnet7> That is still really cool!!!
16:24 < paultag> It would be really cool to get more of those
16:24 < paultag> PabloRubianes, being part of the Ubuntu Beginners Team, you could really help new users who es :)
16:24 < PabloRubianes> yes they are really good
16:24 < paultag> only speak es *
16:25 < PabloRubianes> this videos are made by a member of our loco http://sites.google.com/a/ubuntu.org.uy/montevideo/tutoriales/video-tutoriales
16:26 < paultag> well done
16:27 < popey> i like the separate sites for regions of Uy
16:27 < popey> ok we ready to vote on Uruguay team approval?
16:27 < itnet7> yes!
16:27 < paultag> sure am
16:27 < leogg> yep
16:27 < popey> I'm going to +1
16:27 < leogg> +1 here
16:27 < paultag> +1 here, too
16:27 < itnet7> +1 for me as well!
16:28 < paultag> huats, *poke*
16:28 < itnet7> :-)
16:28 < huats> +1 too
16:28 < paultag> :)
16:28 < huats> thanks paultag
16:28 < paultag> huats, sure thing :)
16:28 < popey> win
16:28 < popey> congratulations PabloRubianes
16:28 < huats> congrats !
16:28 -!- mvo [~egon@p5B09E506.dip.t-dialin.net] has quit [Quit: Ex-Chat]
16:28 < PabloRubianes> THanks!!!!
16:28 < paultag> Congrats PabloRubianes! :)
16:28 < leogg> vamo uruguay! :)
16:28 < itnet7> Congrulations to ubuntu-uy!!
16:28 < jorgevazq> felicidades Uruguay!
16:28 < PabloRubianes> but's not only me!
16:28 < leogg> congrats guys
16:29 < jorgevazq> keep up the good work
16:29 < gnunezr> Arriba el paisito!!! :D
16:29 < unimix> congratulations PabloRubianes and the Ubuntu-uy team ! You deserve it ! Good work !
16:29 < efebe> congrulations :)
16:29 < itnet7> great job, and we look forward to the future and what your team will achieve
16:29 < pcapeluto> Que grande Uruguay!!!!!!!!  GRACIAS PABLO!!!!!!
16:29 < paultag> aye, we have high hopes :)
16:29 < PabloRubianes> :D
16:29  * popey has invited ubuntu-uy to locoteams-approved
16:29 < efebe> muy bien pablo y el resto de ubuntu-uy felicidades :)
16:29 < popey> PabloRubianes: you should get an invite mail
16:29 < PabloRubianes> thanks a lot to the people who help me to make the approval application
16:30 < magu42> Gracias Pablo!!! thanks the council  :-)
16:30 < paultag> thank you guys :)
16:30 < itnet7> magu42: thank you
16:30 < magu42> itnet7» :-)
16:30 < PabloRubianes> popey: ok!
16:30 < pcapeluto> Thank you very much at all, the whole community waiting for this moment
16:30 < Toluxero> clap clap
16:30 < sofiavitale> thanks!!!
16:31 < juancarlospaco2> Uruguay pays the beer
16:31 < juancarlospaco2> lol   XD
16:31 < Toluxero> xD
16:31 < pcapeluto> jajajajaj
16:31 < popey> right, who's up next?
16:31 < leogg> juancarlospaco2, +1
16:31 < jorgevazq> wiii
16:31 < jorgevazq> Mexico's next!
16:31 < Toluxero> jorgevazq, relax
16:32 < popey> :)
16:32 < rkgarcia> XD
16:32  * jorgevazq excited, sorry
16:32 < itnet7> jorgevazq's excited, now worries :-)
16:32 < itnet7> no worries
16:32 < itnet7> I meant *
16:32 < jorgevazq> hohoho
16:32 < Toluxero> hahaha
16:32 < itnet7> :-P
16:32 -!- DrKenobi [~DrKenobi@OL118-71.fibertel.com.ar] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:32 -!- mathiaz [~mathiaz@ubuntu/member/mathiaz] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
16:34 < Toluxero> lalala
16:34  * paultag is reading
16:34  * jorgevazq is anxious
16:34 < paultag> hold on Mexico, we're still here :)
16:34 < popey> So Toluxero, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMxTeam/Eventos/Flisol2010 can you tell us about this event?
16:35 < Toluxero> popey, ok, this event is the "festival latinoamericano de software libre"
16:36 < itnet7> Toluxero: how does your team participate?
16:36 < popey> what was theplan?
16:36 < Toluxero> in this event, me represent a the community
16:37  * Toluxero is nervous
16:37 < juancarlospaco2> :s
16:37 < itnet7> Do you help with installations, or recruit for your LoCo, or help users with issues?
16:37 < itnet7> Don't be nervous you are among friends :-)
16:38 < Toluxero> ok
16:38 < Toluxero> sorry
16:38 < popey> we need a bit more detail I think.
16:38 < Toluxero> I participated in both installing and conferences
16:38 < Toluxero> in this event
16:38 < Toluxero> and distribution of CD's
16:39 < jamesjedimaster> talking about the advantages of ubuntu
16:39 < Toluxero>  I was also part of the organization staff at one of the Sites
16:39 < popey> cool.
16:40 < popey> Where would you say most people in the community "hang out"? forums? irc? mailing list? somewhere else?
16:40 < jorgevazq> popey: yeah, he even designed Barcoded tickets and all
16:40 < popey> heh, neat!
16:40 < jamesjedimaster> most people enters the forum for Q&A
16:41 < jorgevazq> although IRC is a nice place  to socialize ;)
16:41 < jamesjedimaster> we provide some answers according to our experiences
16:41 < huats> Do you have developpers (I mean Ubuntu developpers) in your team ?
16:41 < jamesjedimaster> and when users need faster answers, they can find us at irc
16:41 < popey> do you get many new people in the forums / irc?
16:42 < Toluxero> popey, in the forums
16:42 < itnet7> Can you talk a little about your Podcast, and has that helped the Team to grow, and raise awareness for your LoCo and Ubuntu?
16:42 < jorgevazq> I can talk about the podcast
16:42 < jorgevazq> that's the subteam I guide
16:42 < jorgevazq> well, we have been downloaded over 1,000 times, counting all three episodes
16:43 < juancarlospaco2> i need to sudo reboot will be back...
16:43 -!- juancarlospaco2 [~juancarlo@21.60.80.200.host.ifxnw.com.ar] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
16:43 < jorgevazq> we believe it has helped us to be known
16:43 < popey> any more episodes planned?
16:43 < jorgevazq> popey: yes
16:43 < jorgevazq> actually
16:43 -!- magu42 [~magu42@unaffiliated/magu42] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Saludos desde Uruguay !!"]
16:43 < jorgevazq> we're planning a special episode for Lucid Lynx
16:43 < itnet7> Nice!
16:43 -!- sofiavitale [~sofiavita@r190-64-155-112.dialup.adsl.anteldata.net.uy] has quit [Quit: Saliendo]
16:44 < leogg> jorgevazq, cool
16:44 < jorgevazq> we plan to gather many types of "ubuntu users"
16:44 < jorgevazq> such as students
16:44 < jorgevazq> designers
16:44 < jorgevazq> programmers
16:44 < jamesjedimaster> engineers
16:44 < jorgevazq> internet-café owners
16:44 < jorgevazq> and so forth
16:44 < Nuun> musicians
16:44 -!- ttx [~ttx@ubuntu/member/ttx] has quit [Quit: *plop*]
16:45 < jorgevazq> so that they can actually share why they liked ubuntu (specially Lucid), and how it makes their life easier
16:45 < huats> Are you planning to participate in the global jam ?
16:45 -!- jlbrito [~root@r190-64-148-43.dialup.adsl.anteldata.net.uy] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:46 < jlbrito> Hola
16:46 < jamesjedimaster> huats: we haven't talk about the jam, but sometime in the near future :)
16:46 < Toluxero> huats, it  is in our plans to do so
16:46 < paultag> jorgevazq, What do you see as the strongest part of your team?
16:46 < paultag> erm jamesjedimaster *
16:46 -!- ejat [~fenris@ubuntu/member/fenris-] has quit [Quit: This computer has gone to sleep]
16:47 < jorgevazq> paultag: the loco contact is Toluxero
16:47 -!- thekorn [~markus@a89-182-21-136.net-htp.de] has quit [Ping timeout: 264 seconds]
16:47 < paultag> sorry! I've been reading
16:47 < paultag> Toluxero, to you, then -- What do you see as the strongest part of your team?
16:48 < Toluxero> paultag, the support to new users
16:48 < Toluxero> in the forum
16:48 < jamesjedimaster> I think the experience of old linux users, and the curiosity of the new ones
16:48 < Toluxero> the forum is the door to anothers projects of the team
16:48 < paultag> :)
16:48 < jorgevazq> and they later join us on IRC, or other teams
16:50 -!- jlbrito [~root@r190-64-148-43.dialup.adsl.anteldata.net.uy] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
16:50 < Toluxero> in projects: we are also planning a school-oriented project
16:51 < Toluxero> right now, the doc team is working on a knowledge database
16:51 -!- komputes [~komputes@ubuntu/member/komputes] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
16:52 < huats> do you have plans to try to grow your community ?
16:52 -!- juancarlospaco2 [~juancarlo@21.60.80.200.host.ifxnw.com.ar] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
16:53 < Toluxero> huats, sure!
16:53 < huats> can you elaborate a bit more ?
16:53 < huats> :)
16:53 -!- rafael_carreras [~quassel@ubuntu/member/rafaelcarreras] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
16:53 < Toluxero> we want to create local communities in every state
16:54 < Toluxero> actually a recent community was created: ubuntu-mx-df
16:54 < jorgevazq> df stands for "distrito federal", the official name of Mexico City
16:54 < Toluxero> (rest 31)
16:54 < huats> and what will be the role of each of that local community ?
16:56 < juancarlospaco2> :)
16:58 < jorgevazq> well, each local community may hold its own events
16:58 < huats> ok
16:58 < jorgevazq> which would be more succesfull, for distance is currently one of our biggest obstacles
16:58 < jorgevazq> in that aspect
16:58 < huats> jorgevazq, ok
16:59 < jorgevazq> we would also expand and disclose ubuntu trhoughout the country more effectively, for every region would have its own strategy (according to their situation)
17:00 < leogg> jorgevazq, Toluxero, dentro del council sentimos que han hecho un excelente trabajo como comunidad, pero pensamos que podrían necesitar algo de ayuda para fortalecer el grupo y seguir creciendo
17:01 < leogg> esto no es un no definitivo de parte nuestra, sino que nos gustaría que trabajarán un poco más en las áreas que están débiles
17:01 -!- Toluxero [~toluxero@ubuntu/member/toluxero] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
17:01 -!- toluxero_ [~toluxero@189.139.248.95] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:01 < toluxero_> sorry
17:01 < jorgevazq> network issues with toluxero_
17:01 -!- toluxero_ is now known as Toluxero
17:01 < leogg> piensan ustedes que la comunidad ubuntu-mx se podría beneficiarcon algo de ayuda de nuestra parte?
17:02 < Toluxero> leogg, claro, yo no se cuales sean las observaciones. Durante el año que he estado trabajando
17:03 < Toluxero> he visto como crece la comunidad
17:03 < jamesjedimaster> por supuesto, tal vez estamos viciados y no vemos todo lo que nos falta por hacer desde dentro
17:03 < Toluxero> como pide más cosas, y como necesitamos de mas ayuda
17:03 < leogg> Toluxero, están haciendo un excelente trabajo :)
17:04 < Toluxero> leogg, acabo de tomar el contacto y realmente mi ingles es muy malo
17:04 < leogg> pero hay lugar para mejorar un par de cosas
17:04 < leogg> Toluxero, no hay problema
17:04 < leogg> podemos hablar en español :)
17:04 < jorgevazq> leogg: como cuales? para ir aplicandonos en eso
17:04 < leogg> Toluxero has recently taken the leadership in ubuntu-mx
17:05 < jorgevazq> la traduccion nos detuvo un poco en la junta
17:05 < Toluxero> leogg, de hecho es un cambio que se hizo, para empezar a quitar vicios
17:05 < leogg> jorgevazq, necesitan un poco más de actividad sostenida
17:05 -!- rafael_carreras [~quassel@62.57.235.169.dyn.user.ono.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:05 -!- rafael_carreras [~quassel@62.57.235.169.dyn.user.ono.com] has quit [Changing host]
17:05 -!- rafael_carreras [~quassel@ubuntu/member/rafaelcarreras] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:05 < Toluxero> se quiere promover que haya mas ubuntu members
17:05 < leogg> documentar un poco mejor el trabajo
17:06 < leogg> Toluxero, eso también, promover más el trabajo hacía afuera
17:06 < leogg> Toluxero, jorgevazq, me gustaría ayudarles en ese aspecto para ver si podemos retomar la oficialización dentro de un par de meses
17:07 < leogg> si a ustedes les parece bien?
17:07 < Toluxero> leogg, es la segunda vez q lo hacemos.
17:07 < Toluxero> leogg, hemos puesto mucho empeño en hacerlo
17:07 < juancarlospaco2> :(
17:07 < jorgevazq> 2009 was a though year for us
17:07 < leogg> Toluxero, se mira que han hecho un gran trabajo
17:07 < Toluxero> además de que a veces es muy complicado por la situacion em mexico
17:08 < leogg> a veces toma un poco de tiempo reconstruir las cosas
17:08 < jorgevazq> H1N1 was a real hit to many events
17:08 < Toluxero> el año pasado fue muy dificil, todo el año se fue gracias a la influenza.
17:08 < leogg> Toluxero, me lo imagino
17:08 < Toluxero> y este año ni se diga en invierno restringieron de nuevo los eventos masivos
17:08 < juancarlospaco2> sudo kill -9 h1n1
17:09 < Toluxero> y quitaron la restriccion aproximadamente 6 semanas
17:09 < leogg> Toluxero, jorgevazq, yo les recomendaría que se tomen su tiempo en reconstruir el equipo
17:09 < leogg> y que intentemos de nuevo en un par de meses
17:09 < leogg> yo estoy a su disposición para ayudarles si lo necesitan
17:09 < rkgarcia> leogg++
17:10 < itnet7> Toluxero: I am here for you as well
17:10 < itnet7> ping me anytime
17:10 -!- DrKenobi [~DrKenobi@OL118-71.fibertel.com.ar] has quit [Ping timeout: 260 seconds]
17:10  * Toluxero is sad, too sad
17:10 < jorgevazq> gracias por el ofrecimiento leogg
17:11 < leogg> Toluxero, don't be... it's a great opportunity to build a new and strong team
17:11 < Nuun> ...so?
17:11 < leogg> jorgevazq, siempre a la orden :)
17:11 < jorgevazq> Nuun: que no
17:11 < jorgevazq> leogg: vale, dejanos asimilar todo esto, estamos en contacto
17:11 < jorgevazq> que tenemos mucho trabajo que hacer
17:11 < jorgevazq> :(
17:11 < Nuun> that's ok, it's a pleasure.
17:11 < leogg> jorgevazq, claro... buscame en cualquier momento
17:11 -!- Nuun [~94e98853@gateway/web/freenode/x-uxvpfpjkwilbraax] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
17:13 < juancarlospaco2> :)
17:13 < PabloRubianes> si a mi tambien... estamos todos para ayudar
17:13 < itnet7> jorgevazq: I am confident that if you take leogg up on his offer, that he can help bring to light some of the great work you have done, where it's not so obvious now
17:15 < popey> thanks leogg and everyone else for coming.
17:15 < leogg> thank you guys
17:15 < jorgevazq> see ya later someday soon
17:15 < paultag> thanks guys!
17:16 < jorgevazq> itnet7: probably, but again, we still need to figure out some things by ourselves before getting help from outside
17:16 < Toluxero> jorgevazq, relax please
17:17 < jorgevazq> I am relaxed, I'm just saying we got to strategize before jumping
17:17 < paultag> jorgevazq, we are here to help in any way
17:17 < jorgevazq> ok
17:17 < jorgevazq> thank you all
17:17 < jorgevazq> really
17:18 < paultag> thank you guys. Keep up the good work
17:18 < jorgevazq> paultag: count on it
17:18 -!- rkgarcia [~rkgarcia@207.83.222.68] has quit [Quit: Verlassend]
17:19 < juancarlospaco2> :)
17:19 < paultag> Alright. That's it. Thanks for coming everyone. Have a great day!
</pre>
