{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: LoCo re-verification, 11 Oct at 17:05 &mdash; 17:55 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-10-11-17.05.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== ubuntu-fr re-verification ====
The discussion about "ubuntu-fr re-verification" started at 17:11.

** ''Vote:'' re-verification ubuntu-fr (Carried)

==== re-verification ubuntu catalan ====
The discussion about "re-verification ubuntu catalan" started at 17:30.

** ''LINK:'' http://www.ubuntu.cat/planet was linked somewhere else
** ''Vote:'' re-verification ubuntu-cat (Carried)

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-10-11-17.05.log.html#198 re-verification ubuntu-cat]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Voters wxl, coolbhavi, svij, nhaines
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-10-11-17.05.log.html#90 re-verification ubuntu-fr]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Voters coolbhavi, wxl, svij, nhaines

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* svij (62)
* wxl (38)
* coolbhavi (29)
* nhaines (28)
* rafael_carreras (27)
* cm-t (24)
* meetingology (23)
* quesh (1)
* olive (1)

=== Full Log ===

 17:05 <svij> #startmeeting loco-council meeting

 17:05 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct 11 17:05:22 2016 UTC.  The chair is svij. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 17:05 <meetingology> 

 17:05 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 17:05 <coolbhavi> m in midst of coding in parallel so not me also though

 17:05 <svij> alright, I'll do it.

 17:05 <coolbhavi> yay

 17:06 <svij> Welcome to the first (I think) LoCo Council Meeting in this year

 17:06 <svij> We have a two re-verifications on the agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 17:06 <coolbhavi> svij, thanks for putting it in place first up :)

 17:06 <svij> coolbhavi: :)

 17:06 <wxl> +1

 17:07 <svij> I already saw the french loco, is the catalonian loco also here?

 17:07 <rafael_carreras> also here, yes

 17:07 <svij> ah, hey rafael_carreras :)

 17:07 <rafael_carreras> hello svij

 17:08 <svij> do we have any other topics, wxl, coolbhavi, nhaines?

 17:09 <nhaines> None in front of us this meeting.

 17:09 <wxl> yeah. it might be good to go through the trello at some point and make sure everything's in order, but we can do that outside the scope of this meeting

 17:09 <svij> right

 17:09 <coolbhavi> svij, yes what do we do to rejig a loco with low activity was one question thats pondering me.. maybe ll take it up at the mailing list

 17:10 <svij> coolbhavi: that's a good one, yes

 17:10 <svij> ok, I think we can start with the french re-verification

 17:10 <svij> #meetingtopic LoCo re-verification

 17:11 <svij> #topic ubuntu-fr re-verification

 17:11 <nhaines> #topic Ubuntu France re-verification

 17:11 <svij> nhaines: too slow

 17:11 <nhaines> There you go.  :)

 17:11 <nhaines> svij: sleepdeprived.  :P

 17:11 <coolbhavi> looks impressive to me with a detailed readmap :)

 17:11 <svij> alright, who's here from our french friends? :)

 17:12 <cm-t> hi, I am Rudy, I will our lecturer

 17:12 <coolbhavi> yes had a curious thing to ask

 17:12 <svij> here is their reverification application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrenchTeam/ReVerificationApplication

 17:12 <cm-t> olive and karum and amgie are still here if I need help :)

 17:13 <svij> ok, it's a huge one, I'll need a couple of minutes to go through it :)

 17:13 <cm-t> ah :)  take your time, I can take question in the while if you wish

 17:13 <coolbhavi> cm-t, how are renting offices and a full time employee recruit planned?

 17:14 <coolbhavi> seeing it for the first time though :)

 17:15 <wxl> mailing list*S*??? wow

 17:15 <cm-t> coolbhavi: so we have an online shop ( https://enventelibre.org/fr/41-ubuntu-fr ) + help from the governement. It's a 20k project, it's a little thing to handle (we got already that n the bag):')

 17:15 <svij> help from the government? How are they helping?

 17:16 <coolbhavi> exactly

 17:16 <coolbhavi> seems interesting

 17:17 <cm-t> that kind of job is a tipical need for association, and there are plenty of association. It's a way for the governement to "create" job. but most of the governement help is for the 1st year.

 17:17 <nhaines> cm-t: the LoCo is clearly very active, and continues to be successful year after year.  What is your favorite event or advocacy focus over the last two years?

 17:18 <svij> the french community not "very active", they're rather "very very very active" :)

 17:18 <wxl> indeed

 17:19 <wxl> i'm blown away

 17:19 <coolbhavi> cm-t, +1 here for job creation but for a full time resource on repeatative tasks have you thought about automating processes if possible

 17:19 <svij> I think it's a great idea to go to music festivals and promote Ubuntu to non IT people

 17:19 <wxl> yeah that's super cool

 17:19 <coolbhavi> +1 very impressive application

 17:19 <svij> I think the french one is the most active one, good job!

 17:19 <cm-t> For 10 years we do our french UbuCon "Ubuntu Party", but those years we are proud of our webcafé ( http://webcafe-ubuntu.org/ ). It's an booth we put in small or big event (like the biggest french music festival "Les Vieilles Charrues"). There we can meet the people who will dsicover the free software in a funny way (we have circle of friend and tu tattoos!)

 17:20 <cm-t> nhaines: ↑

 17:20 <wxl> that is crazy!!!!!!!

 17:20 <coolbhavi> linux in entertainment.. wow :)

 17:20 <wxl> well, technically it's nothing new

 17:21 <wxl> for example it's prevalent in the movie industry

 17:21 <nhaines> cm-t: ah yes, I remember hearing about the Ubuntu webcafé.  Good choice.  :)

 17:21 <wxl> not so in music, tho

 17:21 <cm-t> we have a nice video to explain the awesomeness of th webcafé http://webcafe-ubuntu.org/webcafe/le-webcafe-ubuntu-aux-vieilles-charrues-2016-la-video/

 17:21 <coolbhavi> yes but the idea is pretty cool

 17:21 <wxl> cm-t: is ubuntu-fr's blog syndicated through planet ubuntu? this is stuff EVERYONE should see

 17:21 <svij> the only complain from me is, that le ubuntu podcast is not releasing new episodes regularly ;)

 17:22 <cm-t> there we meet people who try to pronounce "yubantu", and get back with new knoweldge of what is an OS, or freesoftware

 17:22 <cm-t> svij: we are now releasing weekly episode :D

 17:22 <svij> cm-t: great. Need to refresh my french skills though :D

 17:22 <nhaines> cm-t: are there any problems you foresee while achieving your roadmap?  Or do you think you have all the resources to proceed?

 17:22 <cm-t> svij: live episodes, and we will release the interview few after few :)

 17:23 <svij> also: How do you motivate your team or other contributors to contribute? I feel like the overall contribution in locos gets lower every year (atleast thats whats happening in germany)

 17:24 <wxl> svij: i think that's less true with non-english speaking countries, as translation and general localization tends to be a thing

 17:24 <cm-t> nhaines: so We beleive having that job will help us a lot, but we might need help to accomplish the goal of the event we want to organize in 2017 (we want to host next UbuCon Europe)

 17:24 <coolbhavi> wxl, +1

 17:24 <svij> wxl: oh yeah

 17:25 <cm-t> we already started the work for the ubucon Europe 2017 (1 full time month of work)

 17:25 <nhaines> cm-t: I'm sure you'll find support for UbuCon Europe from other LoCos as well.  :)

 17:25 <cm-t> we visited different place, but We still have an idea of the target

 17:25 <cm-t> nhaines: good to hear :)

 17:26 <svij> great!

 17:26 <svij> any other questions for the french community? Otherwise I would start the voting.

 17:26 <nhaines> O

 17:26 <coolbhavi> nopes

 17:26 <nhaines> I'm read to vote.

 17:26 <cm-t> another detail:  We seel the Ubuntu LTS DVD as a non profit sell https://enventelibre.org/fr/ubuntu-fr/84-dvd-ubuntu-1604-lts.html

 17:26 <wxl> i'm ready

 17:26 <cm-t> we think it's our mission to promote our project :)

 17:26 <cm-t> sell*

 17:27 <svij> #vote re-verification ubuntu-fr

 17:27 <meetingology> Please vote on: re-verification ubuntu-fr

 17:27 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 17:27 <coolbhavi> cm-t, I think you guys are a role model LoCo

 17:27 <svij> #voters coolbhavi wxl nhaines svij

 17:27 <meetingology> Current voters: coolbhavi nhaines svij wxl

 17:27 <coolbhavi> +1

 17:27 <meetingology> +1 received from coolbhavi

 17:27 <svij> +1

 17:27 <meetingology> +1 received from svij

 17:27 <wxl> +1 well, really, +1943671298123759328563914869841623. amazing work!!!!!

 17:27 <meetingology> +1 well, really, +1943671298123759328563914869841623. amazing work!!!!! received from wxl

 17:27 <svij> :D

 17:27 <wxl> this is probably the most impressive application i've ever seen

 17:27 <cm-t> coolbhavi: thank !

 17:28 <nhaines> +1, this was an amazingly well put together application, and I think that reflects all of your events as well.  Thank you.

 17:28 <meetingology> +1, this was an amazingly well put together application, and I think that reflects all of your events as well.  Thank you. received from nhaines

 17:28 <svij> that's it

 17:28 <svij> #endvote

 17:28 <meetingology> Voting ended on: re-verification ubuntu-fr

 17:28 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 17:28 <meetingology> Motion carried

 17:28 <cm-t> <3

 17:28 <svij> congrats, cm-t and friends :)

 17:28 <cm-t> thank you dear LoCo council !

 17:28 <quesh> <3

 17:28 <coolbhavi> love you guys cm-t congrats :)

 17:28 <wxl> thank YOU cm-t for making ubuntu better!

 17:28 <svij> see you next month at ubucon europe :)

 17:29 <rafael_carreras> congrats, mes voisins, vous êtes les meilleurs!

 17:29 <nhaines> Thanks for all your hard work.  You're definiltely a model LoCo for Europe.  And for everyone, really.  An inspiration.  :)

 17:29 <cm-t> thank you!

 17:29 <cm-t> oh yes, see you at UbuCon Europe !!

 17:29 <wxl> +1 nhaines

 17:29 <wxl> now i REALLY wish i could go to ubucon-eu

 17:29 <svij> nhaines and I will represent the LoCo COuncil there ;)

 17:30 <svij> alright, next up: catalan

 17:30 <olive> thx !

 17:30 <rafael_carreras> here :)

 17:30 <cm-t> wxl: next year maybe ? ^^

 17:30 <wxl> cm-t: absolutely!

 17:30 <svij> #topic re-verification ubuntu catalan

 17:30 <wxl> cm-t: especially if it's in france ;)

 17:30 <svij> rafael_carreras from the catalan community is here, anyone else? :)

 17:31 <svij> here's their reverification application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CatalanTeam/ReVerificationApplication2016

 17:31 <rafael_carreras> yes, there is josepgallart also

 17:31 <svij> I'll need some minutes to go through the application

 17:32 <rafael_carreras> ok, take your time

 17:32 <coolbhavi> rafael_carreras, nice application but in the past as I remember there were few issues in the spanish side of the team .. how did you guys overcome those?

 17:32 <nhaines> One issue I had with the application is that there is an impressive list of events, but no real links to wiki pages or articles or blog posts that describe those events.

 17:33 <rafael_carreras> we are separate teams, so there are no issues

 17:33 <rafael_carreras> in fact ther were never issues with them, only with the LoCo Council :-)

 17:33 <nhaines> For instance, all the launch parties link to the release wiki pages.  (festa Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, for instance, links to the XenialXeres page and not a writeup of the event.)

 17:34 <coolbhavi> heh ok :)

 17:34 <svij> that's also the issue which I have now, nhaines

 17:34 <rafael_carreras> that's right, I cound try to find some summaries

 17:35 <rafael_carreras> but I don't think there are any for the last one

 17:35 <nhaines> I had to use the monthly team reports to sort of fill in the gaps.

 17:35 <svij> you can also just say it here for now. What were self-organized events, what were events where you were participating? And how many attended?

 17:36 <nhaines> Blog posts are important!  They let others know what you've done, how things went, and can inspire new LoCo members and other groups to be more active or to attend an event in the future.  :)

 17:36 <rafael_carreras> yes, i know, nhaines

 17:36 <wxl> it's interesting that there are links, but many go nowhere

 17:36 <svij> blog posts with photos of all the people :)

 17:36 <wxl> e.g. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CatalanTeam/ReVerificationApplication2016/UbuntuGlobalJam022015

 17:36 <rafael_carreras> usually, we have about 50 people on each event

 17:37 <rafael_carreras> there are self-organised events

 17:37 <nhaines> wxl: I think most of those dead links are just moinwiki's camelCase autolinking and not intentional links.

 17:37 <wxl> nhaines: i would normally think so, but that's not the case

 17:37 <rafael_carreras> last one was not very attended, but next one is more organised and we think it will be massive

 17:38 <nhaines> wxl: not your example obviously but I got that sense in general.

 17:38 <nhaines> rafael_carreras: that's the install party in Sant Andreu?

 17:39 <nhaines> No, the xerrameca party in Ripoll.

 17:39 <wxl> rafael_carreras: is the mailing list new? i only see archives in this month

 17:39 <rafael_carreras> yes, we migrated the list

 17:39 <wxl> good job :)

 17:39 <svij> i see it starting from may: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-cat/

 17:40 <rafael_carreras> we had two of them and migrated to one in ubuntu servers

 17:40 <rafael_carreras> want the previuos links to the other lists?

 17:41 <nhaines> Yes please.  :)  (And feel free to add it to your application, just for future reference.)

 17:41 <wxl> rafael_carreras: sure! might want to link them off the mailman info so that others can see those

 17:41 <nhaines> rafael_carreras: how do you see the LoCo changing in the next year?

 17:41 <coolbhavi> rafael_carreras, last time when reverification came there were few issues taken up right to the CC if I remember in october 2014.. Are all fine now? :)

 17:42 <wxl> rafael_carreras: ajuda.ubuntu.cat goes to http://planeta.ubuntu.cat/ which seems to be blank? i know it's not done but i guess that's a bit confusing.

 17:42 <svij> http://www.ubuntu.cat/planet was linked somewhere else

 17:42 <rafael_carreras> ancient mailing list: http://llistes.cpl.upc.edu/pipermail/ubuntucat-info/

 17:43 <wxl> rafael_carreras: nice website :)

 17:43 <rafael_carreras> nhaines: we are seeing a bit more activity and new mebers are approaching

 17:43 <rafael_carreras> so we see a bright future

 17:43 <wxl> rafael_carreras: that list is still live tho? last message from september?

 17:44 <coolbhavi> +1 wxl

 17:44 <rafael_carreras> coolbhavi: yes, ther is all fine now, thanks :)

 17:44 <wxl> oh nevermind what i said about ajuda. too many tabs. like svij it's the planet that goes nowhere

 17:44 <nhaines> Yes, might want to reach out to the person who postedin September and point him to the new list.  :)

 17:44 <svij> and close the old list ;)

 17:44 <coolbhavi> good progress from that position though rafael_carreras

 17:44 <wxl> i love those maps!

 17:45 <svij> maps?

 17:45 <rafael_carreras> wxl: thanks, we'll see that with the web hackers

 17:45 <rafael_carreras> wxl: no, that list is not in use, we migrated to the ubuntu server one

 17:47 <wxl> nice art :) https://ca.m.wikibooks.org/wiki/Guia_Ubuntu/%C3%8Dndex_16.04_LTS

 17:47 <rafael_carreras> svij: a message was sent to the university in wich there is the server, but they did not erase the list

 17:47 <svij> rafael_carreras: ah okay :)

 17:47 <nhaines> rafael_carreras: maybe ask again, but of course that's not your fault.  :)

 17:47 <svij> yup

 17:48 <nhaines> Well, I'm certainly ready to vote.

 17:48 <svij> me too

 17:49 <coolbhavi> same here

 17:49 <wxl> me, too

 17:49 <svij> #vote re-verification ubuntu-cat

 17:49 <meetingology> Please vote on: re-verification ubuntu-cat

 17:49 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 17:49 <svij> #voters coolbhavi wxl nhaines svij

 17:49 <meetingology> Current voters: coolbhavi nhaines svij wxl

 17:50 <nhaines> I hope to see more blog posts in the future, which will improve the application and increase participation as well.  But...

 17:50 <wxl> +1 solid effort. keep up the good work as the Catalan community needs you!! work on documenting more, though, for future applications, not to mention for the sake of the larger community, other LoCos

 17:50 <meetingology> +1 solid effort. keep up the good work as the Catalan community needs you!! work on documenting more, though, for future applications, not to mention for the sake of the larger community, other LoCos received from wxl

 17:50 <nhaines> +1, the LoCo is active and I hope it continues to grow.  :)

 17:50 <meetingology> +1, the LoCo is active and I hope it continues to grow.  :) received from nhaines

 17:50 <coolbhavi> +1 considering the progress from their oct 2014 situation .. impressive to say the least :)

 17:50 <meetingology> +1 considering the progress from their oct 2014 situation .. impressive to say the least :) received from coolbhavi

 17:51 <svij> +1 from me, I agree on nhaines and wxl points.

 17:51 <meetingology> +1 from me, I agree on nhaines and wxl points. received from svij

 17:51 <svij> #endvote

 17:51 <meetingology> Voting ended on: re-verification ubuntu-cat

 17:51 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 17:51 <meetingology> Motion carried

 17:51 <svij> congrats rafael_carreras and ubuntu-cat :)

 17:51 <rafael_carreras> thanks a lot!

 17:51 <svij> I'm still searching for cats on ubuntu.cat :D

 17:51 <rafael_carreras> hehe

 17:51 <wxl> hahahah yes svij !!!

 17:51 <svij> (ok, baaad joke, I know)

 17:51 <wxl> MORE CATS

 17:51 <coolbhavi> congrats rafael_carreras :)

 17:52 <rafael_carreras> thanks

 17:52 <svij> alright that's it for the re-verifications

 17:53 <svij> if anyone wants to speak about anything else, if not, we're done for today :)

 17:53 <coolbhavi> I am fine and done :)

 17:54 <wxl> ditto

 17:54 <coolbhavi> thanks svij again for putting things in place :)

 17:54 <wxl> yes svij you are the man!

 17:54 <nhaines> svij: thanks for chairing the meeting tonight!  You were great!

 17:55 <svij> thanks! :)

 17:55 <svij> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
