{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Summary ===

The Lo``Co Council has been tasked with identifying Approved Lo``Co teams which were approved over 2 years ago and thus are due for re-approval. The criteria for re approval is the same as for approval which is outlined on the <nowiki>[[LoCoGettingApproved|getting approved instructions]]</nowiki> and the Lo``Co Council guidelines can be found at <nowiki>[[LoCoCouncil-TeamApprovalGuidelines|the team approval guidelines]]</nowiki>.

It should be noted that from the day your Lo``Co is approved, you should continue to document all events and history of your LoCo for this re approval process to make it clear and visible to all.

=== Re approval Process ===

The following process is used when identifying and then qualifying a Lo``Co team for re-approval.

* The Lo``Co Council identifies teams which have been approved for more than 2 years, on the LoCo directory
* A member of the Lo``Co Council is selected to be the point of contact with the Lo``Co team for re-approval, council members shall not re approve their own LoCo.
* The Lo``Co Council point of contact will attempt to contact the Lo``Co team which is up for re-approval
** The Lo``Co Council will attempt to contact the Lo``Co team a reasonable number of times (3) over a reasonable period (1 month)
** If the Lo``Co Council receives no response from the Lo``Co team then the Lo``Co team will be unapproved
* The Lo``Co Council will request that member(s) of the Lo``Co team attend the next (or another convenient) Lo``Co Council meeting
* During the meeting the Lo``Co Council will go through the same approval process for re-approvals as they do for Lo``Co team approvals.

=== LoCoCouncil Team ===

The members of the current Lo``Co Council you will hear from are  regarding this re approval process are 
 
* Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski) 
* Alan Pope (popey) 
* Jan Claeys (janc) 
* Efrain Valles (effie-jayx) 
* Christophe Sauthier (huats) 
* Chris Crisafulli (itnet7) 

=== Re approval List ===

This is the current list of teams that are being assessed for re-approval.

==== Round 1 ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Approved Date'''
| '''LoCoCouncil Contact'''
| '''Meeting Date'''
| '''Progress'''
| '''Reapproved'''
|-
| Ubuntu El Salvador Team
| 20080605
| Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)
| 16-03-2010
| 04/02/10 1st contact, asked for update 01/03/10
| Taken to mailing list
|-
| Ubuntu Ecuador Team
| 20080605
| Alan Pope (popey)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lithuanian Lo``Co Team
| 20080722
| Jan Claeys (janc)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Florida Lo``Co Team
| 20070927
| Christophe Sauthier (huats)
| 16-03-2010
| 
| Re-Approved
|-
| Belgian Local Community Team
| 20061017
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| 16-02-2010
| 
| Re-Approved
|-
| Colorado Ubuntu Local Team
| 20060711
| Efrain Valles (effie-jayx)
| 
| Emailed 02/01/10 1st Contact
| 
|}

==== Round 2 ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Approved Date'''
| '''LoCoCouncil Contact'''
| '''Meeting Date'''
| '''Progress'''
| '''Reapproved'''
|-
| DCTeam Lo``Co
| 
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| 20-04-10
| 
| Re-Approved
|-
| Catalan Lo``Co Team
| 
| Efrain Valles (effie-jayx)
| 20-04-10
| 
| Re-Approved
|-
| Georgia Lo``Co
| 
| Jan Claeys (janc)
| (TBD)
| 
| 
|-
| German Ubuntu Lo``Co Team
| 
| Christophe Sauthier (huats)
| 20-04-10
| 
| Re-Approved
|-
| Indiana Lo``Co Team
| 
| Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)
| 16-03-2010
| 
| Re-Approved
|-
| Kurdish Kurmanji Team
| 
| Alan Pope (popey)
| (TBD)
| 
| 
|}

==== Round 3 ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Approved Date'''
| '''LoCoCouncil Contact'''
| '''Meeting Date'''
| '''Progress'''
| '''Reapproved'''
|-
| Pennsylvania - US Lo``Co Team
| 
| Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)
| (TBD)
| Emailed 01/03/10 1st contact
| 
|-
| Russian Team
| 
| Christophe Sauthier (huats)
| 20-04-2010
| 
| Re-Approved
|-
| Ubuntu Australian Team
| 
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| Being done via email
| Emailed 01/03/10 1st contact
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Austria Lo``Co team
| 
| Jan Claeys (janc)
| (TBD)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Bangladesh
| 
| Efrain Valles (effie-jayx)
| (TBD)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Brazilian Users
| 
| Alan Pope (popey)
| (TBD)
| 
| 
|}

==== Round 4 ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Approved Date'''
| '''LoCoCouncil Contact'''
| '''Meeting Date'''
| '''Progress'''
| '''Reapproved'''
|-
| Ubuntu Canada Team
| 
| Efrain Valles (effie-jayx)
| (TBD)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Chicago Lo``Co Team
| 
| Chris Crisafulli (itnet7)
| 20-04-2010
| Emailed 05/03/10 1st contact
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Chile
| 
| Christophe Sauthier (huats)
| 20-04-2010
| 
| Re-Approved
|-
| Ubuntu Colombia
| 
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| (TBD)
| Emailed 01/03/10 1st contact, mailed again 31/03/10 asking for update
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Croatian Advocates
| 
| Alan Pope (popey)
| (TBD)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Czech Republic
| 
| Jan Claeys (janc)
| (TBD)
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Denmark
| 
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| 20-04-10
| 
| Re-Approved
|-
| Ubuntu Finland Team
| 
| Laura Czajkowski (czajkowski)
| 20-04-2010
| 
| Re-Approved
|}

