{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

 {*} The idea of the LoCo Health check is an inforaml way to get teams chatting about issues they are facing any thoughts or issues they have, but also for the council to remind them on ways that teams can help themselves using the tools that are available to them. 

 {*} We had a July LoCo Health Check on July 6th covering a range of topics such as using the LoCo Teams Best Practices and Guidelines,Hanging out in IRC Channel #ubuntu-locoteams this is also where you can contact Council members if you need us. Microblogging and using the #locoteams tag when you dent/tweet so people can follow your comments.  Getting more people on the LoCo contacts Mailing list and spreading the word. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoHealthCheck/20100706 |Minutes]]</nowiki>

 {*} We had a LoCo Council meeting on the 20th July where we reviewed applications from teams for Approval and Re Approval of their LoCo status. 
     . {*} Ubuntu-RO - Nobody present for application - Council taking it to mailing list instead
     . {*} Ubuntu-US-MA - Not re-approved
     . {*} Ubuntu-IT - Re-approved
     . {*} Ubuntu-FR - Re-approved
     . {*} Ubuntu-GR - Re-approved
     . {*} Ubuntu-EG - Abstained
     . {*} Ubuntu-NL - Abstained

 {*} For those LoCo teams that were not re-approved, or for which the LoCo council could not reach agreement, the council agreed to work with the LoCo teams to help them get re-approved <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda/20100720 | Full Log of Meeting]]</nowiki>

 {*} Following up on emails/ queries from LoCo teams who have requested help and helping where possible.
