{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Agenda from the Meeting:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| all
| LoCo Team {re}approvals
|-
| all
| Updating Application with new headings
|}

=== Topics Discussed ===

* LoCo Team {re}approvals
** Ubuntu-ZA - Re-approved
** Ubuntu-TAM - Needs to come back on the next LoCo Council Meeting (the 17th of August)with a more detailed application page 
** Ubuntu-RS - Re-approved

* Updating Application with new headings
** popey to create pdfs of successful team re approvals as examples to help teams
** huats to set up a sample new wiki page for applications and to kick off email for loco council to work on

<pre>
20:07 < czajkowski> #startmeeting
20:07 < MootBot> Meeting started at 14:07. The chair is czajkowski.
20:07 < MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
20:07 < viky> i am from india
20:07 < czajkowski> Aloha LoCO Council meeting is underway!
20:07 < czajkowski> [link]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
20:07 < MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
20:08 < huats> hello viky
20:08 < czajkowski> we have a short agenda tonight just two teams and a topic for us to discss, but I know it's late for some people so lets start with
                   applications
20:08 < viky> hello
20:08 < czajkowski> [topic] South Africa
20:08 < MootBot> New Topic:  South Africa
20:08 < drubin> czajkowski: Hi
20:08 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/ReApprovalApplication
20:08 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZATeam/ReApprovalApplication
20:09 < czajkowski> drubin: hi there
20:09 < crabbytag> OK. im on my droid but here
20:09 < nuvolari> whoop! we're up :D go drubin!
20:09 < czajkowski> right so there is 4 council members so we're good to go
20:09 < maiatoday> go drubin
20:09 < drubin> czajkowski: questions?
20:09 < czajkowski> drubin: so care to tell us about your loco please
20:09 < drubin> So an introduction is something that explains who what we are... Kinda hard really because we are every one....
20:10 < stefanlsd> heys, if south africa can host a world cup, we can host a loco :)
20:10 < drubin> So we as a loco are from the Southern Part of Africa.
20:10 < drubin> stefanlsd: ^5
20:10 < highvoltage> yes we can!
20:10 < czajkowski> grin
20:10 < drubin> czajkowski: We are the place were ubuntu kinda started with Mark ;-p
20:10 < czajkowski> ok can you tell us how you share out roles and oraganise events
20:10 < highvoltage> there's some people in the loco that also really stepped up the last year or so and have been doing great work
20:10 < drubin> czajkowski: we don't really have a formal proccess ;/
20:10 < nuvolari> ^5
20:11 < czajkowski> drubin: so how does stuff get done?
20:11  * tumbleweed waves as a new ZA MOTU
20:11 < highvoltage> like maiatoday who hosted and awesome release party at her house (which is just one of many cool things she did)
20:11 < drubin> czajkowski: There was a gap this year right after we lost our website but after speaking to superfly (where is he)
20:12 < drubin> he basically redesigned our site and well http://ubuntu-za.org/ came out ;-p
20:12 < drubin> czajkowski: That is something I would actually like to change the whole roles thing but every one seems *very* busy at the current momment
20:12 < drubin> as with every one. ;-p
20:13 < czajkowski> *nods*
20:13 < czajkowski> of course
20:13 < drubin> So the whole formal role thing is a bit much, but people all help out where they can when they can.
20:13 < crabbytag> drubin: can you talk a bit ab out the case stickers?
20:13 < drubin> makes special note of sueprfly, maiatoday, and tumbleweed
20:13 < drubin> crabbytag: which ones?
20:13 < Kilos> hiya. im here
20:13 < drubin> crabbytag: both maiatoday and me make case badges ;-p
20:13 < nuvolari> ya, some employers don't fully support passion for ubuntu :( But I try to wedge in time where I can :)
20:13 < highvoltage> drubin: I assume the ones on the re-application wiki page :)
20:13 < crabbytag> thats the one :)
20:14  * inetpro comes to join the ubuntu-za croud - sorry for being late
20:14 < drubin> Ok will start with mine http://blog.smartcube.co.za/2009/05/26/ubuntu-pc-badges-for-za/
20:14  * Morganvd here to help where i can with ubuntu-za
20:14 < drubin> basically I just got my laptop and I didn't like the fact it said "powered by widnows Vista" so phoned around got a quote and printed 4000
20:14 < drubin> they wouldn't print any thing less and I thought well I can give them out so I did.
20:15  * maiatoday likes shiney case badges with ubuntu logos
20:15 < Morganvd> i need a few of those
20:15 < drubin> http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/en/material/unusual/small-25mm-badge-pins << maiatoday's badges happened I think because she showed me the
               design at one of the ubuntu hours and I was like OMG that is awesome I want like 20
20:15 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/en/material/unusual/small-25mm-badge-pins << maiatoday's badges happened I think because
                she showed me the design at one of the ubuntu hours and I was like OMG that is awesome I want like 20
20:15 < drubin> so she got them printed as well
20:15 < highvoltage> maiatoday also had human badges!
20:15  * inetpro received a set of stickers from drubin all the way in Pretoria
20:16 < drubin> We both kinda gave them out to people and said they can donate what they can/want to
20:16 < drubin> http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_IMDTCDbQeWY/S9yQEsSTS1I/AAAAAAAAAG4/du4so-FpfVw/s320/cake.resized.JPG
20:16 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_IMDTCDbQeWY/S9yQEsSTS1I/AAAAAAAAAG4/du4so-FpfVw/s320/cake.resized.JPG
20:16 < drubin> we also had CAKE!!! come cake ftw
20:16 < czajkowski> how many people turn up to your events? say a relase party?
20:16  * nuvolari also got badges from drubin
20:16  * helger also got badges
20:16 < drubin> czajkowski: mmm We kinda lost ourwiki posts
20:16 < drubin> highvoltage: ^
20:17 < drubin> czajkowski: but at the last global jam we hadd +-50 people come though
20:17 < drubin> and at the release part in CPT/Stellenbosch there were +- 35
20:17 < maiatoday> czajkowski: there are sometimes simultaneous events in different places in the country
20:17 < drubin> people made the 55min drive effort to come
20:17 < crabbytag> nice!
20:18 < drubin> CPT = Cape town (city) JHB = another city
20:18 < czajkowski> ok
20:18 < drubin> exact numbers are odd.
20:18 < nuvolari> In Bloem we had around 8 people the last time, and I think Brandfort also had that, or a greater number
20:18 < stefanlsd> south africa is pretty big... takes like 15 hours to drive across it.
20:18 < drubin> but at the Karmic release party we had +- 5 or 6 release aprties in cpts
20:18 < drubin> Lucid we had like 3 it was less of a hipe.
20:18 < Morganvd> There was 6 in Johannesburg for Karmix
20:18 < Morganvd> Karmic*
20:18 < drubin> I guess people were really busy.
20:18 < inetpro> we've had release parties in Gauteng with every release that I can remember of
20:19 < drubin> btw the same as the report thing, I might be the contact but well every thing is a team effort
20:19 < nuvolari> yay for superfly :D
20:19 < nuvolari> :P
20:19 < superfly> sorry I'm late
20:19 < drubin> btw hamslaa1 is the System admin for one of the Universities in A
20:19  * txwikinger cheers on superfly
20:20 < drubin> and he has pretty much helped out getting ubuntu regonised and every thing in the uni. see
               http://www.ubuntu.sun.ac.za/wiki/index.php/Special:Statistics
20:20 < superfly> ohi txwikinger
20:20 < drubin> basically the reason that is better to have a different wiki is this one is "Free access to studnets" so they don't use their Internet hours
               to access ubuntu resources (because it is local)
20:21 < czajkowski> ok
20:21 < drubin> wow huge stats on the SUN wiki.
20:21 < drubin> czajkowski: any other questions?
20:21 < czajkowski> ok lets vote
20:21 < helger> bandwidth is still quite expensive in SA
20:21 < huats> drubin, I think you made your point :)
20:21 < czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the Ubuntu Sa team re approval . only council members vote.
20:21 < hamslaa1> u bet it is and very scarce
20:21 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the Ubuntu Sa team re approval . only council members vote..
20:21 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
20:21 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
20:22 < crabbytag> +1
20:22 < MootBot> +1 received from crabbytag. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
20:22 < drubin> Only concil vote btw
20:22 < czajkowski> +1
20:22 < MootBot> +1 received from czajkowski. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
20:22 < nagaraja> +1
20:22 < MootBot> +1 received from nagaraja. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
20:22 < thangam_arun> +1
20:22 < MootBot> +1 received from thangam_arun. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
20:22 < huats> +1
20:22 < MootBot> +1 received from huats. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
20:22 < highvoltage> well done team ZA
20:22 < popey> +1
20:22 < MootBot> +1 received from popey. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
20:22 < viky> +1
20:22 < MootBot> +1 received from viky. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
20:22 < crabbytag> whoh
20:23 < inetpro> wow
20:23 < nuvolari> :>
20:23 < popey> whoops
20:23 < tumbleweed> thanks guys :)
20:23 < drubin> \o/ \o/ \o/ \o/
20:23 < stefanlsd> yay!!! congrats guys :)
20:23 < inetpro> drubin: is our man \o/
20:23 < drubin> thanks -council.
20:23 < Morganvd> Thank you all
20:23 < huats> congrats za
20:23 < crabbytag> grats drubin :)
20:23 < nuvolari> thank you! \o/ \o/
20:23 < popey> Keep doing great work guys and gals!
20:23 < nelydajo> =====< paarp
20:23 < czajkowski> #endvote
20:23 < drubin> inetpro: No ubuntu-za is our team
20:23 < hamslaa1> baie dankie !!
20:23 < czajkowski> [endvote]
20:23 < MootBot> Final result is 7 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 7
20:23  * maiatoday has a big grin
20:23 < nuvolari> congrats drubin :D
20:23 < thangam_arun> Drubin, Congrats
20:23 < nuvolari> and everyone involed :D
20:23 < czajkowski> grrr please in future let council only vote
20:23 < hamslaa1> well done dave !
20:23 < nelydajo> Well done guys!
20:23 < Kilos> congrats drubin
20:23 < viky> Congrats drubin
20:23 < Kilos> go za
20:24  * drubin accepts congrats for the whole team
20:24 < robbit> Great stuff guys. You did an awesome job.
20:24 < huats> I don't know if you notice but just when sabdfl connects, the ubuntu-za gets reapproved :)
20:24 < Morganvd> Congrats Drubin you earned it
20:24 < sabdfl> YOU CALLED
20:24 < superfly> yay! :-D
20:24 < sabdfl> ;-)
20:24 < popey> haha
20:24 < nagaraja> Congratz drubin, tumbleweed and all ur team guys
20:24 < popey> convenient
20:24 < drubin> sabdfl: we did we just got approved Ubuntu-za
20:24 < tumbleweed> re-approved
20:24 < sabdfl> rocking news :)
20:24 < drubin> ye that one.
20:24 < czajkowski> great stuff folks
20:25 < czajkowski> ok moving on
20:25 < Morganvd> cya all in ubuntu-za
20:25 < sabdfl> is there a center of gravity to the team, or distributed across za?
20:25 < czajkowski> [topic] Indian LoCo Re approval
20:25 < MootBot> New Topic:  Indian LoCo Re approval
20:25 < sabdfl> no need to answer, keep going with the mtng
20:25 < drubin> sabdfl: all around, but we seem to be pretty active in Stellenbosch of all places
20:25 < inetpro> now we just need to get sabdfl to our SFD in Pretoria :-)
20:25 < nagaraja> yes
20:25 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Tamil_Team
20:25 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Tamil_Team
20:26 < czajkowski> nagaraja: ok anyone else here with you ?
20:26 < nagaraja> yes , amachu, viky , arulalan , thangami arun
20:27 < czajkowski> ok welcome folks nice to have you here, I know it's late
20:27 < nagaraja> its midnight 1 at India
20:27 < czajkowski> nagaraja: so can you tell us a bit about your team, how you are doing ?
20:28 < amachu> czajkowski: the wiki's timeline is to get updated but we can give you references for blanks
20:28 < amachu> m3swamy: hey!
20:28 < czajkowski> amachu: so why wasn't that done before the meeting ?
20:28 < nagaraja> ya ,, we are spreading the features of ubuntu across tamil nodu by conducting various public functions , seminars in colleges and
                 distributing free cd's across tamil nadu
20:28 < m3swamy> hello amachu :
20:29 < popey> where is the approval application?
20:29 < czajkowski> popey: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Tamil_Team
20:30 < czajkowski> just not named as an application
20:30 < nagaraja> its on our wiki page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Tamil_Team
20:30 < amachu> czajkowski: all are in Tamil.. to do in English.. lazied
20:30  * popey pokes the wiki with a stick
20:30 < czajkowski> nagaraja: ok, well the layout we suggested and naming hasn;'t been followed
20:31 < czajkowski> amachu: nagaraja  I don't think we can process this application today
20:31 < czajkowski> it's lacking any of the information
20:31 < czajkowski> we'd suggest you have a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoExampleApplication
20:31 < czajkowski> and come back on August 17th
20:31 < amachu> czajkowski: yep
20:31 < amachu> thats fine with us
20:32 < nagaraja> yes ofcourse
20:32 < czajkowski> it's just we can't process that page as there isn't much information there
20:32 < czajkowski> if you need help the council can help we idle in #ubuntu-locoteams
20:32 < amachu> czajkowski: thats fine
20:32 < popey> we can certainly help you prepare the wiki page
20:32 < huats> it is in order to give us a clear view of your work
20:32 < nagaraja> we have designed the layout and info. to be in tamil
20:32 < popey> but we would need that done before the next loco council meeting
20:32 < czajkowski> [agreed] Indian LoCo to come back on August 17th with up to date wiki application
20:32 < MootBot> AGREED received:  Indian LoCo to come back on August 17th with up to date wiki application
20:32 < nagaraja> sure ,,
20:32 < czajkowski> ok
20:32 < czajkowski> so moving on
20:33 < nagaraja> agreed
20:33 < czajkowski> [topic] Serbia LoCo re Approval
20:33 < MootBot> New Topic:  Serbia LoCo re Approval
20:33 < thangam_arun> czajkowski: ok
20:33 < uros1> Greetings from Serbia, we send application as well and we are ready to discuss it if it is possible
20:33 < amachu> czajkowski: we understand.. its that we noticed the meeting to be held couple of days back & didn't want to miss out
20:33 < bojce> Greetings from Serbia
20:33 < czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SerbianTeam/ReApprovalApplication
20:33 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SerbianTeam/ReApprovalApplication
20:33 < uros1> members present are bojce coordinator, Githzerai, Prvul, olujicz, archmalac and me.
20:33 < czajkowski> ok thanks folks for coming
20:33 < prvul> o/
20:34 < nagaraja> nice
20:34 < czajkowski> over 4000 members on your forum, that's a lot
20:34 < popey> woah, over 4000 on the forum, nice work
20:34 < uros1> tnx
20:35 < Githzerai> tnx, we hope to inprove ;)
20:35 < czajkowski> so is a lot of your team work done via the forums?
20:35 < uros1> yes, biggest activity  is on form helping new users to get fammiliar
20:36 < uros1> with Ubuntu
20:36 < popey> http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-srbija/4595310793/in/photostream/ whats going on there, looks like a lot of attentive people learning
              about lucid :)
20:36 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.flickr.com/photos/ubuntu-srbija/4595310793/in/photostream/ whats going on there, looks like a lot of attentive
                people learning about lucid :)
20:36 < uros1> its release party on Lucid with 100+ people
20:36 < uros1> in Belgrade downtown
20:37 < czajkowski> wow impressive
20:37 < czajkowski> so how do you go about organising your events?
20:37 < czajkowski> does everyone just help ?
20:37 < popey> excellent stuff
20:38 < uros1> LoCo core team is active in organisation, but other users have great role in events as well
0:38 < czajkowski> oh good I like to hear that
20:38 < Githzerai> we usually have minor problems during organisation, but things somehoe just work out
20:38 < huats> do you have pictures of the material you are doing ? (like tshirt and stuffs you mention) ? I am a big fan of sharing this kind of stuffs
              (well the sources) so that teams that have less artists can also do their own
20:38 < czajkowski> Githzerai: such as?
20:39 < Githzerai> Well biggset problem is finding appropriate place to hold such event
20:39 < uros1> T-shirts
20:39 < uros1> maybe
20:39 < czajkowski> Githzerai: yes it can be hard.
20:40 < popey> Githzerai: same issue every loco has I'm afraid :)
20:40 < czajkowski> Githzerai: is it size/location or cost issues you face?
20:40 < popey> Githzerai: if you find a magic venue, let other locos know! :D
20:40 < Githzerai> :)
20:40 -!- mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+o czajkowski] by ChanServ
20:40 < uros1> :)
20:41 < Githzerai> Most of the time we manage to find some location for free, but timing schedule is a problem.
20:41 <@czajkowski> so is there any issues you faced in the last 2 years since you were first approved?
20:41 < uros1> yes, server problem
20:41 < olujicz> huats, we mainly use materials from http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/
20:41 < Githzerai> Server troubles, so we are currently in a process of migrating to a new host
20:42 <@czajkowski> Githzerai: ok
20:42 < huats> olujicz, ok so it is already shared ! great
20:42 -!- mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+o popey] by ChanServ
20:42 -!- mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+o huats] by popey
20:42 -!- mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+o inetpro] by popey
20:43 -!- mode/#ubuntu-meeting [-o inetpro] by popey
20:43 <@czajkowski> so any other comments you'd like to mention to the council
20:43 -!- mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+o itnet7] by popey
20:44 < paultag> I'm back. Sorry folks. I'm on WiFi now
20:44 -!- mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+o paultag] by popey
20:44 < uros1> no thats all i think, maybe to take a look at new site, forum...
20:44 < bojce> yes, we change branding for new server
20:44 < uros1> http://ubuntuloco.gridsrv.net/
20:44 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuloco.gridsrv.net/
20:44 <@czajkowski> uros1: we notice a lack of team reports
20:44 < uros1> http://ubuntuloco.gridsrv.net/testforum/
20:44 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuloco.gridsrv.net/testforum/
20:45 <@popey> new site looks beautiful
20:45 <@huats> uros1, I think you are doing a good job. I'd like to see reports in your applications
20:45 < uros1> http://ubuntuloco.gridsrv.net/wiki/
20:45 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuloco.gridsrv.net/wiki/
20:45 <@paultag> +1 on that. New site rocks
20:45 <@huats> have you think of doing some ?
20:45 < uros1> thanks
20:45 <@czajkowski> uros1: do you know about team reports?
20:46 < prvul> we know
20:46 <@paultag> prvul: are you considering making them a regular thing?
20:46 < Githzerai> That is one of the things we would like to improve.
20:46 < uros1> yes we know and we do that
20:46 < uros1> in close future
20:47 < prvul> yes! but until now we havent used ubuntu oficial wiki
20:47 <@czajkowski> Githzerai: I hope to read serbia report so in Next months news letter
20:47 < prvul> because we have our own
20:47 < prvul> we alredy set up basic pages for reports
20:47 < prvul> just didnt fill them
20:47 < prvul> :)
20:47 <@popey> we could look at how to make it easier for people to contribute reports on external wikis
20:48 < uros1> yes thats great idea
20:48 <@czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the Serbia LoCo Re Approval. ONLY COUNCIL MEMBERS VOTE PLEASE
20:48 < MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the Serbia LoCo Re Approval. ONLY COUNCIL MEMBERS VOTE PLEASE.
20:48 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
20:48 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
20:48 -!- mode/#ubuntu-meeting [+m-mtn] by popey
20:48 <@huats> +1 continue the good work
20:48 < MootBot> +1 received from huats. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
20:48 <@czajkowski> +1
20:48 <@paultag> +1
20:48 < MootBot> +1 received from czajkowski. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
20:48 < MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
20:48 <@popey> +1
20:48 < MootBot> +1 received from popey. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
20:48 <@paultag> Keep up the good work uros1
20:48 <@paultag> And the rest of the team :)
20:48 < uros1> tnx man
20:48 <@itnet7> +1 great work!!
20:48 <@czajkowski> looking forward to reports next month
20:48 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
20:48 <@paultag> For sure. REPORTS!
20:49 <@czajkowski> [endvote]
20:49 <@paultag> Please :)
20:49 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
20:49 <@czajkowski> great well done folks !
20:49 <@popey> nice work!
20:49 < bojce> thx
20:49 < Githzerai> Thank you !
20:49 < uros1> :)
20:49 < prvul> \o/ to!
20:49 <@popey> look forward to photos from the 10.10.10 release party!
20:49 <@huats> congrats !
20:49 <@popey> Dont Panie!
20:49 <@popey> *panic
20:49 < olujicz> Thank you
20:49 < uros1> wow, thanks!
20:49 <@itnet7> congrats!
20:50 <@czajkowski> ok so moving onto council items
20:50 < stas> hey, wait a minute
20:50 < stas> hi all
20:50 < Githzerai> it's been a priviledge being a part of Ubuntu LoCo last 5 years, and we hope to improve in the future.
20:50 <@czajkowski> [topic] Updating Application with new headings
20:50 < MootBot> New Topic:  Updating Application with new headings
20:50 < stas> czajkowski: i asked last week about ubuntu-ro reapproval
20:50 <@paultag> stas: Romania?
20:50 <@czajkowski> stas: RO ?
20:50 < stas> yes
20:50 < stas> me and Cracknel and riddickbm
20:50 <@paultag> czajkowski: sent an email, right?
20:51 <@czajkowski> romanian
20:51 < stas> wiki
20:51 <@czajkowski> I sent an email earlier on today to the team
20:51 <@czajkowski> to adi
20:51 < stas> hmm, didn't get it
20:51 < stas> adi is away
20:51 <@czajkowski> it was sent
20:51 <@czajkowski> you were re approved
220:48 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
20:48 <@paultag> For sure. REPORTS!
20:49 <@czajkowski> [endvote]
20:49 <@paultag> Please :)
20:49 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
20:49 <@czajkowski> great well done folks !
20:49 <@popey> nice work!
20:49 < bojce> thx
20:49 < Githzerai> Thank you !
20:49 < uros1> :)
20:49 < prvul> \o/ to!
20:49 <@popey> look forward to photos from the 10.10.10 release party!
20:49 <@huats> congrats !
20:49 <@popey> Dont Panie!
20:49 <@popey> *panic
20:49 < olujicz> Thank you
20:49 < uros1> wow, thanks!
20:49 <@itnet7> congrats!
20:50 <@czajkowski> ok so moving onto council items
20:50 < stas> hey, wait a minute
20:50 < stas> hi all
20:50 < Githzerai> it's been a priviledge being a part of Ubuntu LoCo last 5 years, and we hope to improve in the future.
20:50 <@czajkowski> [topic] Updating Application with new headings
20:50 < MootBot> New Topic:  Updating Application with new headings
20:50 < stas> czajkowski: i asked last week about ubuntu-ro reapproval
20:50 <@paultag> stas: Romania?
20:50 <@czajkowski> stas: RO ?
20:50 < stas> yes
20:50 < stas> me and Cracknel and riddickbm
20:50 <@paultag> czajkowski: sent an email, right?
20:51 <@czajkowski> romanian
20:51 < stas> wiki
20:51 <@czajkowski> I sent an email earlier on today to the team
20:51 <@czajkowski> to adi
20:51 < stas> hmm, didn't get it
20:51 < stas> adi is away
20:51 <@czajkowski> it was sent
20:51 <@czajkowski> you were re approved
220:48 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
20:48 <@paultag> For sure. REPORTS!
20:49 <@czajkowski> [endvote]
20:49 <@paultag> Please :)
20:49 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
20:49 <@czajkowski> great well done folks !
20:49 <@popey> nice work!
20:49 < bojce> thx
20:49 < Githzerai> Thank you !
20:49 < uros1> :)
20:49 < prvul> \o/ to!
20:49 <@popey> look forward to photos from the 10.10.10 release party!
20:49 <@huats> congrats !
20:49 <@popey> Dont Panie!
20:49 <@popey> *panic
20:49 < olujicz> Thank you
20:49 < uros1> wow, thanks!
20:49 <@itnet7> congrats!
20:50 <@czajkowski> ok so moving onto council items
20:50 < stas> hey, wait a minute
20:50 < stas> hi all
20:50 < Githzerai> it's been a priviledge being a part of Ubuntu LoCo last 5 years, and we hope to improve in the future.
20:50 <@czajkowski> [topic] Updating Application with new headings
20:50 < MootBot> New Topic:  Updating Application with new headings
20:50 < stas> czajkowski: i asked last week about ubuntu-ro reapproval
20:50 <@paultag> stas: Romania?
20:50 <@czajkowski> stas: RO ?
20:50 < stas> yes
20:50 < stas> me and Cracknel and riddickbm
20:50 <@paultag> czajkowski: sent an email, right?
20:51 <@czajkowski> romanian
20:51 < stas> wiki
20:51 <@czajkowski> I sent an email earlier on today to the team
20:51 <@czajkowski> to adi
20:51 < stas> hmm, didn't get it
20:51 < stas> adi is away
20:51 <@czajkowski> it was sent
20:51 <@czajkowski> you were re approved
20:48 < MootBot> +1 received from itnet7. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
20:48 <@paultag> For sure. REPORTS!
20:49 <@czajkowski> [endvote]
20:49 <@paultag> Please :)
20:49 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
20:49 <@czajkowski> great well done folks !
20:49 <@popey> nice work!
20:49 < bojce> thx
20:49 < Githzerai> Thank you !
20:49 < uros1> :)
20:49 < prvul> \o/ to!
20:49 <@popey> look forward to photos from the 10.10.10 release party!
20:49 <@huats> congrats !
20:49 <@popey> Dont Panie!
20:49 <@popey> *panic
20:49 < olujicz> Thank you
20:49 < uros1> wow, thanks!
20:49 <@itnet7> congrats!
20:50 <@czajkowski> ok so moving onto council items
20:50 < stas> hey, wait a minute
20:50 < stas> hi all
20:50 < Githzerai> it's been a priviledge being a part of Ubuntu LoCo last 5 years, and we hope to improve in the future.
20:50 <@czajkowski> [topic] Updating Application with new headings
20:50 < MootBot> New Topic:  Updating Application with new headings
20:50 < stas> czajkowski: i asked last week about ubuntu-ro reapproval
20:50 <@paultag> stas: Romania?
20:50 <@czajkowski> stas: RO ?
20:50 < stas> yes
20:50 < stas> me and Cracknel and riddickbm
20:50 <@paultag> czajkowski: sent an email, right?
20:51 <@czajkowski> romanian
20:51 < stas> wiki
20:51 <@czajkowski> I sent an email earlier on today to the team
20:51 <@czajkowski> to adi
20:51 < stas> hmm, didn't get it
20:51 < stas> adi is away
20:51 <@czajkowski> it was sent
20:51 <@czajkowski> you were re approved
20:51 < stas> i called him just some hours before
20:51 < stas> oh, thanks guys
20:51 <@paultag> stas: you were +1'd unanimously
20:52 < stas> thanks, didn't know
20:52 <@paultag> stas: sure :)_
20:52 <@czajkowski> ok so getting back to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
20:52 <@itnet7> congratulations stas, sorry for the delay
20:52 < stas> keep up the great work :)
20:52 <@paultag> stas: back at you!
20:52 <@czajkowski> this is the wiki page teams are referred to, to create their applications
20:52 <@czajkowski> I think it'd be a good idea to add some more headings so that if teams need to do things via email it would have more content
20:53 <@czajkowski> but adding team reports would also be a heading I'd like to see
20:53 <@czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
20:53 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
20:54 <@huats> czajkowski, I agree I think the team reports would help a lot
20:55 <@czajkowski> huats: any other headings you think might be a good idea to include?
20:55 <@paultag> Yeah, I agree
20:55 <@paultag> czajkowski: this is just the display page, yeah?
20:55 <@czajkowski> perhaps this is something that should be worked on and released for next cycle.....
20:55 <@paultag> czajkowski: not the actual report page that is 'd
20:55 <@paultag> right?
20:55 <@czajkowski> this would be for the TEAM/ApprovalApplication TEAM/REApprovalApplication
20:56 <@paultag> Oh dur, right.
20:56 <@czajkowski> paultag: ^^
20:56 <@czajkowski> but one heading would be Team reports
20:56 <@paultag> Yup, +1 on that here. I think that will work very well
20:56 <@popey> something really simple, we need to keep the overhead for the teams low
20:56 <@popey> especially those non-native-english
20:56 <@paultag> +1 popey
20:56 <@popey> barrier to re-approval should be low for those who have plenty of stuff to show us
20:56 <@czajkowski> indeed
20:56 <@popey> it should be as easy for them to show it to us as it is for them to document it in the first place
20:57 <@czajkowski> atm it's KEy DEtails, Roadmap, and Experience
20:57 <@huats> I'd like to see the evolution since the last vote of the council
20:57 <@popey> maybe we can take copies of successful team re-approvals as examples?
20:58 <@czajkowski> popey: nice idea
20:58 <@czajkowski> colombia france were excellent ones
20:58 <@popey> yeah
20:58 <@czajkowski> but they are very detailed, we could do wiht one also for a smaller loco ?
20:58 <@popey> maybe make pdfs out of them
20:58 <@popey> freeze them in stone
20:58 <@czajkowski> great idea
20:59 <@czajkowski> popey: can I action that to you
20:59 <@popey> sure
20:59 <@czajkowski> [acton] popey to create pdfs of successful team re approvals as examples to help teams
20:59 <@czajkowski> [action] popey to create pdfs of successful team re approvals as examples to help teams
20:59 < MootBot> ACTION received:  popey to create pdfs of successful team re approvals as examples to help teams
20:59 <@huats> I'd like to see in the reapproval application, the linkto the pdf of the approval application
20:59 <@popey> yup
21:00 <@huats> it is always nice to compare the planned roadmap to the real stuffs that happened
21:00 <@czajkowski> ok so perhaps we need to work on this a bit behind the scenes and then  come back with some ideas/drafts of wiki pages and then come up
                   with the new page ?
21:00 <@huats> czajkowski, I agree
21:01 <@czajkowski> ok so
21:01 <@czajkowski> huats: can I action you this item to kick off a mail and a sample wiki page of some new headings for council to work on
21:01 <@huats> czajkowski, go ahead
21:01 <@huats> :)
21:01 <@czajkowski> [action] huats to set up a sample new wiki page for applications and to kick off email for loco council to work on
21:01 < MootBot> ACTION received:  huats to set up a sample new wiki page for applications and to kick off email for loco council to work on
21:02 < ActionParsnip> yo yo yo
21:02 < ActionParsnip> sorry a bit late, work was a pig
21:02 <@czajkowski> ok are there any other areas we need to cover, EMEA is on next
21:03 <@paultag> I think that's it :)
21:03 <@huats> thanks everyone for the meeting
21:03 -!- mode/#ubuntu-meeting [-o paultag] by paultag
21:03 <@czajkowski> #endmeeting
21:03 < MootBot> Meeting finished at 15:03.
21:03 <@czajkowski> thanks folks

</pre>
