{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Loco-Launchpad unification 09 Nov 2006 UDS MTV - The Honourable Lord Bacon Presiding

https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/unifying-loco-resources-with-launchpad

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamsUDSMVSpecs/UnifyingLoCoTeamResources

----

'''Problem Statement'''
Right now, LoCo teams need a collection of resources to work. Of course, these vary between different teams, but there is a core of resources that are commonly used by teams. This includes essential resources such as:
*** Website
*** Mailing list
*** IRC
*** Domain
*** Forums
    
But, also includes non-essential, but useful resources such as:
*** Planet
*** User map

At the moment some of these resources are centralised (mailing lists, IRC, domains), but many are not and the LoCo team need to research, install and run seperate software to get up and running. In addition to this, there is the problem of commonality of resources. As an example, there is no central place for all of the LoCo team planets, they are instead interspersed across the net.

This spec is to discuss ways of centralising and easing the creation and use of these resources. In many ways, it would be great if a switch could be flicked and a pre-rolled, set up website was ready for a team. While that would take some time to develop, there are other ideas and concepts that could be developed, much of it using Launchpad. 

'''Planets'''

Every LoCo team should have a Launchpad group, and each member of the team should really join that group. If the user were to have a box in their profile to add a blog RSS feed, there is no reason why we could not use Launchpad to suck out all of the blog feeds from members of the team and generate a planet config file. This makes maintaining a planet simple.

Would be nice to keep maps at planet.ubuntu.com/<countrycode>/ e.g. planet.ubuntu.com/uk/.

'''User map'''

Again, Launchpad could be a sane place to store the location of a user. Could the user select their location on a Google maps driven map, and store that location in Launchpad. This could be then used to plot their place on a map.

Would be nice to keep maps at maps.ubuntu.com/loco/<countrycode>/ e.g. maps.ubuntu.com/loco/uk/.
General details

Another useful feature would be to centralise LoCo details for a group. A few examples:
*** Status - we should note if a group if approved or non approved, and this will make it easier to target and categorise the different types of groups.
*** Contact address - it would be useful to have a contact address for the group, this will make it easier to send out CDs and other merchandise.

'''Comments'''

Integration with Launchpad would be really nice for most of our stuff, but a problem for some of it:

*** A CMS integrated with launchpad would be _really_ cool. Right now, for practical reasons, we have chosen to make the site as static as possible, versus dynamic data on the wiki. Launchpad integration would afford us the best of both worlds here. Less bloat, less maintenance, less vulnerable to failure (volunteer admin), easier to distribute editing work.
*** For our volunteer map, launchpad would be a privacy problem. Right now, we collect sensitive data like exact street address, cell phone number, ... I don't feel comfortable entrusting this kind of data to Launchpad as it stands, a closed application controlled by a for profit company. I'm afraid volunteers are just not going to accept this, privacy sensitive as many of them are. Having the foundation in charge of guarding this data might be a nice step, but my gut feeling is that this information should ultimately be under the control of the locoteam itself.

'''Discussion'''
** It would be nice to have launchpad be the focal point for all LoCo teams.
** There would probably be some benefit to do this for non-English speaking groups since it can be translated but also houses Rosetta
** Agreement that there are ways for us to make team startup and operations easier
** If we are able to great integrate with Launchpad, for a future UDS a spec on how to tie LoCo team's participation to Karma (as an example) would make sense
** Agreement that launchpad will only store data elements and may have a script or two to help facilitate operations, not to encompass other tools (e.g. Planet)
** We need to identify a full list of data elements to store inside Launchpad
*** LoCo Team flag (display)
*** Approved Team Flag (display)
*** LoCo team primary contact flag (which then links to Launchpad record) (more than one allowed) (display)
*** LoCo timezone (display)
*** LoCo Mailing List Information (display)
*** May be Ubuntu or Non-Ubuntu Sponsored
*** Do we want to enable automatic creation of mailing list for approved LoCo?
*** Do we want to enable automatic subscription of mailing list for any LoCo?
*** LoCo Website Information (display)
*** May be Ubuntu or Non-Ubuntu Sponsored
*** Do we want to enable automatic creation of mailing list for approved LoCo?
*** LoCo official IRC channel (display)
*** LoCo Wiki Page (display)
*** email alias for approved teams (opt-in, display) - policy=must be approved team
** Discussed thought of a 'heat map' of each Country/State based on Melissa's coloured map which includes identification of approved teams.
** Want to have a master LoCo team group and then a subteam for each LoCo
** We need to identify a full list of Policy items to store inside Launchpad (e.g. Team Name Policy)
** Would be great if we could auto-generate the list of approved vs unapproved teams
** It would be great to have to the LoCo team page in Launchpad auto link to the meeting center for LoCo sponsored events
** It would be nice to have an alias which does email forwarding so that a team member could be user@loco.ubuntu.com or  launchpad.id@locoteam.somedomain)
** We need to have a per user opt-in
