{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by czajkowski at 20:04:16 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-17-20.04.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* montenegro approval application
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam/ApprovalApplication   (czajkowski, 20:06:45)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam   (tp0x45, 20:09:19)
''LINK:'' http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/   (tp0x45, 20:09:38)
''LINK:'' http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/vijesti/   (tp0x45, 20:10:07)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-me   (czajkowski, 20:10:28)
''LINK:'' http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/open-source-je-prilika-koju-crna-gora-ne-smije-propustiti-clanak-55530   (tp0x45, 20:13:47)

* Ubuntu Oregon LoCo approval
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/ApprovalApplication   (czajkowski, 20:27:45)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/TeamReports   (bkerensa, 20:39:32)
''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report  (czajkowski, 20:56:36)

Meeting ended at 20:56:40 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* please vote on the application of the Montenegro LoCo
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* please vote on the approval of Oregon loco
   For: 0 Against: 2 Abstained: 2

=== Action items ===

* SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report

=== Action items, by person ===

* SergioMeneses
* * SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report

=== People present (lines said) ===

* czajkowski (68)
* tp0x45 (59)
* bkerensa (45)
* cprofitt (31)
* meetingology (23)
* c_smith (15)
* nathwill (10)
* TRAVISg (10)
* SergioMeneses (9)
* ivanb (7)
* jhmextern (5)
* xdatap1 (5)
* shandy (3)
* slangasek (3)
* adam_g (2)
* albrigha (2)
* magio (2)
* jvlb (2)
* pleia2 (1)
* kees (1)
* itnet7 (0)
* greg-g (0)

=== Full Log ===

 20:04:16 <czajkowski> #startmeeting

 20:04:16 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan 17 20:04:16 2012 UTC.  The chair is czajkowski. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 20:04:16 <meetingology> 

 20:04:16 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:04:17 <c_smith> hello

 20:04:19 <czajkowski> there we go

 20:04:21 <albrigha> hello

 20:04:23 <czajkowski> welcome to the loco council meeting

 20:04:31 <ivanb> Hi all

 20:04:39 <czajkowski> todays agenda is #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 20:04:50 <czajkowski> from the loco council we have present

 20:05:11 <ivanb> Hi from Montenegro team

 20:05:28 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: cprofitt greg-g xdatap1 itnet7

 20:05:46 <czajkowski> first tonight on the list is Montenegro

 20:05:48 <adam_g> o/

 20:06:01 <czajkowski> what will happen is I'll paste the link

 20:06:07 <czajkowski> the team contact wil tell us about the team

 20:06:15 <czajkowski> and the loco council will ask some questions

 20:06:18 <czajkowski> than we shall vote

 20:06:19 <tp0x45> ok

 20:06:21 <czajkowski> everyone ok

 20:06:26 <ivanb> ok

 20:06:27 * cprofitt nods

 20:06:39 <czajkowski> #topic montenegro approval application

 20:06:45 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam/ApprovalApplication

 20:07:12 <czajkowski> tp0x45: hi there you're the team contact ?

 20:07:21 <tp0x45> hi, yes

 20:07:31 <tp0x45> there are also few other members here with me

 20:07:39 <czajkowski> ok

 20:07:41 <czajkowski> great

 20:07:46 <tp0x45> magio ivanb and shandy

 20:07:56 <tp0x45> the team exists since 2007

 20:08:03 <tp0x45> but we had sparse activity

 20:08:08 <cprofitt> raise your hand if you are with Montenegro

 20:08:21 * tp0x45 raised hand :)

 20:08:39 * ivanb raise hand 2 :)

 20:08:46 <shandy> o/

 20:08:47 <czajkowski> welcome and thanks for coming

 20:08:49 <shandy> :)

 20:08:53 <magio> o/

 20:08:54 <tp0x45> thanks! :)

 20:09:18 <tp0x45> there is more details on our wiki page

 20:09:19 <tp0x45> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam

 20:09:29 <tp0x45> and there is lot more on our site

 20:09:38 <tp0x45> http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/

 20:10:00 <czajkowski> ok

 20:10:03 <tp0x45> the most recent events are best seen on our "news" page

 20:10:07 <tp0x45> http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/vijesti/

 20:10:17 <czajkowski> so firstly I see on lauchpad, which is what we base stuff on you have 19 members

 20:10:18 <tp0x45> we organized several events last year

 20:10:28 <czajkowski> #link https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-me

 20:10:55 <tp0x45> those would be active members that we are trying to motivate to get more active roles in the team

 20:10:56 <cprofitt> the website is well done.

 20:11:03 <czajkowski> tp0x45: can you tell us how you organise events?

 20:11:09 <tp0x45> the group has a very active Facebook group with around 280 members

 20:11:28 <czajkowski> nice site

 20:11:31 <tp0x45> we established a good relationship with University of Montenegro

 20:11:43 <tp0x45> most of the events took place at the university

 20:11:55 <czajkowski> tp0x45: thats nice but for approvals/re approvals we look at lp numbers as we use laucnhpad in the Ubuntu community y

 20:12:02 <tp0x45> we also try to organize presentations with some privately held universitiels

 20:12:14 <czajkowski> good stuff

 20:12:16 <cprofitt> tp0x45: how do you leverage facebook for loco activities?

 20:12:18 <tp0x45> and we try to keep the events logged and scheduled through ubuntu site

 20:12:43 <tp0x45> that is the main focus right now to move FROM facebook to our site/forum/wiki and launchpad

 20:12:50 * cprofitt nods

 20:13:03 <tp0x45> FB is extremely popular in Montenegro (50% population is on it) and we cannot ignore it

 20:13:11 <tp0x45> we also reached out to the local media

 20:13:14 <czajkowski> tp0x45: indeed I do appreciate that

 20:13:21 <tp0x45> we have a good coverage in one of major daily newspapers

 20:13:30 <cprofitt> that is fantastic; I think making use of the Ubuntu specific resources helps bring local members to the greater global Ubuntu community

 20:13:36 <tp0x45> we just had a two page article on open source and ubuntu

 20:13:47 <tp0x45> http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/open-source-je-prilika-koju-crna-gora-ne-smije-propustiti-clanak-55530

 20:13:55 <tp0x45> this was also published in the printed issue

 20:14:08 <tp0x45> we have a good relationship with online magazine BITonline

 20:14:14 <SergioMeneses> tp0x45, hi!...

 20:14:15 <tp0x45> and they report on our activities

 20:14:36 <tp0x45> we distributed 250 CDs in last 2-3 months

 20:14:45 <czajkowski> well done I'm sure that went down well

 20:14:52 <czajkowski> Can I ask why you don't do team report s?

 20:15:06 <tp0x45> we had couple of major presentations at university of montenegro, faculty of science, and university of donja gorica

 20:15:37 <tp0x45> we are trying to slowly migrate to launchapd, and ubuntu wiki... but the focus last year was on the website, wiki, forum

 20:15:41 <tp0x45> and ofcourse presentations

 20:16:15 <tp0x45> we also reached out to montenegrin government and we are trying to get their support to push open source and linux

 20:16:18 <cprofitt> Some solid progress then tp0x45

 20:16:53 <tp0x45> it is critical for us to get approved to become more seriously taken by the officials in various entities in Montenegro

 20:16:54 <czajkowski> greg-g: itnet7 xdatap1 any comments

 20:16:54 <cprofitt> tp0x45: I noticed that no events were planned so far for 2012; what is the reason for that?

 20:17:19 <ivanb> indeed there was a lot of stuff we done in last 2-3 months , mostly focused on presentation during new Ubuntu relasie

 20:17:21 <tp0x45> we usually plann them first on FB and via voice... then we document them on your site

 20:17:36 <SergioMeneses> tp0x45, why two wikis: http://wiki.ubuntu-me.org and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam

 20:17:54 <czajkowski> tp0x45: while I do appreicate that, gting more people involved in the greated ubuntu community starts with using the tools there, so they learn about the community the CoC  and how to get involved in translations, Q&A and bugs

 20:18:00 <SergioMeneses> ivanb, â†‘â†‘â†‘

 20:18:03 <tp0x45> one page is just info on the team on ubuntu sit

 20:18:04 <tp0x45> e

 20:18:14 <tp0x45> our wiki is in Montenegrin language

 20:18:22 * cprofitt nods

 20:18:34 <czajkowski> but you cna have that on the Ubuntu wiki no ?

 20:18:37 <tp0x45> we got more than 50 pages in last 3 months since we put it up

 20:19:14 <SergioMeneses> tp0x45, oks!.. great!

 20:19:21 <tp0x45> we kind of looked at what other groups did

 20:19:28 <tp0x45> Romanian, Serbian, ...

 20:19:34 <tp0x45> they all had wiki on their site

 20:19:58 <xdatap1> tp0x45, are you doing translations on launchpad?

 20:20:01 <tp0x45> Ubuntu anc Canonical were kind of slow on replying on our enquiry regarding domain and website hosting

 20:20:07 <xdatap1> tp0x45, software translation i Mean

 20:20:14 <tp0x45> and we purchased our own domain and created site

 20:20:23 <SergioMeneses> tp0x45, nice wiki! really I like it

 20:20:27 <tp0x45> software translation is one of the challeanges ahead

 20:20:40 <tp0x45> Montenegrin language just recently took its own course

 20:21:00 <tp0x45> it was all serbo-crotian till yugoslavia fell appart

 20:21:28 <tp0x45> we are opening the communication with serbian team and other in the region regarding translations as it will be fairly similar

 20:21:43 <tp0x45> the issues are also that Montenegro is sitll lackin ISO code for language

 20:21:58 <tp0x45> and that is something we addressed to the university and government

 20:22:09 <tp0x45> we also put a nice forum there on the site

 20:22:11 <czajkowski> #voters cprofitt xdatap1 czajkowski SergioMeneses greg-g itnet7

 20:22:11 <meetingology> Current voters: SergioMeneses cprofitt czajkowski greg-g itnet7 xdatap1

 20:22:16 <tp0x45> fourm.ubuntu-me.org

 20:22:31 <xdatap1> tp0x45, yes, I saw it, nice work :)

 20:22:32 <tp0x45> we are trying to direct FB discussions to our forum

 20:22:34 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the application of the Montenegro LoCo

 20:22:34 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the application of the Montenegro LoCo

 20:22:34 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:23:17 <czajkowski> +1 I would like to see all the members added to launchpad and team reports started please.

 20:23:17 <meetingology> +1 I would like to see all the members added to launchpad and team reports started please. received from czajkowski

 20:23:49 <czajkowski> 19 on lp and 250 on fb is a bit backwards for my liking:) I'd prefer the other way around

 20:24:14 <tp0x45> I agree, I would like to see 30,000

 20:24:25 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: cprofitt xdatap1 greg-g please!

 20:24:28 <tp0x45> which is only 10% of Montenegro FB users :)

 20:24:34 <xdatap1> +1 I agree with what czajkowski said

 20:24:34 <meetingology> +1 I agree with what czajkowski said received from xdatap1

 20:25:21 <cprofitt> +1 I would like to see continued events planned using the loco portal loco.ubuntu.com - it causes me some concern to not see events planned at this point

 20:25:21 <meetingology> +1 I would like to see continued events planned using the loco portal loco.ubuntu.com - it causes me some concern to not see events planned at this point received from cprofitt

 20:25:30 <SergioMeneses> +1 good work

 20:25:30 <meetingology> +1 good work received from SergioMeneses

 20:26:06 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:26:06 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the application of the Montenegro LoCo

 20:26:06 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:26:06 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:26:29 <nathwill> whoo!! :D congrats ubuntu-me!

 20:26:30 <czajkowski> ok

 20:26:39 <bkerensa> congrats

 20:26:42 <bkerensa> \o/

 20:26:44 <czajkowski> cprofitt: can you add the team to APPROVED loco and set expiration date for 2 years from now please

 20:26:44 <ivanb> Thanks ! :)

 20:26:46 <shandy> ty :)

 20:26:48 <TRAVISg> congrats

 20:26:50 <cprofitt> thank you Montenegro I look forward to hearing about the great things you do!!

 20:26:55 <tp0x45> thanks!!! this will be very helpful for us to continue and motivate more people to join!!!

 20:27:02 <tp0x45> thanks!

 20:27:10 <SergioMeneses> congrats!

 20:27:12 <ivanb> Thank You all !

 20:27:16 <magio> tnx

 20:27:21 <czajkowski> tp0x45: but please team reports !!!

 20:27:34 <czajkowski> #topic Ubuntu Oregon LoCo approval

 20:27:45 <bkerensa> Hello Council

 20:27:45 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/ApprovalApplication

 20:28:15 <cprofitt> czajkowski: added

 20:28:31 <czajkowski> cprofitt: cheers

 20:28:40 <czajkowski> bkerensa: welcome can you tell us about the team and how things are done please?

 20:28:44 <bkerensa> Sure

 20:28:51 * slangasek waves

 20:29:07 <bkerensa> I'm Team Lead and Nathwill is my Asst. Team Lead he shares leadership roles with me

 20:29:18 <nathwill> go oregon!

 20:29:20 <nathwill> ;)

 20:29:25 <c_smith> lol

 20:29:29 <bkerensa> We have about 8 members in channel right now

 20:29:38 <adam_g> o/

 20:29:41 <c_smith> *is a member*

 20:29:43 <cprofitt> raise your hand if you are with Oregon

 20:29:46 <TRAVISg> *Raises Hand*

 20:29:46 <albrigha> o/

 20:29:50 <jhmextern> raised hand

 20:29:53 <c_smith> *raise hand*

 20:29:55 <jvlb> Hand up.

 20:29:56 * nathwill throws one up

 20:30:55 <czajkowski> bkerensa: well...

 20:30:59 <bkerensa> Anyways so right now our LoCo has focused on local advocacy for Ubuntu. We have regular meetings on IRC every month and we have release parties, global jams and booths at just about every tech event in the region

 20:31:05 * slangasek raises hand

 20:31:29 <bkerensa> Ubuntu Oregon is spearheading a initiative to work with Western Oregon University to mentor students in Comp Sci about Ubuntu

 20:31:52 <bkerensa> Ubuntu Oregon will be starting to hold classes at the FreeGeek Community Center

 20:32:27 <c_smith> may I add one thing?

 20:32:32 <bkerensa> We also are working with other LUG's and User Groups to include OSU LUG, Debian Portland and also trying to help revive Salem LUG

 20:32:32 <czajkowski> cprofitt: shoot

 20:32:42 <czajkowski> c_smith: shoot

 20:32:58 <c_smith> k, Ubuntu Oregon is working on getting an event set up in Salem,

 20:32:58 <czajkowski> bkerensa: so do you do more lug work that Ubuntu work ?

 20:33:35 <nathwill> czajkowski, is that specific to bkerensa, or applicable to the group as a whole?

 20:33:41 <bkerensa> czajkowski: Well our involvement even with the LUG's it to try and advocate for Ubuntu

 20:33:45 <pleia2> bkerensa: it was really cool to see all the blog posts that came out of the combined debian-ubuntu event, very nice work with that :)

 20:33:56 <czajkowski> nathwill: anyone can answer stuff

 20:33:59 <czajkowski> we're asking the team

 20:34:08 <bkerensa> so by being involved with other LUG's we are trying to push Ubuntu and get people involved with Ubuntu if they choose

 20:34:43 <bkerensa> I think our recent event with Debian folks is a good example of how Ubuntu and Debian benefit from our work together

 20:35:02 <cprofitt> bkerensa: can you share a bit with the group about the teams previous activity

 20:35:10 <bkerensa> Surely

 20:35:11 <czajkowski> as there is nothing there prior to April

 20:35:27 <cprofitt> one of the issues we are always concerned with is sustained activity

 20:35:57 <bkerensa> czajkowski: Well prior to April tgm4883 was lead more on a defacto basis because the founder of Ubuntu Oregon had been deployed in the Army

 20:36:24 <bkerensa> I cannot speak in too much detail but by reviewing the mailing list and other mailing lists and in discussion with current and pass Oregon LoCo folks

 20:36:24 <czajkowski> right

 20:36:29 <bkerensa> I can see that regular meetings

 20:36:32 <bkerensa> and events did occur

 20:36:40 <bkerensa> however documentation was not up to par

 20:37:22 <bkerensa> I know that Ubuntu Oregon has had a booth at every OSCON

 20:37:23 <cprofitt> bkerensa: what about the future -- I see no events planned for the future on loco.ubuntu.com

 20:38:01 <c_smith> We are actually in the planning phase of the 12.04 Release party, and have several other evens being planned, too.

 20:38:03 <bkerensa> cprofitt: We are planning our Ubuntu 12.04 Release Party right now in fact I have an offer for sponsorship from PuppetLabs and am working with Dell for some other opps

 20:38:05 <nathwill> we're trying to nail down final details on a talk at the local Yahoo! office in ~ 2 wks

 20:38:15 <bkerensa> in March we will likely have another joint Ubuntu/Debian event

 20:38:36 <bkerensa> Ubuntu Oregon will be at Community Leadership Summit, Linux Fest NW and OSCON

 20:38:52 <cprofitt> does Oregon also use loco.ubuntu.com to schedule on-line meetings?

 20:38:56 <bkerensa> all of those events will be coming in the next few months

 20:38:58 <czajkowski> rght so you guys seem to attend a lot of conferences, what do you do at ground level

 20:39:02 <czajkowski> looking for team reports ?

 20:39:32 <bkerensa> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/TeamReports

 20:39:46 <bkerensa> Well c_smith has been hosting Ubuntu Hours in Salem

 20:39:59 <bkerensa> and we hope to have some Ubuntu Hours on a regular basis here in Portland

 20:40:26 <bkerensa> I know that various members do provide support in #ubuntu from time to time and also provide support and advocate in their own towns and cities

 20:40:47 <c_smith> I can vouch that I try and help out on #ubuntu

 20:41:07 <TRAVISg> I have done installs for friends and co-workers

 20:41:12 <bkerensa> Also

 20:41:28 <bkerensa> I'm pushing an initiative to start distributing more CD's

 20:42:04 <bkerensa> as of right now I have been buying CD's out of pocket and distributing them but I'm hoping we might have a coordinated effort going forward to get more CD's out since they are in demand

 20:42:15 <cprofitt> bkerensa: you say a lot of 'I'... how much is the 'we' involved

 20:42:19 <nathwill> i support a couple of local ubuntu users, while trying to get them to join in on ubuntu-or events.

 20:42:25 <jhmextern> working in newport oregon trying to develop a group too

 20:42:28 <czajkowski> bkerensa: cool, many teams even approved teams like france get out many cds theyt produce themselves

 20:43:26 <bkerensa> cprofitt: c_smith holds Ubuntu Hours in Salem, jhmextern is working to get Ubuntu Hours and a group together in Newport and Nathwill on his own got us a talk at Yahoo

 20:43:27 <c_smith> JVLB and I have been working with bkerensa to try to get an event (which I already mention) going to try and educate people about Ubuntu in the Salem/Keizer area.

 20:43:35 <TRAVISg> I offer support to users I have helped switch over here in Portland

 20:43:49 <bkerensa> all of that they do on their own.... Our team are self starters

 20:43:51 <jvlb> Since 2006 I've helped about a dozen people switch to Kubuntu from Windows.

 20:44:29 <TRAVISg> Also have got the chance to talk to many folks about Ubuntu since sporting the 11.10 Shirt from our last release party

 20:44:33 <cprofitt> bkerensa: that is a good thing... my team recently lost some folks to relocation and I need to get more folks invovled... the weight of the team is already pretty heavy

 20:44:52 <cprofitt> teams become stronger as they get more people involved.

 20:45:33 <bkerensa> cprofitt: It is always a concern that our LoCo could become dormant again but honestly I dont see that happening we have been more sustainable ever since I took lead and I'm working with nathwill on forming a council so that going forward there is sustainability in our leadership

 20:45:44 <nathwill> we're doing a lot of work towards increasing interest in membership atm. the yahoo! talk is entirely about exposing a new group of users to foss/ubuntu

 20:45:48 <c_smith> brb

 20:45:59 <bkerensa> Notably we have quite a good partcipation on IRC

 20:46:04 <cprofitt> bkerensa: I understand that... I went through the same with New York

 20:46:08 <bkerensa> in comparison to other approved states

 20:46:16 <bkerensa> our events are big

 20:46:20 <cprofitt> When we were approved we had to show 12 months of sustained activity

 20:46:36 <cprofitt> bkerensa: are they big due to the loco or because they are pre-established events?

 20:46:43 <c_smith> back

 20:46:45 <czajkowski> bkerensa: my concern is I only ever see you and the application is you, team reports you, blogs you etc

 20:46:46 <bkerensa> they are big because of the LoCo

 20:46:57 * kees raises his hand 15 min late ;)

 20:46:58 <bkerensa> Our release parties have very nice turnouts

 20:47:10 <bkerensa> atleast that is my opinion

 20:47:26 <cprofitt> bkerensa: I understand

 20:47:41 <cprofitt> I just wanted to make sure you were not countin oscon or something like that as a big event

 20:47:48 <slangasek> the local jam certainly wasn't a pre-established event

 20:47:50 <bkerensa> czajkowski: That is why I want to see a council going forward

 20:47:59 <jhmextern> distance plays a huge part, Oregon is a big state.

 20:48:01 <TRAVISg> I can say that the support and equipping I have gotten through the team has been invaluable in my being able to spread the word about FOSS/Ubuntu

 20:48:02 <bkerensa> czajkowski: c_smith actually does our website and blog and facebook

 20:48:08 <czajkowski> bkerensa: a council isnt an answer I'm afraid

 20:48:20 <c_smith> when I'm not busy running errands. :P

 20:48:31 <bkerensa> czajkowski: Our team reports also reflect blog posts from kees and slangasek who are loco members

 20:48:32 <nathwill> cprofitt, it should be noted that the team is delegating a lot of activity to people with an inclination. (e.g. wiki maintenance, mailing list administration, etc). bkerensa's not stuck shouldering everything.

 20:48:32 <czajkowski> bkerensa: unless you're a massive loco team like france or italy or brazil there is no need for a council

 20:48:34 <cprofitt> bkerensa: would you be worried about sustaining the activity over the next six months?

 20:49:12 <cprofitt> I would agree with czajkowski - New York was almost destroyed by over complicated unecessary structure

 20:49:12 <bkerensa> cprofitt: I do not think we would have a problem sustaining over the next six months

 20:49:50 <cprofitt> bkerensa: do you think your team would put the effort in regardless of approval status?

 20:50:27 <bkerensa> cprofitt: Yes... We don't exist because we seek approval we exist as a LoCo because we use Ubuntu and enjoy advocating for Ubuntu and FOSS

 20:50:39 <TRAVISg> True

 20:50:41 <jhmextern> nods in agreement

 20:50:42 <czajkowski> ok we're ready to vote

 20:50:45 <cprofitt> excellent answer... and the one I had to give when I was with New York

 20:50:47 <c_smith> I'll vouch for that view.

 20:50:55 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the approval of Oregon loco

 20:50:55 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the approval of Oregon loco

 20:50:55 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:50:58 <cprofitt> New York was turned down three times... and we continued on!

 20:51:31 <c_smith> NY, eh?

 20:52:09 <czajkowski> -1 I'd like to see you come back in 6-8 months there just isn't enough for me at present prior to 9 months ago

 20:52:09 <meetingology> -1 I'd like to see you come back in 6-8 months there just isn't enough for me at present prior to 9 months ago received from czajkowski

 20:52:22 <cprofitt> +0 I think the team has done excellent work, but I would like to see more sustained activity before granting approved status. I am encouraged by the strong amount of activity shown in the last six months and the number of people who made the meeting in the middle of their workday.

 20:52:22 <meetingology> +0 I think the team has done excellent work, but I would like to see more sustained activity before granting approved status. I am encouraged by the strong amount of activity shown in the last six months and the number of people who made the meeting in the middle of their workday. received from cprofitt

 20:53:48 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: xdatap1

 20:53:50 <xdatap1> -1 I would like to see you again in 6 months. You're doing a great job but the history is still short, so keep up the good work

 20:53:50 <meetingology> -1 I would like to see you again in 6 months. You're doing a great job but the history is still short, so keep up the good work received from xdatap1

 20:53:58 <SergioMeneses> +0 have done a great work but they need a little more!

 20:53:58 <meetingology> +0 have done a great work but they need a little more! received from SergioMeneses

 20:54:19 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:54:19 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the approval of Oregon loco

 20:54:19 <meetingology> Votes for:0 Votes against:2 Abstentions:2

 20:54:19 <meetingology> Motion denied

 20:55:00 <czajkowski> hopefully in a few more months there will be more things to see and we can look again

 20:55:15 <czajkowski> thank you all for coming

 20:55:22 <nathwill> thanks for your time :)

 20:55:30 <TRAVISg> Yup gotta run back to work

 20:55:36 <c_smith> thanks for at least looking into it.

 20:55:36 <jhmextern> thank you

 20:55:39 <TRAVISg> Thanks for your time and consideration

 20:55:50 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: cprofitt xdatap1 can one of you update the team report and wiki with mins of the meeting

 20:55:59 <TRAVISg> We will knock your socks off in a few months

 20:56:16 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, I can do it

 20:56:36 <czajkowski> #action SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report

 20:56:36 * meetingology SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report

 20:56:40 <czajkowski> #endmeeting

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

Meeting started by czajkowski at 20:04:16 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-17-20.04.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* montenegro approval application
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam/ApprovalApplication   (czajkowski, 20:06:45)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam   (tp0x45, 20:09:19)
''LINK:'' http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/   (tp0x45, 20:09:38)
''LINK:'' http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/vijesti/   (tp0x45, 20:10:07)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-me   (czajkowski, 20:10:28)
''LINK:'' http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/open-source-je-prilika-koju-crna-gora-ne-smije-propustiti-clanak-55530   (tp0x45, 20:13:47)

* Ubuntu Oregon LoCo approval
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/ApprovalApplication   (czajkowski, 20:27:45)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/TeamReports   (bkerensa, 20:39:32)
''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report  (czajkowski, 20:56:36)

Meeting ended at 20:56:40 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* please vote on the application of the Montenegro LoCo
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* please vote on the approval of Oregon loco
   For: 0 Against: 2 Abstained: 2

=== Action items ===

* SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report

=== Action items, by person ===

* SergioMeneses
* * SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report

=== People present (lines said) ===

* czajkowski (68)
* tp0x45 (59)
* bkerensa (45)
* cprofitt (31)
* meetingology (23)
* c_smith (15)
* nathwill (10)
* TRAVISg (10)
* SergioMeneses (9)
* ivanb (7)
* jhmextern (5)
* xdatap1 (5)
* shandy (3)
* slangasek (3)
* adam_g (2)
* albrigha (2)
* magio (2)
* jvlb (2)
* pleia2 (1)
* kees (1)
* itnet7 (0)
* greg-g (0)

=== Full Log ===

 20:04:16 <czajkowski> #startmeeting

 20:04:16 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan 17 20:04:16 2012 UTC.  The chair is czajkowski. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 20:04:16 <meetingology> 

 20:04:16 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:04:17 <c_smith> hello

 20:04:19 <czajkowski> there we go

 20:04:21 <albrigha> hello

 20:04:23 <czajkowski> welcome to the loco council meeting

 20:04:31 <ivanb> Hi all

 20:04:39 <czajkowski> todays agenda is #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 20:04:50 <czajkowski> from the loco council we have present

 20:05:11 <ivanb> Hi from Montenegro team

 20:05:28 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: cprofitt greg-g xdatap1 itnet7

 20:05:46 <czajkowski> first tonight on the list is Montenegro

 20:05:48 <adam_g> o/

 20:06:01 <czajkowski> what will happen is I'll paste the link

 20:06:07 <czajkowski> the team contact wil tell us about the team

 20:06:15 <czajkowski> and the loco council will ask some questions

 20:06:18 <czajkowski> than we shall vote

 20:06:19 <tp0x45> ok

 20:06:21 <czajkowski> everyone ok

 20:06:26 <ivanb> ok

 20:06:27 * cprofitt nods

 20:06:39 <czajkowski> #topic montenegro approval application

 20:06:45 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam/ApprovalApplication

 20:07:12 <czajkowski> tp0x45: hi there you're the team contact ?

 20:07:21 <tp0x45> hi, yes

 20:07:31 <tp0x45> there are also few other members here with me

 20:07:39 <czajkowski> ok

 20:07:41 <czajkowski> great

 20:07:46 <tp0x45> magio ivanb and shandy

 20:07:56 <tp0x45> the team exists since 2007

 20:08:03 <tp0x45> but we had sparse activity

 20:08:08 <cprofitt> raise your hand if you are with Montenegro

 20:08:21 * tp0x45 raised hand :)

 20:08:39 * ivanb raise hand 2 :)

 20:08:46 <shandy> o/

 20:08:47 <czajkowski> welcome and thanks for coming

 20:08:49 <shandy> :)

 20:08:53 <magio> o/

 20:08:54 <tp0x45> thanks! :)

 20:09:18 <tp0x45> there is more details on our wiki page

 20:09:19 <tp0x45> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam

 20:09:29 <tp0x45> and there is lot more on our site

 20:09:38 <tp0x45> http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/

 20:10:00 <czajkowski> ok

 20:10:03 <tp0x45> the most recent events are best seen on our "news" page

 20:10:07 <tp0x45> http://www.ubuntu-me.org/site/vijesti/

 20:10:17 <czajkowski> so firstly I see on lauchpad, which is what we base stuff on you have 19 members

 20:10:18 <tp0x45> we organized several events last year

 20:10:28 <czajkowski> #link https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-me

 20:10:55 <tp0x45> those would be active members that we are trying to motivate to get more active roles in the team

 20:10:56 <cprofitt> the website is well done.

 20:11:03 <czajkowski> tp0x45: can you tell us how you organise events?

 20:11:09 <tp0x45> the group has a very active Facebook group with around 280 members

 20:11:28 <czajkowski> nice site

 20:11:31 <tp0x45> we established a good relationship with University of Montenegro

 20:11:43 <tp0x45> most of the events took place at the university

 20:11:55 <czajkowski> tp0x45: thats nice but for approvals/re approvals we look at lp numbers as we use laucnhpad in the Ubuntu community y

 20:12:02 <tp0x45> we also try to organize presentations with some privately held universitiels

 20:12:14 <czajkowski> good stuff

 20:12:16 <cprofitt> tp0x45: how do you leverage facebook for loco activities?

 20:12:18 <tp0x45> and we try to keep the events logged and scheduled through ubuntu site

 20:12:43 <tp0x45> that is the main focus right now to move FROM facebook to our site/forum/wiki and launchpad

 20:12:50 * cprofitt nods

 20:13:03 <tp0x45> FB is extremely popular in Montenegro (50% population is on it) and we cannot ignore it

 20:13:11 <tp0x45> we also reached out to the local media

 20:13:14 <czajkowski> tp0x45: indeed I do appreciate that

 20:13:21 <tp0x45> we have a good coverage in one of major daily newspapers

 20:13:30 <cprofitt> that is fantastic; I think making use of the Ubuntu specific resources helps bring local members to the greater global Ubuntu community

 20:13:36 <tp0x45> we just had a two page article on open source and ubuntu

 20:13:47 <tp0x45> http://www.vijesti.me/vijesti/open-source-je-prilika-koju-crna-gora-ne-smije-propustiti-clanak-55530

 20:13:55 <tp0x45> this was also published in the printed issue

 20:14:08 <tp0x45> we have a good relationship with online magazine BITonline

 20:14:14 <SergioMeneses> tp0x45, hi!...

 20:14:15 <tp0x45> and they report on our activities

 20:14:36 <tp0x45> we distributed 250 CDs in last 2-3 months

 20:14:45 <czajkowski> well done I'm sure that went down well

 20:14:52 <czajkowski> Can I ask why you don't do team report s?

 20:15:06 <tp0x45> we had couple of major presentations at university of montenegro, faculty of science, and university of donja gorica

 20:15:37 <tp0x45> we are trying to slowly migrate to launchapd, and ubuntu wiki... but the focus last year was on the website, wiki, forum

 20:15:41 <tp0x45> and ofcourse presentations

 20:16:15 <tp0x45> we also reached out to montenegrin government and we are trying to get their support to push open source and linux

 20:16:18 <cprofitt> Some solid progress then tp0x45

 20:16:53 <tp0x45> it is critical for us to get approved to become more seriously taken by the officials in various entities in Montenegro

 20:16:54 <czajkowski> greg-g: itnet7 xdatap1 any comments

 20:16:54 <cprofitt> tp0x45: I noticed that no events were planned so far for 2012; what is the reason for that?

 20:17:19 <ivanb> indeed there was a lot of stuff we done in last 2-3 months , mostly focused on presentation during new Ubuntu relasie

 20:17:21 <tp0x45> we usually plann them first on FB and via voice... then we document them on your site

 20:17:36 <SergioMeneses> tp0x45, why two wikis: http://wiki.ubuntu-me.org and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontenegroTeam

 20:17:54 <czajkowski> tp0x45: while I do appreicate that, gting more people involved in the greated ubuntu community starts with using the tools there, so they learn about the community the CoC  and how to get involved in translations, Q&A and bugs

 20:18:00 <SergioMeneses> ivanb, â†‘â†‘â†‘

 20:18:03 <tp0x45> one page is just info on the team on ubuntu sit

 20:18:04 <tp0x45> e

 20:18:14 <tp0x45> our wiki is in Montenegrin language

 20:18:22 * cprofitt nods

 20:18:34 <czajkowski> but you cna have that on the Ubuntu wiki no ?

 20:18:37 <tp0x45> we got more than 50 pages in last 3 months since we put it up

 20:19:14 <SergioMeneses> tp0x45, oks!.. great!

 20:19:21 <tp0x45> we kind of looked at what other groups did

 20:19:28 <tp0x45> Romanian, Serbian, ...

 20:19:34 <tp0x45> they all had wiki on their site

 20:19:58 <xdatap1> tp0x45, are you doing translations on launchpad?

 20:20:01 <tp0x45> Ubuntu anc Canonical were kind of slow on replying on our enquiry regarding domain and website hosting

 20:20:07 <xdatap1> tp0x45, software translation i Mean

 20:20:14 <tp0x45> and we purchased our own domain and created site

 20:20:23 <SergioMeneses> tp0x45, nice wiki! really I like it

 20:20:27 <tp0x45> software translation is one of the challeanges ahead

 20:20:40 <tp0x45> Montenegrin language just recently took its own course

 20:21:00 <tp0x45> it was all serbo-crotian till yugoslavia fell appart

 20:21:28 <tp0x45> we are opening the communication with serbian team and other in the region regarding translations as it will be fairly similar

 20:21:43 <tp0x45> the issues are also that Montenegro is sitll lackin ISO code for language

 20:21:58 <tp0x45> and that is something we addressed to the university and government

 20:22:09 <tp0x45> we also put a nice forum there on the site

 20:22:11 <czajkowski> #voters cprofitt xdatap1 czajkowski SergioMeneses greg-g itnet7

 20:22:11 <meetingology> Current voters: SergioMeneses cprofitt czajkowski greg-g itnet7 xdatap1

 20:22:16 <tp0x45> fourm.ubuntu-me.org

 20:22:31 <xdatap1> tp0x45, yes, I saw it, nice work :)

 20:22:32 <tp0x45> we are trying to direct FB discussions to our forum

 20:22:34 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the application of the Montenegro LoCo

 20:22:34 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the application of the Montenegro LoCo

 20:22:34 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:23:17 <czajkowski> +1 I would like to see all the members added to launchpad and team reports started please.

 20:23:17 <meetingology> +1 I would like to see all the members added to launchpad and team reports started please. received from czajkowski

 20:23:49 <czajkowski> 19 on lp and 250 on fb is a bit backwards for my liking:) I'd prefer the other way around

 20:24:14 <tp0x45> I agree, I would like to see 30,000

 20:24:25 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: cprofitt xdatap1 greg-g please!

 20:24:28 <tp0x45> which is only 10% of Montenegro FB users :)

 20:24:34 <xdatap1> +1 I agree with what czajkowski said

 20:24:34 <meetingology> +1 I agree with what czajkowski said received from xdatap1

 20:25:21 <cprofitt> +1 I would like to see continued events planned using the loco portal loco.ubuntu.com - it causes me some concern to not see events planned at this point

 20:25:21 <meetingology> +1 I would like to see continued events planned using the loco portal loco.ubuntu.com - it causes me some concern to not see events planned at this point received from cprofitt

 20:25:30 <SergioMeneses> +1 good work

 20:25:30 <meetingology> +1 good work received from SergioMeneses

 20:26:06 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:26:06 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the application of the Montenegro LoCo

 20:26:06 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:26:06 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:26:29 <nathwill> whoo!! :D congrats ubuntu-me!

 20:26:30 <czajkowski> ok

 20:26:39 <bkerensa> congrats

 20:26:42 <bkerensa> \o/

 20:26:44 <czajkowski> cprofitt: can you add the team to APPROVED loco and set expiration date for 2 years from now please

 20:26:44 <ivanb> Thanks ! :)

 20:26:46 <shandy> ty :)

 20:26:48 <TRAVISg> congrats

 20:26:50 <cprofitt> thank you Montenegro I look forward to hearing about the great things you do!!

 20:26:55 <tp0x45> thanks!!! this will be very helpful for us to continue and motivate more people to join!!!

 20:27:02 <tp0x45> thanks!

 20:27:10 <SergioMeneses> congrats!

 20:27:12 <ivanb> Thank You all !

 20:27:16 <magio> tnx

 20:27:21 <czajkowski> tp0x45: but please team reports !!!

 20:27:34 <czajkowski> #topic Ubuntu Oregon LoCo approval

 20:27:45 <bkerensa> Hello Council

 20:27:45 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/ApprovalApplication

 20:28:15 <cprofitt> czajkowski: added

 20:28:31 <czajkowski> cprofitt: cheers

 20:28:40 <czajkowski> bkerensa: welcome can you tell us about the team and how things are done please?

 20:28:44 <bkerensa> Sure

 20:28:51 * slangasek waves

 20:29:07 <bkerensa> I'm Team Lead and Nathwill is my Asst. Team Lead he shares leadership roles with me

 20:29:18 <nathwill> go oregon!

 20:29:20 <nathwill> ;)

 20:29:25 <c_smith> lol

 20:29:29 <bkerensa> We have about 8 members in channel right now

 20:29:38 <adam_g> o/

 20:29:41 <c_smith> *is a member*

 20:29:43 <cprofitt> raise your hand if you are with Oregon

 20:29:46 <TRAVISg> *Raises Hand*

 20:29:46 <albrigha> o/

 20:29:50 <jhmextern> raised hand

 20:29:53 <c_smith> *raise hand*

 20:29:55 <jvlb> Hand up.

 20:29:56 * nathwill throws one up

 20:30:55 <czajkowski> bkerensa: well...

 20:30:59 <bkerensa> Anyways so right now our LoCo has focused on local advocacy for Ubuntu. We have regular meetings on IRC every month and we have release parties, global jams and booths at just about every tech event in the region

 20:31:05 * slangasek raises hand

 20:31:29 <bkerensa> Ubuntu Oregon is spearheading a initiative to work with Western Oregon University to mentor students in Comp Sci about Ubuntu

 20:31:52 <bkerensa> Ubuntu Oregon will be starting to hold classes at the FreeGeek Community Center

 20:32:27 <c_smith> may I add one thing?

 20:32:32 <bkerensa> We also are working with other LUG's and User Groups to include OSU LUG, Debian Portland and also trying to help revive Salem LUG

 20:32:32 <czajkowski> cprofitt: shoot

 20:32:42 <czajkowski> c_smith: shoot

 20:32:58 <c_smith> k, Ubuntu Oregon is working on getting an event set up in Salem,

 20:32:58 <czajkowski> bkerensa: so do you do more lug work that Ubuntu work ?

 20:33:35 <nathwill> czajkowski, is that specific to bkerensa, or applicable to the group as a whole?

 20:33:41 <bkerensa> czajkowski: Well our involvement even with the LUG's it to try and advocate for Ubuntu

 20:33:45 <pleia2> bkerensa: it was really cool to see all the blog posts that came out of the combined debian-ubuntu event, very nice work with that :)

 20:33:56 <czajkowski> nathwill: anyone can answer stuff

 20:33:59 <czajkowski> we're asking the team

 20:34:08 <bkerensa> so by being involved with other LUG's we are trying to push Ubuntu and get people involved with Ubuntu if they choose

 20:34:43 <bkerensa> I think our recent event with Debian folks is a good example of how Ubuntu and Debian benefit from our work together

 20:35:02 <cprofitt> bkerensa: can you share a bit with the group about the teams previous activity

 20:35:10 <bkerensa> Surely

 20:35:11 <czajkowski> as there is nothing there prior to April

 20:35:27 <cprofitt> one of the issues we are always concerned with is sustained activity

 20:35:57 <bkerensa> czajkowski: Well prior to April tgm4883 was lead more on a defacto basis because the founder of Ubuntu Oregon had been deployed in the Army

 20:36:24 <bkerensa> I cannot speak in too much detail but by reviewing the mailing list and other mailing lists and in discussion with current and pass Oregon LoCo folks

 20:36:24 <czajkowski> right

 20:36:29 <bkerensa> I can see that regular meetings

 20:36:32 <bkerensa> and events did occur

 20:36:40 <bkerensa> however documentation was not up to par

 20:37:22 <bkerensa> I know that Ubuntu Oregon has had a booth at every OSCON

 20:37:23 <cprofitt> bkerensa: what about the future -- I see no events planned for the future on loco.ubuntu.com

 20:38:01 <c_smith> We are actually in the planning phase of the 12.04 Release party, and have several other evens being planned, too.

 20:38:03 <bkerensa> cprofitt: We are planning our Ubuntu 12.04 Release Party right now in fact I have an offer for sponsorship from PuppetLabs and am working with Dell for some other opps

 20:38:05 <nathwill> we're trying to nail down final details on a talk at the local Yahoo! office in ~ 2 wks

 20:38:15 <bkerensa> in March we will likely have another joint Ubuntu/Debian event

 20:38:36 <bkerensa> Ubuntu Oregon will be at Community Leadership Summit, Linux Fest NW and OSCON

 20:38:52 <cprofitt> does Oregon also use loco.ubuntu.com to schedule on-line meetings?

 20:38:56 <bkerensa> all of those events will be coming in the next few months

 20:38:58 <czajkowski> rght so you guys seem to attend a lot of conferences, what do you do at ground level

 20:39:02 <czajkowski> looking for team reports ?

 20:39:32 <bkerensa> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/TeamReports

 20:39:46 <bkerensa> Well c_smith has been hosting Ubuntu Hours in Salem

 20:39:59 <bkerensa> and we hope to have some Ubuntu Hours on a regular basis here in Portland

 20:40:26 <bkerensa> I know that various members do provide support in #ubuntu from time to time and also provide support and advocate in their own towns and cities

 20:40:47 <c_smith> I can vouch that I try and help out on #ubuntu

 20:41:07 <TRAVISg> I have done installs for friends and co-workers

 20:41:12 <bkerensa> Also

 20:41:28 <bkerensa> I'm pushing an initiative to start distributing more CD's

 20:42:04 <bkerensa> as of right now I have been buying CD's out of pocket and distributing them but I'm hoping we might have a coordinated effort going forward to get more CD's out since they are in demand

 20:42:15 <cprofitt> bkerensa: you say a lot of 'I'... how much is the 'we' involved

 20:42:19 <nathwill> i support a couple of local ubuntu users, while trying to get them to join in on ubuntu-or events.

 20:42:25 <jhmextern> working in newport oregon trying to develop a group too

 20:42:28 <czajkowski> bkerensa: cool, many teams even approved teams like france get out many cds theyt produce themselves

 20:43:26 <bkerensa> cprofitt: c_smith holds Ubuntu Hours in Salem, jhmextern is working to get Ubuntu Hours and a group together in Newport and Nathwill on his own got us a talk at Yahoo

 20:43:27 <c_smith> JVLB and I have been working with bkerensa to try to get an event (which I already mention) going to try and educate people about Ubuntu in the Salem/Keizer area.

 20:43:35 <TRAVISg> I offer support to users I have helped switch over here in Portland

 20:43:49 <bkerensa> all of that they do on their own.... Our team are self starters

 20:43:51 <jvlb> Since 2006 I've helped about a dozen people switch to Kubuntu from Windows.

 20:44:29 <TRAVISg> Also have got the chance to talk to many folks about Ubuntu since sporting the 11.10 Shirt from our last release party

 20:44:33 <cprofitt> bkerensa: that is a good thing... my team recently lost some folks to relocation and I need to get more folks invovled... the weight of the team is already pretty heavy

 20:44:52 <cprofitt> teams become stronger as they get more people involved.

 20:45:33 <bkerensa> cprofitt: It is always a concern that our LoCo could become dormant again but honestly I dont see that happening we have been more sustainable ever since I took lead and I'm working with nathwill on forming a council so that going forward there is sustainability in our leadership

 20:45:44 <nathwill> we're doing a lot of work towards increasing interest in membership atm. the yahoo! talk is entirely about exposing a new group of users to foss/ubuntu

 20:45:48 <c_smith> brb

 20:45:59 <bkerensa> Notably we have quite a good partcipation on IRC

 20:46:04 <cprofitt> bkerensa: I understand that... I went through the same with New York

 20:46:08 <bkerensa> in comparison to other approved states

 20:46:16 <bkerensa> our events are big

 20:46:20 <cprofitt> When we were approved we had to show 12 months of sustained activity

 20:46:36 <cprofitt> bkerensa: are they big due to the loco or because they are pre-established events?

 20:46:43 <c_smith> back

 20:46:45 <czajkowski> bkerensa: my concern is I only ever see you and the application is you, team reports you, blogs you etc

 20:46:46 <bkerensa> they are big because of the LoCo

 20:46:57 * kees raises his hand 15 min late ;)

 20:46:58 <bkerensa> Our release parties have very nice turnouts

 20:47:10 <bkerensa> atleast that is my opinion

 20:47:26 <cprofitt> bkerensa: I understand

 20:47:41 <cprofitt> I just wanted to make sure you were not countin oscon or something like that as a big event

 20:47:48 <slangasek> the local jam certainly wasn't a pre-established event

 20:47:50 <bkerensa> czajkowski: That is why I want to see a council going forward

 20:47:59 <jhmextern> distance plays a huge part, Oregon is a big state.

 20:48:01 <TRAVISg> I can say that the support and equipping I have gotten through the team has been invaluable in my being able to spread the word about FOSS/Ubuntu

 20:48:02 <bkerensa> czajkowski: c_smith actually does our website and blog and facebook

 20:48:08 <czajkowski> bkerensa: a council isnt an answer I'm afraid

 20:48:20 <c_smith> when I'm not busy running errands. :P

 20:48:31 <bkerensa> czajkowski: Our team reports also reflect blog posts from kees and slangasek who are loco members

 20:48:32 <nathwill> cprofitt, it should be noted that the team is delegating a lot of activity to people with an inclination. (e.g. wiki maintenance, mailing list administration, etc). bkerensa's not stuck shouldering everything.

 20:48:32 <czajkowski> bkerensa: unless you're a massive loco team like france or italy or brazil there is no need for a council

 20:48:34 <cprofitt> bkerensa: would you be worried about sustaining the activity over the next six months?

 20:49:12 <cprofitt> I would agree with czajkowski - New York was almost destroyed by over complicated unecessary structure

 20:49:12 <bkerensa> cprofitt: I do not think we would have a problem sustaining over the next six months

 20:49:50 <cprofitt> bkerensa: do you think your team would put the effort in regardless of approval status?

 20:50:27 <bkerensa> cprofitt: Yes... We don't exist because we seek approval we exist as a LoCo because we use Ubuntu and enjoy advocating for Ubuntu and FOSS

 20:50:39 <TRAVISg> True

 20:50:41 <jhmextern> nods in agreement

 20:50:42 <czajkowski> ok we're ready to vote

 20:50:45 <cprofitt> excellent answer... and the one I had to give when I was with New York

 20:50:47 <c_smith> I'll vouch for that view.

 20:50:55 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the approval of Oregon loco

 20:50:55 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the approval of Oregon loco

 20:50:55 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:50:58 <cprofitt> New York was turned down three times... and we continued on!

 20:51:31 <c_smith> NY, eh?

 20:52:09 <czajkowski> -1 I'd like to see you come back in 6-8 months there just isn't enough for me at present prior to 9 months ago

 20:52:09 <meetingology> -1 I'd like to see you come back in 6-8 months there just isn't enough for me at present prior to 9 months ago received from czajkowski

 20:52:22 <cprofitt> +0 I think the team has done excellent work, but I would like to see more sustained activity before granting approved status. I am encouraged by the strong amount of activity shown in the last six months and the number of people who made the meeting in the middle of their workday.

 20:52:22 <meetingology> +0 I think the team has done excellent work, but I would like to see more sustained activity before granting approved status. I am encouraged by the strong amount of activity shown in the last six months and the number of people who made the meeting in the middle of their workday. received from cprofitt

 20:53:48 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: xdatap1

 20:53:50 <xdatap1> -1 I would like to see you again in 6 months. You're doing a great job but the history is still short, so keep up the good work

 20:53:50 <meetingology> -1 I would like to see you again in 6 months. You're doing a great job but the history is still short, so keep up the good work received from xdatap1

 20:53:58 <SergioMeneses> +0 have done a great work but they need a little more!

 20:53:58 <meetingology> +0 have done a great work but they need a little more! received from SergioMeneses

 20:54:19 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:54:19 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the approval of Oregon loco

 20:54:19 <meetingology> Votes for:0 Votes against:2 Abstentions:2

 20:54:19 <meetingology> Motion denied

 20:55:00 <czajkowski> hopefully in a few more months there will be more things to see and we can look again

 20:55:15 <czajkowski> thank you all for coming

 20:55:22 <nathwill> thanks for your time :)

 20:55:30 <TRAVISg> Yup gotta run back to work

 20:55:36 <c_smith> thanks for at least looking into it.

 20:55:36 <jhmextern> thank you

 20:55:39 <TRAVISg> Thanks for your time and consideration

 20:55:50 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: cprofitt xdatap1 can one of you update the team report and wiki with mins of the meeting

 20:55:59 <TRAVISg> We will knock your socks off in a few months

 20:56:16 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, I can do it

 20:56:36 <czajkowski> #action SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report

 20:56:36 * meetingology SergioMeneses update the wiki and team report

 20:56:40 <czajkowski> #endmeeting

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
