{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by xdatap1 at 20:08:03 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-21-20.08.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DutchTeamApprovalApplication   (czajkowski, 20:10:45)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/ReapprovalApplication2012   (JanC, 20:26:08)
* Team Contact vs. Team Owner - can we leverage loco.ubuntu.com?

Meeting ended at 20:52:59 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* Ubuntu-NL reapproval
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* Ubuntu-BE reapproval
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* cprofitt (49)
* czajkowski (33)
* xdatap1 (30)
* Ronnie (23)
* meetingology (22)
* greg-g (20)
* JanC (14)
* FOAD (11)
* pvandewyngaerde (7)
* Thomas_de_Graaff (5)
* StefandeVries (4)
* jean7491 (3)
* leoquant (2)
* johanvd (1)
* Oer (1)
* ubottu (1)
* Idroy (1)
* oCean (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:08:03 <xdatap1> #startmeeting

 20:08:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb 21 20:08:03 2012 UTC.  The chair is xdatap1. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:08:03 <meetingology> 

 20:08:03 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:08:38 <xdatap1> so, today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 20:08:55 <xdatap1> let's start with the team's approval

 20:09:07 <xdatap1> Netherlands team is here?

 20:09:20 <Ronnie> xdatap1: o/

 20:09:32 <greg-g> hi there!

 20:09:41 <xdatap1> hello Ronnie, welcome! Please introduce yourself and your team

 20:09:46 <Ronnie> I'm Ronnie, the new Ubuntu-NL Loco contact. I took the seat over after the absence of our former LoCo contact (Sense Hofstede) a few months ago.

 20:10:17 <Ronnie> Ubuntu NL was founded in 2004, and still a very active Ubuntu Community

 20:10:23 <czajkowski> aloha folks

 20:10:32 <Ronnie> Previous reapproval (2010-12-21) we were not approved, because most of the community councel wanted to wait on the upcoming change in governance structure. Now, more than a year later were ready for a reapproval.

 20:10:38 <Ronnie> Bug of the previous approval: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-locoteams/+bug/693178

 20:10:40 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 693178 in Ubuntu LoCo Teams "Re-approval, ubuntu-nl" [High,Fix released]

 20:10:45 <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DutchTeamApprovalApplication

 20:11:17 <Ronnie> The new governance has each month an IRC meeting, were we take disicions on the topics discussed on the mailinglist and we make new action points. The meetings are open for everyone to join. The first part of the meeting is intended for the goverance only, to discuss more quickly and take discisions (everyone is free to read it). In the second part, everyone can join the discussion.

 20:11:45 * greg-g nods

 20:11:47 <Ronnie> more information can be found in the link czajkowski posted above. Feel free to ask any question

 20:12:46 <czajkowski> Ronnie: hiya so glad to see ye guys came back

 20:12:49 <cprofitt> I have read your application, taken a look at your website, and at loco.ubuntu.com

 20:12:49 <czajkowski> and well done for that

 20:13:03 <cprofitt> Well done on the documentation Ronnie

 20:13:08 <czajkowski> Ronnie: so a couple of questions as I was on the last council when the application came before

 20:13:11 <Ronnie> thx cprofitt

 20:13:19 <czajkowski> when sense left the team did seem to go rapidly down hill

 20:13:24 <greg-g> Ronnie: I see the list of events these past few years, some of them look interesting, what is the general type of event that Ubuntu-NL puts on or participates in?

 20:13:38 <czajkowski> waht measures are no in place to stop such an episode happening again

 20:13:44 <czajkowski> *what

 20:14:22 <czajkowski> I know there were a lot of issues in the past with information not being passed to others, and conerations happening on the forums but not elsewhere, do you feel that all the extra levels of governance is helping?

 20:14:56 <Ronnie> the team did not really gone downhill when sense left the team. We still had meetings every month (thomas_de_graaff took over the meeting chair)

 20:15:21 <cprofitt> Ronnie: are any other members from your team in channel presently?

 20:15:28 <Thomas_de_Graaff> o/

 20:15:30 <johanvd> o/

 20:15:44 <JanC> I agree the day-to-day working of the team didn't really go downhill

 20:15:46 <czajkowski> Ronnie: we had people coming in looking to find out what to do as they dodnt know what to do

 20:15:46 <StefandeVries> o/

 20:15:47 <Ronnie> the only difference was that that we hadn't any loco contact at the moment

 20:15:47 <greg-g> welcome Thomas_de_Graaff and johanvd !

 20:15:50 <leoquant> o/

 20:15:56 * JanC is on the ubuntu-nl IRC team

 20:16:05 * StefandeVries too.

 20:16:09 <greg-g> welcome all!

 20:16:21 <Oer> o/

 20:16:22 <cprofitt> Ronnie - so it was an issue with having a single contact? or was that also the team 'owner' for LP?

 20:16:33 <cprofitt> welcome to all Ubuntu-NL folks!!

 20:16:40 <cprofitt> great to see such a strong showing!!

 20:17:00 <Ronnie> czajkowski: yes we contacted the community councel to ask what steps we needed to take to make a smooth transition. but that didn't mean the team got downhill.

 20:17:48 <greg-g> Ronnie: good, so, do you think the current situation is positive for the team? Are the events/decisions happening in a positive manner?

 20:17:57 <Thomas_de_Graaff> I want to add that the structures Sense laid out made it quite easy to continue with a missing member.

 20:18:04 <cprofitt> Thomas_de_Graaff: +1

 20:18:17 <cprofitt> I see that now looking at LP

 20:18:20 <Ronnie> greg-g: it defenitly improved very much

 20:18:43 <Ronnie> there were some issues this year, but i think we handled them all very nice

 20:18:52 <greg-g> great!

 20:19:10 <greg-g> what are your plans for this year: the usual of release parties and global jams?

 20:19:47 <Ronnie> the new governance is also more present in the community than before

 20:19:58 <Ronnie> like i mentioned the open meetings improved it a lot

 20:20:29 <xdatap1> good Ronnie, thanks. Any other question? otherwise we can vote

 20:20:36 <cprofitt> I am set to vote

 20:20:37 <Ronnie> yes, definitly release parties and UGJ

 20:20:58 <Ronnie> but also improvements on the insight in the current community

 20:21:10 <greg-g> good deal

 20:21:16 <Ronnie> and finding out whats needed to improve it even more

 20:21:54 <Ronnie> we also working very hard on the new website: Demo: http://communityserver.ubuntu-nl.org/

 20:22:23 <greg-g> looks good!

 20:22:29 <czajkowski> well done

 20:22:45 <Ronnie> and were planning to do more workshops in the ubuntu-nl-mwanzo team

 20:23:19 <xdatap1> Ronnie, that one is an interesting idea, I'll ask you more info next days about it :)

 20:23:26 <Ronnie> which will result in more active participation in the community

 20:23:57 <xdatap1> let's vote, then

 20:23:58 <xdatap1> #voters czajkowski xdatap1 greg-g cprofitt

 20:23:58 <meetingology> Current voters: cprofitt czajkowski greg-g xdatap1

 20:24:07 <xdatap1> #vote Ubuntu-NL reapproval

 20:24:07 <meetingology> Please vote on: Ubuntu-NL reapproval

 20:24:07 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:24:11 <cprofitt> +1

 20:24:11 <meetingology> +1 received from cprofitt

 20:24:13 <greg-g> +1

 20:24:13 <meetingology> +1 received from greg-g

 20:24:15 <czajkowski> +1

 20:24:15 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 20:24:19 <xdatap1> +1, keep up the good work

 20:24:19 <meetingology> +1, keep up the good work received from xdatap1

 20:24:37 <xdatap1> #endvote

 20:24:37 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Ubuntu-NL reapproval

 20:24:37 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:24:37 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:24:48 <Thomas_de_Graaff> \o/

 20:24:55 <xdatap1> congratulation guys

 20:24:56 <StefandeVries> \o/ Hoorah!

 20:25:07 <Idroy> \o/

 20:25:10 <cprofitt> congrats folks... job well done!!

 20:25:13 <Ronnie> thx xdatap1, cprofitt, czajkowski, greg-g

 20:25:16 <oCean> Great. Gefeliciteerd mannen!

 20:25:20 <Thomas_de_Graaff> Thx. council.

 20:25:28 <xdatap1> let's move on, Belgium Team

 20:25:47 <pvandewyngaerde> hello from Belgium

 20:25:52 <Ronnie> good luck south neighbours

 20:26:00 <pvandewyngaerde> congratulations Ronnie

 20:26:07 <leoquant> good luck belgium!

 20:26:08 <JanC> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/ReapprovalApplication2012

 20:26:10 <cprofitt> Who is here from Ubuntu-BE?

 20:26:15 <JanC> o/

 20:26:22 <pvandewyngaerde> o/

 20:26:25 <jean7491> hi from belgian loco team

 20:26:55 <cprofitt> Good to see you folks; I appreciate your attending JanC pvandewyngaerde jean7491

 20:27:02 <xdatap1> Hello JanC! Nice to see you. Please introduce yourself and introduce your team

 20:27:07 <FOAD> o/

 20:28:53 <czajkowski> welcome folks

 20:28:55 <JanC> well, I'm the loco contact of the Belgian Team, and we promote Ubuntu in Belgium, as you can see on the ReApproval wiki page  ☺

 20:29:04 <czajkowski> nicely detailed

 20:29:19 <czajkowski> and I know from hands on experience of seeing the team in action at FOSDEM how active this team is

 20:29:28 <cprofitt> I am curious how the idea of having a council for your team is working out; has it helped the team?

 20:29:59 <pvandewyngaerde> i am also a member of the council

 20:30:25 <FOAD> And I give moral support.

 20:31:09 <cprofitt> FOAD: that can be very important at times :-)

 20:31:21 <FOAD> Thank you. :)

 20:31:34 <xdatap1> I like the idea of "Ubuntu-be Promise"

 20:31:52 <xdatap1> well done guys

 20:31:53 <cprofitt> JanC: I am curious how the idea of having a council for your team is working out; has it helped the team?

 20:32:01 <JanC> cprofitt: good question; as personally I am not really convinced of its added value right now, but maybe in the future...

 20:32:14 * cprofitt nods

 20:32:21 <cprofitt> similar experience with my team

 20:32:46 <cprofitt> from the wiki event entries it does not look like the team is affected by it... lots of activity

 20:32:53 <czajkowski> JanC: is there a reason the team doesnt use the LTP, not that there is a requirement to use it, just curious

 20:33:06 <cprofitt> I was just going to ask that as well

 20:33:21 <JanC> czajkowski: mostly because we already used infrastructure on our own site

 20:33:21 <cprofitt> loco.ubuntu.com makes it very easy to see future and past events

 20:33:46 <czajkowski> JanC: wouldnt you prefer to see all events on the LTP where all other teams use it ?

 20:33:56 <JanC> I discussed changing that with our former webmaster, bu as he emigrated to Canada recently...

 20:34:18 <cprofitt> the issue for me with LTP is the ability for new users to find only one source of information

 20:34:27 <JanC> so we need to get back to that in the future with the new one

 20:34:42 <cprofitt> looking at loco.ubuntu.com leads me to beleive that there is no activity... which is clearly not the case

 20:34:46 <czajkowski> though I've seen your flyers and info booths, I do know all your work is up to date and would show only one place

 20:34:46 <JanC> the idea would be to pull in events from LTP then

 20:34:58 <cprofitt> +1 JanC - that would work fantastic

 20:35:21 <greg-g> JanC: another qustion: how do you plan on increasing exposure of Ubuntu/Free Software in schools (as stated on your roadmap)?

 20:35:33 <cprofitt> I would really like to have the great example your team sets and have the entire global community see it

 20:36:23 <czajkowski> JanC: that would be nice, but again no requirement for it, other than it bein nice to see all teams use it

 20:36:33 <czajkowski> makes it easuer to see how teams are doing from one site

 20:36:54 <JanC> I don't think we really have a roadmap as the team, but some individuals are working with schools, and we have the company that spreads awesome Ubuntu multiseats in schools & libraries  ☺

 20:37:34 <greg-g> awesome!

 20:37:49 <xdatap1> any other question? otherwise we can start voting

 20:37:54 <cprofitt> all set here

 20:38:02 <greg-g> go for it! :)

 20:38:18 <xdatap1> #vote Ubuntu-BE reapproval

 20:38:18 <meetingology> Please vote on: Ubuntu-BE reapproval

 20:38:18 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:38:20 <jean7491> about schools:as now there are only individual initiatives, hope is that a council helpshould help coordination and encouraging other initiatives

 20:38:25 <cprofitt> +1

 20:38:25 <meetingology> +1 received from cprofitt

 20:38:27 <FOAD> I just want to say Belgium is the best.

 20:38:27 <xdatap1> +1

 20:38:27 <meetingology> +1 received from xdatap1

 20:38:37 <FOAD> +1

 20:38:42 <czajkowski> +1

 20:38:42 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 20:38:49 <czajkowski> FOAD: only council members vote

 20:38:57 <FOAD> Oh, sorry.

 20:39:00 <pvandewyngaerde> FAIL

 20:39:02 <FOAD> -1 then.

 20:39:06 <greg-g> +1

 20:39:06 <meetingology> +1 received from greg-g

 20:39:12 <xdatap1> #endvote

 20:39:12 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Ubuntu-BE reapproval

 20:39:12 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:39:12 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:39:13 <FOAD> I apologize profoundly.

 20:39:24 <cprofitt> no worries FOAD

 20:39:24 <greg-g> congrats!

 20:39:28 <xdatap1> congratulation Belgium!

 20:39:31 <pvandewyngaerde> thanks

 20:39:31 <JanC> \o/

 20:39:33 <cprofitt> congrats Ubuntu-BE

 20:39:36 <JanC> thanks all!

 20:39:37 <StefandeVries> Congratulations, Belgian LoCo!

 20:39:46 <jean7491> thx

 20:40:31 <Thomas_de_Graaff> Gefeliciteerd :D

 20:40:48 <xdatap1> ok, next topic. cprofitt would you introduce it?

 20:40:53 <cprofitt> sure

 20:40:57 <cprofitt> can you set the topic

 20:41:14 <xdatap1> #topic Team Contact vs. Team Owner - can we leverage loco.ubuntu.com?

 20:41:18 <cprofitt> As you all know we have has some issues with teams getting notified about reapproval due to team owners and team contacts not being the same or because team owners have gone off the grid even though the team is active.

 20:41:53 <cprofitt> I would like to suggest that we use loco.ubuntu.com as the source for team contact information as it allows the sep. of the two roles and it allows multiple users in those roles

 20:42:05 <FOAD> Hurray, congratulations my Belgian brethren.

 20:42:12 <pvandewyngaerde> btw, on the wiki it says there is a bug created when a team needs reapproval,  was there a bug for ubuntu-be ? i did not find one

 20:42:25 <cprofitt> pvandewyngaerde: the bugs are private

 20:42:29 <cprofitt> so it is not searchable

 20:42:31 <czajkowski> FOAD: pvandewyngaerde we're on a new topic

 20:42:52 <FOAD> I know that.

 20:43:04 <cprofitt> does that seem reasonable to the council to use loco.ubuntu.com?

 20:43:43 <czajkowski> well all teams are imported there from LP so all details should be up to date and makes it easier to find out who to contact rather than seaching lp

 20:44:36 <cprofitt> that was my thought czajkowski

 20:44:48 <cprofitt> would that require a re-write of any tools?

 20:45:21 <xdatap1> we send emails with LP, right?

 20:45:29 <czajkowski> xdatap1: nop

 20:45:38 <czajkowski> you send a mail from what ever tool you use to send mails

 20:45:55 <czajkowski> only if people do not have public addresses do you us elp to contct them

 20:46:12 <czajkowski> which I do object if you are the team contact you shouldbe able to be contacted and email address public

 20:46:13 <greg-g> that changed, no?

 20:46:24 <cprofitt> +1 czajkowski

 20:46:35 <xdatap1> how do we send re-approval emails?

 20:46:47 <greg-g> (I thought there was a change to the way LP sent emails to people with private emails)

 20:46:53 <cprofitt> I would think re-approval emails would be generated by LP via the bugs

 20:47:02 <cprofitt> which would send an email to anyone we subscribe

 20:47:23 <cprofitt> but not 100% sure on how it was done in the past.

 20:47:30 <czajkowski> greg-g: it does email them

 20:48:01 <JanC> yep, I got mail once I was subscribed

 20:48:48 <greg-g> cagood deal

 20:49:11 <czajkowski> cprofitt: once you add the team contact sure.

 20:49:18 <xdatap1> cprofitt, so the proposa is to use the loco dir just a white page for LoCos contatcs, right? Not changing the way we send email

 20:49:23 <czajkowski> which would have been gotten from the LTP

 20:49:29 <greg-g> btw, I'm fine with this, if I don't see the vote due to lag

 20:49:30 <cprofitt> yep

 20:49:48 <cprofitt> just use loco.ubuntu.com as the source of who contacts are

 20:50:02 <cprofitt> do we need an actual vote or just an informal +1?

 20:50:13 <cprofitt> I don't think we really need a vote

 20:50:22 <cprofitt> just want to make sure we are all on the same page

 20:50:30 <xdatap1> It's fine for me

 20:51:05 <czajkowski> all one the same page here

 20:51:11 <cprofitt> cool.

 20:51:20 <cprofitt> I will motion that we adjourn the meeting

 20:52:18 <FOAD> Okay.

 20:52:40 <xdatap1> shall we end, then?

 20:52:47 <czajkowski> yes please

 20:52:59 <xdatap1> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
