{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Starting in version 0.2.11, the Ubuntu !LoCo Directory provides a collection of Restful/JSON APIs for accessing the data it provides.

=== Available Services ===

All services support GET requests only, there is no write-support available at this time.  Service URLs return Collections of objects if no id is given, or an individual Entity if the entity's id is appended to the end of the url.  When using a Collection path, a query string may be used to filter the results using fieldname=value.

==== Teams ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/teams/

Returns a collections of !LoCo Team objects.  An individual team can be referenced by appending the team id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/teams/13/ - Entity URL for the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam | Florida LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/teams/?approved=1 - List only Approved !LoCo teams
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/teams/?countries__name=United+States - List all !LoCo teams in the United States

==== Global Events ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/global/

Returns a collections of Global Event objects.  An individual event can be referenced by appending the event id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/global/17/ - Entity URL for the <nowiki>[[Hour | Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> Global Event.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/global/?date_end__gte=2010-06-21 - List events ending on or after June 21st, 2010.

==== Team Events ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/events/

Returns a collections of Team Event objects.  An individual event can be referenced by appending the event id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/events/1/ - The first Team event registered in the !LoCo Directory
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/events/?date_begin__gte=2010-06-21 - List events starting on or after June 21st, 2010.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/events/?teams=13 - List events for the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam | Florida LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/events/?global_event=17 - List all team events that are part of the <nowiki>[[Hour | Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> Global Event.

==== Venues ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/venues/

Returns a collections of Event Venue objects.  An individual venue can be referenced by appending the venue id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/venues/1/ - The first venue registered in the !LoCo Directory
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/venues/?country=231 - List of venues in the United States.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/venues/?teamevent__teams=13 - List of event venues used by the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam | Florida LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/venues/?teamevent__date_end__gte=2010-06-21 - List of venues for events ending on or after June 21st, 2010.

==== Comments ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/comments/

Returns a collections of user Comment objects.  An individual comment can be referenced by appending the comment id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/comments/1/ - The first comment registered in the !LoCo Directory
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/comments/?team_event=2 - List of comments for a specific Team Event.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/comments/?comment_by=32 - List of comments made by a specific user.

==== Attendees ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/attendees/

Returns a collections of registration Attendee objects.  An individual attendee can be referenced by appending the attendee id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/attendees/1/ - The first registered Attendee in the !LoCo Directory
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/attendees/?team_event=2 - List of attendees registered for a specific Team Event.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/attendees/?attendee=32 - List of registrations for a specific user
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/attendees/?attendee=32&team_event__date_begin__gte=2010-06-21 - List of registrations for a specific user for events starting on or after June 21st, 2010.

==== Team Meetings ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/meeting/

Returns a collections of Team IRC Meeting objects.  An individual meeting can be referenced by appending the meeting id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/meeting/1/ - The first Team IRC Meeting registered in the !LoCo Directory
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/meeting/?date_begin__gte=2010-06-21 - List meetings starting on or after June 21st, 2010.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/meeting/?teams=13 - List meetings for the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam | Florida LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/meeting/?chair__user=32 - List all team meetings being chaired by a specific user.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/meeting/?agenda__owner__user=32 - List of team meetings where a specific user has an agenda item

==== Agenda Items ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/agenda/

Returns a collections of Agenda Item objects.  An individual agenda item can be referenced by appending the item id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/agenda/1/ - The first agenda item in the !LoCo Directory
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/agenda/?team_event=2 - List of agenda items for a specific Team Event.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/agenda/?meeting=1 - List of agenda items for a specific meeting
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/agenda/?owner__user=32 - List of agenda items for a specific user
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/agenda/?owner__user=32&meeting=1 - List of agenda items for a specific user for a specific meeting.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/agenda/?owner__user=32&meeting__date_begin__gte=2010-06-21 - List of agenda items for a specific user for meetings starting on or after June 21st, 2010.

==== Users ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/users/

Returns a collections of User objects, these contain only Launchpad user name and team membership information.  An individual user can be referenced by appending the user id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/users/32/ - Entity URL for <nowiki>[[mhall119 | Michael Hall]]</nowiki>.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/users/?groups=13 - List of Users in the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam | Florida LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.

==== Groups ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/groups/

Returns a collections of Group objects, these contain only Launchpad team name.  An individual group can be referenced by appending the group id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/groups/13/ - Entity URL for the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam | Florida LoCo Group]]</nowiki>.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/groups/?user=32 - List of groups that a specific user is a member of.

==== Admins ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/admins/

Returns a collections of Admin objects, these contain only Launchpad username of a Team admin.  An individual admin can be referenced by appending the admin id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/admins/3333816 - Entity URL for a specific Admin.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/admins/?team=13 - List of Admins for the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam | Florida LoCo Group]]</nowiki>.

==== Countries ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/countries/

Returns a collections of Country objects, these relate to the country or countries a LoCo Team is from.  An individual country can be referenced by appending the country id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/countries/231 - Entity URL for United States.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/countries/?team=13 - List of Countries for the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam | Florida LoCo Group]]</nowiki>.

==== Continents ====

'''URL:''' http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/continents/

Returns a collections of Continent objects, these relate to the continent or continents a Country is on.  An individual continent can be referenced by appending the continent id to the end of the url.

'''Examples:'''
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/continents/1 - Entity URL for North America.
* http://loco.ubuntu.com/services/continents/?country__team=13 - List of Continents for the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam | Florida LoCo Group]]</nowiki>.
