{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Welcome to the Ubuntu LoCo Days! ==

Next LoCo Day: '''Friday, December 17th, 2010 - Sunday, December 19th, 2010'''

=== About Ubuntu LoCo Days ===

Most <nowiki>[[Classroom]]</nowiki> sessions done in the Ubuntu community are done in English. However, we have a large LoCo community as well. LoCo Days were designed to encourage LoCo Teams to start doing more Classroom sessions in their native languages.  

'''Find out more about the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop|Desktop]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/server|Server]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/WhatIsUbuntu/kubuntu|Kubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/WhatIsUbuntu/xubuntu|Xubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/mobile|Mobile]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/projects/ubuntu/unr|UNR]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download|download]]</nowiki> them.'''

=== The Timetable ===

Interested in teaching a course? Let Nathan Handler (<nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>) or another member of the <nowiki>[[Classroom-ContactUs|Classroom Management Team]]</nowiki> know!

=== Participating ===

You can access the Ubuntu LoCo Day classes using your browser by clicking <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-classroom%2Cubuntu-classroom-chat|here]]</nowiki> or by joining #ubuntu-classroom and #ubuntu-classroom-chat on the freenode IRC network using your favorite IRC client. Check out <nowiki>[[LoCoDays-JoiningIn|How to Participate]]</nowiki> for more information.

=== Promoting ===
Tweet/dent and blog about the Ubuntu LoCo Days.  Our official hashtag is #locoday. Bring your friends and talk to people about the Ubuntu LoCo Day sessions.

== Other Classroom Events ==
=== Open Week ===

Ubuntu Open Week is a week of IRC tuition and Q+A sessions all about getting involved in the rock-and-roll world that is the Ubuntu community. Find out more information <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Developer Week ===

Ubuntu Developer Week is a similar to Open Week, but targeted more to developers. Find out more information <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Ubuntu User Days ===

User Days was created to be a set of courses offered during a one day period to teach the beginning or intermediate Ubuntu user the basics to get them started with Ubuntu. Find out more information <nowiki>[[UserDays|here]]</nowiki>.
