{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Work is ongoing on the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/loco-team-portal|LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki>. Discussed at original at UDS Mountain View called LoCo Directory. It's going to solve a lot of today's problems and make collaboration much much easier.

== Developers ==
=== Get Started ===

# `bzr branch lp:loco-team-portal`
# `cd loco-team-portal; less INSTALL`
** ''Note: If you are doing development on 12.04 you will need to replace python2.6 references to python2.7 in the Makefile''

* '''Review our <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamPortal-ReleaseProcess|release process]]</nowiki>.'''
* '''General <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamPortal-Development|development tips and tricks]]</nowiki>.'''

== Bug Importance ==

* '''Critical''': Security or major feature not working
* '''High''': Other functionality failure or new implementation deemed necessary
* '''Medium''': Sub-optimal functionality bug or usability improvements
* '''Low''': Trivial problems, such as typo's, poor wording or layout optimizations
* '''Wishlist''': New features or functionality that is desirable but not necessary

== Current Roadmap ==
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-p-ltp|Precise Blueprint]]</nowiki>

==== Work Items (as of 11/16/2011) ====
* [nigelbabu] Investigate OpenStreetMap for all of Ubuntu community as well as LTP: TODO
* [cprofitt] Contact Richard Weait of Open Street Map about integrating with loco.directory: DONE
* [cprofitt] contact bdmurray about map script that puts flags on map: DONE
* [txwikinger] Investigate OpenStreetMap for all of Ubuntu community as well as LTP: TODO
* [czajkowski] Open a dialog with OSM higher-ups: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Create style guide and code cleanup for compliance: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] List of teams grouped by language in addition to continent: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] photos on the LoCo Team Portal frontpage or some page: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Read-write API for LD: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Add AskUbuntu badges next to user names in LTP (talk to marcoceppi): TODO
* [daker] Open up the user profiles for users to edit and publish the information: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Announce the LoCo Team Portal updates on twitter/facebook: TODO
* [mhall119] Use formatted text in agenda descriptions: TODO
* [mhall119] Investigate and choose reStructuredText, Creole, or Django templates for dynamic pages (markdown  is preferred): TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Change the twitter stream to be live updates: TODO 
* [loco-directory-dev] Mootbot to interface with LD: TODO
* [chrisjohnston] Discuss with design team about improving front page of LTP: TODO
* [chrisjohnston] Make the map dismissable (or maybe just smaller?)( This is waiting on someone to do the code  the replacement stuff): TODO
* [nigelbabu] Wiki page for new developers that describes the project and steps for getting started: TODO
* [mhall119] Polish bootstrapping process: TODO
* [mhall119] With czajkowski, get with IS about getting the emailing functionality working: INPROGRESS 
* [chrisjohnston] Add event recaps: INPROGRESS
* [loco-directory-dev] Add event image URL: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Replace event id in URL with datetime stamp + name slug: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Create a flag for LC members to mark a team as a language team: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Code out a separate area on the teams page for language teams: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Remove physical events from language teams: TODO
* [loco-directory-dev] Add the ability for a language team to be a part of a physical event: TODO

== Previous Releases ==

=== 0.1 release ===

In its 0.1 release we plan to replace the "big list of loco teams" and make administration of that list a lot easier.

==== Working features ====

* Log in via Launchpad OpenID.
* Overview of teams
* Detailed view of team data.
* Click Update button, will check if you're admin of that team.
* `admin` overview.

==== TODO ====
Branch: https://code.launchpad.net/loco-directory/trunk

# (./) make `./loco_directory/teams/forms.py` work (used within `./loco_directory/templates/teams/team_update.html`). It currently explodes when you try to change data. (Efrain)
# (./) Ask teams to join ~locoteams (Nick and Efrain)
# (./) Add functionality for ~loco-council change of loco contacts, etc. (Daniel)
# (./) Add functionality to pull team information to Launchpad. (Daniel)
# Make sure that all approved teams end up in ~approved-locoteams (Nick and Efrain)
# (./) New view "upcoming re-approvals". (Daniel)
# (./) Take care of translations. (Daniel)
# (./) Code cleanup and general beautification. (all)
# (./) Import Launchpad team owner and team admins (Daniel)
# (./) Really let `lpupdate` script update information (Daniel)

=== 0.1.x ===
1. Offer STATEful file. (Daniel)

=== 0.2 release ===

==== TODO 0.2 ====
Branch: https://code.launchpad.net/loco-directory/trunk
Events blueprint https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/loco-directory-event-registration

# Add Venues from within the TeamEvent form.
# Offer previous venues in the TeamEvent form.
# Arrange so Only Horsemen can add Global Events?
# Arrange so only Admins can add Team Events?
# On Team Details offer, last 5 events organized by the team
# On Event Details page, offer 5 random registered attendees (link to launchpad page) as teaser, full list available at a click distance.
# On Events main page offer the last 5 registered by the LoCo team Community
# On Event Details page, offer last 5 post in microblogging services (identi.ca, twitter)
# On Event Details page, pull 5 random pictures from a web album in picasa, flickr etc.

==== Future ====

1. Sexy Map. (Ubuntu-Drupal, Chris)

Branch: lp:ubuntu-drupal-locomap
<<BR>>Branch: lp:~christophe.sauthier/loco-directory/0.2-map

----
CategoryLoco
