{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/virtual-events|Virtual Events]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki>
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': <nowiki>[[Launchpad:loco-directory]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

LoCo Directory support for remote participation and online events.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

There is a desire to add "virtual events" to the abilities of the LoCo Team Directory. This will allow users to create an event that happens in an IRC chat room instead of a physical venue.

There has also been a need, specifically for Global Jam, to allow remote participation in combination with a physical event.

=== User stories ===

 A. Mike and Chris are meeting to hack on Summit as part of the Ubuntu Global Jam.  Dan and Nigel want to participate too, but they can't attend the event in person.  They should be able to find all the information they need on loco-directory for remote involvement with the event, and to be able to mark their "remote" attendence.

 A. Alice wishes to hold an event where team members are doing a few tasks over a length of time. There is no reason that Bob nor Thiston must be with Alice in person, so they choose to maintain communication over IRC. Since Thiston and Bob are the only ones who plan to be at this event, there is no physical location associated with the event (as is the case with story A).

=== Assumptions ===

Virtual events and remote participation will only happen over IRC.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

* Update forms with the fields below
* Embed webchat applet in team event details page if IRC channel is provided
* Display link for Audo/Video feed in team event details page
* Provide counts of 'remote' participants where we display 'definitely' and 'maybe' attending.

==== Code Changes ====

* Add Timezone to Team objects, so we can localize events without a venue
* Add longitude/latitude fields to Team objects so we can display virtual events on the map
* Add field to TeamEvent for IRC channel
* Add field to TeamEvent for Audio/Video feed
* Add additional "remote" attendance options

==== Migration ====

* South migrations for the fields above.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
