{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by czajkowski at 20:05:08 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-06-19-20.05.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda   (czajkowski, 20:05:56)

* Quebec Re approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (czajkowski, 20:06:26)

* Greek Loco re approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GreekTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (czajkowski, 20:09:24)

  ''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses update lauchpad with updated expirary date  (czajkowski, 20:18:06)

* Oregon Approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/ApprovalApplication   (czajkowski, 20:18:41)

  ''LINK:'' http://oregonsportsreport.com/or_files/ducks.gif <<<< the Duck in question :)  (MarkDude, 20:24:07)

  ''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses update approved locoteams on launchpad and add Oregon loco  (czajkowski, 20:35:03)

* Chile LoCo Re approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChileanTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (czajkowski, 20:36:09)

  ''ACTION:'' czajkowski chase up on Chile loco CD allocation  (czajkowski, 20:46:33)
  
  ''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses update approved locoteams with chile new expiray date  (czajkowski, 20:48:36)

* Uruguay LoCo Re approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UruguayTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (czajkowski, 20:49:18)

  ''LINK:'' http://www.vacuispacii.org/motion-graphics-para-ubucon-latinoamerica/   (greg-g, 20:52:55)

  ''ACTION:'' czajkowski follow up on PabloRubianes CD issue with shipit  (czajkowski, 21:01:40)

  ''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses update LP approved locoteams  (czajkowski, 21:02:45)

* Quebec re approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (czajkowski, 21:04:10)

  ''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-qc/events/history that is some list of activities!!  (czajkowski, 21:07:37)

  ''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses update LP approved locos  (czajkowski, 21:14:41)

''ACTION:'' greg-g to update the wiki and team report with meeting mins  (czajkowski, 21:14:56)

Meeting ended at 21:15:01 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* please vote on the re approval of the Uruguay LoCo
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* please vote on the approval on the Oregon Loco
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* please vote on the re approval of the Greek LoCo
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* please vote on the re approval of the Chile loco
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* please vote on the re approval of the Quebec LoCo
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* SergioMeneses update lauchpad with updated expirary date
* SergioMeneses update approved locoteams on launchpad and add Oregon loco
* czajkowski chase up on Chile loco CD allocation
* SergioMeneses update approved locoteams with chile new expiray date
* czajkowski follow up on PabloRubianes CD issue with shipit
* SergioMeneses update LP approved locoteams
* SergioMeneses update LP approved locos
* greg-g to update the wiki and team report with meeting mins

=== Action items, by person ===

* czajkowski
** czajkowski chase up on Chile loco CD allocation
** czajkowski follow up on PabloRubianes CD issue with shipit
* greg-g
** greg-g to update the wiki and team report with meeting mins
* PabloRubianes
** czajkowski follow up on PabloRubianes CD issue with shipit
* SergioMeneses
** SergioMeneses update lauchpad with updated expirary date
** SergioMeneses update approved locoteams on launchpad and add Oregon loco
** SergioMeneses update approved locoteams with chile new expiray date
** SergioMeneses update LP approved locoteams
** SergioMeneses update LP approved locos

=== People present (lines said) ===

* czajkowski (152)
* meetingology (58)
* SergioMeneses (48)
* greg-g (47)
* PabloRubianes (37)
* pedro_ (32)
* itnet7 (29)
* Geochr (17)
* tgm4883 (17)
* fefa_ (16)
* komputes (14)
* cyphermox (13)
* bkerensa (13)
* c_smith (8)
* nathwill (7)
* kamusin (5)
* cristianvirtual (4)
* MarkDude (4)
* bryceh (3)
* slangasek (3)
* clepto95 (3)
* kees (3)
* TRAVISg_ (3)
* highvoltage (3)
* arvaro (2)
* fkol_k4 (2)
* c3959_ (2)
* IdleOne (2)
* bdmurray (2)
* konnn (2)
* cweber10 (1)
* sbeattie (1)
* Brian_H (1)
* shirgall (1)
* j_white1 (1)
* stavrosLinux (1)
* toumbo (1)
* NikTh (1)
* c7p (1)
* NTR (1)
* the_eye_ (1)
* jvlb (1)
* devxdev (1)
* trinikrono (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:05:08 <czajkowski> #startmeeting

 20:05:08 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 19 20:05:08 2012 UTC.  The chair is czajkowski. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:05:08 <meetingology> 

 20:05:08 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:05:08 <bkerensa> Portlandia here :)

 20:05:09 <NTR> As do I tgm4883

 20:05:11 <bkerensa> nathwill: where u from? :P

 20:05:17 <czajkowski> aloha and welcome to the Loco council meeting

 20:05:29 <czajkowski> we will be going through the teams in the order on the wiki page

 20:05:30 <konnn> Hello from Greece,too.

 20:05:35 <czajkowski> sit back and enjoy :)

 20:05:53 <fkol_k4> Hello frem Greek team

 20:05:56 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 20:06:03 * c_smith kicks back with music going through his headset

 20:06:04 <c7p> me too from Greek team

 20:06:12 <clepto95> me too :)

 20:06:15 <itnet7> c_smith: ;-)

 20:06:16 <NikTh> Hello from Greek team

 20:06:16 <czajkowski> #topic Quebec Re approval

 20:06:26 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:06:39 * tgm4883 is 37.5% greek, but lives in oregon

 20:07:04 <greg-g> great looking reapproval app

 20:07:06 <czajkowski> tgm4883: hiya, we're doing another team first :)

 20:07:13 <czajkowski> komputes: ping

 20:07:25 <TRAVISg_> Just got here

 20:07:28 <tgm4883> czajkowski, ah, I saw all the greek team people pipe up

 20:07:37 <SergioMeneses> hello QuecbecTeam!

 20:07:43 <czajkowski> anyone here from Quebec ?

 20:08:03 <toumbo> Hello from me too

 20:08:36 <czajkowski> no :/

 20:08:37 <czajkowski> ok

 20:08:41 * highvoltage 

 20:08:48 <greg-g> sad

 20:08:50 <SergioMeneses> nobody here

 20:08:51 <highvoltage> (oh sorry not me)

 20:08:56 <TRAVISg_> sorry not from Quebec and spoke out of turn now sitting down quitely and waiting my turn

 20:08:58 <czajkowski> highvoltage: I did wonder

 20:09:04 <highvoltage> (I'm in quebec but didn't read the context)

 20:09:17 <czajkowski> #topic Greek Loco re approval

 20:09:24 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GreekTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:09:31 <czajkowski> Geochr: ping

 20:09:37 <greg-g> this is actually the app I was referring to when I said it looks good, GreekTeam :)

 20:09:40 <Geochr> Hello from Greece !

 20:09:41 <SergioMeneses> Hello Ubuntu Greek Team!

 20:09:47 <czajkowski> welcome

 20:09:49 <czajkowski> thanks for coming folks

 20:09:55 <clepto95> Hello :)

 20:10:01 <SergioMeneses> yes, It is an awesome work! everything is there!

 20:10:06 <czajkowski> also fantastic application!

 20:10:08 <stavrosLinux> Hello !

 20:10:10 <fkol_k4> Glad to be here!

 20:10:11 <Geochr> thanks

 20:10:13 <czajkowski> amazing work and pictures make me happy!

 20:10:24 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, me too

 20:10:28 <itnet7> Really good activity!!

 20:10:31 <greg-g> definitely, pictures++

 20:10:40 <czajkowski> so Geochr care to tell us about your loco and how you do things please

 20:10:56 <Geochr> As an Ubuntu community, we started in 2005. We were first approved in 2008, reapproved in 2010, and hopefully for 2012.

 20:11:09 <Geochr> One of our core aims is to provide support for users in the Greek language. We achieved this with the forum (currently over 9500 members).

 20:11:19 <greg-g> wow

 20:11:25 <Geochr> Whenever we promote Ubuntu, we simply recommend new users to visit the forum for user support.

 20:11:30 <SergioMeneses> 9500!!!

 20:11:37 <Geochr> We aim to help our members to learn more about Ubuntu and enable them to bring more users to Ubuntu.

 20:11:58 <Geochr> We worked as a team and completed the localisation of Ubuntu 12.04 to Greek.

 20:12:09 <Geochr> e have two translation teams in aim to translate Ubuntu. The current release is fully translated in Greek language.

 20:12:19 <Geochr> We*

 20:12:22 <czajkowski> yay

 20:12:45 <Geochr> Another activity of our community is the Ubuntistas magazine. The whole magazine is fully created by our members (editorial, graphics etc). We have 14 issues since the first isue in November 2008

 20:12:48 <czajkowski> Geochr: so how has the team grown, since you were approved last?  has the team had to over come any issues

 20:13:34 <Geochr> Yes, we are do our best to improve the team

 20:13:46 <Geochr> and to spread the Ubuntu

 20:14:06 <komputes> hi czajkowski

 20:14:33 <czajkowski> komputes: we're in the middle of another team application now will try and circle back to you ok

 20:14:40 <komputes> ok

 20:14:50 <czajkowski> Geochr: is there something we the loco council can help with ?

 20:15:17 <SergioMeneses> the ubuntu magazine is a wonderful idea!... and congratulations Geochr and ubuntu Greek

 20:15:36 <SergioMeneses> excelente application

 20:15:41 <SergioMeneses> excellent

 20:15:53 <Geochr> Any advise from the  loco council is welecome

 20:15:56 <czajkowski> itnet7: SergioMeneses greg-g any other comments

 20:16:12 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, no

 20:16:14 <itnet7> Not really, I think we're ready to vote

 20:16:25 <greg-g> not from me,I love the application, well done GreekTeam!

 20:16:30 <czajkowski> #voters SergioMeneses itnet7 czajkowski greg-g

 20:16:30 <meetingology> Current voters: SergioMeneses czajkowski greg-g itnet7

 20:16:38 <Geochr> the congratulations are for the whole team nad not personal

 20:16:41 <czajkowski> #votesrequired 3

 20:16:41 <meetingology> votes now need 3 to be passed

 20:16:43 <itnet7> +1

 20:16:46 <greg-g> +1

 20:16:49 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:16:53 <czajkowski> patience!

 20:16:56 <itnet7> lol

 20:17:06 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the re approval of the Greek LoCo

 20:17:06 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the re approval of the Greek LoCo

 20:17:06 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:17:14 <czajkowski> +1 amazing application keep up the great work

 20:17:14 <meetingology> +1 amazing application keep up the great work received from czajkowski

 20:17:19 <Geochr> thanks...

 20:17:21 <itnet7> +1 definitely

 20:17:21 <meetingology> +1 definitely received from itnet7

 20:17:24 <greg-g> +1

 20:17:24 <meetingology> +1 received from greg-g

 20:17:25 <SergioMeneses> +1 excellent!

 20:17:25 <meetingology> +1 excellent! received from SergioMeneses

 20:17:34 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:17:34 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the re approval of the Greek LoCo

 20:17:34 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:17:34 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:17:37 <greg-g> :)

 20:17:42 <greg-g> well done team!

 20:17:52 <Geochr> thanks loco council

 20:17:54 <clepto95> thank you!

 20:18:05 <Geochr> see you 2014 !

 20:18:06 <SergioMeneses> congratulations

 20:18:06 <czajkowski> #action SergioMeneses update lauchpad with updated expirary date

 20:18:06 * meetingology SergioMeneses update lauchpad with updated expirary date

 20:18:10 <czajkowski> :)

 20:18:21 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, ok

 20:18:31 <czajkowski> #topic Oregon Approval

 20:18:35 <itnet7> Good Job Greece!!

 20:18:41 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/ApprovalApplication

 20:18:42 <the_eye_> thanks

 20:18:43 <greg-g> hello there Oregon :)

 20:18:51 <devxdev> Hiya!

 20:18:52 <bryceh> o/

 20:18:53 <tgm4883> Quack

 20:18:54 <SergioMeneses> Hello Ubuntu Oregon Team!

 20:18:54 <bkerensa> Quack

 20:18:54 <TRAVISg_> QUACK!

 20:18:55 <bdmurray> Hi

 20:18:57 <cweber10> Quack

 20:18:57 <czajkowski> nathwill: hi there

 20:18:58 <c_smith> quack

 20:18:58 <j_white1> Quack

 20:19:04 <jvlb> Quack!

 20:19:04 <nathwill> hi all

 20:19:07 <MarkDude> Quack

 20:19:09 <czajkowski> nathwill: hiya care to tell us about the team ?

 20:19:09 <trinikrono> congrats to greek team!

 20:19:16 <slangasek> um... moo

 20:19:16 * shirgall also quacks

 20:19:22 * sbeattie waves

 20:19:27 <tgm4883> lol

 20:19:30 <bkerensa> tgm4883 will be stepping in for nathwill

 20:19:32 <konnn> thanks from greece

 20:19:44 <nathwill> czajkowski, actually, tgm4833 is gonna be taking over for the meeting, i've got some work stuff blowing up that is making me only intermittently available

 20:19:58 <czajkowski> tgm4883: ok hi there

 20:20:12 <greg-g> I wouldn't have thought I'd see so much quacking in a LC meeting

 20:20:23 <itnet7> greg-g: ;-)

 20:20:23 <tgm4883> Although unofficially a team, we've been contributing to Ubuntu in different capacities for quite a while now

 20:20:27 <bryceh> greg-g, if it walks like a duck...

 20:20:37 <tgm4883> Be it release parties, ubuntu hours, bug squashing parties, etc

 20:20:46 <Brian_H> delayed quack!

 20:21:01 <kees> quack quack

 20:21:07 <SergioMeneses> what is quack? or means

 20:21:10 <tgm4883> bkerensa, has really done quite a lot of work in getting us organized and getting us out into the community

 20:21:11 <bkerensa> quack

 20:21:18 <komputes> quack?

 20:21:19 <czajkowski> ok less quacking and more answering :)

 20:21:19 <MarkDude> +1

 20:21:20 <czajkowski> please

 20:21:31 <bkerensa> Quack = Duck noise... Oregon state animal :P

 20:21:34 <czajkowski> it doesnt translate well

 20:21:34 <c_smith> it's an oregon joke

 20:21:43 <c_smith> czajkowski, it's an Oregon joke.

 20:21:54 <greg-g> just a point of clarification, there is a important difference between an official team and an approved team. Official isn't a defined word in the LoCo world, so, any team that is working towards approval is effectively the official team of that area

 20:22:18 <tgm4883> czajkowski, The Oregon team has the largest amount of bug fixes of any loco in North America

 20:22:26 <czajkowski> greg-g: +1

 20:22:35 <SergioMeneses> totally agree

 20:22:50 <tgm4883> we try to have lots of fixes in  the repository each cycle

 20:23:24 <tgm4883> and our team did much of the multi-arch transitioning of libraries for 12.04

 20:24:07 <MarkDude> http://oregonsportsreport.com/or_files/ducks.gif <<<< the Duck in question :)

 20:24:30 <czajkowski> tgm4883: great, how do you manage all of this as I see from launchpad you have 45 members, but yet ye say ye have over 1K followers on social sites, do you think at some point you will get people in these areas to get involved?

 20:25:56 <itnet7> tgm4883: I enjoyed reading about your events and outreach

 20:25:59 <tgm4883> czajkowski, While we have 45 members that considered themselves part of our team and have signed up on that web-page, we have a larger community that comes to these events that we hold that are not part of our team

 20:26:16 <czajkowski> tgm4883: cool

 20:26:20 <czajkowski> thats good to know

 20:27:13 <tgm4883> czajkowski, I think the primary reason most people don't join that page is the requirement for a LP account

 20:27:25 <tgm4883> we encourage, but never force

 20:28:07 <nathwill> we've also got some pretty active folks in the juju charm-writing community

 20:28:19 <itnet7> very good work on all of the fixes, and development that you're team is doing as well!

 20:28:29 <tgm4883> czajkowski, I've been with the team since I started contributing to Ubuntu (back in 2007 when there were 3 of us) and I can absolutely say that I am proud of the accomplishments this team has made

 20:29:17 <czajkowski> nods

 20:29:25 <bkerensa> Yep... myself, nathwill and kees all have charms in the charm store and kees and I have both won awards on two occasions.. We regularly use Kees sbuild charm to do package building at BSP's and Bug Jams

 20:29:26 <czajkowski> greg-g: SergioMeneses itnet7 any other questions

 20:29:39 <itnet7> tgm4883: what is one of your team biggest accomplishments that you're proud of??

 20:29:41 <SergioMeneses> nathwill, bkerensa Can you tell us something about your future goals?

 20:29:57 <kees> I've been hoping to encourage other locos to use the sbuild charm. it's very handy.

 20:30:09 <tgm4883> Our team has been blessed by some of the members being so good at what they do and able to teach the rest of us (kees, slangasek, bdmurray, and others)

 20:30:22 <greg-g> just another point of clarification, and this isn't meant to be a jab/criticism, work done by Canonical employees during their work time isn't normally looked at for either personal Ubuntu Membership nor LoCo approval (pending special circumstance) so the library transition (which I assume was done by the great work of the Canonical Oregon people) doesn't really count for this application.

 20:30:24 <bkerensa> SergioMeneses: My biggest goal or hope is that we can continue to grow our base of contributors while educating our existing base and teaching them how to do more packaging and bug fixes

 20:30:36 <greg-g> (sorry to be the perpetual point clarifier)

 20:30:47 <nathwill> czajkowski, we're working on expanding Ubuntu Hours as a low-key, low-pressure way for people to get involved with the community

 20:30:47 <greg-g> (also, if I misunderstood/assumed incorrectly, let me know)

 20:30:50 <nathwill> we'd also like to expand to other areas in Oregon

 20:30:54 <kees> fwiw, I don't work for Canonical.

 20:31:01 <bkerensa> greg-g: Canonical employees are not required to come to loco events or contribute and do so voluntarily :) we have a number who do participate and plenty who do not

 20:31:11 <nathwill> i've got some contacts down in Medford who i'm working on getting together so they can coordinate team events in the southern piece of the state

 20:31:13 <bdmurray> greg-g: and some of the transitioning work was done at a weekend event

 20:31:21 <tgm4883> itnet7, Personally I think our biggest accomplishment is actually being able to successfully have the events we have had. Unlike much of the east coast, oregon is not so densely populated so getting the numbers of people we have seen at the events is quite outstanding

 20:31:21 <bkerensa> ^

 20:31:25 <greg-g> bkerensa: right, that is great, and that is separate/othoganal to what I was referring to

 20:31:33 <greg-g> bdmurray: oh, that's cool!

 20:31:35 <bkerensa> also kees for the record is not a Canonical employee ;)

 20:31:40 <greg-g> kees: I guess I missed that :)

 20:31:42 <c_smith> May I throw something in?

 20:31:45 <SergioMeneses> bkerensa, great!

 20:31:54 <itnet7> cool tgm4883, Thanks! Sure c_smith

 20:32:01 <slangasek> greg-g: what's referred to for the multiarch library transitions was a weekend event

 20:32:25 <greg-g> slangasek: gotcha, then I assumed wrong in the specific case here.

 20:32:34 <greg-g> (the general point still stands ;) )

 20:32:37 <c_smith> I and a few other folks here in Salem host an Ubuntu Hour weekly, slowly but surely more people are attending.

 20:32:40 <greg-g> my apologies

 20:32:46 <slangasek> greg-g: yep, understood :)

 20:32:56 <itnet7> c_smith: that's really great!!

 20:33:02 <tgm4883> slangasek, thanks for clearing that up for me :)

 20:33:11 <SergioMeneses> If you work like a LoCo I don't see problem about the Canonical employees

 20:33:15 <czajkowski> right I'm keen to keep this moving we have more teams to get to today, any other comments / questions folks

 20:33:23 <greg-g> yep, go ahead from me :)

 20:33:30 <greg-g> I'm done clarifying points ;)

 20:33:59 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the approval on the Oregon Loco

 20:33:59 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the approval on the Oregon Loco

 20:33:59 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:34:03 <bryceh> +1

 20:34:07 <greg-g> :)

 20:34:17 <czajkowski> and thats why I do the named voters

 20:34:23 <itnet7> :-)

 20:34:23 <greg-g> +1

 20:34:23 <meetingology> +1 received from greg-g

 20:34:36 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:34:36 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 20:34:38 <itnet7> +1 Great Job!

 20:34:38 <meetingology> +1 Great Job! received from itnet7

 20:34:42 <czajkowski> +1

 20:34:42 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 20:34:48 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:34:48 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the approval on the Oregon Loco

 20:34:48 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:34:48 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:35:03 <czajkowski> #action SergioMeneses update approved locoteams on launchpad and add Oregon loco

 20:35:03 * meetingology SergioMeneses update approved locoteams on launchpad and add Oregon loco

 20:35:06 <itnet7> Congratulations, Good Job Oregon!!!

 20:35:16 <czajkowski> welcome oregon loco

 20:35:16 <nathwill> whooo!!!!! ty council-members :)

 20:35:24 <kamusin> congrats Oregon

 20:35:25 <SergioMeneses> Ubuntu Oregon congratulations... and I like the "quack" thing xD

 20:35:31 <c_smith> lol

 20:35:32 <bkerensa> Congrats guys you did great work!

 20:35:34 <itnet7> ditto ;-)

 20:35:37 <bkerensa> and gals even :)

 20:35:43 <c_smith> that's one who likes the joke.

 20:36:00 <czajkowski> #topic Chile LoCo Re approval

 20:36:07 <MarkDude> Yay

 20:36:09 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChileanTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:36:20 <fefa_> hi i'm fefa from chilean team

 20:36:28 <czajkowski> fefa_: hey there

 20:36:33 <czajkowski> cristianvirtual: ping

 20:36:34 <fefa_> We're here for our second  re approvalthis is the link to our wiki page with the latest  activitiesand we've been involved in a lot of free software events  in our Countryalways participating with our booth and giving talks  about Ubuntu

 20:36:40 <SergioMeneses> hello Ubuntu Chilean Team!

 20:36:46 <cristianvirtual> hello

 20:36:52 <c3959_> hello!

 20:36:56 <arvaro> hola hola - hello

 20:36:59 <czajkowski> wow impressive application!

 20:37:00 <kamusin> hey!

 20:37:01 <fefa_> everybody say hi !!

 20:37:01 <pedro_> and the link is: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChileanTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:37:27 <czajkowski> cristianvirtual: hey so how are things in the team?

 20:38:04 <itnet7> Very nice!

 20:38:11 <fefa_> hi

 20:38:15 <cristianvirtual> czajkowski: greats! well, sorry im at work now, fefa is representing us for today :( sorry

 20:38:16 <pedro_> sadly cristianvirtual (i think) is in a meeting right now

 20:38:23 <pedro_> most of us are currently working

 20:38:32 <pedro_> ~4 pm here in Chile

 20:38:37 <czajkowski> no problem

 20:38:41 <czajkowski> anyone cna jump in

 20:38:45 <czajkowski> how are the team doing

 20:38:45 <fefa_> so any question here i am

 20:38:46 <pedro_> things are going great in our LoCo team

 20:38:48 * greg-g is "working" too

 20:39:03 <czajkowski> last time you guys were here it was post the earthquake and yet you guys were still active

 20:39:04 <pedro_> this is the moment of the year were we have a lot of Free software related events

 20:39:11 <czajkowski> I can see from the wiki page no change there

 20:39:13 <greg-g> yeah, conferene season.

 20:39:19 <pedro_> it was a bit slow the past year, cause of the reconstruction and all that

 20:39:23 <czajkowski> nods

 20:39:24 * greg-g nos

 20:39:30 <pedro_> but we keep rolling

 20:39:35 <czajkowski> but you guys are still doing things so kudos to you al

 20:39:40 <pedro_> so yeah things are going great this year for us as a team

 20:39:58 <czajkowski> what issues if any have ye overcome?

 20:40:17 <pedro_> mostly related to our Geo , Chile is a loong country

 20:40:23 <greg-g> yes it is :)

 20:40:25 <czajkowski> nods

 20:40:30 <pedro_> so most of the 'issues' we have are related to that

 20:40:35 <greg-g> do you have sub geographical get togethers/meetings?

 20:40:38 <pedro_> we have problems with things like: merch

 20:40:52 <pedro_> how to send the merch to the guys that are 900kms away from the main city :-P

 20:40:58 <czajkowski> nods that is sometimes an issue in teams it is sometimes active in one area over an other, but things change

 20:41:01 <pedro_> the bill is a bit big when you have to do that

 20:41:07 <czajkowski> true!

 20:41:26 <pedro_> yeah, we try to have monthly meetings to keep the communication going

 20:41:31 * SergioMeneses nobs

 20:41:41 <pedro_> and we also use the ML and since the past year facebook for the communication

 20:41:47 <czajkowski> pedro_: how do you guys organise events with people does everyone pitch in or how is it done

 20:41:48 <pedro_> mostly for sending announcements

 20:42:05 <pedro_> it seems that we have more users in that group that in the loco team itself :-P

 20:42:12 <SergioMeneses> pedro_, Can you tell us something about your future goals?

 20:42:17 <SergioMeneses> fefa_, â†‘â†‘â†‘

 20:42:30 <pedro_> fefa_: all yours :-)

 20:42:49 <fefa_> SergioMeneses  the most importanta is waht pedro_ sayd before

 20:42:55 <fefa_> we eant to get to the entyre country

 20:43:03 <fefa_> with talks, events,etc

 20:43:26 <fefa_> and also help people outside santiago to do that

 20:43:59 <fefa_> like pedro- sayd is a little hard for the money that we spend sending merch but we do the best we can do

 20:44:00 <fefa_> :)

 20:44:29 <czajkowski> is there anything the council can do to help you ?

 20:44:32 <SergioMeneses> fefa_, great

 20:44:36 <czajkowski> not financial :)

 20:44:39 <czajkowski> but on other ways

 20:44:53 <pedro_> sometimes we have issues contacting Canonical for getting CDS

 20:44:56 <SergioMeneses> sponsors

 20:45:01 <pedro_> so maybe that's something you guys can help us with?

 20:45:18 <pedro_> for example, we didn't get any reply for like 6 months or so for the last request

 20:45:21 <pedro_> that was an issue for us

 20:45:38 <kamusin> true true..

 20:45:40 <pedro_> in the end , we have to spend money that was destinated to actually send merch to the rest of the country

 20:45:45 <pedro_> in CDS

 20:45:50 <czajkowski> hmm

 20:45:57 <czajkowski> pedro_: was this for the approved cd allocation ?

 20:45:59 <pedro_> so our budget was reduced because of that

 20:46:05 <pedro_> czajkowski: yeah

 20:46:08 <greg-g> the shipit process was holding you up?

 20:46:09 <greg-g> huh

 20:46:19 <greg-g> that's good to know, pedro_ , thanks

 20:46:21 <czajkowski> you did apply for them ?

 20:46:23 <pedro_> don't really know if that happened to some other loco team or not

 20:46:33 <czajkowski> #action czajkowski chase up on Chile loco CD allocation

 20:46:33 * meetingology czajkowski chase up on Chile loco CD allocation

 20:47:01 <czajkowski> pedro_: fefa_ if someone could drop me a mail with your details I will chase up on that for you tomrorow czajkowski@ubuntu.com

 20:47:05 <czajkowski> sorry about that

 20:47:13 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: greg-g itnet7 anything else?

 20:47:13 <itnet7> Thanks for not getting discouraged pedro_ ;-0

 20:47:15 <pedro_> no worries

 20:47:16 <greg-g> I'm good

 20:47:19 <itnet7> and team

 20:47:21 <SergioMeneses> me too

 20:47:25 <pedro_> czajkowski: will do it, thanks

 20:47:42 <fefa_> czajkowski great i'll sendo you an email with all the details

 20:47:44 <fefa_> thanks

 20:47:44 <kamusin> shiping process is always a stress point for our pockets

 20:47:53 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the re approval of the Chile loco

 20:47:53 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the re approval of the Chile loco

 20:47:53 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:48:00 <greg-g> +1

 20:48:00 <meetingology> +1 received from greg-g

 20:48:01 <czajkowski> +1 :)

 20:48:01 <meetingology> +1 :) received from czajkowski

 20:48:04 <itnet7> +1 Awesome Job!!

 20:48:04 <meetingology> +1 Awesome Job!! received from itnet7

 20:48:04 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:48:04 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 20:48:11 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:48:11 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the re approval of the Chile loco

 20:48:11 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:48:11 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:48:14 <greg-g> thanks pedro_ fefa_ and the rest of the team!

 20:48:18 <c3959_> :-)

 20:48:21 <itnet7> Definitely

 20:48:22 <fefa_> thank you guys

 20:48:26 <pedro_> thanks folks and sorry again for not having the whole loco team involved in this process as we wanted to :-)

 20:48:27 <SergioMeneses> congratulations fefa_ pedro_ and ubuntu chilean team!

 20:48:34 <greg-g> pedro_: no worries

 20:48:36 <czajkowski> #action SergioMeneses update approved locoteams with chile new expiray date

 20:48:36 * meetingology SergioMeneses update approved locoteams with chile new expiray date

 20:48:45 * fefa_ was very nervous

 20:48:49 <fefa_> thanks

 20:48:54 <kamusin> thank you guys

 20:48:56 <pedro_> SergioMeneses: just set it as 2020 or something  :-P

 20:48:59 <cristianvirtual> :)

 20:49:00 <arvaro> gracias!

 20:49:06 <cristianvirtual> \o/

 20:49:12 <czajkowski> #topic Uruguay LoCo Re approval

 20:49:14 <SergioMeneses> pedro_, jajaja

 20:49:18 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UruguayTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:49:21 <PabloRubianes> Hello

 20:49:24 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: ping

 20:49:31 <PabloRubianes> hi czajkowski

 20:49:51 <SergioMeneses> hello Ubuntu Uruguay Team!

 20:49:57 <czajkowski> welcome !

 20:49:57 <SergioMeneses> hello PabloRubianes

 20:50:03 <czajkowski> thanks for coming and sorry for keeping you waiting

 20:50:04 <PabloRubianes> if you follow the event links there are photos and more details

 20:50:14 <PabloRubianes> no problem czajkowski

 20:50:47 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: who did the video work for http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6MCBDenb2bs

 20:50:51 <czajkowski> that was just AMAZING!!!

 20:51:04 <SergioMeneses> video with Mark!

 20:51:05 <SergioMeneses> :)

 20:51:14 <PabloRubianes> that was a huge almost one year process

 20:51:38 <PabloRubianes> we started to talk to Argentina loco in order to have a multi country event

 20:51:40 <SergioMeneses> PabloRubianes, congratulations about the UbuConLA,

 20:51:49 <PabloRubianes> and all worked really well

 20:52:16 <SergioMeneses> PabloRubianes, yes, I can see it in the planet!

 20:52:18 <PabloRubianes> thanks to google hangout and lot of hard work we did a great conference

 20:52:39 <czajkowski> nods

 20:52:49 <PabloRubianes> czajkowski, people was shocked about the video

 20:52:53 <greg-g> czajkowski: that video work:

 20:52:55 <greg-g> http://www.vacuispacii.org/motion-graphics-para-ubucon-latinoamerica/

 20:53:09 <czajkowski> yes that was pretty

 20:53:14 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: so tell us about your team

 20:53:47 <PabloRubianes> the team is quite active

 20:54:01 <PabloRubianes> trying to create new forms of events

 20:54:12 <PabloRubianes> as the "Welcome Day"

 20:54:16 <czajkowski> oh do tell

 20:54:19 <czajkowski> what's that ?

 20:54:23 <czajkowski> I like to hear about new ideas

 20:54:29 <SergioMeneses> new members?

 20:54:40 <SergioMeneses> something like FLISOL?

 20:54:50 <PabloRubianes> mainly is to atract new people on the street

 20:55:13 <czajkowski> more formal than an Ubuntu hour ? but not a conference?

 20:55:42 <PabloRubianes> czajkowski, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UruguayTeam/Eventos/UserDay_14-01-2012

 20:55:49 <PabloRubianes> there are a picture there

 20:55:59 <PabloRubianes> we ask to the museum for energy

 20:56:04 <czajkowski> nods

 20:56:11 <czajkowski> something different alright

 20:56:16 <SergioMeneses> PabloRubianes, ubuntu on the street

 20:56:21 <PabloRubianes> and with laptops showed people on the street what ubuntu is

 20:56:40 <czajkowski> wow

 20:56:55 <itnet7> Very nice!

 20:57:15 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: do you feel there are any issues in the team that need help with or in general ?

 20:57:43 <PabloRubianes> czajkowski, we have a similar issue with the cds

 20:57:50 <PabloRubianes> but is different that chile

 20:58:22 <PabloRubianes> because the problem is the customs don't believe someone can send a ton of cds to give away

 20:58:23 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: did you get them at all ?

 20:58:27 <czajkowski> ahh

 20:58:33 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: did you contact shipit for a letter?

 20:58:40 <PabloRubianes> and they want to charge us

 20:58:42 <PabloRubianes> czajkowski,

 20:58:46 <PabloRubianes> yes we did

 20:59:06 <czajkowski> and..

 20:59:12 <PabloRubianes> but as we had problems we stoped to ask for them until we can arrange with customs

 20:59:23 <PabloRubianes> we don't want to cds to be wasted

 20:59:27 <czajkowski> nods

 20:59:39 <czajkowski> ok so for the 12.04 cds did you ask for them or not ?

 20:59:47 <greg-g> I'm sorry you have to deal with that situation, that is not encouraging.

 20:59:48 <PabloRubianes> is a Uruguayan problem and we will fix it

 21:00:04 <PabloRubianes> greg-g, to fight this

 21:00:32 <PabloRubianes> we give away cds asking fot a blank one

 21:00:44 <PabloRubianes> is not the same but is useful

 21:00:46 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: did you ask for the 12.04 ones?

 21:01:00 <PabloRubianes> czajkowski, no because this situacion

 21:01:21 <PabloRubianes> we are going to the customs administration in a few weeks

 21:01:29 <PabloRubianes> so maybe we can arrange this

 21:01:29 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: ok can you drop me amail with details and I'll follow up tomorrow please

 21:01:40 <czajkowski> #action czajkowski follow up on PabloRubianes CD issue with shipit

 21:01:40 * meetingology czajkowski follow up on PabloRubianes CD issue with shipit

 21:01:46 <PabloRubianes> czajkowski, ok thanks

 21:01:53 <czajkowski> ok so any more comments as we have on more team to see

 21:02:02 <greg-g> I'm good

 21:02:04 <itnet7> I think we're good

 21:02:06 <itnet7> :-)

 21:02:16 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the re approval of the Uruguay LoCo

 21:02:16 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the re approval of the Uruguay LoCo

 21:02:16 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 21:02:17 <SergioMeneses> no

 21:02:20 <czajkowski> +1

 21:02:20 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 21:02:23 <greg-g> +1

 21:02:23 <meetingology> +1 received from greg-g

 21:02:27 <SergioMeneses> +1

 21:02:27 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 21:02:27 <itnet7> +1 Great Job!

 21:02:27 <meetingology> +1 Great Job! received from itnet7

 21:02:34 <czajkowski> #endvote

 21:02:34 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the re approval of the Uruguay LoCo

 21:02:34 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 21:02:34 <meetingology> Motion carried

 21:02:45 <czajkowski> #action SergioMeneses update LP approved locoteams

 21:02:45 * meetingology SergioMeneses update LP approved locoteams

 21:02:54 <PabloRubianes> Thanks to the LoCo Council

 21:02:58 <SergioMeneses> PabloRubianes, congratulations!

 21:03:06 <PabloRubianes> and czajkowski one more thing

 21:03:07 <itnet7> Thanks for all of you and your teams hard work!!

 21:03:31 <PabloRubianes> thanks to help us in the issue with the dates of expiration!

 21:03:43 <czajkowski> #topic Quebec re approval

 21:03:45 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: np

 21:03:50 <PabloRubianes> :)

 21:03:54 <czajkowski> komputes: ping

 21:04:03 <komputes> hi czajkowski

 21:04:10 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 21:04:15 <itnet7> Hey there komputes !

 21:04:18 <komputes> hi itnet7

 21:04:31 <SergioMeneses> hello ubuntu Quebec!

 21:04:35 <czajkowski> komputes: sorry for that but as we have so many to get through if people don't turn up we have to move on

 21:04:49 <komputes> and hello to my fellow loco team members cyphermox and IdleOne

 21:04:50 <czajkowski> komputes: so how is Quebec loco doing ?

 21:04:58 <komputes> czajkowski: yup, no problem

 21:05:01 <cyphermox> hey hey

 21:05:34 <komputes> czajkowski: very vibrant as usual. mailing list is the most used for internal communication in the loco.

 21:06:32 <czajkowski> cyphermox: IdleOne alohe

 21:06:33 <czajkowski> *a

 21:06:41 <komputes> We run regular events for new and experienced users.

 21:07:03 <cyphermox> komputes: we should get started on organizing a bug jam very very soon

 21:07:13 <czajkowski> so I'm not used to seeing testimonals on a loco page, that's rather new :)

 21:07:37 <czajkowski> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-qc/events/history that is some list of activities!!

 21:07:41 <komputes> just a few kind words from our vocal members )

 21:08:24 <komputes> As I said, we regularly run activities. And they are fun, we usually bring food, have presentations and discussions.

 21:08:26 <czajkowski> komputes: so who organises the events?

 21:08:34 <komputes> czajkowski: cyphermox and I

 21:08:56 <greg-g> 2011 was quite active! are you still doing those Ubuntu Hours?

 21:09:02 <czajkowski> ah yes my other name sake for highlighting :)

 21:09:21 <cyphermox> it's usually me and/or komputes, yes, but there is often interest in having activities in other locations than montreal where other loco team members organize their activities, since it's pretty geographically dispersed

 21:09:31 <czajkowski> nods

 21:09:47 <komputes> greg-g: not as frequently due to work schedule, I would like to delegate that to another member so that we have ubuntu hours more frequently

 21:09:47 <czajkowski> do you encourage people who are local to you guys to start their own meet ups ?

 21:09:53 <czajkowski> or do tney have to come through you guys ?

 21:10:01 <cyphermox> greg-g: the person who was doing the ubuntu hours regularly no longer really does much (MagicFab) but I've been discussing with another member starting to do this again in automn

 21:10:27 <komputes> czajkowski: they do not have to go through us, we often get announcements for other places than Montreal in the mailing list.

 21:10:37 <greg-g> ahh, good ole magicfab :)

 21:10:40 <czajkowski> komputes: that;s what I like to hear :)

 21:10:47 <cyphermox> czajkowski: no, we strongly encourage people to make their own, and when I see people mentioning stuff I offer them to add the event to the loco directory

 21:10:48 <IdleOne> Hello!

 21:10:48 <SergioMeneses> cyphermox, MagiFab is from Colombian! I know him

 21:10:49 <czajkowski> don't like to hear of blocking having events!

 21:10:56 <czajkowski> cyphermox: brilliant!

 21:10:57 <cyphermox> SergioMeneses: indeed

 21:10:59 <czajkowski> <3 hapy

 21:11:14 <cyphermox> he's more involved in Trisquel, FSF, and work lately :)

 21:11:32 <SergioMeneses> cyphermox, yes, he told me

 21:12:26 <czajkowski> any other comments/issues

 21:12:32 <cyphermox> I'm getting a nice interest in Ubuntu from the UniversitÃ© de Montreal, so as soon as students start going to school again, we should be getting a few new loco members I expect :)

 21:12:34 <czajkowski> did ye get your cds?

 21:12:40 <cyphermox> czajkowski: no

 21:12:43 <czajkowski> bah

 21:12:49 <cyphermox> we have a few CDs in the office though

 21:12:52 <czajkowski> cyphermox: did ye apply

 21:12:56 <czajkowski> for 12.04 ?

 21:13:07 <cyphermox> czajkowski: no, it was for approved loco teams :)

 21:13:26 <czajkowski> cyphermox: ah confusing as your team says re approval

 21:13:27 <czajkowski> ok

 21:13:32 <cyphermox> right

 21:13:43 <czajkowski> but now I clicked

 21:13:58 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the re approval of the Quebec LoCo

 21:13:58 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the re approval of the Quebec LoCo

 21:13:58 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 21:14:03 <czajkowski> +1

 21:14:03 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 21:14:08 <IdleOne> I just want to say that both komputes and cyphermox are awesome people and they work very hard at keeping Ubuntu alive in Montreal and Quebec in general. I only wish I had more time to help them out.

 21:14:10 <SergioMeneses> +1

 21:14:10 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 21:14:11 <greg-g> +1

 21:14:11 <meetingology> +1 received from greg-g

 21:14:16 <itnet7> +1 good job

 21:14:16 <meetingology> +1 good job received from itnet7

 21:14:21 <greg-g> great work everyone!

 21:14:24 <cyphermox> thanks so much komputes for organizing the wiki pages and all :)

 21:14:29 <czajkowski> #endvote

 21:14:29 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the re approval of the Quebec LoCo

 21:14:29 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 21:14:29 <meetingology> Motion carried

 21:14:41 <czajkowski> #action SergioMeneses update LP approved locos

 21:14:41 * meetingology SergioMeneses update LP approved locos

 21:14:56 <czajkowski> #action greg-g to update the wiki and team report with meeting mins

 21:14:56 * meetingology greg-g to update the wiki and team report with meeting mins

 21:15:01 <czajkowski> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
