{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting Meeting, 16 Jul at 20:00 &mdash; 20:38 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-07-16-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda tonights agenda
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda 
==== Japanese Team reapproval ====
The discussion about "Japanese Team reapproval" started at 20:03.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JapaneseTeam/ReApprovalApplication2013 
** ''Vote:'' please vote on the reapproval of the Japanese Team. (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' add Japanese team to the launchpad team

==== Tunisian Team reapproval ====
The discussion about "Tunisian Team reapproval" started at 20:13.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2013 
** ''Vote:'' please vote on the re approval of the Tunisian Team (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' add Tunisian team to launchpad team

==== Ireland Team re approval ====
The discussion about "Ireland Team re approval" started at 20:22.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication2013 
** ''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses to blog about how to get new members into teams
** ''Vote:'' please vote on the re approval of the Irish LoCo (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' czajkowski add team to Launchpad
** ''ACTION:'' PabloRubianes to update the wiki with the minutes and post to locoteams mailing list

=== Vote results ===

* please vote on the reapproval of the Japanese Team.
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 3/0/0)
* please vote on the re approval of the Irish LoCo
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 3/0/0)
* please vote on the re approval of the Tunisian Team
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)

=== Action items ===

* add Japanese team to the launchpad team
* add Tunisian team to launchpad team
* SergioMeneses to blog about how to get new members into teams
* czajkowski add team to Launchpad
* PabloRubianes to update the wiki with the minutes and post to locoteams mailing list

=== Action items, by person ===

* czajkowski
** czajkowski add team to Launchpad
* PabloRubianes
** PabloRubianes to update the wiki with the minutes and post to locoteams mailing list
* SergioMeneses
** SergioMeneses to blog about how to get new members into teams
* **UNASSIGNED**
** add Japanese team to the launchpad team
** add Tunisian team to launchpad team

=== People present (lines said) ===

* czajkowski (82)
* meetingology (35)
* SergioMeneses (34)
* airurando (30)
* costales (21)
* Neo31 (18)
* PabloRubianes (13)
* tdr112 (10)
* jkbys (6)
* elacheche (5)
* zmoylan (3)
* nizarus (2)
* geekette (2)
* issam__ (1)
* lunapersa (1)
* itnet7 (0)

=== Full Log ===

 20:00 <czajkowski> #startmeeting

 20:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul 16 20:00:40 2013 UTC.  The chair is czajkowski. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:00 <meetingology> 

 20:00 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:01 <czajkowski> aloha folks and thank you all for coming to the LoCo council meeting this month

 20:01 <czajkowski> #chair costales PabloRubianes SergioMeneses itnet7

 20:01 <meetingology> Current chairs: PabloRubianes SergioMeneses costales czajkowski itnet7

 20:01 <costales> Hi everyone! :)

 20:01 <czajkowski> #voters PabloRubianes SergioMeneses costales itnet7 czajkowski

 20:01 <meetingology> Current voters: PabloRubianes SergioMeneses costales czajkowski itnet7

 20:01 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda  tonights agenda

 20:02 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 20:02 <czajkowski> So this evening unless there are any objections we'll go through the list as they appear on the wiki

 20:02 <czajkowski> right

 20:03 <czajkowski> #topic Japanese Team reapproval

 20:03 <czajkowski> anyone here for the Japaenese team ?

 20:03 <SergioMeneses> hi guys

 20:03 <jkbys> I'm from Japanese Team

 20:04 <czajkowski> jkbys: hey there

 20:04 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JapaneseTeam/ReApprovalApplication2013

 20:04 <costales> Hi jkbys and good luck! :)

 20:04 <czajkowski> Thanks for coming

 20:04 <czajkowski> nice application

 20:04 <jkbys> Hi all

 20:04 <SergioMeneses> hi jkbys

 20:04 <czajkowski> so jkbys care to just tell us a little about your team and how things are doing

 20:04 <PabloRubianes> Hi jkbys

 20:07 <czajkowski> jkbys: if you'd prefer to prepare some text in a document and tranlsate it via google that is fine

 20:07 <czajkowski> I appreicate it's also late over there

 20:08 <czajkowski> hmm maybe the connection is gone

 20:08 <czajkowski> I dont have any questions but I do like the application and think the team is doing a great job

 20:08 <jkbys> We continued to attend meetings, writing articles for this two years

 20:09 <SergioMeneses> jkbys, I see your wiki pretty nice and good information

 20:09 <czajkowski> yes you have been busy.

 20:09 <czajkowski> jkbys: have you had any issues? or things the council can help with ?

 20:10 <SergioMeneses> the magazine is awesome http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10362/

 20:10 <czajkowski> costales: PabloRubianes any other questions I think we're all ready to vote :)

 20:11 <PabloRubianes> czajkowski: I'm ok, they are working really good

 20:11 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the reapproval of the Japanese Team.

 20:11 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the reapproval of the Japanese Team.

 20:11 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:12 <czajkowski> +1 excellent work folks

 20:12 <meetingology> +1 excellent work folks received from czajkowski

 20:12 <SergioMeneses> I'm going to share an advice: more pictures for the next process

 20:12 <PabloRubianes> +1 keep the work!

 20:12 <meetingology> +1 keep the work! received from PabloRubianes

 20:12 <jkbys> thank you

 20:12 <SergioMeneses> +1 keep working

 20:12 <meetingology> +1 keep working received from SergioMeneses

 20:12 <costales> of course +1 Keep your awesome work!! :D And thanks!

 20:12 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:12 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the reapproval of the Japanese Team.

 20:12 <meetingology> Votes for:3 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:12 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:12 <jkbys> SergioMeneses: I see

 20:13 <czajkowski> excellent work

 20:13 <tdr112> well done

 20:13 <SergioMeneses> jkbys, :)

 20:13 <SergioMeneses> congrats guys!

 20:13 <czajkowski> #action add Japanese team to the launchpad team

 20:13 * meetingology add Japanese team to the launchpad team

 20:13 <costales> Congrats Japanese Team! :D

 20:13 <jkbys> Thank you all

 20:13 <Neo31> congrats jkbys

 20:13 <elacheche> Congrats Japanese Team!

 20:13 <elacheche> :)

 20:13 <airurando> congrats jkbys

 20:13 <czajkowski> #topic Tunisian Team reapproval

 20:13 <czajkowski> good evening folks thanks for coming along

 20:14 <Neo31> I will be representing the Tunisian Team

 20:14 <czajkowski> so who here is from the Tunisian team

 20:14 <czajkowski> Neo31: welocme

 20:14 <czajkowski> *Welcome

 20:14 <SergioMeneses> Neo31, hi

 20:14 <costales> Hi Neo31 and good luck! :)

 20:14 <Neo31> I am Ahmed Sghaier, ubuntu-tn loco contact

 20:14 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2013

 20:14 <nizarus> o/

 20:14 <geekette> O/

 20:14 <elacheche> O/

 20:14 <costales> 6 Ubuntu Members! wow! :)

 20:14 <czajkowski> nice detailed wiki

 20:14 <czajkowski> thank you :)

 20:14 <issam__> O/

 20:15 <Neo31> thank you :)

 20:15 <czajkowski> so Neo31 just tell us a little about your team and the things you do

 20:15 <Neo31> yes

 20:15 <czajkowski> any thing you've found that worked or have struggled with

 20:15 <Neo31> we do a variety of activities but mostly we concentrate on IRL events and promoting Ubuntu and FLOSS culture in the tunisian community

 20:16 <czajkowski> nods

 20:16 <SergioMeneses> :)

 20:16 <Neo31> we provide supports for the users and we do our best to contribute to ubuntu by translations etc and we run training for packaging and other sorts of contributions

 20:16 <Neo31> we have done more than 30 events since last reapproval

 20:17 <SergioMeneses> guys I think you should use more often the locoportal for your events http://loco.ubuntu.com/

 20:17 <Neo31> i also invite you to check some of the photos following the best of photos albums

 20:17 <Neo31> sure SergioMeneses

 20:17 <czajkowski> Neo31: wow 30

 20:17 <czajkowski> impressive

 20:17 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, an important number :)

 20:17 <czajkowski> I think the work you are doing is amazing and having that many events shows me how active and organised you guys are

 20:18 <czajkowski> my only comment would also to echo SergioMeneses in please use the loco team portal

 20:18 <SergioMeneses> it is an amazing work - imho

 20:18 <czajkowski> it's the best place to showcase al the work being done by teams in real life of online and also great to have all the evnets in one place

 20:18 <czajkowski> costales: PabloRubianes any comments

 20:19 <costales> No czajkowski , nice work!

 20:19 <PabloRubianes> Impressive work!

 20:19 <costales> You did a lot of events

 20:19 <PabloRubianes> Neo31: have any new goal in the team?

 20:20 <Neo31> yes

 20:20 <Neo31> it is detailed on the page that we have been able to fulfill most of our last goals

 20:20 <costales> Neo31, What has been the most important event?

 20:20 <czajkowski> Neo31: have you antyhing you need from the council ?

 20:20 <Neo31> now we are looking forward to improve our activities, team members and release a magazine this year

 20:21 <czajkowski> wow :)

 20:21 <PabloRubianes> Neo31: really good!

 20:21 <Neo31> we are doing quite well until now. in case we need more assistance we will contact you

 20:21 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the re approval of the Tunisian Team

 20:21 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the re approval of the Tunisian Team

 20:21 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:21 <costales> sure! ;)

 20:21 <czajkowski> +1 well done

 20:21 <meetingology> +1 well done received from czajkowski

 20:21 <PabloRubianes> +1 impressive work!, keep the hard work

 20:21 <meetingology> +1 impressive work!, keep the hard work received from PabloRubianes

 20:22 <costales> +1 Great work! keep it! :D And thanks!

 20:22 <meetingology> +1 Great work! keep it! :D And thanks! received from costales

 20:22 <SergioMeneses> +1 excellent

 20:22 <meetingology> +1 excellent received from SergioMeneses

 20:22 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:22 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the re approval of the Tunisian Team

 20:22 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:22 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:22 <costales> Congrats Tunisian Team!!

 20:22 <SergioMeneses> congrats guys!

 20:22 <Neo31> thank you very much :)

 20:22 <czajkowski> #action add Tunisian team to launchpad team

 20:22 * meetingology add Tunisian team to launchpad team

 20:22 <tdr112> great work

 20:22 <czajkowski> Neo31: thank you for coming along!

 20:22 <czajkowski> #topic Ireland Team re approval

 20:22 <elacheche> Thank you guys :)

 20:22 <nizarus> Neo31, lunapersa, geekette, elacheche etc... are doing a good job :) big up

 20:23 <airurando> congrats Tunisian Team

 20:23 <Neo31> we will do our best to keep up the good work and do even better

 20:23 <geekette> Thx guys

 20:23 <lunapersa> :')

 20:23 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication2013

 20:23 <tdr112> hello

 20:23 <czajkowski> Evening folks :) who's here from Ireland

 20:23 <Neo31> thanks to all present ubuntu-tn members :)

 20:23 <zmoylan> hi

 20:23 <airurando> hi everyone

 20:23 * tdr112 Is

 20:23 <czajkowski> also to note I won't be voting in this application :)

 20:23 <SergioMeneses> welcome ubuntu irish team

 20:23 <PabloRubianes> Welcome to the Irish team

 20:23 <SergioMeneses> hey Laura appears in the picture jeje

 20:23 <czajkowski> thanks for coming airurando

 20:23 <czajkowski> photos do exist of me :)

 20:24 <SergioMeneses> nice

 20:24 <czajkowski> so airurando care to tell us how the irish team is doing ?

 20:24 <airurando> As our Team POC has forgotten I'll fill in

 20:24 <airurando> When compared against our activity up to June 2011 the last two years have been considerably quieter in the Irish Team.

 20:24 <czajkowski> no worries

 20:25 <airurando> Having said that there is still some significant activity in our LoCo.

 20:25 <SergioMeneses> airurando, does your team only have 4 ubuntu members?

 20:26 <airurando> SergioMeneses: yes I believe so.  2 former Ubuntu members appear to have let their membership lapse.

 20:26 <czajkowski> airurando: nods so teams do go through phases of being very active to being active in various ways

 20:27 <czajkowski> the very fact you guys care so much and are here today shows us the team is active

 20:27 <airurando> I became an Ubuntu Member earlier thus year

 20:27 <czajkowski> \o/

 20:27 <airurando> so net reduction is only 1

 20:27 <airurando> :-)

 20:27 <SergioMeneses> airurando, ok

 20:27 <airurando> lots of Ubuntu hours and release parties.

 20:27 <tdr112> airurando: has startes to do a lot of work to give thw loco some much needed cpr

 20:27 <tdr112> started

 20:27 <czajkowski> airurando: so what do you think is the best thing that works for the team, is it social events or just being there to support one another?

 20:28 <zmoylan> agreed

 20:28 <SergioMeneses> your wiki is pretty nice and a lot of information appears on it... airurando do you have some problems or ideas about your team that you want to share with us?

 20:28 <airurando> THe social events have worked great in the past but attendance has dwindles

 20:29 <tdr112> i think we have found it hard to get new blood

 20:29 <airurando> Aye, A lot of goodwill for the ongoing reboot effort.

 20:29 <airurando> The only real struggle is turning that good will into participation and acitvities.

 20:29 <PabloRubianes> tdr112: many teams have that problem

 20:29 <czajkowski> nods there does seem to be interest in the team, but sometimes it's hard to get people to step up.

 20:29 <SergioMeneses> tdr112, always is hard to find new blood

 20:30 <czajkowski> But a lot of teams find that so don't be disheartended

 20:30 <airurando> we have had some highlights over the last two years

 20:30 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, ++

 20:30 <airurando> we will never get disheartened

 20:30 * czajkowski hugs airurando excellent

 20:31 <tdr112> thats true only last week we had a great ubuntu hour

 20:31 <airurando> indeed

 20:31 <tdr112> with some guests from the usa

 20:31 <costales> tdr112, great

 20:31 <airurando> Pete and Amber Graner were in town!

 20:32 <airurando> We had a good chat at that Ubuntu Hour

 20:32 <SergioMeneses> airurando, awesome, maybe some day I'll join to one

 20:32 <airurando> SergioMeneses: would love to have you over!

 20:33 <costales> airurando, Could we help you in something?

 20:33 <airurando> costales: not sure

 20:33 <tdr112> we would take some advice on getting new people

 20:33 <airurando> we have held and continue to hold straight talking meetings

 20:34 <airurando> tdr112 is right.

 20:34 <SergioMeneses> I think we are ready to vote

 20:34 <airurando> that is really what we need

 20:34 <costales> tdr112, It's complicate that point ;) A lot of teams have that problem

 20:34 <czajkowski> costales: perhaps give an example how your team gets new people

 20:34 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: PabloRubianes same for you  guys :)

 20:34 <czajkowski> share knowledge :)

 20:35 <SergioMeneses> I think I can share something in a post in these days

 20:35 <czajkowski> #action SergioMeneses to blog about how to get new members into teams

 20:35 * meetingology SergioMeneses to blog about how to get new members into teams

 20:35 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: :)

 20:35 <czajkowski> now you won't forget

 20:35 <SergioMeneses> jeje nice try

 20:35 <airurando> :-)

 20:36 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the re approval of the Irish LoCo

 20:36 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the re approval of the Irish LoCo

 20:36 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:36 <costales> I think face2face meetings generate much stronger teams and friendship

 20:36 <SergioMeneses> costales, totally agree

 20:36 <SergioMeneses> +1 excellent work!

 20:36 <meetingology> +1 excellent work! received from SergioMeneses

 20:36 <airurando> costales: I also agree

 20:36 <costales> +1 Go Ã‰ire!! Thanks for your work!! Keep it! :D

 20:36 <meetingology> +1 Go Ã‰ire!! Thanks for your work!! Keep it! :D received from costales

 20:36 <PabloRubianes> +1 good work!

 20:36 <meetingology> +1 good work! received from PabloRubianes

 20:37 <airurando> sincere thanks to you all :-)

 20:37 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:37 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the re approval of the Irish LoCo

 20:37 <meetingology> Votes for:3 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:37 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:37 <czajkowski> well done :)

 20:37 <elacheche> Congrats Irish Team! :D

 20:37 <SergioMeneses> congrats ubuntu Ireland team

 20:37 <SergioMeneses> :D

 20:37 <czajkowski> #action czajkowski add team to Launchpad

 20:37 * meetingology czajkowski add team to Launchpad

 20:37 <airurando> that is wonderful news

 20:37 <PabloRubianes> congrats to the Irish Team!!!

 20:37 <zmoylan> huzzah

 20:37 <costales> Congrats Irish Team! and thank you!

 20:37 * airurando is delighted!

 20:37 <Neo31> congrats Irish Team :)

 20:37 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, PabloRubianes costales maybe we have to write a blog-post about this meeting

 20:37 <PabloRubianes> I would accept A Guinness to celebrate!

 20:37 <czajkowski> thank you all for coming

 20:37 <SergioMeneses> PabloRubianes, +1k

 20:37 <costales> PabloRubianes, me too xD

 20:37 <airurando> thanks Neo31

 20:38 <czajkowski> PabloRubianes: costales so which one of you will update the wiki with the mins

 20:38 <czajkowski> I've already given SergioMeneses a task :)

 20:38 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, :O

 20:38 <PabloRubianes> I do it at night today

 20:38 <costales> It's a little late for me now

 20:38 <czajkowski> #action PabloRubianes to update the wiki with the minutes and post to locoteams mailing list

 20:38 * meetingology PabloRubianes to update the wiki with the minutes and post to locoteams mailing list

 20:38 <czajkowski> np

 20:38 <costales> I could do it tomorrow :)

 20:38 <czajkowski> #endmeeting
