{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== LoCo Knowledge Base ==

This page lists the documentation and help that is part of the LoCo project. This should provide a fairly complete list of the documentation we have available.

=== General Information ===

General information and details about the LoCo project.

* LoCoTeams - the main homepage of the LoCo project.
* <nowiki>[[LoCoFAQ]]</nowiki> - one FAQ to rule them all! A big list of LoCo related questions.
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ |LoCo Teams List]]</nowiki> - the list of approved and new teams.
* LoCoTeamContacts - how to contact the project leaders.
* LoCoTeamMeeting - details of the fortnightly LoCo team meetings held on IRC.

=== Joining a Team ===

Details about joining teams.

* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ | LoCo Team Joining]]</nowiki> - how to join your local LoCo team.

=== Running a Team ===

Help and resources for running a team.

* LoCoTeamHowto - our main guide to starting a LoCo team.
* LoCoTeamRegions - a guide to picking how much of a region your LoCo team covers
* LoCoGettingApproved - how to get your team approved.
* LoCoExampleApplication - an example approval application.
* LoCoGettingCds - how to get free Ubuntu CDs.
* LoCoResolvingProblems - details on resolving problems and conflict in your team.
* LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups - how to best work with other local groups such as Linux User Groups.
* LoCoTeamLeader - thoughts on being an effective leader.
* LoCoTeamDealingWithMoney - best practices for dealing with money
* LoCoTeamSpeakers - a list of those who are available to speak at conferences about Ubuntu.
* LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups - how to further promote Ubuntu while helping your area LUGs

=== LoCo Resources and Facilities ===

Guides and documentation about setting up the various resources and facilities your LoCo team may want to use.

* LoCoCreatingWebsite - how to create a website, a map of your area in which users can add themselves, a planet blog aggregator, and details about free hosting options.
* LoCoCreatingForum - how do you set up a forum for your team?
* LoCoDocsDay - how to get involved in our regular documentation days.
* LoCoBot - details about using our IRC bots for logging and other facilities.
* LoCoTeamDocsToDo - Things for us to complete
* LoCoTemplates - templates for your LoCo sites.

=== LoCo Activities ===

Guides about different types of work your team can do.

* LoCoActivism - How-to guide for digital freedom activism
* UbuntuAtConferences - how to get a "conference pack" from Canonical
* LoCoRunningInstallfests - a guide to running a local Installfest event.
* LoCoRunningReleaseParty - a guide to running a Release Party event.
* LoCoRunningAppDevSchool - a guide to running an App Dev School event.
* LoCoTeamEducation - how to advocate Ubuntu / Kubuntu / Edubuntu to educational users and organisations.
* LoCoComputerFairHowto - organising a computer fair booth
* '''Jams!''' - Jams are get-togethers of Ubuntu activists who work on Ubuntu directly to make it better. Useful information and materials about running '''<nowiki>[[RunningBugJam|Bug Jams]]</nowiki>''' and '''<nowiki>[[MOTU-RunningPackagingJam|Packaging Jams]]</nowiki>'''.

=== Mailing Lists ===

* loco-contacts - the main mailing list for the project is loco-contacts. You can join it by visiting https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/loco-contacts
* Team Mailing Lists - see https://lists.ubuntu.com for details of the team mailing lists.

=== IRC Channels ===

* #ubuntu-locoteams - the main IRC channel for the LoCo project.
