{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[Rafik]]</nowiki>
| LoCoCouncil to supervise TeamReports (<nowiki>[[LoCoCouncilAgenda-talk|Details]]</nowiki>)
|}

Rafik felt the LoCo Council should make more of a push to get LoCos to do Team Reports. It was decided that it would be better to try some other avenues to encourage LoCos to do Team Reports. The first step will be publicizing the Team Reports. This would not only help LoCos communicate better, but it could motivate LoCos as well. 

While there was some discussion that monthly Team Reports may not be particularly useful, and questions about what needs to be done if most members are on vacation for a certain month, we will publish the Team Reports in the UWN, Fridge, and Planet for now.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[Rafik]]</nowiki>
| LoCoTeams IRC meetings on #ubuntu-meeting (<nowiki>[[LoCoCouncilAgenda-talk|Details]]</nowiki>)
|}

The purpose of this was to help individuals who are part of LoCos to feel some connection to the larger community. Unfortunately, this would cause significant scheduling headaches and will not be pursued.

=== LoCo Teams ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| South Africa
| <nowiki>[[SouthAfricanTeam-ApprovalApplication]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-za.org]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[MorganCollett]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[JonathanCarter]]</nowiki>
| November 5, 2008
|}

Reapproved, based on refocusing and good plans.
