{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Free website hosting for LoCo teams ==
We are happy to assist active local teams in growing their communities by providing them with sponsored hosting. This server space should be used to promote Ubuntu as a focus point for local language Ubuntu discussions and to coordinate local activities. 

=== What you get ===
The typical loco team web site can be a combination of the following:
* Wordpress website
* An Ubuntu-related domain - often a subdomain of ubuntu-CC.org where CC is the country code. For example, utah.ubuntu-us.org for the Utah US LoCo Team.
* Web Forum: please make use of the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu forums]]</nowiki>

=== How to get hosting space ===
We use an email based trouble ticket system to manage requests for website tasks. If you would like to host your loco site on Canonical space:
# Read, understand and agree to the below hosting policy. 
# Send an email to  stating that you are an approved team and need hosting
** Suggest a domain to use. In some cases we may give you the whole ubuntu-CC.org domain for your country but often you will receive xyz.ubuntu-CC.org. In this case, -CC is the two letter iso country code for teams who cater to a geographic country. If your loco team instead caters to a group speaking a certain language across a large geographic region then use the three letter iso language code. For example, ubuntu-tam.org for the Tamil loco team.
** Ensure we know the details about your <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams|LoCoTeam]]</nowiki>.

==== Terms and Conditions for Canonical-supplied LoCo Team servers ====
Servers are owned by Canonical, Ltd. These terms and conditions are required to ensure that local teams administer the servers in a responsible manner. Decisions on which teams will be granted server space will be made by Canonical, Ltd. and teams with modest requirements may be asked to share a server. The current contact at Canonical is the <nowiki>[[mailto:rt@ubuntu.com|Canonical Sysadmins]]</nowiki>.

'''Terms and Conditions:'''

* To qualify for sponsored website or server space a team must be officially recognised as an approved Ubuntu !LoCoTeam (see the first table on the LoCoTeamList page)
* The !LoCo team is responsible for all system administration of their webspace.
* The team must appoint a contact person who is ultimately responsible for the administration and content of the server. This may optionally be the same person who is the !LoCo team contact and must in all cases have signed a copy of the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. 
* No content that is in breach of copyright or otherwise illegal may be stored on the server. This includes, but is not limited to, artwork or file downloads that are not authorized for distribution.
* The !LoCo team, as represented by the contact person, indemnifies Canonical of all responsibility should illegal material be found to be hosted on the server.
* Good taste: The Lo``Co teams agrees to refrain from posting content that may offend other groups or individuals.
* The !LoCo team website should not contain advertising or promote one commercial enterprise over another. A neutral and objective listing of local companies providing services for Ubuntu is fine, however.
* Teams agree to use the Ubuntu logo in accordance with the trademark policy.

=== Domain Name Service ===

!LoCoTeam domain names usually are formed like ''ubuntu-CC.org'', where CC is your two-letter country or (if necessary, e.g. Tamil or Catalan) three-letter language code. Currently, those domains are centrally hosted at dns1.ubuntu-eu.org.

Approved LoCos can update records themselves. Submit a GPG signed request to  to get keys to change DNS for your LoCo. 

Regardless of whether you use one of the existing hosting services or something else, you do '''not''' need to set up your own name service for your ''ubuntu-CC.org'' domain. For example, Bluehost requires domains to use ns1.bluehost.com and ns2.bluehost for name servers. There are no advantages in doing that. The existing servers are redundant, well-connected, and can be updated remotely. Pointing the DNS to a different set of servers is somewhat difficult (for a number of reasons) but in any case completely unnecessary.

=== Hosted Teams ===
The following LoCoTeams currently have Canonical sponsored Hosting:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Team
| URL
| Server type
| Contact
|-
| Ubuntu-us-or (Oregon)
| http://oregon.ubuntu-us.org
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-or|contact]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-se
| http://ubuntu-se.org
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/joakim-wallden|Joakim Walldén]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-women
| http://ubuntu-women.org
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ozamosi|Robin Sonefors]]</nowiki>
|-
| MOTU-REVU
| http://revu.tauware.de/
| Server
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/siretart|Reinhard Tartler]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-ph
| http://ubuntu-ph.org/
| Website
|-
| Ubuntu-br
| http://ubuntu-br.org/
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/cypherbios|Rafael Proença]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-in
| http://ubuntu-in.org/
| Website
|-
| Ubuntu-au
| http://ubuntu-au.org/
| Website
|-
| Ubuntu-id
| http://ubuntu-id.org/
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~imtheface|Andy Apdhani]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-dc usa
| http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/mehdi|Mehdi Hassanpour]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu doc team
| http://doc.ubuntu.com
| Server
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/mdke|Matt East]]</nowiki>
|-
| Software freedom day
| http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org
| Server
| Matt Oquist
|-
| ubuntu-ua.org (Ukraine)
| http://www.ubuntu-ua.org
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/icherevko|Ivan Cherevko]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-us pacific northwest
| http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/dshufelt|Dan Shufelt]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-us Chicago
| http://chi.ubuntu-us.org
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/nixternal|Rich Johnson]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-ve (Venezuela)
| http://www.ubuntu-ve.org
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/rolando|Rolando Blanco]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-cl (Chile)
| http://www.ubuntu-cl.org
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mruiz|Miguel Ruiz]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-cl (Chile)
| http://wiki.ubuntu-cl.org
| Wiki
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mruiz|Miguel Ruiz]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-cl (Chile)
| http://foros.ubuntu-cl.org
| Forums
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mruiz|Miguel Ruiz]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-cl (Chile)
| http://planeta.ubuntu-cl.org
| Planet
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mruiz|Miguel Ruiz]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-fi
| http://www.ubuntu-fi.org/ + blog. & wiki.
| Web, Planet, Moin``Moin, Wordpress
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~timo-jyrinki|Timo Jyrinki]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu Screencasts
| http://screencasts.ubuntu.com
| Drupal
| AlanPope
|}

''(Yes, we do know that some of these are not LoCoTeams.)''

The following LoCoTeams are hosted on the Ubuntu Europe Cluster (the Cluster doesn't exists anymore) :

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Ubuntu-ir (Iran)
| http://www.ubuntu-ir.org
|-
| Ubuntu-no (Norway)
| http://www.ubuntu.no
|-
| Ubuntu-ru (Russia)
| http://www.ubuntu-ru.org
|}

The following LoCoTeams have their own hosting solution :
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Team
| URL
| Contact
|-
| Ubuntu-gr (Greece)
| http://www.ubuntu-gr.org
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-greek-users|contact]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-pt (Portugal)
| http://www.ubuntu-pt.org
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-pt|contact]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-fr (Francophone ressources)
| http://www.ubuntu-fr.org
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-fr-asso|contact]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-de (Germany)
| http://www.ubuntuusers.de
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntuusers.de|contact]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-az (Azerbaijan)
| http://www.ubuntu-az.org
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-aze|contact]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu-fi (Finland)
| http://forum.ubuntu-fi.org/ <<BR>> (rest of the domain Canonical hosted, above)
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-fi.org/WWW|See wiki page / "Palvelin 3", Arto & Tomi]]</nowiki>
|}
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
