{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by czajkowski at 19:59:43 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-10-16-19.59.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda   (czajkowski, 20:00:07)
* Hungarian Loco Re approval

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HungarianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (czajkowski, 20:01:39)

''ACTION:'' czajkowski update LP with team  (czajkowski, 20:13:16)

* Colorado LoCo reapprocal

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (stokes91, 20:14:48)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (czajkowski, 20:15:39)

Meeting ended at 20:31:03 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* please vote on the reapproval of the Colorado loco
   For: 0 Against: 0 Abstained: 4

* please vote on the Hungarian loco reapproval
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* czajkowski update LP with team

=== Action items, by person ===

* czajkowski
* * czajkowski update LP with team

=== People present (lines said) ===

* czajkowski (64)
* meetingology (23)
* effiejayx (17)
* toros (15)
* stokes91 (15)
* FunnyLookinHat (11)
* nealmcb (11)
* huats (9)
* ttbro1 (9)
* itnet7 (8)
* joey (8)
* hajni (6)
* med_ (4)
* Garheade (4)
* P05TMAN (3)
* mfisch (2)
* ulysses (2)
* kweinert (2)
* jimbaker (2)
* lamont (1)

=== Full Log ===

 19:59:43 <czajkowski> #startmeeting

 19:59:43 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct 16 19:59:43 2012 UTC.  The chair is czajkowski. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 19:59:43 <meetingology> 

 19:59:43 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 19:59:47 <huats> I am here :)

 20:00:00 <joey> me

 20:00:07 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 20:00:08 <stokes91> o/

 20:00:34 <czajkowski> firstly welcome to our loco council we've had a bit of a reshuffle

 20:00:38 <czajkowski> so effiejayx welcome aboard

 20:00:53 <czajkowski> we have aplogies from coolbhavi

 20:00:55 <effiejayx> thanks :)

 20:01:15 <czajkowski> toros: ping

 20:01:21 <toros> czajkowski: we are here

 20:01:27 <toros> hello

 20:01:29 <ulysses> o/

 20:01:34 <czajkowski> #topic Hungarian Loco Re approval

 20:01:39 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HungarianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:02:04 <czajkowski> toros: so thanks for coming to the meeting

 20:02:10 <czajkowski> how is the loco doing?

 20:02:38 <toros> pretty well... we are preparing for the new release

 20:02:44 <lamont> joey: meh

 20:03:03 <czajkowski> nods

 20:03:06 <czajkowski> nice wiki page

 20:03:13 <toros> thank you

 20:03:35 <ttbro1> toros: I have to say that the wiki page is very impressive :)

 20:03:36 <czajkowski> so how has your team grown over the last 2 years?

 20:04:05 <toros> we have many new users on our site... as far as I remember, we had somewhere around 18000 in 2010

 20:04:14 <toros> right now we have 26000 registered users

 20:04:22 <toros> we have some new activists

 20:04:37 <toros> I hope some of them will become Ubuntu member sooner or later

 20:04:50 <ttbro1> wow, that a lot O.o

 20:04:57 <huats> :)

 20:05:00 <huats> great !

 20:05:01 <czajkowski> impressive list http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-hu/events/history

 20:05:16 <itnet7> I really thought you did well on your teams Wiki, good work on the Team Reports too!

 20:05:26 <effiejayx> toros, you seem to participate in many projects to foster free software in eduation and public sector, do you colaborate with other COmunity Projects_

 20:05:29 <effiejayx> ?

 20:05:42 <toros> effiejayx: yes.

 20:06:04 <effiejayx> toros, could you elaborate on your experience sharing, who have you shared with?

 20:06:05 <toros> we collaborate with the FSF.hu foundation

 20:06:19 <toros> and sometimes also with other small communities

 20:06:27 <huats> Have you been able to use the UDS to improve your loco participation ?

 20:07:03 <effiejayx> toros, any colaborative work with debian folks?

 20:07:18 <toros> huats: not really, but it was a great experience for us

 20:07:33 <czajkowski> if any other members of the loco want to add stuff please feel free to chat also

 20:07:43 <toros> effiejayx: no, there isn't really an active debian community in Hungary

 20:07:47 <czajkowski> I see on your road map you've a plan to do: We are going to update our Ubuntu version for the secondary school leaving exam based on Ubuntu 13.04.  Can you tell us some more about this

 20:07:58 <czajkowski> as that seems a rather large task

 20:07:58 <toros> there are many Debian users, but they aren't really active locally

 20:08:08 <effiejayx> toros, ohhh how strange.

 20:08:50 <hajni> czajkowski, i am responsible for that project - we have a special version of ubuntu adjusted to the needs of the hungarian ICT secondary school leaving examination

 20:09:25 <czajkowski> hajni: oh can you tell us about that

 20:09:33 <czajkowski> I'm sure a lot of locos would be intersted in hearing about this

 20:09:35 <ttbro1> yes please

 20:09:38 <hajni> czajkowski, we would like to promote students to take that exam on ubuntu instead of windows

 20:10:23 <czajkowski> do you have to work with the schools or goverment with this?

 20:10:54 <hajni> the first step is to make the software environment officially accepted by the hungarian office of education

 20:11:45 <hajni> it was a rather long process, but we managed to deal with the administrative difficulties

 20:12:03 <itnet7> Good work on that hajni !

 20:12:04 <czajkowski> hajni: please do post this to the loco contacts list

 20:12:11 <czajkowski> it would be great to hear about this kinda project

 20:12:16 <effiejayx> that's great hajni

 20:12:21 <czajkowski> ok any other comments before we go to a vote

 20:12:26 <huats> ready to vote

 20:12:29 <effiejayx> ready

 20:12:30 <hajni> czajkowski, ok, sure

 20:12:35 <czajkowski> #voters effiejayx itnet7 huats czajkowski

 20:12:35 <meetingology> Current voters: czajkowski effiejayx huats itnet7

 20:12:50 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the Hungarian loco reapproval

 20:12:50 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the Hungarian loco reapproval

 20:12:50 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:12:53 <itnet7> +1

 20:12:53 <meetingology> +1 received from itnet7

 20:12:55 <huats> +1

 20:12:55 <meetingology> +1 received from huats

 20:12:56 <effiejayx> +1

 20:12:56 <meetingology> +1 received from effiejayx

 20:12:58 <czajkowski> +1 fantasic work

 20:12:58 <meetingology> +1 fantasic work received from czajkowski

 20:13:05 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:13:05 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the Hungarian loco reapproval

 20:13:05 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:13:05 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:13:10 <nealmcb> hajni: I'd also love to hear more about the exam work you're doing.  what does the exam itself cover?

 20:13:12 <toros> thank you!

 20:13:13 <huats> keep doing that way !

 20:13:16 <czajkowski> #action czajkowski update LP with team

 20:13:16 * meetingology czajkowski update LP with team

 20:13:18 <ulysses> thank you

 20:13:20 <itnet7> Very good job Ubuntu-Hu!!

 20:13:23 <nealmcb> Congrats!

 20:13:38 <hajni> thank you

 20:13:45 <P05TMAN> Woot-woot

 20:13:47 <effiejayx> congratulations ubuntu hungary LoCo Team,

 20:13:49 <Garheade> Congrats

 20:13:50 <czajkowski> #topic Colorado LoCo reapprocal

 20:14:22 <ttbro1> Congrats to Ubuntu-hu, they done a great job :)

 20:14:26 <czajkowski> stokes91: welcome aboard

 20:14:39 <stokes91> Hello!

 20:14:48 <stokes91> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:15:39 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:15:43 <czajkowski> sorry dropped off there

 20:15:51 <czajkowski> stokes91: so how is the locoo doing ?

 20:15:51 <ttbro1> I have to admit, that is a small membership base :/

 20:16:20 <stokes91> Well, I have really just begun myself

 20:16:31 <stokes91> From the people I have met, we are excited to ramp up involvement

 20:16:43 <Garheade> He's doing a fine job.

 20:16:54 <P05TMAN> Second that

 20:17:02 <nealmcb> Indeed!

 20:17:03 <czajkowski> well anyone can talk in here so if others from the team want to voice stuff please do

 20:17:07 <FunnyLookinHat> Just an FYI - I was the previous team lead and I handed off a transition to stokes91 about 1 month ago.

 20:17:43 <czajkowski> nods

 20:17:50 <FunnyLookinHat> Since stokes91 has taken over, he's been pretty busy planning informal get-togethers, getting ready for the release party, and trying to brainstorm ( on his own and amongst other team members ) for ideas to increase LoCo activity.

 20:17:50 <czajkowski> FunnyLookinHat: so how have the previous 2 years been ?

 20:18:01 <FunnyLookinHat> czajkowski, Slow and steady.

 20:18:11 <FunnyLookinHat> We've tried a few different things besides the usual release parties, and had mixed results.

 20:18:12 <stokes91> My first meetin with the group was at the Ubuntu Hour at the Falling Rock, and I met a number of the acive members here.

 20:18:22 <czajkowski> I don't see many events on http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/coloradoteam/events/history  do you guys have them listed elsewhere?

 20:18:35 <FunnyLookinHat> So we're going to just keep tweaking the formula to see "what works" in Colorado.

 20:19:00 <FunnyLookinHat> czajkowski, We informally partner with a few local meetups that bulk up our activity

 20:19:12 <FunnyLookinHat> This is the most popular one: http://www.meetup.com/The-Denver-Boulder-Linux-Meetup-Group/

 20:19:15 <mfisch> the size of the state makes it a bit difficult to attend events regularly for some people

 20:19:31 <stokes91> FRom the feedback I have received from active members and less-active but interested people, my plan is to have many more smaller meetups with diversified topics to interest larger numbers of small groups.

 20:19:36 <FunnyLookinHat> Kevin organizes that meetup and generally works closely with the LoCo when he needs more Ubuntu related content.

 20:19:52 <czajkowski> stokes91: nice idea

 20:19:54 <czajkowski> that does help

 20:20:10 <czajkowski> and every loco is so different the one plan for all doesn't work so you need to find something that works for your team

 20:20:11 <stokes91> Of course in tandem with what we have established already works [;

 20:20:23 <ttbro1> that will help indeed stokes 91

 20:20:51 <stokes91> Thx!

 20:21:00 <czajkowski> nods

 20:21:02 <czajkowski> sounds like a plan

 20:21:10 <jimbaker> this partnership sounds like a good idea. for example, i just presented juju to the boulder linux user group. there was some overlap in members attending from the ubuntu loco. likely we could have increased that with better coordination

 20:21:16 <FunnyLookinHat> Ultimately - the biggest thing the LoCo needs is a new leader who has much more free time - and that just happens to be stokes91   :)

 20:21:22 <nealmcb> One of the bigger outreach activies we've done over the years is not listed as an event, but is noted on the reapplicaion page.  Jim Hutchinson has led our participation in the local Colorado Technology in Education meeting.  Too bad Jim isn't here to update on the 2011 event.

 20:21:24 <FunnyLookinHat> jimbaker, +1

 20:21:43 <ttbro1> stokes91: your welcome and I wish all the best in the vote :)

 20:21:58 <czajkowski> nods

 20:22:19 <czajkowski> FunnyLookinHat: yes that also helps and youv'e done a great job keeping the team going till someone else could take the torch from you

 20:22:24 <effiejayx> well I see some good spirits to make this team rock harder that it does now

 20:22:34 <nealmcb> We also distribute CDs to other groups like the Boulder Linux User Group and the DevOps group

 20:22:50 <czajkowski> nealmcb: great

 20:22:58 <czajkowski> nealmcb: random I know, but how do you distribute them

 20:22:58 <nealmcb> And Jim Baker just gave a juju talk for the BLUG

 20:23:04 <czajkowski> I'm always curious on how teams do that

 20:23:14 <joey> stokes91: can you take an action to get in touch with Jim H to see if there's another TIE event for this year?

 20:23:33 <joey> stokes91: via the email list should be good. That's always been a very worthwhile event.

 20:23:47 <stokes91> Absolutely.

 20:24:07 <joey> Thanks stokes91

 20:24:28 <nealmcb> The BLUG has a raffle at the end of each meeting, and/or we just hand out to those that are interested

 20:24:29 <czajkowski> ok any other comments before we vote folks?

 20:24:40 <effiejayx> FunnyLookinHat, I believe The Colorado US team should document this things a bit better.

 20:24:58 <FunnyLookinHat> effiejayx, totally agree, we'll make that a point for the next two years

 20:25:16 <P05TMAN> I'd be happy to assist in documentation.

 20:25:18 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the reapproval of the Colorado loco

 20:25:18 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the reapproval of the Colorado loco

 20:25:18 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:25:27 <Garheade> effie: I think several of use have noticed the need for better documentation

 20:25:28 * med_ votes for

 20:25:36 <ttbro1> +0

 20:25:39 <effiejayx> also to be honest, the work the team has done is good, but it needs to be more constant and also published somewere of other locos to see

 20:25:40 <med_> +1

 20:25:45 <Garheade> +1

 20:25:47 <czajkowski> med_: only council can vote

 20:25:53 <mfisch> good try med_! ;)

 20:26:09 * med_ was in another meeting....

 20:26:10 <kweinert> +1

 20:26:19 <itnet7> +0 I like the direction your going, but I think the team does need a little time

 20:26:19 <meetingology> +0 I like the direction your going, but I think the team does need a little time received from itnet7

 20:26:28 <itnet7> to get back up to speed

 20:26:34 <czajkowski> +0 I'm just not seeing activity and I'd love you guys to come back in 6+ months with more stuff documnted.

 20:26:34 <meetingology> +0 I'm just not seeing activity and I'd love you guys to come back in 6+ months with more stuff documnted. received from czajkowski

 20:26:35 <kweinert> (sorry)

 20:26:58 <czajkowski> huats: effiejayx

 20:27:01 <effiejayx> +0 It has a group of people willing to make magic happen

 20:27:01 <meetingology> +0 It has a group of people willing to make magic happen received from effiejayx

 20:27:36 * czajkowski prods huats

 20:28:12 <huats> +0

 20:28:12 <meetingology> +0 received from huats

 20:28:18 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:28:18 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the reapproval of the Colorado loco

 20:28:18 <meetingology> Votes for:0 Votes against:0 Abstentions:4

 20:28:18 <meetingology> Deadlock, casting vote may be used

 20:28:21 <joey> I think the good news is that the colorado loco has a lot of folks here for this meeting. That should demonstrate that the group is alive. :-)

 20:28:28 <czajkowski> joey: exactly

 20:28:29 <stokes91> Okay, cool. What does this mean we need to do in the mean time?

 20:28:30 <nealmcb> Are there any models from other big sparse US states you could point us to for ideas?

 20:28:46 <joey> stokes91: that means we have 6 months to put on a good showing and come back

 20:28:49 <czajkowski> stokes91: so it means keep up the actiity and good work you're doing

 20:28:57 <effiejayx> joey,  alive and kicking indeed, We hope to see you next cycle

 20:29:04 <czajkowski> but we;d love to have you back in a few months when more stuff has been done or documetned

 20:29:08 <stokes91> Okay cool beans!

 20:29:10 <effiejayx> I can follow up on your work if needed

 20:29:15 <nealmcb> So we remain an active team, but for a more limited time?

 20:29:17 <czajkowski> nealmcb: the Florida loco does amazing work

 20:29:19 <itnet7> If the team keeps up the momentum, I don't think you'll have any problems when you return and apply

 20:29:21 <czajkowski> nealmcb: itnet7 is your man

 20:29:23 <huats> it is clearly a way to tell you : we have seen your efforts, but we would like you to continue that way in the next months !

 20:29:31 <stokes91> We can do it.

 20:29:36 <nealmcb> :)

 20:29:37 <med_> indeed we can.

 20:29:37 <joey> stokes91: and here's the public apology for being so tied up at work that I'm not able to really help. :-(

 20:29:38 <czajkowski> stokes91: you can always email the loco coucnil for ideas or help we're here to help you

 20:29:42 <jimbaker> cool :)

 20:29:44 <itnet7> nealmcb and stokes91 you can ping me anytime

 20:29:55 <ttbro1> stoke 91: I'm sorry that you lose but I do wish you guys all the best in the future :)

 20:29:59 <czajkowski> so what this means to the team is it will naturally expire from the approved locoteams on the 22th of this month

 20:30:06 <czajkowski> but we do want to see you guys back

 20:30:16 <stokes91> Sounds good, I am definitely not chalking this up as a loss,

 20:30:26 <nealmcb> Oh dear....

 20:30:40 <czajkowski> stokes91: nop please dont take that away from this meeting

 20:30:44 <joey> Some trivia: Colorado was the first US State loco team approved and the 2nd US Loco team approved (the first one was a city)

 20:30:49 <effiejayx> stokes91,  thank you for stepping up for LoCo Contact and please do ask any questions you may have

 20:30:57 <stokes91> Absolutely.

 20:31:03 <czajkowski> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
