{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by SergioMeneses at 20:02:16 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-08-21-20.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda   (SergioMeneses, 20:02:41)
* Romania Reapproval
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RomanianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (SergioMeneses, 20:04:28)

* Colombian Reapproval
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (SergioMeneses, 20:19:02)

* Serbian Reapproval
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SerbianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (SergioMeneses, 20:31:59)
''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-rs/events/history nice to see  (czajkowski, 20:33:46)
''ACTION:'' SergioMeneses update LP approved locos  (SergioMeneses, 20:47:30)
''ACTION:'' itnet7  to update the wiki and team report with meeting  (SergioMeneses, 20:49:02)

Meeting ended at 20:49:15 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* please vote on the re approval of the Romania loco
   For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* please vote on the re approval of the Colombian LoCo
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 1

=== Action items ===

* SergioMeneses update LP approved locos
* itnet7  to update the wiki and team report with meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* itnet7
* * itnet7  to update the wiki and team report with meeting
* SergioMeneses
* * SergioMeneses update LP approved locos

=== People present (lines said) ===

* SergioMeneses (48)
* czajkowski (42)
* andresmujica (31)
* meetingology (30)
* huats (23)
* uros1 (23)
* itnet7 (22)
* Cracknel (16)
* IngForigua (7)
* greg-g (6)
* xdatap1 (5)
* hollman (5)
* bojce (2)
* maletaski (2)
* Costeelation (2)
* Rainmaker_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:02:16 <SergioMeneses> #startmeeting

 20:02:16 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug 21 20:02:16 2012 UTC.  The chair is SergioMeneses. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:02:16 <meetingology> 

 20:02:16 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:02:23 <czajkowski> aloha

 20:02:41 <SergioMeneses> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 20:03:55 <czajkowski> Cracknel: ping

 20:04:04 <Cracknel> hi Laura

 20:04:06 <SergioMeneses> #topic Romania Reapproval

 20:04:21 <czajkowski> welcome thanks for coming

 20:04:28 <SergioMeneses> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RomanianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:04:37 <czajkowski> nice wiki page folks!

 20:04:39 <SergioMeneses> hello Cracknel

 20:05:03 <Cracknel> sorry for not attending the meeting last month, I've forgot to add it to the calendar

 20:05:14 <SergioMeneses> Cracknel, dont worry!

 20:05:17 <czajkowski> that's fine Cracknel these things happen :)

 20:06:44 <czajkowski> Cracknel: so how do things get done in your team ?

 20:06:46 <czajkowski> organisation?

 20:07:05 <Cracknel> usually we use the forums for most of the work

 20:07:24 <Cracknel> but there is a trend to use social networking websites like Google+

 20:07:49 <czajkowski> nods

 20:08:01 <czajkowski> does everyone help out?

 20:08:29 <Cracknel> well, people interested in working on something usually get into the conversation

 20:08:41 <Cracknel> as everything is public, this is not a problem

 20:08:59 <greg-g> Cracknel: do you see any issues coming up for the Romania LoCo in the future?

 20:09:02 <czajkowski> thats good open discussion

 20:09:37 <IngForigua> gmorning

 20:09:45 <Cracknel> I don't think there will be a problem in the future

 20:09:54 <SergioMeneses> Cracknel, I have a recommendation, you have to use the loco portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/

 20:10:08 <huats> How is defined the structure of the LoCo ?

 20:10:31 <Cracknel> SergioMeneses: we've tried for the recent events

 20:11:06 <Cracknel> huats: there is a core, based on older members

 20:11:06 <hollman> :D

 20:11:43 <Cracknel> and every one else that wants to join is welcome

 20:11:44 <itnet7> Cracknel: I really like the outreach programs the team has held, very nice!

 20:11:51 <SergioMeneses> Cracknel, great... keep it in mind!

 20:11:53 <czajkowski> Cracknel: http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ro/events/history

 20:12:14 <czajkowski> nice work I'd encourage you to add your events here as it's easy to keep track of for your team

 20:13:04 <Cracknel> czajkowski: some might not come to knowledge of the core members of the team (the launchpad team)

 20:13:21 <Cracknel> so they do not appear in the loco team portal

 20:13:54 <czajkowski> Cracknel: yu mean people are not on Launchpad?

 20:14:30 <Cracknel> are not on the ubuntu-ro team on Launchpad

 20:14:55 <Cracknel> but they do use Launchpad for translations, bug reporting...

 20:15:02 <czajkowski> ah ok

 20:15:12 <czajkowski> maybe encourage them to join the team perahaps

 20:15:30 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:15:40 <SergioMeneses> totally agree

 20:15:47 <Cracknel> we have some plans for this and will probably be discussed on the next IRC meeting

 20:16:05 <SergioMeneses> ok.. we are ready to vote

 20:16:31 <SergioMeneses> #vote please vote on the re approval of the Romania loco

 20:16:31 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the re approval of the Romania loco

 20:16:31 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:16:39 <huats> +1

 20:16:39 <meetingology> +1 received from huats

 20:16:40 <czajkowski> +1

 20:16:40 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 20:16:41 <greg-g> +1 # great work, great re approval application, keep of the great work!

 20:16:41 <meetingology> +1 # great work, great re approval application, keep of the great work! received from greg-g

 20:16:44 <itnet7> +1

 20:16:44 <meetingology> +1 received from itnet7

 20:16:45 <xdatap1> +1

 20:16:45 <meetingology> +1 received from xdatap1

 20:16:51 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:16:51 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 20:17:11 <SergioMeneses> #endvote

 20:17:11 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the re approval of the Romania loco

 20:17:11 <meetingology> Votes for:6 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:17:11 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:17:40 <Cracknel> Thanks :)

 20:17:41 <huats> great !

 20:17:49 <huats> great work, continue like that !

 20:17:51 <SergioMeneses> congratulations Cracknel

 20:17:53 <itnet7> Good job Cracknel and Ubuntu-ro!!

 20:17:55 <greg-g> congrats and continue to be great!

 20:18:09 <IngForigua> felicitaciones

 20:18:24 <andresmujica> congrats Cracknel  and ubuntu-ro !

 20:18:42 <greg-g> next!

 20:18:55 <SergioMeneses> #topic Colombian Reapproval

 20:19:02 <SergioMeneses> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:19:11 <SergioMeneses> hello andresmujica

 20:19:32 <andresmujica> hi SergioMeneses  !

 20:19:44 <andresmujica> hello czajkowski greg-g itnet7  huats !

 20:19:46 <andresmujica> hello everyone

 20:19:50 <itnet7> Hey there andresmujica !

 20:19:55 * greg-g waves

 20:20:03 <huats> hello andresmujica

 20:20:38 <SergioMeneses> andresmujica, you have a great application

 20:20:43 <czajkowski> andresmujica: hey there

 20:21:11 <czajkowski> lovely artwork

 20:21:24 <SergioMeneses> andresmujica, can you tell us something about the mesh project?

 20:21:24 <andresmujica> I'm here on behalf of Ubuntu Colombia Team , so we're ready for the reapproval process :)

 20:21:35 <czajkowski> andresmujica: so tell us about your team

 20:21:37 <andresmujica> thanks czajkowski thanks SergioMeneses

 20:21:40 <andresmujica> sure

 20:22:21 <andresmujica> Ubuntu Colombia is a team that is constantly evolving

 20:22:37 <andresmujica> it has been the start point for several others projects all over our country

 20:22:46 <andresmujica> one of those is the mesh project that SergioMeneses  is asking about.

 20:23:18 <itnet7> andresmujica: /win 4

 20:23:22 <itnet7> lol

 20:23:24 <andresmujica> that's an amazing project

 20:23:24 <itnet7> sry

 20:23:40 <SergioMeneses> itnet7, je

 20:23:48 <andresmujica> that has grown on the root s of several members from ubuntu colombia

 20:24:01 <andresmujica> hollman, and IngForigua  whom are present here.

 20:24:01 <itnet7> the Mesh project seems very cool indeed!

 20:24:02 <andresmujica> anyway

 20:24:15 <andresmujica> Ubuntu Colombia has grown by itself

 20:24:22 <andresmujica> we're currently about 3000 members

 20:24:29 <IngForigua> Hello :)

 20:24:32 <andresmujica> counting all of our followers on social networks

 20:24:41 <andresmujica> mailing lists

 20:24:46 * itnet7 waves to IngForigua

 20:24:57 <andresmujica> and non internet connected members

 20:24:59 <itnet7> Nice andresmujica !

 20:25:24 <huats> I really like your application

 20:25:32 <SergioMeneses> huats, +1

 20:25:36 <huats> and the growing number of Ubuntu member is just awesome

 20:25:37 <czajkowski> andresmujica: so do you see any issues for your loco coming up?

 20:25:40 <andresmujica> +1 huats

 20:25:42 <SergioMeneses> and they have a lot of events http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-co/events/history

 20:26:16 <andresmujica> czajkowski, well in fact i do see some issues.  Probably the biggest one right know is that we've got a local council in charge of helping the team to flow

 20:26:40 <andresmujica> and sometimes is hard for a newcomer to the Ubuntu Colombia team to understand the proper role of our council

 20:27:03 <czajkowski> andresmujica: yes can you tell us more about this

 20:27:03 <andresmujica> usually the people are expecting that someone else do stuff and activities and things like that

 20:27:32 <andresmujica> and it's hard to empower them so they can organize by themselves those activities.

 20:27:35 <itnet7> andresmujica: that's always difficult when new people come on board and are learning the ropes about the team

 20:27:36 * IngForigua Ubuntu-co rocks :P

 20:27:39 <SergioMeneses> #voters greg-g czajkowski SergioMeneses itnet7 huats xdatap1

 20:27:39 <meetingology> Current voters: SergioMeneses czajkowski greg-g huats itnet7 xdatap1

 20:27:45 <andresmujica> however the model is working

 20:27:49 <andresmujica> just fine

 20:27:53 <andresmujica> with improvements coming

 20:28:01 <czajkowski> andresmujica: nods do you think the team needs a council and what extra powers does it bring to your team?

 20:28:02 <huats> +1

 20:28:09 <xdatap1> +1

 20:28:53 <andresmujica> czajkowski, i do believe that the team needs to be self sufficient and that means that it should not be dependeant on only one person, it should be dependant on several.. the more the merrier :)

 20:28:54 <SergioMeneses> andresmujica, great work! we are ready to vote

 20:29:23 <itnet7> good point andresmujica !

 20:29:39 <czajkowski> ok

 20:29:42 <SergioMeneses> #vote please vote on the re approval of the Colombian LoCo

 20:29:42 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the re approval of the Colombian LoCo

 20:29:42 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:29:47 <czajkowski> +1

 20:29:47 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 20:29:48 <greg-g> +1 :)

 20:29:48 <meetingology> +1 :) received from greg-g

 20:29:51 <itnet7> +1

 20:29:51 <meetingology> +1 received from itnet7

 20:29:51 <xdatap1> +1

 20:29:51 <meetingology> +1 received from xdatap1

 20:29:52 <SergioMeneses> +0

 20:29:52 <meetingology> +0 received from SergioMeneses

 20:29:59 <hollman> :D iujuu

 20:30:12 <andresmujica> :D  yuupppiiii  :)

 20:30:23 <huats> congrats to your team !

 20:30:29 <hollman> good work my team u-co

 20:30:33 <Costeelation> :')

 20:30:36 <hollman> **our

 20:30:38 <SergioMeneses> #endvote

 20:30:38 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the re approval of the Colombian LoCo

 20:30:38 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:1

 20:30:38 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:30:44 <andresmujica> thank you czajkowski greg-g xdatap1 itnet7 huats SergioMeneses :)

 20:30:53 <SergioMeneses> andresmujica, excellent work!

 20:30:55 <huats> Thanks to you !

 20:30:56 <SergioMeneses> congratulations

 20:30:57 <hollman> thanks all

 20:31:00 <itnet7> great work, keeop it up Ubuntu-CO!!!

 20:31:00 <huats> for your great job

 20:31:04 <SergioMeneses> hollman, IngForigua \o

 20:31:11 <Costeelation> congratulations guys

 20:31:14 <IngForigua> nice

 20:31:17 <IngForigua> felicitaciones

 20:31:34 <IngForigua> jojojo

 20:31:41 <andresmujica> thank you SergioMeneses you've done a great work too!

 20:31:51 <SergioMeneses> #topic Serbian Reapproval

 20:31:58 <uros1> Hello from Belgrade, speaking in name of Serbian Ubuntu LoCo team, members present are bojce coordinator, olujicz, Beretta021, promis, maletaski, Rainmaker and me.

 20:31:59 <SergioMeneses> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SerbianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:32:20 <itnet7> Welcome uros1 and the Serbian Team!!

 20:32:22 <uros1> serb pepople ssay hi

 20:32:24 <bojce> Hello everyone

 20:32:26 <SergioMeneses> bojce, uros1 hello

 20:32:30 <czajkowski> oh more lovely artwork!

 20:32:31 <maletaski> hello

 20:32:31 <czajkowski> yay

 20:32:32 <czajkowski> :)

 20:33:46 <czajkowski> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-rs/events/history  nice to see

 20:33:55 <czajkowski> uros1: how is your team doing ?

 20:34:01 <uros1> tnx we have god two years

 20:34:02 <czajkowski> Can we help ?

 20:34:03 <itnet7> beautiful job on the re-approval page!

 20:34:09 <SergioMeneses> great

 20:34:35 <uros1> In the last two years,  the main problem was material delivery â€“ CD's, due to strict customs regulations in Serbia.   The team hasn't found adequate solution for this problem, and we  appreciate your understanding of this

 20:34:58 <uros1> Dialogue with state institutions regarding Ubuntu and FLOSS adoption within the government system remains strategic goal of the team; the results accomplished by now raise hopes, and we believe that Council's support in the process could be stronger and more intensive.

 20:35:33 <uros1> On demand from Ministry of communications (Department of Digital society) Team is currently  in process of making tutorials for general audience, on topic how to adopt Ubuntu and how to adopt FLOSS applications in business environment

 20:35:34 <uros1> This is major step forward in dialogue between Team and state administration

 20:35:44 <czajkowski> uros1: so have you beenable to receive the cds from shipit ?

 20:35:54 <uros1> only for 11.04

 20:36:14 <uros1> looking for solution, trust me

 20:36:22 <czajkowski> what is the issue what happpens?

 20:36:35 <uros1> custom problem

 20:36:40 <SergioMeneses> taxes?

 20:36:53 <czajkowski> uros1: and have you contacted shippit to see if they will help

 20:36:54 <uros1> Serbia was part of ex Yugoslavia

 20:36:57 <czajkowski> they do help where they can

 20:37:43 <uros1> so still big problem with custom, CD`s are subject of import

 20:37:56 <uros1> yes I know

 20:38:19 <huats> uros1: is it for CD received from anywhere ?

 20:38:23 <uros1> so i say again, looking for proper solutin

 20:38:50 <uros1> One time Montenegro Loco split 11.04 cd`s with us

 20:39:00 <huats> uros1: that was my idea

 20:39:16 <huats> would it be possible to send 2 pack to montenegro by instance and that you split ?

 20:39:29 <huats> not a perfect solution ...

 20:39:32 <uros1> yes, that is god solution!

 20:39:54 <itnet7> +1 huats !

 20:39:57 <uros1> very god solution if it`s possible

 20:40:08 <SergioMeneses> huats, maybe

 20:40:56 <huats> uros1: czajkowski may contradict me but you can ask that your Cd to be shipepd somewhere else

 20:41:02 <czajkowski> hmmm

 20:41:04 <SergioMeneses> but we have to speak with montenegro about this

 20:41:04 <czajkowski> not sure about that

 20:41:21 <czajkowski> I know somtimes canonical have kindly also helped pay for the vat on customs

 20:41:50 <huats> czajkowski: but that might worth doing a kind of exception

 20:42:26 <huats> (well at least to ask :)

 20:42:26 <uros1> czajkowski: can we be in contact about this in future?

 20:42:30 <itnet7> Well, now that we are aware of the issue, we can at least ask offline and see if it's possible

 20:42:50 <czajkowski> uros1: of course

 20:42:56 <uros1> cool

 20:43:17 <uros1> so  on the other hand, good old customers support, answering their demands on daily basis has been improved almost to perfection, and unsolved problems are almost non-existant.

 20:43:34 <uros1> in forum

 20:43:49 <huats> great to hear

 20:44:11 <uros1> old-fashioned everyday work :)

 20:44:25 <SergioMeneses> uros1, great work! we are ready to vote

 20:44:28 <SergioMeneses> #vote

 20:44:28 <meetingology> Please vote on:

 20:44:28 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:44:35 <huats> +1 !

 20:44:40 <huats> +1

 20:44:44 <czajkowski> +1

 20:44:47 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:44:52 <itnet7> +1

 20:45:02 <xdatap1> +1

 20:45:45 <SergioMeneses> #endvote

 20:45:45 <meetingology> No vote in progress

 20:46:23 <czajkowski> well it's passed :)

 20:46:29 <czajkowski> so well done

 20:46:36 <SergioMeneses> sure

 20:46:38 <xdatap1> congratulations

 20:46:44 <bojce> thanks all

 20:46:44 <itnet7> Sure, Congratulations!!!

 20:46:46 <huats> congrats !

 20:46:46 <SergioMeneses> congratulations Serbian team

 20:46:48 <Rainmaker_> thanks

 20:46:53 <maletaski> thanms

 20:46:56 <uros1> tnx Councill!!

 20:46:57 <itnet7> Great work uros1 and Team!!!

 20:47:20 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: thank you for chairing!

 20:47:28 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, dont worry

 20:47:30 <SergioMeneses> #action SergioMeneses update LP approved locos

 20:47:30 * meetingology SergioMeneses update LP approved locos

 20:48:11 <itnet7> Thanks for chairing SergioMeneses !

 20:48:24 <huats> thanks for sharing SergioMeneses

 20:49:02 <SergioMeneses> #action itnet7  to update the wiki and team report with meeting

 20:49:02 * meetingology itnet7  to update the wiki and team report with meeting

 20:49:15 <SergioMeneses> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
