{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by huats at 20:26:25 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-07-17-20.26.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* German LoCo Team Approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GermanTeamReApprovalApplication2012   (huats, 20:27:17)
* Peruvian LoCo Team Approval 
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PeruvianTeam/ReapprovalApplication2012   (huats, 20:29:32)
* Italian LoCo Team Approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ItalianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (huats, 20:42:17)
* Russian LoCo Team Approval
  ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RussianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (huats, 20:53:07)
  
  ''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ru/events/history   (czajkowski, 20:55:10)

  ''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ru-loco-spb   (Agafonov, 20:58:19)

Meeting ended at 21:07:51 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* Ubuntu-de reapproval
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* Ubuntu-it reapproval
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 1

* Ubuntu Russia reapproval
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* ubuntu-pe reapproval
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* huats (87)
* meetingology (48)
* czajkowski (41)
* SergioMeneses (31)
* Gwaihir (26)
* JoseeAntonioR (26)
* Agafonov (18)
* xdatap1 (12)
* itnet7 (10)
* Malamut (9)
* ghosthost (6)
* Fuchs (4)
* l3on (3)
* yurau (3)
* apollo13 (2)
* MarkusH (2)
* totopalma (1)
* toddy (1)
* mfm (1)
* peppe84 (1)
* Dolasilla (1)
* _Pixel_ (1)
* march (1)
* Lasall (1)
* jokrebel (1)
* hexe25 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:26:25 <huats> #startmeeting Loco Council 2012 07 12

 20:26:25 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul 17 20:26:25 2012 UTC.  The chair is huats. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:26:25 <meetingology> 

 20:26:25 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:26:41 <huats> 'LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GermanTeamReApprovalApplication2012

 20:26:51 <huats> ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GermanTeamReApprovalApplication2012

 20:27:17 <huats> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GermanTeamReApprovalApplication2012

 20:27:29 <JoseeAntonioR> huats: it won't reply

 20:27:34 <huats> nevermind

 20:27:51 <czajkowski> ok lets vote again

 20:27:53 <huats> #vote Ubuntu-de reapproval

 20:27:53 <meetingology> Please vote on: Ubuntu-de reapproval

 20:27:53 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:27:58 <czajkowski> +1

 20:27:58 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 20:28:01 <huats> +1

 20:28:01 <meetingology> +1 received from huats

 20:28:03 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:28:03 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 20:28:04 <itnet7> +1

 20:28:04 <meetingology> +1 received from itnet7

 20:28:05 <xdatap1> +1

 20:28:05 <meetingology> +1 received from xdatap1

 20:28:16 <huats> #endvote

 20:28:16 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Ubuntu-de reapproval

 20:28:16 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:28:16 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:28:21 <huats> Great !

 20:28:27 <czajkowski> well done folks

 20:28:29 <huats> congratulations ubuntu-de !

 20:28:31 <Lasall> \o/

 20:28:36 <SergioMeneses> congratulations ubuntu-germany

 20:28:39 <apollo13> thx :)

 20:28:42 <toddy> thank you for your votes :)

 20:28:44 <mfm> yay!

 20:28:44 <march> Thanks. :)

 20:28:45 <SergioMeneses> apollo13, Fuchs could you send me more information about that project?

 20:28:45 <huats> #commands

 20:28:45 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:28:45 <hexe25> thx :)

 20:28:48 <itnet7> Congrats!

 20:29:01 <Fuchs> SergioMeneses: which one, sorry?

 20:29:11 <Fuchs> And yes, thanks a lot :)

 20:29:13 <huats> Next Ubuntu Peru

 20:29:15 <MarkusH> yeha :)

 20:29:17 <SergioMeneses> Fuchs, Deutschland e.V

 20:29:18 <apollo13> SergioMeneses: ubuntuusers.de? what are you intrested in?

 20:29:19 <MarkusH> thanks a lot

 20:29:27 <SergioMeneses> apollo13, â†‘â†‘â†‘

 20:29:29 <huats> They asked us to go next because are in a hurry

 20:29:31 <JoseeAntonioR> huats: do "#voters czajkowski itnet7 SergioMeneses xdatap1"

 20:29:32 <huats> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PeruvianTeam/ReapprovalApplication2012

 20:29:41 <Fuchs> SergioMeneses: I will get someone involved to do so, yes. Mind a short query so we don't disturb here?

 20:29:48 <huats> #voters czajkowski itnet7 SergioMeneses xdatap1

 20:29:48 <meetingology> Current voters: SergioMeneses czajkowski itnet7 xdatap1

 20:29:49 <SergioMeneses> Fuchs, ok

 20:29:53 <huats> JoseeAntonioR: thanks

 20:30:02 <JoseeAntonioR> oh, and #voters huats or yoou won't be able to vote

 20:30:02 <JoseeAntonioR> np

 20:30:10 <huats> #voters czajkowski itnet7 SergioMeneses xdatap1 huats

 20:30:10 <meetingology> Current voters: SergioMeneses czajkowski huats itnet7 xdatap1

 20:30:27 <huats> so is there anyone from ubuntu-pe ?

 20:30:32 <JoseeAntonioR> Yeah, it's me

 20:30:33 <JoseeAntonioR> Hello, guys! I'm Jose Antonio Rey, and I'm the team contact for Ubuntu-PE. Our Reapproval Application is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PeruvianTeam/ReapprovalApplication2012. Any questions you have, please ask them, and I'll gladly answer them.

 20:30:38 <czajkowski> JoseeAntonioR: :)

 20:30:47 <huats> anyone else ?

 20:30:52 <SergioMeneses> hello JoseeAntonioR

 20:30:57 <huats> hey JoseeAntonioR

 20:30:57 <JoseeAntonioR> hmm, nope, everyone's at work

 20:31:00 <czajkowski> yay photos!

 20:31:01 <huats> ok

 20:31:04 <JoseeAntonioR> :P

 20:31:12 <huats> Where is nxvl ???

 20:31:23 <JoseeAntonioR> huats: at work

 20:31:29 <huats> pfff

 20:31:32 <SergioMeneses> huats, working

 20:31:34 <SergioMeneses> I guess

 20:31:38 <huats> I know he don't want to talk to us

 20:31:39 <huats> ;)

 20:31:50 <SergioMeneses> huats, jeje

 20:32:16 <czajkowski> JoseeAntonioR: thanks for coming, so I was wondering, is there any reason why the loco doesn't use the LTP more ? http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-pe/events/history and is there plans to use it more in the future?

 20:33:15 <JoseeAntonioR> czajkowski: Yep, we've stopped a few months ago as we had a problem (I will talk about that later, I think you already know it), and all meetings/events were announced via ML

 20:33:33 <JoseeAntonioR> We're re-starting to use it, we have a couple events in there

 20:33:38 <czajkowski> JoseeAntonioR: can you elaborate more as to the issues please

 20:34:45 <JoseeAntonioR> Sure. A few months ago, I came into Ubuntu-PE, and found out our team was pretty inactive. That was because the team leader stopped working. So, I took initiative and got everyone to work again. In that while, the team was fully inactive except by some people making announcements via the ML and some chit-chat in the IRC channel.

 20:35:12 <SergioMeneses> I testified about that!

 20:35:17 <JoseeAntonioR> That's why you may find some empty logs in irclogs.ubuntu.com, and, as you said, it seems we've stopped using the LoCo Portal.

 20:35:59 <czajkowski> JoseeAntonioR: thanks

 20:36:20 <czajkowski> JoseeAntonioR: so how do you plan to get people involved and keep the activity going?

 20:37:25 <JoseeAntonioR> czajkowski: well, we've got meetings every month, and we've got a couple activities in the upcoming weeks. When we have talks/booths/conferences/whatever, we announce it via ML and get volunteers to work with us, personally, in getting more people involved with the project, so we keep growing and growing.

 20:37:45 <czajkowski> JoseeAntonioR: ok

 20:37:50 <JoseeAntonioR> We're also planning on starting a couple Ubuntu Hours, and contacting local FLOSS teams to talk to them about Ubuntu.

 20:37:52 <czajkowski> thanks for answering

 20:37:58 <SergioMeneses> JoseeAntonioR, I wanna know more about the future goals!

 20:38:58 <JoseeAntonioR> Sure! We've got lots of invitations to different events. There is where we're going to help people to get involved with the project. They are presented to Ubuntu, and told to join the LP team and all resources.

 20:39:14 <JoseeAntonioR> Once we've done that, we contact them, and start planning what we'll be doing in the meanwhile.

 20:39:34 <huats> ok great action !

 20:39:37 <JoseeAntonioR> By now, we've got some plans, as getting Ubuntu in local stores. There are PCs with Ubuntu, but the amount is minimal.\

 20:39:47 <SergioMeneses> JoseeAntonioR, perfect!

 20:39:59 <huats> Ok I think we are ready to vote then !

 20:40:02 <huats> #startvote

 20:40:03 <JoseeAntonioR> We're also trying to get people involved with translations and development. We offer mentoring if necessary, to get them to reach the member status.

 20:40:03 <JoseeAntonioR> Sure

 20:40:18 <huats> #vote

 20:40:18 <meetingology> Please vote on:

 20:40:18 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:40:21 <huats> +1

 20:40:25 <ghosthost> +1

 20:40:27 <xdatap1> +1

 20:40:38 <czajkowski> +!

 20:40:41 <itnet7> +1

 20:40:43 <huats> #vote ubuntu-pe reapproval

 20:40:43 <meetingology> Please vote on: ubuntu-pe reapproval

 20:40:43 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:40:44 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:40:44 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 20:40:48 <huats> +1

 20:40:48 <meetingology> +1 received from huats

 20:40:51 <itnet7> +1

 20:40:51 <meetingology> +1 received from itnet7

 20:40:54 <czajkowski> +1

 20:40:54 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 20:40:59 <xdatap1> +1

 20:40:59 <meetingology> +1 received from xdatap1

 20:41:12 <huats> #endvote

 20:41:12 <meetingology> Voting ended on: ubuntu-pe reapproval

 20:41:12 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:41:12 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:41:19 <huats> Ubuntu-pe thanks !

 20:41:19 <JoseeAntonioR> Thanks, guys!

 20:41:21 <itnet7> Great job JoseeAntonioR and Team!!

 20:41:27 <SergioMeneses> JoseeAntonioR, congratulations!

 20:41:30 <JoseeAntonioR> itnet7: we'll be sure to keep it up.

 20:41:33 <huats> for your application and congratulations !

 20:41:41 <xdatap1> JoseeAntonioR, well done

 20:41:45 <huats> and say hi to nxvl that we miss him !

 20:41:48 <SergioMeneses> JoseeAntonioR, and thanks for the boot thing ;)

 20:41:49 <itnet7> :-) \o/ awesome!

 20:41:53 <JoseeAntonioR> thank you so much guys!

 20:41:59 <JoseeAntonioR> SergioMeneses: np!

 20:42:05 <JoseeAntonioR> huats: I'll be sure to make it.

 20:42:13 <huats> So next is ubuntu Italy !

 20:42:17 <huats> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ItalianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:42:18 <JoseeAntonioR> I need to run to classes now, see you later guys!

 20:42:36 <huats> is there anyone here for ubuntu italy ?

 20:42:42 <_Pixel_> o/

 20:42:43 <xdatap1> if you're from the Italian team raise your hand

 20:42:44 <Gwaihir> hello huats!

 20:42:48 <Gwaihir> o/

 20:42:49 <czajkowski> Gwaihir: !!

 20:42:54 <Dolasilla> o/

 20:42:56 <huats> hello Gwaihir !

 20:42:57 <Gwaihir> 'evening czajkowski!

 20:42:57 <totopalma> o/

 20:42:58 <SergioMeneses> Gwaihir, \o

 20:43:05 <peppe84> o/

 20:43:13 <czajkowski> thanks for coming folks!

 20:43:16 <SergioMeneses> hello ubuntu-italian team!

 20:43:22 <l3on> hello! :)

 20:43:23 <czajkowski> always interesting to see what the team is up to

 20:43:25 <huats> thanks for coming !

 20:43:33 <huats> so we is about to speak for the team ?

 20:43:35 <l3on> o/

 20:43:42 <huats> to present your hard work ?

 20:43:42 <Gwaihir> huats, that will be me I guess

 20:43:53 <Gwaihir> fire any questions you have :-)

 20:43:59 <huats> Gwaihir: you are not even living in Italy !!!

 20:44:01 <huats> :)

 20:44:14 <Gwaihir> yeah... blame on me :-)

 20:44:19 <czajkowski> nice #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-it/events/history

 20:44:59 <huats> I have a question

 20:45:03 <huats> youj mention the RAI3

 20:45:07 <Gwaihir> huats, sure

 20:45:16 <huats> what are your experience with press ?

 20:45:18 <huats> and medias ?

 20:45:25 <Gwaihir> yeah, that is an old interview

 20:45:30 <huats> are you able to communicate on a large scale ?

 20:45:36 <Gwaihir> experience is ups and lows

 20:45:54 <czajkowski> 27 Ubuntu members :o WOW

 20:46:07 <huats> (is t is not a tricky question I am just curious)

 20:46:13 <Gwaihir> sometimes we are able to reach big names in the press, sometimes it is harder, but we have some good people trying to reach out them as much as we can

 20:46:39 <huats> ok GwaihirI think we are all facing the same difficulties

 20:46:41 <Gwaihir> usually for every release we have a release press article that we send out, sometimes it is picked up

 20:47:05 <Gwaihir> yeah, I guess it is hard, need to make a lot of good contacts, but it is not easy

 20:47:05 <czajkowski> Gwaihir: does the team face any issues as you're rather large ?

 20:47:24 <Gwaihir> czajkowski, not really, we are rather large, but the team is well structured

 20:47:39 <Gwaihir> we have different working teams that are more or less independent

 20:47:53 <czajkowski> Gwaihir: can you tell us about the structure please?

 20:47:54 <Gwaihir> so they do not strictly depend on our Council

 20:48:01 <jokrebel> bye

 20:48:13 <Gwaihir> we have a similar structure to the international community

 20:48:22 <Gwaihir> we have a Community Council

 20:48:43 <Gwaihir> plus small working teams, specialized in their field

 20:49:03 <Gwaihir> a translation team, a doc team, form admins and staff, developers, testers and so on

 20:49:09 <Gwaihir> s/form/forum

 20:49:11 <czajkowski> nods

 20:49:12 <xdatap1> graphical schema of the italian team: http://www.ubuntu-it.org/comunita

 20:49:25 <czajkowski> aww that is rather cute

 20:49:28 <SergioMeneses> xdatap1, nice

 20:49:30 <czajkowski> Gwaihir: Team reports ?

 20:49:39 <Gwaihir> they basically sets up themselves as they need to, we just watch other in the beginning

 20:49:53 <Gwaihir> czajkowski, ah... we actually are not really good at that

 20:49:59 <czajkowski> Gwaihir: :(

 20:50:01 <huats> Gwaihir: hum....

 20:50:07 <huats> I am so disapointed

 20:50:22 <czajkowski> Gwaihir: is that something perhaps the team could work on

 20:50:25 <huats> I won't say it aloud since I want to spend nice holidays in italy in 2 weeks

 20:50:32 <Gwaihir> we tried to have single teams write small reports and then re-wrote them in the team report page, but didn't work nice

 20:50:34 <huats> but you should work on that

 20:50:44 <Gwaihir> huats, indeed, we have to

 20:50:52 <czajkowski> ok am ready to vote

 20:51:16 <xdatap1> i will retrain my vote, being a italian council member

 20:51:40 <huats> #vote Ubuntu-it reapproval

 20:51:40 <meetingology> Please vote on: Ubuntu-it reapproval

 20:51:40 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:51:44 <huats> +1

 20:51:44 <meetingology> +1 received from huats

 20:51:45 <itnet7> +1

 20:51:45 <meetingology> +1 received from itnet7

 20:51:50 <czajkowski> +1

 20:51:50 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 20:51:57 <czajkowski> xdatap1: you need to +  0

 20:52:06 <huats> SergioMeneses: your vote ?

 20:52:09 <xdatap1> +0

 20:52:09 <meetingology> +0 received from xdatap1

 20:52:13 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:52:13 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 20:52:17 <huats> #endvote

 20:52:17 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Ubuntu-it reapproval

 20:52:17 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:1

 20:52:17 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:52:24 <huats> Congratulations ubuntu-it !

 20:52:29 <czajkowski> Gwaihir: my only thing would be in 2 years time can we see team reports please!

 20:52:41 <huats> czajkowski: +1 !

 20:52:44 <SergioMeneses> totally agree with czajkowski

 20:52:45 <itnet7> Congrats Gwaihir and Ubuntu-it!!

 20:52:50 <Gwaihir> czajkowski, sure, we will definitely do better on that!

 20:52:53 <l3on> thanks ! :)

 20:52:56 <SergioMeneses> and congratulations ubuntu-it

 20:52:57 <czajkowski> great

 20:52:57 <Gwaihir> thanks LoCo Council!

 20:52:58 <czajkowski> thanks you

 20:53:04 <huats> So the next team is Russia !

 20:53:07 <huats> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RussianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:53:14 <ghosthost> great!

 20:53:15 <huats> Is thre anyone from russia ?

 20:53:19 <ghosthost> yes

 20:53:19 <Agafonov> o/

 20:53:24 <yurau> o/

 20:53:27 <Malamut> yes

 20:53:30 <huats> Thanks for joining us

 20:53:43 <huats> Who will speak to present your activity ?

 20:54:01 <SergioMeneses> hello ubuntu russia!

 20:54:03 <yurau> Agafonov will

 20:54:08 <czajkowski> Agafonov: hey there

 20:54:19 <Agafonov> I was workking to geather application, so yes

 20:54:53 <huats> Agafonov: great we are listening to you :)

 20:54:58 <czajkowski> yay photos make me happy

 20:55:09 <huats> are there any points you want to specifically present ?

 20:55:10 <czajkowski> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ru/events/history

 20:55:53 <Agafonov> please note we are big country and it is really hard to be a loco as a one single team

 20:56:14 <Agafonov> so there many teams involved in activity

 20:56:30 <czajkowski> Agafonov: ah ok, so do you think the Russian loco would benefit from being broken up into smaller locos like USA for example ?

 20:56:38 <yurau> we dont know english )

 20:56:49 <SergioMeneses> Agafonov, I like the community numbers, but what is Vkontakte LoCo?

 20:56:51 <Malamut> czajkowski: I don't think so

 20:56:53 <Agafonov> some are doing things we are really do not know :)

 20:57:23 <Agafonov> vkontakte is a big russian social network

 20:57:29 <ghosthost> please, don't say I about all of us, yourau :)

 20:57:37 <ghosthost> *it

 20:58:01 <Agafonov> regarding breakage - there are some teams already in your list

 20:58:19 <Agafonov> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ru-loco-spb

 20:58:25 <Agafonov> for example

 20:58:26 <SergioMeneses> Agafonov, I think so but it is a great number of members

 20:58:41 <czajkowski> well it would mean areas that are active and went for approved loco would get stuff like cds and other areas that werent could work wtih approved areas and maybe share resoources

 20:58:50 <Agafonov> most are users :)

 20:59:20 <Malamut> well, we have some very active teams in some cities, but in general there is not enough active members((

 20:59:24 <czajkowski> so what do you see as the issues for the russian loco ?

 20:59:42 <Agafonov> not enough *active* members

 21:00:09 <czajkowski> ok, and do you have any plans to change this ?

 21:00:20 <Agafonov> this is a question of leadership more or less...

 21:00:23 <Malamut> czajkowski: one global team to help regional subteams

 21:00:30 <Malamut> czajkowski: yes, of cource

 21:00:40 <czajkowski> Malamut: nods that is what I think would work

 21:01:39 <czajkowski> anything else people want to add

 21:01:41 <Malamut> now we are working on our central web resources and some global goals

 21:01:53 <Malamut> like Russiian Remix

 21:02:12 <huats> sounds good !

 21:02:20 <huats> I think we know enough to vote !

 21:02:22 <huats> #vote Ubuntu Russia reapproval

 21:02:22 <meetingology> Please vote on: Ubuntu Russia reapproval

 21:02:22 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 21:02:26 <huats> +1

 21:02:26 <meetingology> +1 received from huats

 21:02:29 <xdatap1> +1

 21:02:29 <meetingology> +1 received from xdatap1

 21:02:32 <SergioMeneses> +1

 21:02:32 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 21:02:33 <itnet7> +1

 21:02:33 <meetingology> +1 received from itnet7

 21:03:22 <huats> Agafonov: where are team reports btw ?

 21:03:26 <huats> czajkowski: your vote ?

 21:03:48 <Agafonov> huats: the most valuable question!

 21:04:35 <czajkowski> +1

 21:04:35 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 21:04:54 <Agafonov> the issue we have this probles since last reapproval...

 21:05:07 <huats> #endvote

 21:05:07 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Ubuntu Russia reapproval

 21:05:07 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 21:05:07 <meetingology> Motion carried

 21:05:14 <huats> So ubuntu-ru congrats

 21:05:21 <huats> but please try to work on that

 21:05:23 <Agafonov> wow

 21:05:32 <Agafonov> thanks!

 21:05:36 <huats> it would be really needed for the reapproval in 2 years !

 21:05:37 <Malamut> Thanks a lot

 21:05:42 <SergioMeneses> congratulations ubuntu russian team

 21:05:46 <huats> (we would have a close look at that)

 21:05:55 <xdatap1> congratulations guys

 21:05:59 <Malamut> we'll try to do our best

 21:06:05 <huats> It is important for you to share your great work with the rest of the world :)

 21:06:12 <Agafonov> huats: I think we have some powers now!!!

 21:06:13 <itnet7> Good job Ubuntu-ru Thanks for working on it for the future!!

 21:06:28 <huats> I think it is it !

 21:06:36 <ghosthost> thank you

 21:06:38 <huats> Nothing else on the agenda !

 21:06:48 <huats> Thanks everyone for joining us !

 21:06:53 <SergioMeneses> huats, no

 21:06:57 <SergioMeneses> :D

 21:07:00 <huats> no ?

 21:07:08 <xdatap1> thanks everyone

 21:07:15 <xdatap1> good night

 21:07:29 <Agafonov> thanks again!

 21:07:33 <huats> See you all next month !

 21:07:38 <Fuchs> nighty night :)

 21:07:38 <SergioMeneses> ok guys tanks for coming

 21:07:41 <SergioMeneses> I see you

 21:07:51 <huats> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
