{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The LoCo NewsWire inteds to be a way of sharing LoCo News across LoCo Teams. The LNW is an application part of the LoCo Directory. It inteds to provide a view of news by regions and in the team details. It provides aggregation for other sites, including LoCo Team sites for sharing.

=== Background ===

Originally sharing LoCo News tends to happen in <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com | Planet Ubuntu ]]</nowiki>, which gives a great on the spot news, and also <nowiki>[[ https:--lists.ubuntu.com-mailman-listinfo-loco-contacts | the LoCo Team Contacts mailing list]]</nowiki> both are very effective, however there needs to be a way to share this through the LoCo Directory for people who are discovering things happening in LoCo teams. Currently for news to appear in the Planet teams, it has to be reported by an Ubuntu member of that particular team, and new teams would not have a way of promoting news.

LoCo Team members can also learn from other teams and be encouraged to participate in Community news.

=== Detailed Outline ===
Currently teams would benefit from a better way to promote news, sharing a category feed, the team could share its news to the LoCo Directory, and have recent news in Its detail page. with this feeds we could combine feeds from a region and have all news from the Americas region, or all news in Asia. grouping the news could help boost the sense that we are what we are becase of what we all are.

The LNW could provide feeds for loco teams to add on their website as news from the region or news from LoCos around the world.

==== Issues ====

* Jono wants to stay on top of news of all teams in a region, but he has to visit each teams sites to do this.

* Nick would like to share the spirit and have a section on his LoCo team site to share headlines from neigboring teams.

* The LoCo Directory does not reflect reporting activity in the details of the team.

* Maria is a LoCo Contact but she is not an Ubuntu member, so sharing news on the planet is not an option. and the LoCo Contact mainling list is a very select group of people and not the entire world.

==== Use Cases ====

* Jono uses a feed in his reader to learn about LoCo Team news from around the globe.
 
* Nick can get a feed for his website with news from the region.

* The LoCo Directory can display the ten most recent headlines in the LoCo team news site and offers the feed link.

* Maria can publish news on the teams site using a tag, and that gets added to the feeds of the LoCo News Wire.

=== Technical Specs ===

==== Workflow ====

===== providing news sources =====

* To provide a news source for a team, the team admin in the LoCoDirectory adds a feed of the community category to the team details page. this category is important since it make all new related to LoCo Team news.

===== Displaying the news =====

* The news of a team can be found in the Team Detail pages with 5 recent news headlines.
* a link to news around a LoCo team should be available in the team detail page as well
* The news of teams around the world can be found on the main site for the LoCo Directory.
* all should provide feeds to be added in other websites, like LoCo team websites or a persons Reader.

=== Ideas from the Crowd ===
Please make your idea with `@``SIG``@` at the end.

----
CategoryLoCo
