{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== OpenID Authentication ==

Allow users to login with an OpenID. 

=== Explanation ===

OpenID is authentication system to login in many different website with only identity and one password. When you need to authenticate, the website connects to your identity which is a URL such as http://tom.domain.com, and *your* website ask you for a password (hence, it can be the same everywhere). The URL can also hold your personal webpage and friends can authenticate themselves: you can thus build a social network such as on Facebook or MySpace but decentralised (and you don't need to grant copyright on your pictures as on Facebook).

=== Goals ===

1. Use OpenID system on Ubuntu websites
2. Ease the creation of OpenIDs for users

=== Ideas ===

Please post all ideas you may have below for discussion

 1. Use Launchpads OpenID system once released as a way to auto add users to Loco Members group. Based on membership in the Locos Launchpad Group.
 2. Can support to multiple OpenIDs per user account be added?. Once a user has been registered to Launchpad, is up to him/her to decide what OpeniD provider will be preferred...
 3. Make a new package which set up a ready-to-use OpenID server. On June 2008, many libraries are available (ex: from http://openidenabled.com/) but no interfaces. AroundMe (GPL) seems to do that but there is no deb-package available (http://www.barnraiser.org/)
