{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-community-n-locodir-meeting-tracker|Meeting Feature]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': 2010-03-31
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': <nowiki>[[Launchpad:loco-directory]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

Provide the functionality necessary for LoCo Teams to plan and track their IRC meetings

=== Release Note ===

TBD

=== Rationale ===

LoCo Teams currently track their meeting dates, times, agenda and logs in separate places.  Provide a unified place for managing this data.

=== User stories ===

Rory will be chairing the next IRC meeting for their team. They use the wiki to keep track of this. They have to copy and paste from an old meeting page to a new page, and hand edit it to make sense for the new meeting. This is a lot of copy/pasting and manual effort.

Laura wants to add an agenda item to the IRC meeting for their upcoming meeting, and tries to add it to the wiki page. However the wikisyntax is unclear and confusing, so they wind up getting the formatting wrong.

=== Assumptions ===

# LoCo Teams will usually hold meetings in their own channels
# LoCo Teams may hold meetings in #ubuntu-meeting or some other channel
# Meetings have an agenda of items to discuss
# Meetings will be logged

=== Ideas ===

Needed

=== Design ===

==== Models ====

'''Meeting'''
* teams: teams involved in this meeting (usually only 1, can be more)
* name: name of the meeting
* date: day of the meeting
* start: time the meeting starts
* end: time the meeting ends
* announce: URL to the announcement
* irc_chan: IRC Channel name that is hosted on the freenode IRC network. Ex. #ubuntu-chicago
* chair: person who is the meeting's chair
* log: URL of meeting log

'''!AgendaItem'''
* meeting: meeting during which this agenda item is to be discussed
* parent: agenda item that contains this item
* title: descriptive name for this item
* description: detailed description of this item
* owner: person proposing or responsible for this item
* created_date: timestamp of when this item was created
* log_entry: URL to this item's discussion
    
=== Implementation ===

TBD

==== UI Changes ====

TBD

==== Code Changes ====

New Code, possible changes to existing code

==== Migration ====

New tables, possible changes to existing tables

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

TBD

=== Unresolved issues ===

TBD

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

None

=== Comments ===

Add your comments here

----
CategorySpec
