{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Agenda from the Meeting:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| czajkowski
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-m-loco-council-plans |Blueprint for UDS-M]]</nowiki>
|-
| czajkowski
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-n-loco-council |Blueprint for UDS-N]]</nowiki>
|-
| all
| !LoCo Team {re}approvals
|}

=== Topics Discussed ===

* UDS-M Blueprint
** Sit down one night next week at UDS via skype/gobby and spend 2 hours getting UDS-M bp all done

* UDS-N Blueprint
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-n-loco-council

* !LoCo Team {re}approvals
** Ubuntu-NI - Re-approved
** Ubuntu-US-CO - Re-approved
** Ubuntu-US-OH - Re-approved

=== Summary ===

<pre>
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:00 -!- Irssi: Starting query in freenode with MootBot
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:00 <MootBot> Meeting started at 15:00. The chair is czajkowski.
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:01 <MootBot> LINK received:   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:02 <MootBot> New Topic:  UDS-M Blueprint
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:02 <MootBot> LINK received:  https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-m-loco-council-plans
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:08 <MootBot> IDEA received:  Sit down one night next week at UDS via skype/gobby and spend 2 hours getting UDS-M bp all done
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:09 <MootBot> New Topic:  UDS-N BP
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:09 <MootBot> LINK received:  https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-n-loco-council
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:15 <MootBot> New Topic:  Nicaragua Team re approval
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:15 <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NicaraguanTeam/ReApproval2010
[14:50] <czajkowski> 21:16 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.ubuntu.org.ni/
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:26 <MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the re approval of the Nicaraguan Team.
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:27 <MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:28 <MootBot> AGREED received:  Nicaraguan Team re approved
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:29 <MootBot> New Topic:  Colorado  Re approval
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:29 <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/ApprovalApplication
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:32 <MootBot> Please vote on:  Please vote on the Colorado re approval.
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:34 <MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:34 <MootBot> AGREED received:  Congrats Colorado
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:35 <MootBot> New Topic:  Ohio
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:35 <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/ReApproval
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:46 <MootBot> Please vote on:  please vote on the re approval of Ohio Team.
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:47 <MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:48 <MootBot> AGREED received:  Ohio team re approved
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:49 <MootBot> Meeting finished at 15:49.
[14:51] <czajkowski> 21:49 <MootBot> Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
</pre>

=== Logs ===

<pre>

Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[15:00:49] <czajkowski> Aloha!
[15:00:57] <paultag> Howdy!
[15:01:01] <itnet7> hey there!
[15:01:05] <jacob> heya!
[15:01:13] <leogg> hey all!
[15:01:15] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
[15:01:18] <SergioMeneses> hi
[15:01:24] <LaFieraMarina> hi
[15:01:31] <czajkowski> tonights agenda short and sweet , we'll start with council items first and then move onto teams
[15:01:34] <jledbetter_> Howdy :)
[15:01:37] <czajkowski> nhandler: are you about ?
[15:01:46] <popey> gah
[15:01:50] * popey changes theme on the wiki
[15:01:59] <czajkowski> ok 2nd month in a row, removing that item now.
[15:02:20] <czajkowski> [topic] UDS-M Blueprint
[15:02:24] <czajkowski> [link] https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-m-loco-council-plans
[15:02:43] <czajkowski> ok council folks we need to DONE all these items, so what do we need to clear up
[15:02:45] <paultag> I swear I've seen that BP before...
[15:03:20] <czajkowski> popey: some of your items are done really but not marked done.
[15:03:29] <paultag> Aye
[15:03:49] <czajkowski> itnet7: your item policy and guidelines for the ubuntu loco council any update on it ?
[15:04:00] <paultag> [itnet7]policy and guidelines for the ubuntu loco council :INPROGRESS <-- can we push this to next cycle? I feel like this is what we have in for standards for the N cycle czajkowski
[15:04:11] <paultag> and popey and itnet7 :)
[15:04:16] <paultag> and leogg :)
[15:04:48] <czajkowski> I don't see why not. I think it's something that we can get stuck into next cycle as we'll have more free time now that re approvals are running a lot smoother..
[15:04:51] <itnet7> No update, we'll need to push it. Part of my goal was to begin by creating
[15:04:54] <popey> heh
[15:05:07] <paultag> I think that's what we had set up for standards as part of operation wiki-dekruft
[15:05:27] <paultag> for n cycle
[15:05:28] <paultag> not already
[15:05:32] <itnet7> a mission statement and building from there
[15:05:36] <paultag> +1
[15:05:37] <leogg> paultag: +1
[15:05:40] <itnet7> but that fell through
[15:05:42] <czajkowski> I'd really like to close this BP before UDS-N if at all possible and not have things idling
[15:05:57] <paultag> czajkowski, could we have a quick vote on pushing that back?
[15:06:34] <itnet7> I can tell you I have no time whatsoever to work on that between work and family for the next week with being able to attend UDS
[15:06:41] <czajkowski> itnet7: that;s cool
[15:06:53] <itnet7> they already asked me to do a presentation next Wednesday at 1 pm
[15:06:53] <popey> something we could work on during uds?
[15:06:54] <czajkowski> I think we'll create a new section for that in the UDS-N BP
[15:06:55] <popey> gobby?
[15:07:17] <popey> find a quiet room, spark up skype and gobby, get it done
[15:07:20] <itnet7> They meaning owrk
[15:07:22] <itnet7> work
[15:07:29] <czajkowski> ok sounds good
[15:07:33] <huats> Hello !
[15:07:37] <paultag> heyya huats :)
[15:07:40] <czajkowski> popey: this for standards or for the remainder items ?
[15:07:40] <huats> sorry I am late :)
[15:07:44] <czajkowski> huats: tis fine
[15:07:55] <popey> up to you
[15:07:56] <leogg> huats: o/
[15:08:09] <popey> I too am mad busy between now and uds, but we could nail it in a couple of hours
[15:08:15] <popey> together
[15:08:20] <czajkowski> ok.
[15:08:24] <paultag> It's OK popey. We can push it back without too much issue I think
[15:08:29] <popey> what do you think czajkowski ?
[15:08:41] <popey> I'll make you a curry, come over to my house and we'll work on it :)
[15:08:47] <czajkowski> [idea] Sit down one night next week at UDS via skype/gobby and spend 2 hours getting UDS-M bp all done
[15:09:11] <czajkowski> popey: paultag itnet7 huats leogg
[15:09:18] <paultag> I'm +1 here
[15:09:19] <huats> czajkowski, sounds a good idea
[15:09:21] <leogg> +1
[15:09:22] <paultag> skype me in and I'll be there
[15:09:31] <itnet7> sure
[15:09:32] <czajkowski> grand
[15:09:34] <huats> it just needs to be in my day hours :)
[15:09:36] <czajkowski> ok moving on so
[15:09:37] <popey> evening uk time is daytime UDS which makes sense
[15:09:44] <popey> early evening :)
[15:09:54] <czajkowski> [topic] UDS-N BP
[15:09:57] <paultag> which is daytime here. M-W-F would be good, if you can :)
[15:09:58] <popey> I'm sure we can work times out
[15:10:07] <paultag> yup
[15:10:09] <czajkowski> [link] https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-n-loco-council
[15:10:22] <czajkowski> ok so paultag and I've created this to add some ideas to work on for UDS
[15:10:38] <czajkowski> as I'd like to see our sessions more structured so we can figure stuff out at UDS
[15:10:46] <czajkowski> if you have any thoughts please add them to this
[15:11:23] <czajkowski> I think we can put a lot of effort into structure some guidelines for teams
[15:11:38] <czajkowski> and in the end make it more black and white what teams could do, and if there are issues what to do
[15:11:47] <popey> i dont think it needs that much effort tbh
[15:11:52] <popey> just some basics
[15:12:04] <czajkowski> team naming I think is something that everyone brings up at some point or another.
[15:12:09] <popey> i dont think we should be too rigid
[15:12:12] <czajkowski> if you look at the LD the names are all over the place
[15:12:13] <paultag> +1, team names are a big issue
[15:12:24] <paultag> I think that should be strict for new teams, and a migration plan for old teams
[15:12:45] <paultag> since it has the potential to break stuff, we should watch out for old teams
[15:12:47] <popey> I am less bothered by the team names.
[15:12:51] <paultag> and not be too heavy handed with that
[15:12:57] <czajkowski> *nods*
[15:13:00] <popey> its messy, yes, but not a catastrophe
[15:13:13] <paultag> popey, it's not great :/
[15:13:13] <leogg> yep, I agree
[15:13:18] <czajkowski> no it's not at all, but it would be nice if they were all the same in some way
[15:13:21] <paultag> popey, it's tough to find lp or irc channels without using google
[15:13:25] <czajkowski> makes it a lot clearer when searching
[15:13:34] <popey> surely people use the loco directory!
[15:13:35] <popey> :)
[15:13:40] <paultag> popey, and I think that's kinda an issue, I don't mind about the "title" name, I want the URL name to be nice
[15:13:43] <popey> I take your point though
[15:13:47] <paultag> yeah but that's a website and *effort* :)
[15:13:52] <czajkowski> popey: they do and still if you don't know the ISO name you may not find it :)
[15:14:02] <czajkowski> anyways
[15:14:05] <popey> ok
[15:14:09] <czajkowski> if folks have ideas can they add them into the BP
[15:14:14] <czajkowski> so we can disscuss it please
[15:14:15] <czajkowski> :)
[15:15:02] <czajkowski> ok any other comments re council stuff before we move to re approvals ?
[15:15:27] <czajkowski> [topic] Nicaragua Team re approval
[15:15:28] <huats> I'd like to see a session on something I mention already : a kind of geographical meeting for loco (during FOSS events like FOSDEM by instance)
[15:15:52] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NicaraguanTeam/ReApproval2010
[15:16:07] <huats> but I'll add that to the bp
[15:16:17] <czajkowski> [link] http://www.ubuntu.org.ni/
[15:16:29] <czajkowski> anyone here from the team ??
[15:16:38] <popey> love the website
[15:16:40] <alucardni> I am
[15:16:46] <mmgc84> I am
[15:16:48] <czajkowski> what a fantastic wiki application
[15:16:49] <czajkowski> WOW
[15:16:59] <czajkowski> alucardni: mmgc84 aloha and welcome :)
[15:17:01] <czajkowski> thanks for coming
[15:17:07] <landero> I am
[15:17:14] <leogg> me too ;)
[15:17:29] <elopio> I am a fan.
[15:17:32] * fitoria too
[15:17:39] <LaFieraMarina> me too
[15:17:48] <otoha> me too
[15:17:59] <czajkowski> ok, so who'd like to tell us about the team please ?
[15:18:21] * SergioMeneses support the team
[15:18:22] <jimbodoors> i am the boss
[15:18:27] <hask> me too
[15:18:28] <czajkowski> jimbodoors: ok
[15:18:33] <alucardni> czajkowski: I've been with the team since it's early days
[15:18:43] <czajkowski> alucardni: so maybe you can tell us please
[15:18:58] <alucardni> and we've always been very active, as you can see in our wiki :)
[15:19:14] <itnet7> Very nice wiki, easy to find all the particulars!
[15:19:41] <paultag> Aye, that's for sure
[15:19:42] <alucardni> one of the thing a like more about our Team is that we can work very well all the Nicaraguan FOSS community
[15:19:46] <paultag> Makes me feel bad about mine :)
[15:19:47] <itnet7> Very good job over the years!!
[15:20:26] <popey> _love_ the infographics on the wiki page
[15:20:32] <paultag> alucardni, mmgc84, What plans do you have for the next 2 years? What do you plan to continue doing? Anything you'd like to share about what's done right?
[15:20:50] <huats> I really really like the insertion of graphics / images in the application
[15:21:37] <alucardni> paultag: for the next 2 years we spect to contribute a bit more on ubuntu develpment, vía motu, bugsquad, etc
[15:21:56] <czajkowski> alucardni: do you have some sort of mentoring to help get people into motu ?
[15:22:11] <alucardni> czajkowski: not yet, we're looking for that
[15:22:36] <czajkowski> alucardni: so how do you get people to help in your team?
[15:23:21] <alucardni> czajkowski: we have worked with the latin american community, organizing events like the Ubuntu Open Week in Spanish
[15:23:40] <czajkowski> yes that has been very well done
[15:23:58] <eos87> hi folks
[15:24:00] <alucardni> and there are a few spanish speaking motu's (2 i think) that could helps us
[15:24:52] <elopio> some people of the bugsquad talk spanish too. I'm sure they'd be glad to help
[15:25:11] <czajkowski> alucardni: have you had any problems in the past and how did you deal with them ?
[15:26:12] <alucardni> czajkowski: I don't remember having problems... :D
[15:26:16] <czajkowski> ok
[15:26:22] <czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the re approval of the Nicaraguan Team
[15:26:25] <czajkowski> +1
[15:26:32] <czajkowski> well done folks and keep it up !
[15:26:41] <itnet7> +1
[15:26:43] <huats> +1
[15:26:46] <popey> easy +1
[15:26:49] <paultag> +1
[15:26:52] <popey> +1
[15:26:56] <popey> bah, stupid bot
[15:27:23] <czajkowski> leogg: ??
[15:27:29] <leogg> I'm not voting :)
[15:27:33] <popey> heh
[15:27:41] <leogg> it's my team :)
[15:27:42] <paultag> czajkowski, it's his team
[15:27:44] <czajkowski> ok
[15:27:47] <leogg> hehe
[15:27:51] <czajkowski> #endvote
[15:28:03] <czajkowski> [endvote]
[15:28:12] <paultag> Well done :)
[15:28:17] <itnet7> Very good job!
[15:28:21] <SergioMeneses> Congratulations Ubuntu-ni
[15:28:29] <czajkowski> [agreed] Nicaraguan Team re approved
[15:28:32] <elopio> Ubuntu Costa Rica loves Ubuntu Nicaragua <3
[15:28:36] <elopio> where's the party????
[15:28:40] <czajkowski> well done folks
[15:28:41] <fitoria> i(?_?)ö
[15:28:44] <SergioMeneses> elopio, jajaja
[15:28:44] <alucardni> thank you very much to all :)
[15:28:47] <leogg> elopio: we love you back!
[15:29:03] <jimbodoors> elopio: in Nicaragua, leogg's house :)
[15:29:14] <JorSol> Nicaraguan Team rules!!!
[15:29:26] <SergioMeneses> jimbodoors, far far away
[15:29:38] <DexterNica> :D
[15:29:39] * xamanu is dancing
[15:29:45] <czajkowski> [topic] Colorado Re approval
[15:30:01] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/ApprovalApplication
[15:30:13] <czajkowski> this came to us via ML but we're going to process it here
[15:30:27] <elopio> good luck Colorado. Bye people. \o_
[15:31:22] <czajkowski> I'm pretty happy with this , and it has detailed all of their events and linked to them which I know I had pointed out to them
[15:32:09] <czajkowski> paultag: popey itnet7 huats leogg any comments
[15:32:23] <popey> nope, it's looking good!
[15:32:26] <paultag> None here
[15:32:29] <mat1983> :)
[15:32:30] <czajkowski> ok for the record
[15:32:31] <leogg> czajkowski: nope
[15:32:33] <czajkowski> I'll use the bot
[15:32:40] <itnet7> Looks good to me
[15:32:43] <czajkowski> [vote] Please vote on the Colorado re approval
[15:32:46] <czajkowski> +1
[15:32:46] <paultag> +1
[15:32:49] <itnet7> +1
[15:33:11] <leogg> +1
[15:33:26] <huats> +1 but I'd like to see more pics on the application
[15:33:34] <paultag> hahaha huats :)
[15:33:44] <czajkowski> popey: ?
[15:33:49] <itnet7> Only thing they need to work on it seems is team reports
[15:34:31] <itnet7> Unless they just aren't linked
[15:34:34] <paultag> popey,
[15:34:34] <czajkowski> [endvote]
[15:34:39] <popey> :(
[15:34:43] <czajkowski> sorry popey
[15:34:50] <popey> np
[15:34:58] <popey> +1 for the record
[15:34:59] <popey> :)
[15:35:01] <czajkowski> [agreed] Congrats Colorado
[15:35:02] <paultag> :)
[15:35:10] <czajkowski> paultag: update the LP
[15:35:10] <paultag> Alright, gametime for Ohio >:)
[15:35:13] <czajkowski> final team
[15:35:14] <jacob> \o/
[15:35:14] <paultag> czajkowski, roger doger
[15:35:25] <czajkowski> [topic] Ohio
[15:35:29] <leogg> congrats coloco!
[15:35:30] <paultag> I'm not voting with Ohio, I'm the contact, jacob will be fielding LoCo Council questions. I'll respond ( if I need ), but only as a member of the team, and not as a Council Member, or Contact.
[15:35:40] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/ReApproval
[15:35:41] <popey> :)
[15:35:51] <czajkowski> jacob: welcome
[15:36:05] <czajkowski> paultag: gotcha
[15:36:16] <paultag> \o/ ohio :)
[15:36:16] <jacob> czajkowski: i'm just the messenger, but thanks :)
[15:36:39] <rrittenhouse> Yay Ohio :)
[15:36:40] <czajkowski> yay photos :)
[15:36:44] <paultag> OH!
[15:36:47] <rrittenhouse> IO!
[15:36:51] <czajkowski> photos make me happy
[15:36:53] <jacob> IO!
[15:37:20] <jacob> we're famous for relocos, OLF, and buckeyes
[15:37:38] <czajkowski> can you tell us about your weekly meetings and what they were meant to be for ?
[15:38:08] <paultag> meetings? mailings?
[15:38:15] <czajkowski> sorry mailings
[15:39:23] <jacob> as far as I'm aware, the mailings were to keep everyone on the same page to let people know what's going on around Ohio. kinda like mini-reports. I believe they were going along for a time but have lapsed recently
[15:39:24] <paultag> czajkowski, we set up a weekly newsletter that the contact would write up once a week and send out on friday
[15:39:30] <paultag> +1
[15:39:31] <huats> great application !
[15:39:40] <paultag> czajkowski, the contact of Ohio started slacking a bit
[15:39:48] <huats> paultag, this is really nice
[15:39:49] <jacob> communication is one thing I think we as a team need to work on
[15:39:56] <czajkowski> nice idea
[15:40:14] <czajkowski> which brings me to where are your team reports?
[15:40:31] <jacob> you would want to ask paultag. :)
[15:40:41] <jacob> i haven't been involved with that aspect of the team
[15:40:42] <landero> Good look teams :D
[15:40:50] <paultag> czajkowski, We had delegated it -- it's not been getting done
[15:40:55] <paultag> czajkowski, another N cycle goal for us
[15:40:59] <czajkowski> paultag: ok well at least yer being honest
[15:41:18] <czajkowski> my only comment on the application and yer not the only team btw, is that team reports need to more visable
[15:41:19] <paultag> We have a few
[15:41:31] <czajkowski> as they help the team but also help get others interested in what the team is doing
[15:41:38] <jacob> righto
[15:41:41] <paultag> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Report <-- we have them for up to march
[15:41:47] <paultag> but that's no excuse
[15:41:53] <paultag> we're not getting them done :)
[15:42:09] <czajkowski> paultag: shudda linked to it on the Application. but that's fine
[15:42:37] <czajkowski> so have ye had any problems getting people involved in the team ?
[15:42:43] <jacob> here's a quick flyby of things since then: regular reloco meetings (ubuntu hours), global jam, of course Ohio LinuxFest, and things I've probably forgotten
[15:43:20] <jacob> people always seem fairly willing to get involved -- significant numbers show up at ubuntu hour meetups around the state
[15:43:21] <canthus13> Umm... Business cards. :)
[15:43:41] * canthus13 has been handing them out.
[15:43:50] <jacob> canthus13: oh man, the business cards.
[15:44:05] <jacob> so we printed out 2000 of them and have been giving them out around the state
[15:44:12] <canthus13> Yup. I've given out about 1/4 of my share so far.
[15:44:16] <paultag> czajkowski, no issues with people, we all get along great. We meet up very often, so that helps too
[15:44:29] <paultag> czajkowski, twice monthly for every major city
[15:44:36] <czajkowski> great
[15:44:44] <paultag> we have about 8 or so Ubuntu Hours a month in Ohio
[15:44:45] <jacob> I haven't checked our website stats recently, but I'd imagine the business cards are helpful in informing people of the LoCo
[15:44:49] <itnet7> jacob: what is your favorite part of being involved with the Ohio Team?
[15:44:54] <paultag> +1 jacob
[15:45:50] <jacob> itnet7: there are a ton of favorite parts, really. I'd say the local meet-ups. we get together much more frequently than the occasional state-wide events
[15:46:07] <jacob> my favorite event overall is OLF, but that's only once a year.
[15:46:15] <czajkowski> great stuff folks
[15:46:18] <czajkowski> [vote] please vote on the re approval of Ohio Team
[15:46:23] <czajkowski> +1
[15:46:25] <huats> +1
[15:46:26] <czajkowski> well done folks
[15:46:39] <leogg> +1
[15:46:43] <itnet7> +1
[15:47:07] <itnet7> jacob: I was supposed to attend that this past year, didn't work out unfortunately, Will try again next year!
[15:47:34] <popey> +1
[15:47:37] <popey> ;)
[15:47:54] <czajkowski> [endvote]
[15:48:18] <czajkowski> [agreed] Ohio team re approved
[15:48:24] <popey> nice one Ohio!
[15:48:27] <leogg> congrats ohio!
[15:48:32] <czajkowski> ok that convers all of our agenda items
[15:48:40] <itnet7> Congrats!!!
[15:48:42] <czajkowski> are there any other comments from teams or people ?
[15:49:19] <czajkowski> their applicaion isn't in for another week :)
[15:49:40] <czajkowski> it's due in for us to vote soon
[15:49:55] <czajkowski> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.

</pre>
