{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Agenda from the Meeting:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| all
| TBD
|}

=== Topics Discussed ===

* !LoCo Team {re}approvals

N/A
=== Summary ===

== Logs ==

<pre>
[21:04] <paultag> Hey guys
[21:04] <paultag> I  guess we should meet or something
[21:04] <itnet7> hey there!
[21:04] <paultag> :)
[21:04] <paultag> #startmeeting
[21:04] <MootBot> Meeting started at 15:04. The chair is paultag.
[21:04] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[21:04] <paultag> ok ok ok, agenda time
[21:05] <paultag> Nothing on the a-friend-a.
[21:05] <paultag> There's a bit from last week WRT LoCo SWAG, is the most fine Mrs. czajkowski in?
[21:06] <paultag> or if leogg or itnet7, you guys have anything
[21:06] <itnet7> Hold on, I need to get a quick link
[21:07] <leogg> I have nothing
[21:07] <leogg> anything new on the swag front?
[21:07] <itnet7> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-o-lococouncil-plans
[21:07] <paultag> ah, super
[21:07] <paultag> [LINK] https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-o-lococouncil-plans
[21:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-o-lococouncil-plans
[21:08] <itnet7> While at UDS-0 I just added this blue print for our cycle's plans
[21:08] <paultag> Oh, my ISO code shin-dig
[21:08] <paultag> itnet7: you rock my socks
[21:08] <itnet7> we were asked to do a couple of items, so I had added the ones that I was aware of
[21:09] <paultag> itnet7: awesome. I added that bit about ISO codes
[21:09] <paultag> anyone want to chat about that?
[21:09] <itnet7> Yeah, I noticed that
[21:09] <paultag> unclean URLs bug me :)
[21:09] <paultag> I should not have to go to google to find a loco's URL :)
[21:09] <paultag> (or the LD, I'm lazy)
[21:09] <itnet7> I do then we should do that... but is there a way to easily migrate them once they have ppa's?
[21:10] <itnet7> Or rather if they already have PPA's for the team, I mean?
[21:10] <paultag> itnet7: I have no clue. We should talk with LP about how we can practically set up a migration (and a forward if they could) and make sure the LD can handle it
[21:10] <itnet7> Sounds good to me
[21:11] <paultag> leogg: whatcha think?
[21:11] <leogg> paultag, yep, I agree
[21:11] <paultag> radical
[21:12] <paultag> [ACTION] Let's talk with LP about getting LoCo Team team-page's URLs together
[21:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Let's talk with LP about getting LoCo Team team-page's URLs together
[21:12] <paultag> good 'nuf for goverment work
[21:13] <highvoltage> hello
[21:13]  * paultag waves to highvoltage 
[21:14] <paultag> highvoltage: any ideas? We're just sitting here :)
[21:14] <paultag> figure they pay us by the hour
[21:14] <highvoltage> I just kind of stumbled in and I'm not even sure which meeting this is
[21:14] <paultag> highvoltage: LoCoCoUnCiL
[21:15] <paultag> It's a ghost-town in here right now
[21:15] <highvoltage> ideas for the LoCo Team team-page specifically?
[21:15] <highvoltage> I guess they could all be members of a group called loco-teams
[21:15] <paultag> ~locoteams :)
[21:16] <paultag> there's also ~locoteams-approved, and loco.ubuntu.com
[21:16] <highvoltage> otherwise I'm vaguely planning on doing some loco stuff in Sherbrooke
[21:16] <paultag> highvoltage: killer!
[21:16] <stgraber> highvoltage: yay!
[21:16] <highvoltage> currently we're kind of dead loco wise and that needs fixing
[21:16]  * paultag waves to stgraber 
[21:16] <stgraber> hey paultag
[21:16] <paultag> highvoltage: let us/me know if you need help with anything at all
[21:16] <highvoltage> stgraber: don't say yay so quick, I'm thinking of a part at our apartment or something when I buy the bbq :)
[21:16] <highvoltage> *party
[21:17] <paultag> please tell me you're IRCing from the same room
[21:17] <highvoltage> paultag: almost, he's in the room next to me
[21:17] <stgraber> nope, I'm in my office and he's in the open space
[21:17] <paultag> hahaha
[21:17] <stgraber> so a good 20s walk from each other
[21:17] <highvoltage> usually it's less than that though
[21:17] <paultag> or a nice brisk shout
[21:18]  * highvoltage hasn't had an ubuntu bbq in a long time
[21:18] <paultag> OK, who's doing logs?
[21:18] <paultag> 1,2,3, NOTME!
[21:18] <highvoltage> well it will be a gas bbq, so no logs
[21:19] <highvoltage> :p
[21:19] <stgraber> :)
[21:19] <paultag> itnet7: leogg: whoever says NOTME first gets to avoid log work :)
[21:19] <paultag> highvoltage: oh you! :)
[21:19] <itnet7> not me
[21:19] <leogg> not me
[21:19] <itnet7> :-)
[21:19] <leogg> ;)
[21:19] <paultag> highvoltage: I just got that as soon as I typed it :)
[21:19] <paultag> Ahh! Look at that :)
[21:19] <highvoltage> paultag: oh me?
[21:20] <paultag> OK, anyone have serious loco-council work?
[21:20] <paultag> highvoltage: who me?
[21:20] <highvoltage> 16:24 < paultag> highvoltage: oh you! :)
[21:20] <paultag> could'nt be!
[21:20] <paultag> says who?
[21:20] <paultag> Going once!
[21:20] <paultag> Twice!
[21:20] <head_victim> sold?
[21:21] <paultag> Thrice!
[21:21] <paultag> Sold!
[21:21] <paultag> #endmeeting
</pre>
