{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

[19:57] <Dazed_75> I thought there was a re-approval meeting scheduled for the upcoming hour.  But we got an email that the deadline had passed.  Does anyone know what happened?
[19:57] <Dazed_75> for the Arizona LoCo BTW
[19:59] <czajkowski> Dazed_75: the meeting is on in 2 mins
[19:59] <czajkowski> but we received no application for the team
[19:59] <czajkowski> did you update the bug with the application before today ???
[20:00] <Dazed_75> Hmmm, the team leader sent me an email saying we had been unnapproved because the deadline had passed so he would talk to me tonight.  Let me try calling him
[20:00] <czajkowski> well you've been given 9 months to get the application in
[20:01] <czajkowski> it was due in last cycle
[20:01] <czajkowski> and we gave a further 3 months to get it in
[20:01] <Dazed_75> phone
[20:03] <Dazed_75> he does not answer.  The team leaders basically disappeared.  Todd Cole took over and has been working to get thing organized for this re-approval meeting which is now
[20:03] <czajkowski> well it wasn;t added to the agenda
[20:03] <czajkowski> and we have no application
[20:03] <czajkowski> so perhaps for the next meeting
[20:04] <czajkowski> or add the information to the bug you were added to for re approval
[20:04] <Dazed_75> This is who Todd was workign with: > From: paultag@ubuntu.com
[20:04] <huats> Dazed_75, the thing that bother me
[20:05] <huats> is that there is no answer regarding the application but we have received an application for free banners for loco teams
[20:05] <Dazed_75> actually, we received the banners a couple days ago and it was a surprise neither Todd or I knew about
[20:06] <czajkowski> Dazed_75: see that's kinda unfair
[20:06] <czajkowski> you were given 9 months to get reapproved
[20:06] <huats> Dazed_75, you received the banners?
[20:06] <Dazed_75> this is the bug we were on: Subject: [Bug 766541] Re: Re-approval, ubuntu-arizona
[20:06] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 766541 in Ubuntu LoCo Teams "Re-approval, ubuntu-arizona" [Critical,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/766541
[20:06] <czajkowski> so up until then we gave it in good faith you would give us the application
[20:07] <Dazed_75> the people in charge 9 months ago basically disappeared.  We had a very hard time communicating anything to/from them
[20:08] <czajkowski> Dazed_75: all I can say is this.
[20:08] <czajkowski> please submit in your application as soon as ye can
[20:08] <czajkowski> but until then ye will remain unapproved
[20:08] <Dazed_75> I think Todd thought that was to be done in this meeting.  Has been very hard to find info on the process (Todd told me, as I just jjoined this past week)
[20:08] <Dazed_75> though I have been involved in events for years
[20:09] <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
[20:09] <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval
[20:09] <czajkowski> there are wiki pages dedicated to this
[20:09] <czajkowski> there are 6 people on the council to come and ask for help
[20:11] <Dazed_75> Like I said, I just joined and was made co -leader but have no experience with this process.  I know Todd had been working on that wiki approval page but do not know if he knew he had to submit it via a process.  Thanks foor the info
[20:11] <czajkowski> ok
[20:11] <czajkowski> perhaps mail us afterwards ok
[20:11] <itnet7> Dazed_75: As czajkowski has said, put yourself on the agenda for next month. If you need any help reach out to us
[20:12] <itnet7> we'll give you a hand
[20:12] <Dazed_75> Alright.  Thanks itnet7
[20:12] <itnet7> Or I'll give you one
[20:13] <Dazed_75> If no one minds I will capture this log and send it to Todd
[20:13] <popey> o/
[20:13] <popey> sorry, dodgy connection
[20:13] <Dazed_75> huats: Todd tells me we got a box with some bbanners
[20:14] <itnet7> No problem Dazed_75 !
[20:14] <huats> Dazed_75, I'll send an email to Todd then to ask him who he asked to get it then
[20:15] <Dazed_75> I don't think he asked for them, so that will be an interesting answer
[20:15] <czajkowski> indeed
[20:15] <czajkowski> huats: popey itnet7 anything we need to discuss as it's just the 4 of us ?
[20:15] <huats> Dazed_75, well he emailed me at least about it
[20:16] <huats> czajkowski, nope
[20:16] <huats> :)
[20:16] <czajkowski> well we have no agenda
[20:16] <popey> quiet one
[20:16] <czajkowski> and no teams
[20:16] <czajkowski> so unless we need to talk about stuff ??
[20:18] <czajkowski> if that's a no then we can leave it
[20:19] <czajkowski> ok well Good night so
[20:21] <huats> good night too

</pre>
