{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu LoCo Team Contacts ==

The Ubuntu LoCo Teams project is a large and expansive worldwide community. This page lists some of the common resources in place to help everyone keep in touch.

=== Mailing Lists ===

Mailing lists are a primary method in which LoCo Teams talk to each other, share ideas and talk about their activities and projects. Generally each team sets up a mailing list and you can the teams lists on the LoCo Teams page.

We also have a mailing list for the Ubuntu LoCo Teams project as a whole. It is called <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/loco-contacts|loco-contacts]]</nowiki> and it is where general LoCo discussion happens about joining/starting teams, sharing experience and advice and how to solve problems and make sure your team is running well.

To join a list you simply need to use the list information page to enter your email address. You will then be sent an email that you should reply to to verify you want to join the list. You will then be able to send email to the mailing list by emailing the list address (this list address is given in the confirmation email that you have been added to the mailing list successfully).

=== IRC ===

We have a fun and vibrant LoCo Teams IRC channel. In it the LoCo Community come together to discuss the issues of the day, ask questions, share ideas and generally enjoy each others company. Joining is simple:

* First, you will need an IRC client to join. Ubuntu comes pre-installed with Pidgin or Empathy; either can be used to connect to IRC. You can also use Applications->Add/Remove to install XChat-GNOME to connect.
* You should join the Freenode IRC network at irc.freenode.net.
* The channel name is <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-locoteams|#ubuntu-locoteams]]</nowiki>. You can join it by typing: /join <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-locoteams|#ubuntu-locoteams]]</nowiki>.

We look forward to seeing you there!

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
