{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

To release the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/loco-team-portal|LoCo Team Portal]]</nowiki>, you need to follow the following steps:

# make sure there are no <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/loco-team-portal/+activereviews|important merge proposals]]</nowiki> outstanding
# update the translations template (`./manage.py update-template`), commit the change and push it to trunk
# wait until you get a confirmation mail from LP
# download the <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/loco-team-portal/trunk/+export|latest translations]]</nowiki> (PO format)
# pull the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/loco-team-portal/trunk|newest trunk]]</nowiki> (lp:loco-team-portal)
# integrate the newest translations (`./manage.py import-translations ~/launchpad-export.tar.gz`) 
# `./manage.py compilemessages`
# test the release
# commit the translations, push to lp:loco-team-portal
# find out current milestone from https://launchpad.net/loco-team-portal/+series
# `./manage.py release <release number>`
# commit, push to lp:loco-team-portal
# check out `lp:loco-team-portal/production`
# merge trunk release into `lp:loco-team-portal/production`, push
# send mail to `rt at ubuntu dot com` with this or similar content: <pre>
Hello everybody,

could you please go and update loco.ubuntu.com from
lp:~ltp-devs/loco-team-portal/production? Here's the steps that are involved:

 - on cranberry.canonical.com: cd /srv/shared-branches/loco-directory-dev_loco-directory_production
 - bzr pull lp:loco-team-portal/production
 - cd /srv/loco.ubuntu.com
 - bzr pull /srv/shared-branches/loco-directory-dev_loco-directory_production
 - cd loco_directory
 - ./manage.py pullapps
 - ./manage.py migrate
 - ./manage.py compilemessages
 - (reload apache)

Thanks a lot in advance.
</pre> - '''Please make sure additional dependencies, additional steps, etc. need to be document carefully in there.'''
# Hang out in `#canonical-sysadmin` if the request should take longer.
# Once landed, make sure it all works.
# Close all bugs of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/loco-team-portal/+series|active milestone]]</nowiki>.
# Mark current milestone as released.
# Create new milestone in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/loco-team-portal/0.3.x|current series]]</nowiki>.
