{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by czajkowski at 20:03:07 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-11-20-20.03.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda   (czajkowski, 20:03:27)
* Asturian LoCo reapproval

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AsturianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (czajkowski, 20:04:26)

''LINK:'' http://tinyurl.com/btunccx   (ivarela, 20:18:38)

''ACTION:'' czajkowski update Launchpad with the team information  (czajkowski, 20:21:37)

* Czech LoCo Re Approval
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CzechTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012   (czajkowski, 20:22:06)

* please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo

* please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo

* please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo
''ACTION:'' update Launchpad with Czech expirary date  (czajkowski, 20:36:43)

* AOB
''ACTION:'' itnet7 will update the minutes  (itnet7, 20:37:34)

Meeting ended at 20:43:23 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* please vote on the re approval of the Asturian LoCo
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* czajkowski update Launchpad with the team information
* update Launchpad with Czech expirary date
* itnet7 will update the minutes

=== Action items, by person ===

* czajkowski
* * czajkowski update Launchpad with the team information
* itnet7
* * itnet7 will update the minutes

=== People present (lines said) ===

* czajkowski (80)
* SergioMeneses (37)
* ivarela (27)
* meetingology (25)
* huats (18)
* itnet7 (13)
* vojtech_t (12)
* ayoze (2)
* TadeasParik (2)
* highvoltage (2)

=== Full Log ===

 20:03:07 <czajkowski> #startmeeting

 20:03:07 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov 20 20:03:07 2012 UTC.  The chair is czajkowski. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:03:07 <meetingology> 

 20:03:07 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:03:15 <czajkowski> Aloha and welcome to the LoCo Council meeting

 20:03:27 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda

 20:03:39 <czajkowski> todays agenda we'll work from the top down for teams

 20:04:20 <czajkowski> #topic Asturian LoCo reapproval

 20:04:26 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AsturianTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:04:37 <ivarela> Hi to all. Here, Asturian Team.

 20:05:20 <czajkowski> ivarela: hi there

 20:05:27 <ivarela> hi

 20:05:31 <czajkowski> care to tell us about your loco and how things are going on

 20:05:31 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, hello!

 20:06:41 <ivarela> First of all, I'm sorry for my english level... I'd like to speak in another language, because it's difficult for me, but... i'll try it. ;)

 20:06:46 <czajkowski> kce

 20:06:51 <itnet7> Thanks ivarela

 20:06:54 <czajkowski> ivarela: no worries take your time

 20:06:56 <czajkowski> lovely wiki page

 20:07:04 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, take your time ;)

 20:07:10 <czajkowski> and if there is anyone else here who can help ivarela please just say so

 20:07:18 <ivarela> As you can see in our ticket, we are a small group...

 20:07:21 <SergioMeneses> I really like the edubuntu video

 20:07:24 <SergioMeneses> nice

 20:07:34 <ivarela> we're asturians, a small territory placed in Spain.

 20:08:06 <highvoltage> SergioMeneses: which video is that?

 20:08:11 <ivarela> We began to spreading ubuntu at schools some time ago. Ubuntu it's a very good tool for our language.

 20:08:16 <czajkowski> nods

 20:08:26 <SergioMeneses> highvoltage, - http://youtu.be/rqOZ16kCuqw

 20:08:57 <ivarela> edubuntu is the educational job we do with scholars students.

 20:09:04 <czajkowski> great work

 20:09:15 <ivarela> We try to inicializate them in PC's with Free software.

 20:09:21 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, very interesting

 20:09:25 <highvoltage> awesome, will share through edubuntu social channels, and sorry for interrupting, I didn't realise this was -meeting

 20:09:46 <czajkowski> huats: no worries :)

 20:09:51 <czajkowski> highvoltage: no worries

 20:09:56 <SergioMeneses> and I see Marcos Costales belongs to ubuntu-ast

 20:10:11 <ivarela> do you know Costales ? :D

 20:10:13 <czajkowski> ivarela: great work, so how are things done in the loco ? does everyone help?

 20:10:31 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, yes... he is a amazing ubuntu member

 20:10:49 <ivarela> Costales is a well friend of mine.

 20:11:29 <ivarela> People use to work at LoCo, but unfortunately, not all the people has the same free time, so we try to involve all people in the group

 20:11:46 <ivarela> This year we had less activity than last year. We tried to open many doors, but we've had less luck.

 20:12:07 <czajkowski> nods

 20:12:10 <czajkowski> it does happen

 20:12:29 <ivarela> For example... We had prepared a summer course with UABRA (Summer University), but in the end we could not do it because of problems with the days

 20:12:32 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, maybe if you work with the universities, colleges....

 20:12:32 <czajkowski> it's hard but at least youre still going and every bit does help and I love the video well done

 20:12:50 <huats> Sorry I am here

 20:13:23 <ivarela> what you see in the video it was a very good experience for me. It was the first time that children worked with Ubuntu, and the first time that

 20:13:28 <czajkowski> ivarela: is there anything the loco council can do to help ?

 20:13:36 <ivarela> the worked in a O.S in their language.

 20:13:59 <ivarela> czajkowski, do you mean now, here?

 20:14:12 <czajkowski> well in general

 20:14:14 <ivarela> in this chat?

 20:14:28 <czajkowski> ivarela: if you want and it can be disussed in public sure

 20:14:33 <czajkowski> or you need help after te meeting

 20:15:17 <ivarela> hmmm I'm sorry. SergioMeneses do you speak spanish?

 20:15:39 <ivarela> I think I need a help in this moment to understand the question... :S

 20:15:42 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, yes I do, why?

 20:15:55 <ivarela> no entiendo la pregunta de czajkowski .. :S

 20:16:04 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, czajkowski te pregunta si necesitan alguna ayuda por parte del loco council

 20:16:05 <ayoze> ivarela: czajkowski pregunta si el "loco council" puede hacer algo para ayudar

 20:17:10 <ivarela> oh, no... we have the people, and we have the tools to do it better, but we need more illusion.

 20:17:29 <czajkowski> ok well I think we'll be blogging your video after this

 20:17:36 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, +1

 20:17:38 <czajkowski> and see if we can raise the awareness

 20:17:58 <czajkowski> #voters SergioMeneses czajkowski itnet7 huats

 20:17:58 <meetingology> Current voters: SergioMeneses czajkowski huats itnet7

 20:18:07 <ivarela> it would be great :D

 20:18:19 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the re approval of the Asturian LoCo

 20:18:19 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the re approval of the Asturian LoCo

 20:18:19 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:18:25 <itnet7> +1 Good Job, Thanks for all of the excellent teamwork!!

 20:18:25 <meetingology> +1 Good Job, Thanks for all of the excellent teamwork!! received from itnet7

 20:18:26 <czajkowski> +1 amazing work folks!

 20:18:26 <meetingology> +1 amazing work folks! received from czajkowski

 20:18:29 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:18:29 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 20:18:38 <ivarela> http://tinyurl.com/btunccx

 20:18:58 <ivarela> :D

 20:19:02 * czajkowski tickles huats

 20:19:26 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, I wanna know if you have some documentation about your migration process

 20:19:56 <SergioMeneses> maybe I can help spreading those ideas here or creating a project similar

 20:19:56 <ivarela> migration process?

 20:20:09 <huats> +1

 20:20:09 <meetingology> +1 received from huats

 20:20:13 <huats> too

 20:20:16 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, yes with edubuntu

 20:20:21 <huats> sorry I just need to backlog

 20:20:24 <ivarela> SergioMeneses,  can I speak with you later (in spanish, :S)

 20:20:28 <huats> that is a great work really

 20:20:30 <SergioMeneses> ivarela, sure

 20:20:40 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:20:40 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the re approval of the Asturian LoCo

 20:20:40 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:20:40 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:20:43 <czajkowski> well done!

 20:20:51 <itnet7> Congratulations!!

 20:21:02 <ayoze> ivarela: te pregunta si hay alguna documentaciÃ³n sobre el proceso de migraciÃ³n a edubuntu en las escuelas.

 20:21:07 <SergioMeneses> congratz ubuntu-ast!!!

 20:21:15 <ivarela> Thank you!

 20:21:37 <czajkowski> #action czajkowski update Launchpad with the team information

 20:21:37 * meetingology czajkowski update Launchpad with the team information

 20:21:56 <czajkowski> #topic Czech LoCo Re Approval

 20:22:06 <czajkowski> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CzechTeam/ReApprovalApplication2012

 20:22:17 <czajkowski> who's here from the czech Loco ?

 20:22:24 <vojtech_t> hi from the Czech rep.

 20:22:25 <TadeasParik> czajkowski, hello!

 20:22:33 <czajkowski> hey there folks thanks for coming

 20:22:43 <SergioMeneses> hello Czech LoCo !!!

 20:22:49 <czajkowski> lovely pictures on the applicateion

 20:22:51 <czajkowski> *application

 20:22:56 <vojtech_t> thanks

 20:23:05 <itnet7> Hey there!! TadeasParik, vojtech_t, and team!!

 20:23:26 <itnet7> They were very nice!

 20:23:38 <czajkowski> vojtech_t: so tell us about your loco

 20:23:41 <czajkowski> and the work you guys do

 20:23:47 <SergioMeneses> it is a great application, congratz

 20:24:48 <vojtech_t> we are quite small community but we try to do our best, i think we are doing well with localization and community support and also with events organization -- you can see photos from our release parties (we started them in 2011) and also from other events/conferences we took part

 20:25:18 <itnet7> Very good activity!

 20:25:42 <vojtech_t> we would like to focus on working with people (we always need more volunteers and acitve members) and also with advocacy (we are trying but it's not as good as we would like to be)

 20:26:01 <czajkowski> nods

 20:26:16 <czajkowski> but at leas tyou se ethis and are working towards making this better

 20:26:19 <czajkowski> so that's good to see

 20:27:14 <czajkowski> vojtech_t: can you tell us about how you started the materials part of your loco

 20:27:32 <czajkowski> I see this as a very good thing to be doing in your loco and I know others in different teams have tried similar

 20:27:44 <vojtech_t> czajkowski: materials?

 20:28:01 <czajkowski> Recently we started to produce some Ubuntu marketing materials for Ubuntu users in Czechia. Currently we have badges, car stickers and "powered by" stickers for laptopts/computers.

 20:28:09 <czajkowski> ^^

 20:28:13 <SergioMeneses> I was thinking to ask about it... they have a ubuntu book in czech

 20:28:18 <SergioMeneses> very amazing

 20:28:57 <vojtech_t> oh yes -- many our members asked us for some stickers they could put on their computer etc. and we just thought it's good idea

 20:29:23 <czajkowski> vojtech_t: would be nice to share them  on http://spreadubuntu.org/

 20:29:25 <vojtech_t> we have a nonprofit organization and some money so it is not so difficult to make some of those

 20:29:37 <huats> I really like the book ! looks very promising

 20:30:15 <vojtech_t> spreadubuntu, yes but for now wee have only buttons (just ubuntu logo, no special graphics) and "standard" power by stickers

 20:30:38 <czajkowski> it's still great to see

 20:31:07 <czajkowski> so one thing I'm curuous about is what do you plan fo the future any events, I notice the http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-cz/events/history lists past events but nothing in the future

 20:31:12 <vojtech_t> huats: yes the book was great, but the last one is for Ubuntu 10.10 -- we really would like to produce new version, but publishing house is no longer interested and we don't have enough money to produce them on our own

 20:32:28 <huats> vojtech_t: may be you can try to find a foreign publishing company

 20:32:35 <huats> I don't know if it is possible

 20:33:02 <vojtech_t> czajkowski: we don't use loco.ubuntu.com -- we put our events there, but our primary "channel" for events is our forum

 20:33:09 <itnet7> vojtech_t: perhaps get some donation links on the project pages, and blog about it

 20:33:18 <czajkowski> vojtech_t: can we encourage you to maybe add them there please

 20:33:26 <itnet7> for the publishing costs

 20:33:27 <czajkowski> as that is where all users are directed to to find out about teams

 20:34:47 <czajkowski> #topic please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo

 20:34:50 <vojtech_t> czajkowski: ok, we will add all our events on loco.ubuntu.com

 20:34:55 <itnet7> vojtech_t: you don't have to use LTP to track attending, you can just add the registration url

 20:35:06 <czajkowski> +1

 20:35:13 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:35:22 <czajkowski> bah

 20:35:27 <czajkowski> #topic please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo

 20:35:32 <czajkowski> #topic please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo

 20:35:34 <SergioMeneses> jaja

 20:35:40 <czajkowski> #vote please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo

 20:35:40 <meetingology> Please vote on: please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo

 20:35:40 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:35:42 <czajkowski> +1

 20:35:42 <meetingology> +1 received from czajkowski

 20:35:47 <SergioMeneses> +1

 20:35:47 <meetingology> +1 received from SergioMeneses

 20:35:53 <itnet7> +1, really nice work!!!

 20:35:53 <meetingology> +1, really nice work!!! received from itnet7

 20:35:55 * czajkowski shouldnt have dinner and chair at the same time!

 20:35:58 <huats> +1

 20:35:58 <meetingology> +1 received from huats

 20:36:03 <czajkowski> #endvote

 20:36:03 <meetingology> Voting ended on: please vote on the reapproval of the Czech LoCo

 20:36:03 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 20:36:03 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:36:03 <huats> really nice job

 20:36:07 <czajkowski> well done folks!

 20:36:10 <vojtech_t> thanks

 20:36:11 <TadeasParik> thanks!

 20:36:16 <SergioMeneses> congratulations guys!

 20:36:21 <SergioMeneses> keep working

 20:36:22 <huats> congrats

 20:36:43 <czajkowski> #action update Launchpad with Czech expirary date

 20:36:43 * meetingology update Launchpad with Czech expirary date

 20:36:46 <czajkowski> well done folks

 20:36:49 <czajkowski> #topic AOB

 20:36:59 <czajkowski> council folks any stuff to discuss

 20:37:18 <huats> nothing in particular

 20:37:23 <itnet7> czajkowski: nothing that I can think of.... I will do the minutes tonight

 20:37:34 <itnet7> #action itnet7 will update the minutes

 20:37:34 * meetingology itnet7 will update the minutes

 20:37:36 <czajkowski> cool I think we should add them to the blog also

 20:37:46 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, sure

 20:37:51 <czajkowski> with some highlights of the application this was discused in the UDS session

 20:38:40 <czajkowski> anything else ?

 20:38:51 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, and we can share information about the end of the cicle

 20:39:20 <huats> We haven't started yet I think to create the bugs

 20:39:29 <huats> for reapproval

 20:39:36 <huats> it is something that we should

 20:39:44 <czajkowski> ah I thought we had..

 20:39:44 <czajkowski> no ?

 20:39:56 <huats> I could be wrong

 20:40:00 <czajkowski> SergioMeneses: didnt you create the bugs?

 20:40:04 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, yes

 20:40:11 <SergioMeneses> huats, you can check LP

 20:40:16 <huats> but I don't remember to have received the email bug in LP

 20:40:19 <czajkowski> cool so maybe we should follow up on them now and see how things are progressing

 20:40:24 <huats> that is clearly LP fault ;)

 20:40:30 <czajkowski> eh no mister it is not :p

 20:40:32 <SergioMeneses> huats, check your email

 20:40:37 <czajkowski> are you sure it's not gone to some other folder

 20:40:39 <SergioMeneses> I have all information here

 20:41:22 <SergioMeneses> huats, czajkowski https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-locoteams/+milestone/13.04

 20:41:36 <SergioMeneses> 8 bugs

 20:42:03 <czajkowski> cool

 20:42:30 <czajkowski> anything else folks..

 20:42:43 <SergioMeneses> I did it 3 weeks ago after UDS

 20:43:00 <czajkowski> cool well lets follow up on these and check in to see how the teams are doing and can we help

 20:43:01 <itnet7> Nice, Thanks SergioMeneses !

 20:43:15 <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, sounds good for me

 20:43:23 <czajkowski> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
