{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Logan Rosen, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Logan Rosen
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~logan
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoganRosen
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a college student who enjoys using Ubuntu and doing packaging work for the project.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I originally ran stable builds of Ubuntu, but then I became interested in the bleeding edge side - I started running the prerelease versions of Ubuntu in 2011ish. I soon became very interested in the development side of Ubuntu, and I began to look over opportunities on Launchpad to squash bugs. I have been deeply involved in Ubuntu development ever since.

=== My involvement ===
My involvement in Ubuntu has mostly consisted of triaging bugs and merging Debian packaging into Ubuntu. I will describe this in fuller detail in the "Areas of work" section.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
One place you can look to see some of my best work is to see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Logan+Rosen&sponsoree_search=name|all of the packages that have been sponsored for me]]</nowiki>. I have requested everything from syncs to merges, and that list represents most of the development work that I have done in Ubuntu.

All of my merges, specifically, can be found in my <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~logan/+branches?field.lifecycle=ALL&field.lifecycle-empty-marker=1&field.sort_by=most+recently+changed+first&field.sort_by-empty-marker=1|list of personal branches]]</nowiki>; the unmerged ones have the Mature status, and the merged ones have the Merged status. I don't have any specific ones that I am more proud of than others, as tmost of them required a certain amount of complex work to make sure the merges went properly.

=== Areas of work ===
As I noted above, I do both development and bug triaging. I have been in contact with many sponsors and triagers in the past when I have had questions, and they have always been very helpful in getting me the solutions to my problems. I am currently a member of the Ubuntu Bug Squad, but I would like to reach higher levels of involvement by becoming a MOTU, which would also gain me Ubuntu Membership - I feel that the amount of work that I have done in Ubuntu should merit that.

=== Things I could do better ===
One thing that I definitely could do and want to do better is forwarding Ubuntu changes back to Debian to try to eliminate deltas; I have tried to do this in the past, but I definitely want to do it more often, because Ubuntu is best when there are the fewest deltas with Debian so that upstream changes come faster to Ubuntu users.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I plan to continue my Ubuntu development in the future, whether or not I become a MOTU - I love the community, and I love the work I do for the project. Furthermore, I might wish to apply for Bug Control in the future, as I would like to be able to set the importance of bugs and mark them as Triaged.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
There isn't much that I don't like about Ubuntu, but one thing is that I feel that there hasn't been enough of an emphasis on supporting lower-end computers, especially with Unity. I personally run Ubuntu in a virtual machine, and I used to use Unity 2D, which ran fine, but now Unity is virtually unusable due to LLVMpipe lagginess. I have since switched back to gnome-session-fallback, which is fine for me, but I think that Canonical should make sure that Unity runs on lower-end hardware/VMs if it wants it to be the main desktop environment for Ubuntu users.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach ===
==== General feedback ====
Logan Rosen has put some fantastic work into Ubuntu. He learned quickly and the contributions from the last months I could just upload without any remarks at all. He is definitely ready to be a MOTU and will be a great addition to the team.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
According to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*logan*rosen*&sponsoree_search=name|the Sponsorship Miner]]</nowiki> I spent something in the region of 70-80 uploads of Logan. Some of the merges weren't straight-forward, but he still mastered them.

=== Dmitrijs Ledkovs ===
==== General feedback ====
High quality contributions, among diverse set of packages and actions (merge, sync, new upstream release). I also enjoyed all the relevant request to sync bugfixes from some debian packages past DebianImportFreeze in the quantal cycle. I would be happy to see Logan as Core Dev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Version
| Bug
| Action
| Notes
|-
| SourcePackage:salt
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-salt-0.10.1-3- | 0.10.1-3 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:sdic
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-sdic-2.1.3-22- | 2.1.3-22 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:shorewall
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-shorewall-4.5.5.3-1- | 4.5.5.3-1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:shorewall-core
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-shorewall-core-4.5.5.3-1- | 4.5.5.3-1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:shorewall-init
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-shorewall-init-4.5.5.3-1- | 4.5.5.3-1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:shorewall-lite
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-shorewall-lite-4.5.5.3-1- | 4.5.5.3-1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:shorewall6
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-shorewall6-4.5.5.3-1- | 4.5.5.3-1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:shorewall6-lite
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-shorewall6-lite-4.5.5.3-1- | 4.5.5.3-1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:skimage
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-skimage-0.6.1-1- | 0.6.1-1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:skktools
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-skktools-1.3.2-3- | 1.3.2-3 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:smarty-gettext
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-smarty-gettext-1.0b1-7- | 1.0b1-7 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:xinetd
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-xinetd-1:2.3.14-7.1ubuntu1- | 1:2.3.14-7.1ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1016505
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:ztex-bmp
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-ztex-bmp-20120314-2- | 20120314-2 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:alsa-tools
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-alsa-tools-1.0.25-2ubuntu1- | 1.0.25-2ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1029476
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:fcitx-m17n
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-fcitx-m17n-0.1.2-2- | 0.1.2-2 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:smarty3
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-smarty3-3.1.10-2- | 3.1.10-2 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:minbif
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-minbif-1:1.0.5+git20120508-2.1- | 1:1.0.5+git20120508-2.1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:namazu2
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-namazu2-2.0.21-5- | 2.0.21-5 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:condor
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-condor-7.8.2~dfsg.1-1+deb7u1- | 7.8.2~dfsg.1-1+deb7u1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:bitlbee
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-bitlbee-3.0.5-1.2- | 3.0.5-1.2 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:nautilus-dropbox
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-nautilus-dropbox-1.4.0-3- | 1.4.0-3 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:alpine
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-alpine-2.02+dfsg-2- | 2.02+dfsg-2 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:nmzmail
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-nmzmail-1.1-2- | 1.1-2 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:t38modem
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-quantal-+source-t38modem-2.0.0-3- | 2.0.0-3 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:lazr.delegates
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-lazr.delegates-1.2.0-0ubuntu3- | 1.2.0-0ubuntu3 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:nxcomp
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-nxcomp-3.5.0-2-0ubuntu1- | 3.5.0-2-0ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| upgrade
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:rbbr
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-rbbr-0.6.0-6ubuntu1- | 0.6.0-6ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:sblim-cmpi-base
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-sblim-cmpi-base-1.6.2-0ubuntu1- | 1.6.2-0ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| upgrade
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:festival
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-festival-1:2.1~release-5.1ubuntu1- | 1:2.1~release-5.1ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:swi-prolog
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-swi-prolog-5.10.4-5ubuntu1- | 5.10.4-5ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:yum
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-yum-3.4.3-1ubuntu1- | 3.4.3-1ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1098392
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:genius
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-genius-1.0.16-0ubuntu1- | 1.0.16-0ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1092569
| upgrade
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:openvswitch
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-openvswitch-1.9.0~git20130115.ca71f5b-0ubuntu2- | 1.9.0~git20130115.ca71f5b-0ubuntu2 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1094556
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:crtools
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-raring-+source-crtools-0.2-2ubuntu1- | 0.2-2ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|}

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I wonder if we can trick Logan to join the camp of Ubuntu Developers who also became Debian Developers. ;-)

=== Sebastien Bacher ===

I've been sponsoring quite some debian merges from Logan, they were almost all good for upload without any change. Some of those were non trivial merges, and Logan did a good job of them as well. I recommend him for MOTU membership.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
