{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Bluetooth DiNoVo setup (desktop size)
I had problems with my logitech diNovo keyboard and mouse, which went dead when computer went into sleep mode.. I managed to fix it like this
(the keyboard and mouse are supposed to be installed and bonded properly already-there are several threads which describe how to do this-):

I typed
Code:
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/default/bluetooth
</pre>
in terminal and then in the bluetooth file, in the HIDD part , I added

<pre>
sudo hciconfig hci0 down
sudo hciconfig hci0 up
</pre>
(Apart from that it should also be
<pre>
HIDD_ENABLED=1
</pre>
and in addition
Code:
<pre>
HIDD_OPTIONS="-i hci0 --connect 00:07:61:24:0E:B9 --connect 00:07:61:23:eb:58 --master --server
</pre>
where 00:07:61:24:0E:B9 and 00:07:61:23:eb:58 are the bluetooth addresses of my keyboard and mouse. You should add yours.

'''
for dinovo mini
'''
 I found:-
<pre>
lsusb
</pre>

'''
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

Bus 001 Device 004: ID 046d:c71f Logitech, Inc. 

Bus 001 Device 003: ID 046d:c71e Logitech, Inc. 

Bus 001 Device 002: ID 046d:0b07 Logitech, Inc. 

Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
'''
 
'''My di novo mini section for logitech dongle-tested on Debian'''

HIDD_ENABLED=1

sudo hciconfig hci0 down

sudo hciconfig hci0 up

HIDD_OPTIONS="-i hci0 --connect 046d:c71f --connect 046d:c71e --connect 046d:0b07

Another way
Quote:
<pre>
options usbhid quirks=0x046d:0xc71f:0x00080000
</pre>
then 
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/options.conf,
</pre>
add
'''
options usbhid quirks=0x046d:0xc71f:0x00080000
'''
Bug hardy heron module  usbhid not saving and activating without removal and modprobing

Hardy Heron pair with a bluetooth dongle
<pre>
hcitool scan
</pre>
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf
</pre>
'''
device 00:07:61:D3:9F:5E {
     name "Logitech diNovo Mini";
     auth enable;
     encrypt enable;
 }
 
 device MOUSE_ADDR {
     name "Microsoft Mouse";
 }
'''
<pre>
sudo hidd --search
</pre>
more here http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=227057
regards teaker1s
