{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Installing and Configuring the Logitech G15 for Ubuntu Lucid ===
Information related to getting the Logitech G15 to function in Ubuntu/Kubuntu tends to be disjointed and outdated (Scattered through the Ubuntu forums, the G15tools.com forums, and the documentation in the g15* packages).  The intention of this document is to create an up to date guide and consolidate all the information into a single resource.  These are the steps that worked for me.

==== Install Packages ====

To make the G15 work on Lucid, as of 18/07/2010, g15daemon needs to be patched which will require some dependencies to be met (check here to see if this is still necessary: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/g15daemon/+bug/538259).
Run this to install everything you need for the G15, with the exception of g15daemon:

<pre>
sudo aptitude install g15macro  g15composer libg15-1 libg15daemon-client1 libg15render1 g15stats 
</pre>

If you still need to patch g15daemon, run this:
<pre>
sudo aptitude install dpkg-dev cdbs debhelper autotools-dev automake1.9 libtool chrpath libg15-dev libg15render-dev libusb-dev libfreetype6-dev
</pre>

==== Patch and install g15daemon ====

Now we will patch and install g15daemon:

<pre>
apt-get source g15daemon
cd g15daemon-*
wget http://launchpadlibrarian.net/46395768/make-g-keys-work-again.patch
patch -p1 < make-g-keys-work-again.patch
dpkg-buildpackage
cd ..
dpkg -i *.deb
g15daemon
g15daemon -v
</pre>

The last command should output something like this:
<pre>
G15Daemon version 1.9.5.3 - Loaded & Running
compiled with libg15 version 1.201
</pre>

==== Configure the Keyboard ====

Go to System-->Preferences-->Keyboard-->Layouts
and select Keyboard model. Type g15 and it should find "Logitech G15 extra keys via G15daemon".
Select it, and click Close

==== Make G15 Stats and G15 Macro run on start ====

Go to System-->Preferences-->Startup Applications and add g15macro and g15stats

==== Activate Changes ====

Now restart the computer (or X), and your G15 keyboard should now be (mostly) operational.  See Outstanding Issues.

==== Outstanding Issues ====

* g15macro has a bug which may cause the macro settings to be lost on reboot. (See https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/g15macro/+bug/572679)

=== Installing and Configuring the Logitech G15 for Kubuntu 8.10 and KDE 4 ===

==== Install Packages ====

In a terminal:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install g15daemon g15macro  g15composer libg15-1 libg15daemon-client1 libg15render1
</pre>

==== Check g15daemon ====

In a terminal:
<pre>
sudo g15daemon -v
</pre>

Should result in:
<pre>
G15Daemon version 1.9.5.3 - Loaded & Running
compiled with libg15 version 1.201
</pre>

==== Configure the Keyboard ====

Go to System Settings -> Regional & Language -> Keyboard Layout.<<BR>>
Select the radio button "Enable keyboard layouts"<<BR>>
Set Keyboard model to: Logitech G15 extra keys via G15daemon".<<BR>>
Click Apply.

==== Set g15macro to Run ====

Go to System Settings and click the Advanced tab.<<BR>>
Select Autostart.<<BR>>
Click "Add Program..."<<BR>>
In the text field, enter:
<pre>
/usr/bin/g15macro
</pre>
Click OK.<<BR>>
Click the Permissions tab.<<BR>>
Set Group to "Can Read"<<BR>>
Set Others to "Can Read"<<BR>>
Check the box for "Is executable"<<BR>>
Click OK.

==== Modify xorg.conf ====

Add or modify the keyboard entry in xorg.conf:
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "logitech_g15"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection
</pre>

==== Activate Changes ====

Log out to the login screen.
Press Alt-E to restart X.
Login, and your G15 keyboard should be (mostly) operational.  See Outstanding Issues.

==== Outstanding Issues ====

* g15macro permissions permutations untested.
* g15macro has lost the macro settings I assigned on reboot.  Need to discover how to save these settings.

==== References ====
<nowiki>[[http://www.g15tools.com|G15Tools website]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntuforums.net|Kubuntu Forums]]</nowiki><<BR>>
