{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Loic Pefferkorn (pef) ==

'''Away for a while'''

=== About me ===

** Student in computer sciences, France
** 22 years old

=== Interests ===

* Computers in general (x86 and my ultra5), Linux user since 2000 (suse 6.4, slackware, redhat, debian then ubuntu ;) and FreeBSD for personnal server).
* Guitar beginner as autodidact

=== Contact ===
** '''jabber''' pef at im dot apinc dot org
** '''email''' loic at ubuntu dot com
** '''gpg key'''     <nowiki>[[http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x601FA31D|0x601FA31D]]</nowiki>
** '''irc''' pef on freenode #ubuntu-motu #ubuntu-devel #kubuntu-devel
** '''blog''' http://blog.frozenbox.com

== Ubuntu activity ==

=== Team memberships ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntumembers|ubuntu]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/motu|MOTU]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/kubuntu-team|Kubuntu team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-dev|Ubuntu dev team]]</nowiki>

=== Hardware ===

I try to help LaptopTeam with IBM Thinkpad T43 support.

=== Wiki ===
* Added a note about Pbuilder/revisons number to KubuntuPackagingGuide

=== Packages activity (Universe) ===

==== Work on REVU ====
* Packaged new upstream version of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoicPefferkorn|Kdissert]]</nowiki>
* packaged new upstream version of <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=794|qtparted]]</nowiki>
* Corrected uninstallable <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=821|kzenexplorer package ]]</nowiki>
* Added make to Depends to <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=831|checkinstall package]]</nowiki>

==== Transitions ====
* Fixed some packages (debdiff for ~10 packages) in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTUGLUTransition|MOTUGLUTransitions]]</nowiki>

==== Accepted packages ====
* datakiosk (maintainer, packaged initial release)
* kvpnc (maintainer, packaged initial and latest upstream release)
* kguitar (maintainer, packaged initial release)

==== Working on ====
* coccinella : waiting in REVU <nowiki>[[http://siretart.tauware.de/revu/details.py?upid=128|here]]</nowiki>

=== Misc ===

* Active member of http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org, where I can to help newbies. I also ask which programs people want to  be packaged [http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?id=8111&p=1, then I packaged them or add them to UniversesCandidates

* Wrote articles on opensource softwares for a french website http://www.framasoft.net/auteur382.html

* Patchs for upstream, manpages, desktop files, ...

* Some french translations on Rosetta

=== Malone activity ===
* Bugs I have filled (11 bugs) :

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1456

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1418

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1396

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1387

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1386

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1292

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1291

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1290

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1144

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1056

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1055

* Bugs I have fixed (6 bugs):

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1466

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/1412

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/995

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/2018,3486 (wrote a patch to make this apps working for upstream and for Hoary/Breezy versions)

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/3360 (updated patch for gcc4 problem)

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/3212 (new upstream version, FTBFS, polishing debian layout)

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/3576 (fixed bad dependency)

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/3350 (fixed bad dependency, breezy-updates)

 https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/3142 (added dependency, checkinstall doesn't work without it, debdiff for Breezy, upload on REVU for dapper)

=== Bugzilla activity ===

* bugs I have filled (10 bugs)

 http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13387

 https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=12799

 http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=12800

 http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13544

 http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13545

 http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13546

 http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13547

 http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13548

 http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13549

 http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14128

=== Future ===

* For the moment I'm creating new packages for universe, and I like it :)
* I want to help Ubuntu, especially Kubuntu, and creating and fixing new packages from universe.
* Helping laptopTeam about Dell Inspiron 5100 support.
* Helping Kubuntu !

Related pages:
<<FullSearch>>

----
CategoryHomepage
