{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~loitranduc|loitranduc]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| See Launchpad Page
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1318102|loitd]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''loitd''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| See Launchpad Page
|-
| '''Linux User'''
| <nowiki>[[http://counter.li.org|#535816]]</nowiki>
|}
=== About Me ===
My name is Tran Duc Loi. I live in Ha Noi, Viet Nam and I speak English beside my local language Vietnamese. I've graduated from university for 3 years and my major was Electronics and Telecommunication. My interest in IT and programming make me spend a lot of time in learning by myself and it also help my works. I've been using Windows for 8 years and Linux Ubuntu for 2 years. Recently, I've moved to Ubuntu and found that it is another world with the different in the way things work. 

My hobbies are reading books, programming and gardening. I also play PS - Play Station and jogging. My favorite soccer team is Arsenal. I'm not good at playing football but I used to watch matches on TV.

As an ubuntuforum member, I am a fresh one. But I'm a kind of willing-to-help base on my knowledge. I hope I could contribute more to the Ubuntu Community via joining teams in Ubuntu.

==== Programming Ability ====
'''Competent:'''<<BR>>

* C++ - Good. I use Qt in most projects.
* VHDL && Embedded C - I have 1 year experience in working with FPGA && Microchip PIC.
* BASH - Beginner.
* Java - Beginner.
* PHP/MYSQL - Beginner.
* Python - Beginner.
* Web Design (XHTML, CSS, Javascript) - I know the concept.
* GIT/SVN/Bzr.
 
 
'''Learning Now:'''<<BR>>
* Python - an interesting language.
* Java - for android development. 

=== Team Memberships ===
 
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-vi|Ubuntu Vietnamese Translators]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

=== Achievements ===

* Made my Ubuntu Wiki pages - It is the first time I made a wiki page.
* Complete my launchpad account, SSH, PGP key.
* Complete Bazaar branch and push my test project.
* Wrote a simple program call "Linux desktop shortcut creator" in QT but has not pushed to launchpad yet. Will be update links in this wiki soon after being pushed to launchpad.
* Finished project "DSSPC calculator" in QT for my thesis. Its purposes are get 10-15 input parameters and taking its calculation, after that, it produces results in a kind of graph.

=== Goals ===

* To help new user in programming concepts and installation troubleshooting.
* Become a member of Development Focus Group of Ubuntu Beginners Team.
* Become an Ubuntu Developer.
