{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== LongZhang Tian ===

Email: longztian@gmail.com

* '''Name      :''' Longzhang Tian
* '''Project   :''' Xubuntu GNU/Linux project
* '''Location  :''' Lincoln, Nebraska, United States
* '''O/S       :''' Xubuntu
* '''Homepage  :''' http://www.longztian.com
* '''E-mail    :''' longztian@gmail.com
* '''Launchpad :''' https://launchpad.net/~longztian

=== About me ===

My name is Longzhang. I've been using Ubuntu since March of 2005.  

I studied Mechanical Engineering at University of Nebraksa－Lincoln

Outside of work and social activities

=== Ubuntu-Specific Contributions ===

A lot of my contributions don't involve me getting any additional karma points on Launchpad.  :(  However, I'm a very active member of the Xubuntu team, and am also very involved with the Chicago Loco Team.   

==== Team Membership ====

* Administrator Xubuntu Testers
* Member of Xubuntu Documentation Team

==== Documentation ====

 
==== Community & Advocacy ====

the following content are from from j1mc's page, I use is as an template. 
and will edit it later. give me some time
* I'm a regular volunteer/community member of <nowiki>[[http://www.freegeekchicago.org|Free Geek Chicago]]</nowiki>.  Free Geek Chicago "helps the needy get nerdy," providing computers, education, internet access and job skills training to under-served communities of Chicago.  We use Xubuntu on all computers that we prepare.  :)  
  

==== Support & Bug Triage ====
* Tech support on #xubuntu on irc.freenode.net and the xubuntu-users mailing list.

=== Skill Set ===

==== Documentation-related skills ====
* A working knowledge of docbook-xml 

==== Team-building skills ====
* Well organized, capable of running a decent meetingd

==== Other skills ====
* Data modeling

==== Things I'm not skilled at ====
* Throwing chairs

=== Plans & Goals ===

* Ensure that Xubuntu documentation is accurate and thorough.
** Assist with the creation of Xubuntu-specific end-user training materials.
* Contribute to upstream Xfce documentation.

=== Testimonials ===

----

'''Note_1''': This wiki page is based on J1mc <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/j1mc]]</nowiki> 's personal wikipage. I wrote him an email to let he know I creating my wikipage starting from modify his raw code.

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryUbuntuStudents
