{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| Your Launchpad ID (https://launchpad.net/~looba)
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| Your GPG Public Key ID
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| Link to your forum account.
|-
| '''IRC''':
| List your registered nicks you use on IRC and on what networks
|-
| '''Email''':
| loobalou005@gmail.com
|}

=== About Me ===
My name is Louis Millwood a 33 year old male and I live about 10 miles from Manchester in a town called Stalybridge. I am totally new to Linux,but I've been a user of open source software for some time now. This is how I have been introduced to Ubuntu. In my spare I enjoy playing MMORPG's with my brother and close friends, and when I'm not gaming I've been spending as much time as I can using and learning how linux works. At the moment my desktop is still enslaved to XP( my gaming rig). My laptop is a HP COMPAQ Presario C500 and has Ubuntu 10.04 netbook version.
I have strong interest in computer programming. all though I don't know any computer language in depth i have an good knowledge on the concept of how programming works. I have ventured very briefly in HTML,CSS,4   

=== Team Memberships ===
{*} List memberships you have or are apprenticing in (i.e. if your a padawan in Beginners Team).
* Bullets are good for lists.
** Indent more and they change.

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
What are you planning on doing in imediate and longer future? Doesn't have to all have to do with linux, looking at a degree or certification? Looking for membership to a team? 

==== Current Project & Goals ====
 {*} Some people like to list short term goals.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===
Note: Often people like to list their major contributions, so people know the good work they've done. When you apply for membership to restricted teams, the senior members usually like knowing what you've done before. In this example, several subsections exist. The more work you do, the longer this section will become.

==== Support ====
 {*} On Ubuntu Forums (link to account) as, I do....

==== Forum Guides: ====
 {*} I've written X guides, and link to them.

==== Wiki ====
I've edited and made contributions to following pages...
 {*} Link to Wiki page, people can see page history you don't need to point out exactly what edits you made.

== Testimonials ==

----
CategoryHomepage
