{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Taylor Lookabaugh ===

Name: Taylor Lookabaugh<<BR>>
Location: Clovis, CA, USA<<BR>>
Email:  <<BR>>
Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~looktj <<BR>>
Forum username: Taylor<<BR>>
IRC: LookTJ<<BR>>

----

==== About ====
I am 18 years old. I currently reside in Clovis, CA.<<BR>>
I've been using Linux since July 2006 when I decided to try Ubuntu 6.06. I've used Ubuntu Linux since late May before going to Arch. I'm currently using Linux for everyday use and SSH from school. I'm currently planning to buy a IBM Thinkpad for server usage.<<BR>>
In computer areas, I am good in Networking and Video Security Design.<<BR>>
I am a christian. I believe in the Lord Jesus that He died for my sins. I believe that the Bible is God's way speaking His Word and Truth. I daily attend my college group weekly now.<<BR>>

==== Contributions ====
I have helped a little bit in the support area of the Ubuntu forums, but since then, I have been inactive in support. I have written a few simple HOWTOS. I attend community discussions daily.<<BR>>

==== Goals ====
I would like to be a speaker/preacher for God. I would also like to be a Video Security Designer for Pelco or pursue some technology area. I have chosen to major in Computer Science at Fresno City College.<<BR>>

----
CategoryHomepage
