{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[http://www.ffmpeg.org/|FFmpeg]]</nowiki> MPEG-4 
   '''Note:''' Not a windows application

Desktop Publishing = <nowiki>[[http://www.scribus.org.uk/|Scribus]]</nowiki>
  Compare to: Adobe PageMaker, Quark
   '''Note:''' Has not yet been released for windows

Integrated Development Environment (KDE) = <nowiki>[[http://www.kdevelop.org/|KDevelop]]</nowiki>
 Compare to: Visual Studio, Zend Studio
   '''Note:''' Has not yet been released for windows

Editor = <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/emacs.html|GNU Emacs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.vim.org/|Vim]]</nowiki>
 Compare to: Unknown
   '''Note:''' Not for most Windows users

Video Conferencing Software?
 How about software for video conferencing, especially software which allows for conversations between Linux and Windows (gnomemeeting? MSN-clients?)
 Possible answer to my own question - GNOME 3.5 states that Kopete now supports MSN and Yahoo Massenger webcam and voice. I don't know how useable this is, though.

Content Management Framework / System (CMF / CMS)
 We are very impressed with TYPO3 <nowiki>[[http://typo3.com/|TYPO3]]</nowiki>
  Like most LAMP CMS products it can also be run on WAMP & obviously accessed by both various web browsers in Linux & Windows Clients.

Collaboration based Project Management
 We are quite partial to dotProject <nowiki>[[http://www.dotproject.net/|dotProject]]</nowiki>
  Like most LAMP CMS products it apparently can also be run on WAMP & obviously accessed by both various web browsers in Linux & Windows Clients.

=== Opinions & Comments ===

===== Wide list or strict list? =====
Eagleone
  I think that LoopList is a great idea. Anyway I think that is not a good idea to include only the best one or 2 softare for each category... Are we trying to create monopoly? Where is freedom?
  I think that we have to make simple for common people to find out the best software... So welcome to the top one list... But besides... We should make a really complete new list of all free software. So we make people free to choose and project free to grow.

Replies:
Amos
  Remember the goal of the list - it tries to help people who come from the Windows world and are not familiar with all the options to find an easy path to Linux. It's true that there might be several alternatives for each program, but the goal is to *simplify* things and if one of the options has most of the advantages then maybe it's better to forget about the rest just until people get used to the idea of open-source software which they can later use on non-Windows platform. Talks about "monopoly" are premature here, IMHO.

Eagleone
  Yes true, I aslo say that we have to make it simple... But not cutting out everythink... I think we can make it in an easy way: making a COMPLETE list with ALL the software we know that can be use on Windows and a simplified list just with the top, stable softwares. Why not? Think about the future, maybe in two years the software we are not including now will be the best one. But putting it out of the list maybe it will have less chance... Instead if we also maintain a list with all the software it would be easy in the future to discuss about it and maybe decide that it has became better than the previous one. Isn't it? I don't really think that this would make it too complicated. Instead in this way, in the future it will be difficult to find out again the other softwares...

Amos
  I see your point. Then start another list with ALL the options (I think there are already a few such lists on the web) and make "LoopList" the "simple" part of your suggestion.

PeterWhittaker
  If the goal is to help people ''find an easy path to Linux'', then the FLOSS apps should be chosen  based on their availability under both Windows and Linux: If an application is available only under Windows, then using it - or worse yet, switching to it just for the sake of exploring FLOSS alternatives - doesn't help the user get to Linux. They still have to convert to something else once they make ''that'' move.

  However, if the goal is to assist people with moving to FLOSS apps, then multi-OS support is much less of an issue.

  Perhaps the "complete" page could have a table with the following columns:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Windows FLOSS app
| Available on Linux?
| Closest Linux alternative
| Other alternatives that support same data formats
|}
  Then people will be able to plan their migration from proprietary Windows apps to Windows FLOSS apps to Linux FLOSS apps, knowing that their biggest hurdle will be the first step, owing to the data conversion from proprietary to FLOSS or open standards formats.

----
===== Tools =====
I'm working on a free project to make people free to create CD with free software for Windows. So I will collaborate happyly with this "project/idea". The tool is here:
https://sourceforge.net/projects/cdautotool

Replies:
