{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Amit Seal Ami, 22 ==
Dhaka, Bangladesh
 "I am the good guy!"
=== About Name ===
Amit - Means Infinite<<BR>>
Seal - is my family surname<<BR>>
Ami- is my family nick. <<BR>>
I will really appreciate it if you call be as Amit. Interestingly, I am studying Information Technolpgy (IT) with major on Software Engineering. As my name implies as well, I am hugely interested in IT sector. 
a general description of the person goes here
=== Behaviours ===
==== Learning ====
I like learning about new technologies, programming languages.
==== Use ====
Ubuntu and its variants generally, Have recently switched to Lubuntu.
==== Sharing ====
Whatever I learn, I tend to share it.
==== Adoption ====
=== Why using Ubuntu? ===
Because it feels great, is made by community and for the use of community.
=== Life Goals ===
To make an impact in IT sector which will improve human life globally.
=== Experience Goals ===
Right now, my experience goal is to increase experience by being an active part of Ubuntu Community.
=== Social networking profile ===
http://facebook.com/lordamit
=== Suggestions ===
==== Web ====
http://about.me/lordamit
==== Desktop ====
Acer Aspire 4745
