{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Lorenzo De Liso, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Lorenzo De Liso
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~blackz
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LorenzoDeLiso
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is '''Lorenzo De Liso''' and I'm italian. I'm familiar with the C++, perl and a bit of python. I'm an Ubuntu user since 4 years (with the intrepid release) and a great fan of this awesome community.

== My Ubuntu story ==

My involvement with Ubuntu started when I was looking for Ubuntu help and I found the Ubuntu Italian web site. After some point, I started to contribute to the Italian community helping in translations, in the support to other users in the #ubuntu-it channel, creating new documentation and updating the existing one. After that, I wanted to get involved in the Ubuntu development so I started to triage bugs (I joined the 5-a-day team), write & test patches, do packaging work (merges, syncs, ...). A bit later, I joined the italian development team, the Ubuntu bugcontrol and the Ubuntu reviewers team. I liked that since the first time: the Debian packaging is very fun and with the help of the available documentation and the #ubuntu-motu guys, I was able to do my first packaging work. I'm a member of the Ubuntu Italian community as well (https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-members/+members)

=== My involvement ===

I'm involved in many ways of the Ubuntu development: I like to keep packages updated doing merge or requesting sync, package update, fix the FTBFS packages, the bug fix and obviously maintain packages in Debian and Ubuntu as well, I'm an Ubuntu MOTU.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Initially I have started to do the packaging work *just* for Ubuntu, but my idea was changed with the time. First I went to upload all packages in Ubuntu, but now I'm becoming familiar with mentors.debian.net to get my packages uploaded in Debian and then in Ubuntu as well. Currently I'm the maintainer of the <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=autotrash|autotrash]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=gliv|gliv]]</nowiki> packages in Debian (hope to maintain more in the future!) and of the package <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ppa-purge|ppa-purge]]</nowiki> in Ubuntu (it's a native Ubuntu package). Also, I'm working with the cryptsetup team to get the Ubuntu changes there and trying to co-maintain it.

=== Areas of work ===

I'm proud to work with the Ubuntu community and Debian collaborating to maintain packages there and keep them updated.

'''Touched packages in the ''core'' packageset''':

* irssi
* liferea
* hostname
* ubuntuone-client
* logrotate
* whois
* unixodbc
* manpages
* file
* gksu
* wget
* pppconfig
* auctex
* nss-mdns
* netbase
* iputils
* mime-support
* popularity-contest
* sensible-utils
* rsyslog
* iptables
* bash-completion
* apr
* dmraid
* cryptsetup
* xterm
* nano
* asciidoc
* mono
* sudo
* nfs-utils
* procps
* cron
* iso-codes
* e2fsprogs
* pygments
* debootstrap
* xft
* libusb

'''Touched packages in ''other'' packagesets''':

* ubuntu-extras-keyring
* gdebi
* keepalived
* libapache2-mod-python
* nbd
* acpid
* ipsec-tools
* dictd
* igerman98

'''Work with Debian''':

* http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=602406
* http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=601870
* http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=603160
* http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=609539

(See <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?submitter=blackz%40ubuntu.com|here]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?submitter=blackzldl%40gmail.com|here]]</nowiki> as well).

=== Things I could do better ===

* Bug fixing
* Merges
* Syncs
* Bug triaging

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

* Improve Ubuntu
* Keep the sponsoring queue (both for universe and main) clean
* Improve the packages
* Help new contributors to join an Ubuntu development team (e.g MOTU) by helping them (I'm part of the Developer mentoring reception)
* Do my best and be carefully when touching core items (this is worth for all packages, though)
* Become a Debian Developer

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

* '''The collaboration between Ubuntu and Debian''': We have to collaborate closely with Debian as Debian is our upstream; for example we should always forward non-specific Ubuntu changes to Debian. Doing so we will improve Debian and minimize the Ubuntu delta. We should encourage Ubuntu contributing developers to collaborate with Debian too but at the same time encourage the Ubuntu contributing Developers to contribute to Ubuntu. 

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored a number of merges/sync from Lorenzo and they were all of good quality. Some of them were a bit harder to do. Whenever something needed fixing, Lorenzo followed up and fixed it and forwarded changes to Debian.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/whois/5.0.8ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pppconfig/2.3.18+nmu2ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/iputils/3:20100418-3ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mime-support/3.51-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/popularity-contest/1.49ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sensible-utils/0.0.5ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpid/1:2.0.7-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/procps/1:3.2.8-10ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cron/3.0pl1-116ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/iso-codes/3.24-1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/e2fsprogs/1.41.14-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pygments/1.4+dfsg-1ubuntu1

==== Areas of Improvement ====
While merging and syncing are important activities, I think it'd help Lorenzo to branch out a bit more. You learn a lot, when you are fixing issues yourself.

=== Marc Deslauriers (mdeslaur) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored a few merges and security updates for Lorenzo. They were all well done and when fixes were necessary, he handled them nicely.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/liferea/1.6.3-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/liferea/1.6.4-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wget/1.12-2.1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemtap/1.3-1ubuntu2

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Although I did sponsor a security update from him, I would like to see Lorenzo get experience with something other than merges.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
