{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Welcome to the New Member's Page! ===
This page is designed to be a short introduction to the L''''''ouisianaTeam so new members can quickly become familiar with our resources. First, a short L''''''oCo FAQ.

===== What is a LoCo Team? =====
A L''''''oCo Team is a '''__Lo__'''cal '''__Co__'''mmunity of (in our case) Ubuntu users. A L''''''oCo can involve a lot of things such as local promoting, support in the local language, general support to local users and much more. Most importantly however, it lets people find other Ubuntu users near them!

===== Why should I join a LoCo team? =====
There are lots of benefits and fun to be had getting involved with a L''''''oCo team, not only in terms of spreading awareness about Ubuntu, but also helping to develop free software in your community, improve Ubuntu and more. For more details see the LoCoTeamJoining page.

See the <nowiki>[[LoCoFAQ]]</nowiki> page for even more information.

=== The LouisianaTeam ===

We are a team of Ubuntu users located across the state of Louisiana. We want to raise awareness of Ubuntu in our community and encourage adoption of Ubuntu and open source software by individuals, schools, and businesses.  We also aim to provide support to our members, and a community of fellowship.  

The following is a short summary of our resources and their uses.

'''Wiki page''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisianaTeam

The wiki is where the L''''''ouisianaTeam keeps most of it's dynamic content: development ideas, current projects, IRC logs, and other things. Here you will find subpages for each team as well as information about the team in general and our many activities.

'''Forum''': http://louisiana.ubuntuforums.org/

The forums are a great place to talk about ideas for the team and discuss current and upcoming projects, events, and meetings.  It also lets others know what we're doing and is something that will be looked at when we apply for official status as a LoCo Team.  

Come by and introduce yourself!

'''Mailing list''': https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-us-la

The mailing list is used much like the forums, for quicker discussion and dissemination of team news.  

'''L''''''aunchPad''': https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-louisiana 

The LaunchPad page is our "official" membership.  LaunchPad is also used for a number of other things, but they do not relate directly to our team.
