{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Information ===

* '''Email/Jabber:''' johan.haals@gmail.com
* '''OpenPGP:''' <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0xC35147E4CC8A3E90|CC8A3E90]]</nowiki>
* '''IRC:''' Louie @ freenode
* '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~johan-haals|~johan-haals]]</nowiki>
* '''WWW:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxuser.se|Linuxuser.se]]</nowiki>

=== About Me ===

My name is Johan Haals, I live in Göteborg Sweden and work as an Apple Techican/Consultant. My first contact with Ubuntu was in the beginning of 2006, since then I've been stuck with Ubuntu on my computers/servers

I'm the founder of <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxuser.se|Linuxuser.se]]</nowiki>. A free linux-based hosting service using free software. We want to show the users that free software can compete with other commercial solutions. Linuxuser.se have been running since late 2006, everyone in the free software movement can host their projects and contribute to the project.

Software engineer, developing free software applications using Python/Django/PHP/MySQL

=== Contributions ===

====== Summary ======

* Active in the Swedish LoCo, as one of the administrators.
* Distribute Ubuntu stickers/flyers for the Swedish Ubuntu Association  
* Translation
* Promote Ubuntu

===== The swedish LoCo =====

* I became a LoCo member in nov 2006 and a few weeks later I became an Administrator which I'm still today.
* Providing "private" support to beginners using IRC/MSN/Jabber

===== Swedish Ubuntu Association =====

* Working nonprofit as a distributor of Ubuntu/GNU stickers and flyers since 2007. 
* Distribute stickers/CD's at Dreamhack Winter.

===== Translation =====

When there is time I try to help the translators with translating some package.

===== Promote =====

Ubuntu and free software is a common subject in my job as a consultant and educator of school  employees in the public sector.

=== Future plans ===

My personal plans for contributing to Ubuntu is to keep working on getting Ubuntu into the public sector. Free software is already on its way into schools and I think I can play an imporant role when educating what free software can do.

As long as Ubuntu keep being more user friendly the users will keep comming...

=== Testemonials ===

==== Cheers from Hund ====

I have been active in the Swedish LoCo the past 3 years with Louie and he has been a stable and great asset to our Swedish LoCo, with his good advice and knowledge concerning Ubuntu and specially the technical part.

His non-profit project Linuxuser has been a great asset for many users with their projects concerning Ubuntu, including myself.

Louie has always proved to be a good administrator and a fellow.

//<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hund|Hund]]</nowiki>

==== Endorsment from Ulsak ====

As Hund above stated, Louie has been around since I made my first steps in the wonderful world of Ubuntu. He has contributed in various ways to advocate and promote Ubuntu. He gave our Swedish Ubuntu Association - <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforeningen.se|Föreningen Ubuntu Sverige]]</nowiki> active support in our webshop to help us with sales.
( we use the fondings and sale to sponsor activities that markets Ubuntu and free software). He is in my opinion one the most obvious candidates to be Ubuntu Member. A good friend and resourceful person. // <nowiki>[[ulsak]]</nowiki>

==== Endorsement from KiviE ====

When I first came to ubuntu-se.org a couple of years ago Louie was one of the first I met. He is easy to like and get along with and always helping.

His commitment to the open source movement and Ubuntu is great for Sweden and is pleasant to see.

// <nowiki>[[KiviE]]</nowiki>

==== DrMegahertz ====

In addition to the kind(and truthful!) words above, I'd like to add that Louie has got a friendly attitude against newcomers, and always answer their questions in a very respectful way.

==== Endorsement from PGJ ====

Louie works hard for the open source community, in fact he spends so much time promoting open source, and Ubuntu in particular, that I wonder how he has time for much else. He is very dedicated and has been helping the community in various roles for many years. He is always full of zest and zeal, whether he is distributing Ubuntu disk, helping beginners who are just starting out with Linux, promoting and advocating open source, or developing interesting projects based on open solutions. Especially noteworthy, among his many accomplishments, is the linuxuser project, which is a great boon for Swedish open source enthusiasts who need a place to host their projects.
