{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
22:30:18 [ r2d2rogers] Welcome one and all
22:30:23 ::: chrisULM is now known as ChrisULM
22:30:28 [ r2d2rogers] Meeting to start
22:30:29 [ r2d2rogers] <G>
22:30:39 [ r2d2rogers] first off, new item
22:30:42 [ r2d2rogers] Role call
22:30:50 [ r2d2rogers] Who's at the keyboard ? <G>
22:30:51 [ diremonkey] geez, 340k for a few sec then back down, really sporadic
22:30:52 [ Robdgreat] eh yo
22:30:57 [ diremonkey] oops
22:30:59 [ diremonkey] Here!
22:31:04 [ diremonkey] o/
22:31:04 [ Palintheus] o/
22:31:04 [ ChrisULM] here
22:31:11 [ fxef] here
22:31:37 [ r2d2rogers] 6 <G>
22:31:51 [ michaelramm_mac] present (thx to r2d2rogers for the reminder!)
22:32:04 [ r2d2rogers] Well I had heard noise again about others joining, but I guess we'll have a nice little discussion
22:32:04 [ KevinYo] here
22:32:05 [ Palintheus] meeting info as always is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisianaTeam/Meetings
22:32:10 [ r2d2rogers] welcome michaelramm_mac
22:32:12 [ r2d2rogers] Hey Key
22:32:17 [ r2d2rogers] KevinYo:
22:32:25 [ r2d2rogers] tired typing bad
22:32:27 [ r2d2rogers] thanks Palintheus
22:32:32 [ Palintheus] np
22:32:48 [ r2d2rogers] 7 members active in channel
22:33:01 [ r2d2rogers] First up on the short agenda tonight is the Hamfest
22:33:11 [ r2d2rogers] Our first big event is coming up fast
22:33:43 [ r2d2rogers] in little more than a month we need to work on a presentation for the forum/QA at the fest and
22:33:52 [ r2d2rogers] have our volunteers ready to man the tables
22:34:10 [ michaelramm_mac] wow, a short agenda
22:34:19 [ r2d2rogers] Part of that is the flyers and getting the word out for the event
22:34:50 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM was kind enough to come pick up several flyers today to check with faculty at ULM for approval on posting them
22:35:13 [ r2d2rogers] we need area volunteers to post or distribute flyers
22:35:15 [ ChrisULM] planning on checking with the dean tom.
22:35:22 [ r2d2rogers] great
22:35:55 [ r2d2rogers] also I'd like to thank diremonkey for his efforts in putting the flyer together
22:36:05 [ fxef] I'll post in Shreveport area
22:36:07 [ Palintheus] diremonkey: ++
22:36:17 [ r2d2rogers] and Palintheus in his contacting System76 in the first place and putting the rquest in
22:36:19 [ michaelramm_mac] diremonkey: flyer looks AWESOME!
22:36:34 [ r2d2rogers] fxef: great, do you think 50 is enough?
22:36:42 [ fxef] yep
22:36:49 [ r2d2rogers] ok
22:37:04 [ r2d2rogers] [ACTION] get 50 flyers to fxef is shreveport
22:37:19 [ fxef] can you mail them
22:37:24 [ diremonkey] thanks
22:37:30 [ r2d2rogers] fxef: yessir
22:37:42 [ r2d2rogers] hit my gmail with your address please
22:37:50 [ diremonkey] 50 here too I think
22:37:58 [ fxef] ok
22:38:03 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: +1
22:38:12 [ r2d2rogers] hamclub and around town diremonkey?
22:38:19 [ droops] here!
22:38:29 [ r2d2rogers] Hey droops, good to have you
22:38:35 [ droops] sorry im late
22:38:52 [ r2d2rogers] that's alright, it's the late meeting ;0
22:38:52 [ Palintheus] not a problem
22:39:00 [ droops] i can put the flier out in ruston
22:39:01 [ r2d2rogers] Where are you from again droops ?
22:39:09 [ r2d2rogers] great
22:39:18 [ r2d2rogers] I was thinking that was where you weew
22:39:19 [ r2d2rogers] were
22:39:20 [ droops] link?
22:39:26 [ diremonkey] r2d2rogers: mostly for the ham club but there are a few spots around town I'm going to put them
22:39:29 [ Palintheus] hfwilke, Robdgreat you guys covering the NO area?
22:39:30 [ r2d2rogers] nope... we have them printed
22:39:51 [ r2d2rogers] if you can hit me with you mailing address or we can arrange to meet if you are that close...
22:40:04 [ r2d2rogers] droops: email my nick at gmail with your preference
22:40:12 [ r2d2rogers] how many for ruston 25 ? more?
22:40:26 [ droops] 25 would be fine
22:40:42 [ diremonkey] if need be you can take some of my 50 if we're running short
22:40:45 [ diremonkey] for ruston that is
22:40:54 [ r2d2rogers] [ACTION] 50 flyers to diremonkey for Alexandria and local Ham club
22:41:10 [ r2d2rogers] [ACTION] 25 flyers for droops in Ruston
22:41:24  * Robdgreat doesn't get out much.
22:41:39 [ r2d2rogers] droops: I know a Chris from Tech, he's in the Hamclub here in monroe/west monroe
22:41:55 [ r2d2rogers] droops: I think he's involved with the astrophysics lab at tech?
22:42:07 [ droops] we just moved back here, all i know is a few folks in the lug
22:42:41 [ hfwilke] o/
22:42:41 [ r2d2rogers] droops: cool, i'll have to see if I can run him down through the ham club
22:42:47 [ hfwilke] had to go sing
22:43:05 [ r2d2rogers] no worries
22:43:51 [ diremonkey] Robdgreat: didn't you say you were going to the hamfest down south of lafayette?
22:44:03 [ Robdgreat] west, yeah
22:44:15 [ r2d2rogers] ok that's monroe 50, ruston 25, shreveport 50, alexandria 50, leaves us 125
22:44:24 [ r2d2rogers] BR 50 and NO 75?
22:44:34 ::: boomer [n=prinice@unaffiliated/boomer] has joined #ubuntu-us-la
22:44:37 [ Robdgreat] BOOM
22:44:45 [ hfwilke] I dont't mind distributing some
22:44:46 [ Palintheus] sounds like a plan to me
22:44:49 [ diremonkey] should we send some with Robdgreat to the hamfest?
22:44:49 [ droops] im going near br this weekend, if you need me to bring some down there
22:44:50 [ boomer] heya
22:44:56 [ r2d2rogers] Howdy boomer
22:44:58 [ Robdgreat] 25 each for me, Hal, and boomer
22:45:02 [ michaelramm_mac] shaka laka!
22:45:07 [ r2d2rogers] Robdgreat: +1
22:45:16 [ boomer] whud i miss?
22:45:18 [ r2d2rogers] boomer: we're talking about distributing flyers for the hamfest
22:45:44 [ r2d2rogers] we got them in from sys76 and we need to get them out to the areas we want to cover
22:45:57 [ boomer] ah
22:46:45 [ r2d2rogers] boomer: you ok with posting some on campus?
22:47:13 [ boomer] i think i need to get permission to post flyers
22:47:18 [ boomer] ill check into it
22:47:32 [ r2d2rogers] boomer: great, ChrisULM is doing the same for ULM up here
22:47:40 [ diremonkey] hm, I might see about getting some out to LSUA
22:48:26 [ r2d2rogers] that would be good too diremonkey
22:49:08 [ r2d2rogers] sound like we have a plan for N.O.
22:49:15 [ boomer] heya droops
22:49:19 [ r2d2rogers] hfwilke: you ok posting 25?
22:49:26 [ hfwilke] yeppers
22:49:32 [ droops] hey boomer
22:49:47 [ r2d2rogers] I guess that leaves baton rouge
22:50:51 [ r2d2rogers] KevinYo: I think you're the only one in BR in channel right now?
22:51:09 [ KevinYo] Yes
22:51:14 [ KevinYo] I thinl
22:51:19 [ r2d2rogers] you up for some flyer posting?
22:51:26 [ KevinYo] sure
22:51:47 [ r2d2rogers] we got a volunteer to deliver them to you this weekend if you are around to meetup in baton rouge
22:52:23 [ r2d2rogers] if we could scare up some others in BR I'd like to encourage members in the same towns to meetup
22:52:42 [ diremonkey] I know poobal was in BR
22:52:53 [ r2d2rogers] cool
22:53:17 [ KevinYo] I might be in... tomorrow for sure
22:53:20 [ r2d2rogers] KevinYo: if you'll get with droops on contact information I'll leave the delivery up to the two of you?
22:53:56 [ r2d2rogers] thank you droops for volunteering to do some delivering.
22:54:05 [ droops] yes sir
22:54:20 [ diremonkey] so what else do we need to do before the hamfest
22:54:31 [ r2d2rogers] anyone have more input on the flyers right now?
22:54:59 [ r2d2rogers] I'll be sharing with the hamclub fellows here in monroe to see if they want to post a few..
22:55:01 [ Robdgreat] people still chalk the quad?
22:55:08 [ Robdgreat] KevinYo ^^
22:55:21 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: any further thoughts on the business cards?
22:55:35 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: what time frame is sys76 talking about for the laptops?
22:55:56 [ r2d2rogers] I know I've wished I had some cards with loco info on them to hand out recently
22:56:04 [ diremonkey] r2d2rogers: thoughts yes, anything concrete no
22:56:15 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: that's about all I've had either
22:56:20 [ Palintheus] dunno, Im tempted to strongly suggest they throw the beta on a couple and send them our way so we can install the sat tracking app, and maybe a few others and get a general feel for them
22:56:30 [ diremonkey] maybe I can make some time this weekend, but I'm still not certain what all to put on them
22:57:04 [ Palintheus] from what Ive gathered from conversations, they may want to send us one of the new lineup models
22:57:07 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: I think we should focus on general loco contact info, and not be specific to any one person, so we can split a large print batch
22:57:13 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: awesome
22:57:18 [ Palintheus] but again dunno, will contact, mid next week, that cool?
22:57:18 [ diremonkey] Might I suggest that we try to have mice for the laptops.  Might make it easier for people to use them who aren't used to touchpads
22:57:28 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: I'd love to get therm a bit early too
22:57:29 [ hfwilke] r2 +1 on card info
22:57:39 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: good thought... I have several here
22:57:41 [ droops] we are setting up laptops at a hamfest?
22:57:41 [ diremonkey] yeah, I wasn't thinking specific person info
22:57:51 [ Palintheus] droops: yes
22:57:52 [ r2d2rogers] droops: as many as6
22:57:52 [ diremonkey] I've got a least one and might be able to get a few from work
22:58:07 [ r2d2rogers] we have 3 tables reserved
22:58:15 [ r2d2rogers] and want 2 latops per table...
22:58:25 [ ChrisULM] have we started gathering powerstrips etc for the setup yet?
22:58:32 [ r2d2rogers] 1 demo showing video and one hands on machine per table
22:58:40 [ r2d2rogers] I have several here, but no we haven't
22:58:49 [ droops] i have a projector if we can use it
22:58:52 [ ChrisULM] have an idea as to how much we'd need?
22:59:09 [ r2d2rogers] droops: awesome that may be very useful for the QA/forum at 10am
22:59:20 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: at least 4 strips I'd think
22:59:21 [ droops] where is this hamfest?
22:59:27 [ Palintheus] droops: Monroe
22:59:27 [ ChrisULM] monroe civic center
22:59:32 [ droops] awesome, im there
22:59:33 [ r2d2rogers] depends on what they bring us to hook up
22:59:43 [ ChrisULM] about an hour ish from tech
22:59:47 [ r2d2rogers] droops: Barak Shriner Temple this year
23:00:01 [ ChrisULM] r2d2rogers, they moved it?
23:00:12 [ r2d2rogers] the club meeting I went to was talking about a possible venue change
23:00:25 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: yup about 2-3 years ago I think
23:00:27 [ droops] when is it?
23:00:37 [ r2d2rogers] April 26th
23:00:44 [ r2d2rogers] setup friday the 25th
23:00:51 [ r2d2rogers] 2 days after hardy release
23:01:03 [ r2d2rogers] and we hope to have 400 cd's burned
23:01:04 [ ChrisULM] http://www.ares-nela.org/hamfest/
23:01:05 [ r2d2rogers] <>G
23:01:10 [ ChrisULM] thats it right?
23:01:15 [ r2d2rogers] yup
23:01:35 [ r2d2rogers] cool the beta just finished d/ling
23:01:48 [ Palintheus] our page on it: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisianaTeam/Projects/MonroeHamFest
23:01:59 [ diremonkey] :( 20%
23:02:15 [ r2d2rogers] good link help tonight guys, thanks
23:02:22 [ Palintheus] :)
23:02:32 [ diremonkey] so we need power strips, mice
23:02:36 [ diremonkey] anything else?
23:02:45 [ Palintheus] anyone want to volunteer to head the QA/forum?
23:03:00 [ r2d2rogers] I have a hub and a router I can bring, and ethernet cables
23:03:20 [ diremonkey] if we're not going to have internet access that might not be so useful
23:03:33 [ r2d2rogers] cell phone plans..
23:03:41 [ r2d2rogers] see what we can rig...
23:03:43 [ diremonkey] Palintheus: depending on how we do it we might not need a single person heading it up
23:03:46 [ r2d2rogers] that will be fun on the setup day
23:03:47 [ diremonkey] true
23:04:04 [ diremonkey] unfortunately I'm thinking not all the laptops are going to make it for the setup day
23:04:13 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: true
23:04:14 [ droops] if the internet is slow, then that will give the impression that ubuntu is slow
23:04:18  * Palintheus is reminded to test cell phone with hardy
23:04:24 [ r2d2rogers] droops: good point
23:04:32 [ Palintheus] droops: not if they see the cell phone sitting beside I assume
23:04:49 [ droops] mom and dad think their computer is slow, as they have dial up, though its a new intel mac
23:04:59 [ r2d2rogers] would be nice if we knew the 3g rollout plans
23:05:12 [ ChrisULM] if its at the Shriner place, they have fast internet. I've been to a lan there with 50+ people and it was still snappy
23:05:21 [ r2d2rogers] We need to get the screen cast demos selected also
23:05:28 [ diremonkey] r2d2rogers: +1
23:05:28 [ r2d2rogers] Hmmm
23:05:35 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: sweet
23:05:35 [ diremonkey] ChrisULM: we might need to see about getting access to that
23:05:39 ::: Topic for #ubuntu-us-la: Next Louisiana LoCo IRC Meeting - March 20th 10:30pm CST || Last Meetings Log: http://tinyurl.com/2hvokp || Gutsy Torrent - http://tinyurl.com/3xg73k || Hardy Beta Torrent - http://tinyurl.com/2v8ucs || https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1 "What are *you* going to do about it?" - David Asher
23:05:39 ::: Topic set by Palintheus [i=trey@unaffiliated/palintheus] [Thu Mar 20 21:01:56 2008]
23:05:42 [ r2d2rogers] no kidding
23:05:52 [ droops] hey can i bring my recorder and get some audio for hpr?
23:05:55 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: who organized that event?
23:06:04 [ r2d2rogers] droops: absolutly
23:06:10 [ diremonkey] droops: don't see why not
23:06:12 [ ChrisULM] r2d2rogers, let me search a bit and find it
23:06:15 [ r2d2rogers] (or however you spell it)
23:06:24 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: thanks
23:06:39 [ r2d2rogers] So we have the flyers set,
23:06:49 [ diremonkey] So we need to find out about internet access, select some materials for the presentations and qa session
23:07:12 [ r2d2rogers] I can check into business card printing costs, we have a subsidiary of my work that does those
23:07:21 [ r2d2rogers] right
23:07:22 [ diremonkey] ok
23:07:30 [ diremonkey] I'll try to get something worked up on that
23:07:32 [ r2d2rogers] demo loops,
23:07:43 [ r2d2rogers] presentation for forum opening
23:07:53 [ r2d2rogers] and nail down the internet question
23:07:59 [ diremonkey] r2d2rogers: from 10am until when?
23:08:03 [ ChrisULM] r2d2rogers, http://www.lagcentral.org/
23:08:05 [ Palintheus] RE: QA/forum, should someone take point on getting material for it...not so much do the entire thing, but organize the actual presentation
23:08:08 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: thanks
23:08:16 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: I'm not sure
23:08:27 [ diremonkey] Palintheus: gotcha, that makes sense
23:08:35 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: +1 I think that would be great
23:08:55 [ r2d2rogers] droops: do you have some contacts for that in relation to your podcast ?
23:08:59 [ Palintheus] I can take a look at screencasts to use, for the demo machines
23:09:30 [ diremonkey] I assume most of the screencasts out there now are going to be hardy or older
23:09:38 [ r2d2rogers] gutsy?
23:09:50 [ droops] contacts for what?
23:09:51 [ diremonkey] yeah, that too
23:10:00 [ Palintheus] yeah, but its mainly apps and install, so it /should/ apply
23:10:39 [ r2d2rogers] droops: presentation type material, slideshows and the like, for introducing a new crowd to ubuntu?
23:10:45 [ Palintheus] michaelramm_mac: aren't you doing an interview for a podcast soon?
23:10:56 [ Palintheus] ever do any LoCo plugs?? (hint hint)
23:10:58 [ droops] let me ask around
23:11:08 [ r2d2rogers] droops: great
23:11:10 [ diremonkey] yeah, unfortunately it's kind of a confusing time to be doing this I think since some of the stuff will be 7.10 and some 8.04
23:11:14 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: +1
23:11:55 [ diremonkey] so is there anything else?
23:12:02 [ Palintheus] diremonkey: it is yes, but remember we are "selling" to geeks, so they should understand
23:12:27 [ diremonkey] yeah, but they're a different kind of geek
23:12:32 [ diremonkey] if that makes sense
23:12:41 [ diremonkey] Should we schedule a hamfest meeting?
23:12:43 [ r2d2rogers] fun huh? <G>
23:12:45 [ r2d2rogers] Yes
23:13:03 [ r2d2rogers] I need to get the booth staffing nailed down
23:13:11 [ Palintheus] I will be there all day
23:13:14 [ r2d2rogers] and number of team members who will attend...
23:13:23 [ ChrisULM] im there
23:13:23 [ r2d2rogers] I'm gonna do an email about it
23:13:32 [ Palintheus] k
23:13:32 [ r2d2rogers] so I can tally it up
23:13:43 [ r2d2rogers] as we seem to have schedule conflicts
23:13:51 [ fxef] count me in
23:13:52 [ diremonkey] I plan to be there all day, probably can get there around 7:30
23:14:01 ::: johndoc [n=johndoc@24.72.185.174] has joined #ubuntu-us-la
23:14:04 [ johndoc] ello
23:14:08 [ r2d2rogers] Hello johndoc
23:14:14 [ diremonkey] hi johndoc
23:14:21 [ ChrisULM] hey john
23:14:27 [ johndoc] ULM?!
23:14:39 [ johndoc] people at ulm use linux?
23:14:55 [ KevinYo] ;-)
23:14:58 [ r2d2rogers] I know he's in Monroe, I met him here today ;)
23:15:06 [ ChrisULM] .......dont start man
23:15:10 [ r2d2rogers] lol
23:15:12 [ diremonkey] well if google calendar would ever come up I'd see about when we wanted to schedule that
23:15:13 [ johndoc] i'm in monroe
23:15:28 [ r2d2rogers] do I know you johndoc ?
23:15:30 [ ChrisULM] figured you're a tech
23:15:36 [ johndoc] i don't know
23:15:39 [ johndoc] i go to LTC
23:15:39 [ ChrisULM] nevermind then
23:15:41 [ diremonkey] geez r2d2rogers, and why don't you have a lug again?   I think there are more people in monroe than the rest of us combined
23:15:43 [ r2d2rogers] c-tel?
23:15:55 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: still working on it
23:16:02 [ r2d2rogers] haven't setup a page yet
23:16:12 [ johndoc] r2d2rogers, i don't know if i know you
23:16:22 [ ChrisULM] it would be nice if we could have a meetup between monroe and ruston, only problem is theres nothing but woods between the two
23:16:24 [ johndoc] we've probably met or at least seen each other in passing
23:16:31 [ johndoc] and my school
23:16:38 [ johndoc] it's in west monroe/calhoun
23:16:57 [ droops] isnt there a truckstop between monroe and ruston
23:16:57 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: maybe alternating meets.
23:17:07 [ diremonkey] How does next thursday sound?
23:17:08 [ ChrisULM] pilot station, yeah
23:17:16 [ diremonkey] at least one if not more
23:17:20 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: for the hamfest meeting?
23:17:22 [ r2d2rogers] Good here
23:17:23 [ diremonkey] r2d2rogers: yes
23:17:32 [ diremonkey] or we could do another day of the week
23:17:38 [ Palintheus] this hamfest meeting needs to be early IMO, get about 90% of it all nailed down
23:17:45 [ johndoc] not wednesday
23:17:49 [ Palintheus] people start dropping late in the evening
23:17:57 [ r2d2rogers] johndoc: we were talking about the hamfest coming up in April
23:17:59 [ diremonkey] how early
23:18:01 [ diremonkey] 9?
23:18:07 [ johndoc] oh ok, my bad
23:18:15 [ johndoc] i thought we were talking about a lug
23:18:21 [ r2d2rogers] Lug to come soon
23:18:31 [ johndoc] just keep in mind, not wed.
23:18:32 [ johndoc] lol
23:18:42 [ Palintheus] I don't know...but Im thinking earlier in case it runs long or we need to hammer something down or research and not put it off
23:18:54 [ Palintheus] maybe even move it to a weekend for it...
23:18:55 [ diremonkey] good idea
23:19:05 [ r2d2rogers] hamfest meeting tuesday?
23:19:06 [ johndoc] so that's crazy that other linuxy people live in monroe
23:19:13 [ r2d2rogers] johndoc: yup
23:19:14 [ diremonkey] well I think we're going to end up having several
23:19:21 [ Palintheus] I know its hard but so we don't fail miserably Im thinking we need to do something besides these late meetings
23:19:21 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: right
23:19:22 [ ChrisULM] evidently there is a good bit of us
23:19:38 [ diremonkey] preaching to the choir
23:19:39 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: 4 pm?
23:19:43 [ r2d2rogers] work for some
23:19:46 [ r2d2rogers] ?
23:19:47 [ diremonkey] failing miserably ftl
23:19:57 [ droops] i know another one in monroe, he doesnt irc though
23:20:02 [ johndoc] i hate that i found out about this at such a bad time
23:20:13 [ r2d2rogers] how is it bad?
23:20:16 [ johndoc] i'm having some issues with a roommate, but i'll probably be back around in a little while
23:20:18 [ Palintheus] I realize work, which is why Isuggested weekend...
23:20:21  * johndoc is idle
23:20:26 [ droops] have fun with her johndoc
23:20:29 [ r2d2rogers] lol
23:20:32 [ boomer] ha
23:20:33 [ ChrisULM] hehe
23:20:37 [ droops] she works at hooters
23:20:38 [ johndoc] heh...glad you know the story droops
23:20:38 [ Palintheus] I can usually sneak out early anytime
23:20:45 [ johndoc] stfu droops
23:20:50 [ johndoc] what part of idle don't you get
23:20:52 [ r2d2rogers] LOL
23:20:53 [ droops] yes sir
23:20:55  * johndoc is -now- idle
23:21:09 [ r2d2rogers] Ok
23:21:19 [ r2d2rogers] I think we have material to go on for the hamfest
23:21:27 [ diremonkey] well some things can be taken care of between a few people not in meetings too
23:21:41 [ r2d2rogers] people who are getting flyers email me with mail info unless otherwise setup
23:21:45 [ droops] anything yall need me to do
23:21:55 [ ChrisULM] just make stickers
23:21:58 [ droops] and KevinYo and i are not going to be near each other this weekend
23:22:00 [ r2d2rogers] I need some help with the release party also
23:22:06 [ r2d2rogers] k
23:22:19 [ r2d2rogers] KevinYo: hit me up with mailing info in my gmail
23:22:39 [ KevinYo] ok
23:22:44 [ ChrisULM] r2d2rogers, still planning on having something at a restaurant or something for the release party?
23:22:50 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: yessir
23:22:55 [ Palintheus] IMHO.....just bothers me when stuff like this not being handled at least via IRC/ML, because it prevents others from knowing about it and prompts redudant quesions, Im guilty of of not keeping it in IRC/ML
23:23:03 [ michaelramm_mac] Palintheus, sry, was AFK....yes, I am doing a Fresh Ubuntu interview next week
23:23:18 [ Palintheus] michaelramm_mac: will it be released prior to the hamfest?
23:23:33 [ diremonkey] Palintheus: I was meaning like via irc during the day
23:23:39 [ Palintheus] diremonkey: gotcha
23:23:45 [ r2d2rogers] I would like to find a place that may not be packed on saturday nights so that we can have an easy to see impact on their business
23:23:50  * Palintheus assumed IM/PM...sorry
23:23:50 [ michaelramm_mac] I will be talking about GTD...i believe that it will be. Harlem turns them around pretty quickly
23:23:51 [ diremonkey] but I think ml would be good for this too
23:23:59 [ diremonkey] np
23:24:07 [ Palintheus] michaelramm_mac: any chance of a plug?
23:24:28 [ michaelramm_mac] I will make mention of the HamFest though...send me the link to the poster and I will gleen info from it
23:24:32 [ diremonkey] did we settle on next thursday or not?
23:24:42 [ r2d2rogers] I had talked to Hawg Wild near the Mall, but they seem to have a crowd on saturdays
23:24:48 [ r2d2rogers] tuesday
23:24:58 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: earlier in the week
23:25:03 [ diremonkey] what time?
23:25:05 [ ChrisULM] nearly all of the bigger places are packed on weekends
23:25:15 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: that's about what I see too
23:25:33 [ r2d2rogers] too bad I doubt R.J Gators would share $$ with us
23:25:36 [ diremonkey] well what time are we thinking the release party will be?  If its at an odd time there may be fewer people
23:25:44 [ ChrisULM] RJ's is out of business man
23:25:45 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: good point
23:25:49 [ ChrisULM] closed a month ago
23:25:53 [ r2d2rogers] ChrisULM: that's the point <G>
23:26:11 [ diremonkey] esp since the hamfest is until midafternoon
23:26:12 [ r2d2rogers] no business, special event... measureable impact
23:26:14 [ diremonkey] whatever time that is
23:26:22 [ r2d2rogers] diremonkey: yeah that's confusing too
23:26:36 [ ChrisULM] need to find someplace smaller like peegee's
23:26:46 [ r2d2rogers] if I didn't already know it's gonna be a long day I'd be tempted to tap FaceThePain on a lan party
23:26:48 [ ChrisULM] but maybe not that small/crowded
23:27:01 [ droops] bbl
23:27:02 [ Palintheus] r2d2rogers: oooo
23:27:07 [ Palintheus] Trem? ;)
23:27:08 [ r2d2rogers] heh
23:27:15 [ r2d2rogers] he's helped set them up
23:27:21 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: why not? <G>
23:27:26 [ Palintheus] \o/
23:27:36 [ r2d2rogers] maybe next release?
23:27:46 [ r2d2rogers] Intrepid
23:27:50 [ diremonkey] or just have it as a standalone event
23:27:57 [ r2d2rogers] ::nods;:
23:27:59 [ diremonkey] well I've got to get to bed
23:28:03 [ r2d2rogers] me too
23:28:18 [ r2d2rogers] hamdfest ideas churning
23:28:26 [ diremonkey] somebody put the meeting on the calendar and I'll be there if I can
23:28:26 [ r2d2rogers] hit my email or the ML
23:28:29 [ ChrisULM] later
23:28:30 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: on the order?
23:28:32 [ r2d2rogers] I will
23:28:38 [ r2d2rogers] or later?
23:28:52 [ Palintheus] looks like it will be pushed ;)
23:29:19 [ r2d2rogers] k
23:29:23 [ r2d2rogers] Meeting over
</pre>
