{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Active Projects ==

<nowiki>[[LouisianaTeam/Projects/MonroeHamFest|Monroe Ham Fest]]</nowiki> 

== Possible Projects ==

==== Shreveport PC User Group ====

fxef is a member of the Shreveport PC User Group.  They meet every third Thursday at LSUS at 7:00pm.  Attendence is about 25 to 30 people, all using Windows, with one exception.  

After gauging interest we would like to have a presentation and short Q&A session on Linux, Ubuntu and FOSS.  Meetings are usually 2 hours long.  Our presentation would need to be about an hour.  The membership is described as "non-geek retired people" so our presentation should be geared toward their interests.

Things to do:
* Create survey for the user group.
* Possibly schedule a weekend meeting so more LoCo members would be able to attend.
* Create presentation with benefits of Linux, Ubuntu, FOSS, example applications.  Maybe the install process.  Determine Length of presentation.  How long are meetings usually.

Things we need to know:
* Who will handle what
* 

==== Installfest ====

* Find suitable location
* Gather materials (install cds, fliers, etc)
* Contact other LUGs/LoCos to take advantage of their experience with previous installfests including what has and hasn't worked.

==== Recruiting ====

* Contact Louisiana LUGs
* Contact college's, starting with the IT organizations.

==== Ideas ====

* Ark-La-Tex Technology Expo
* Mini <nowiki>[[http://freedomtoaster.org/|Freedom Toaster]]</nowiki>
* LoCo forum/bug days including participation with larger community events
* Campaign to have major entertainment industry companies support Linux.  Think free episodes on network websites.
* shell script to use info from Launchpad to populate user info for shell.  Intent is giving Team members a standard setup for learning on IRC or sharing info.
* Small business setups
* Custom school distribution.  Have a live cd that is installable and will work with removable media.  Students will always be able to do their work as long as they have a free computer to use, the CD, and a flash drive.

==== Projects ====

'''Currently under discussion'''
This is a list of proposed projects / sub-teams for further development, listed in alphabetical order. Please add your name to the list as a member or contact the team leader if you would like to get involved. 

