{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Face to face meeting.
** Split north and south.
** North after the hamfest on Saturday April 26th, contact r2d2rogers
** South TBD Contact hfwilke
* Discussion on Funding
** Non-Profit status tabled pending further research
** [Action Item] Forum post and research into non-profit status and collection/handling of money
** Was agreed that some funding would be needed for some events.
* LoCo Team Bug Day
** macd was not available for details
* Newsletter
** wharp will put together a newletter with summary of activities and cross post it on the mailing list and forums.
** Submit items to wharp for the newsletter.
* Mailing List Update
** Admin access has been given to r2d2rogers
** Additional admins nominated and granted access, boomer, Robdgreat, and wharp
* Hamfest http://www.ares-nela.org/hamfest/
** Setup is Friday April 25th from 1pm till 7pm
** Fest is Saturday April 26th from 8am till midafternoon
** Booth details
** Staffing - three people at a time, one for each table in the booth, in shifts.
** Demo Machines, planned at 2 laptops per table for a total of 6.
** Possible computer for burning additional/different disks
** 400 discs of Hardy Heron, if there is no delay in release, will be available to hand out.
** Flyers, Stickers, and Possibly demo loaner laptops to be provided by System76
** Conference Pack ordered from Canonical; Conference Pack B for Non-Approved LoCo Teams
** Costs
*** Tables @ $10 is $30
*** Electricity is $10
*** Entry fee for the Hamfest is $5 per person
*** 400 Hardy CD's burned for 25- 40 cents per disc [ACTION ITEM: r2d2rogers] Find out cost on CD-R's
** r2d2rogers will be attending the next Ham Club meeting to make contact with hams who are already interested in linux to see if we can get a partner in the Ham related Demos
** Several LoCo Members expressed interest in getting a Ham license.
** People wanting to help at the hamfest need to sign up on the project page at FIXME
** Hamfest team meeting TBD
* Call for subteam participation
* General Team contact email to be setup
** Some discussion of domain name for when the team is approved.
* Business cards discussed and added to Hamfest tasks
