{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
21:02:08 [ axxium] Thanks to the kind people that filled the wiki here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisianaTeam/Meetings
21:02:18 [ axxium] I'll follow though that to get started
21:02:22 [ axxium] :)
21:02:27 [ wharp] get started, lol
21:02:33 [ axxium] lol
21:02:58 [ axxium] Regular meeting times: Does this pertain to dates?
21:03:04 [ axxium] As in how often?
21:03:06 [ Palintheus] and rough times
21:03:11 [ wharp] yes
21:03:14 [ r2d2rogers] yup
21:03:26 [ wharp] I think we should have a set day.  Say third Tuesday or something like that
21:03:31 [ wharp] Then its always the same
21:03:35 [ Palintheus] +1
21:03:41 [ wharp] We don't have to continually discuss when the meeting will be.
21:03:41 [ hfwilke] +1
21:03:44 [ YoMedi1] +1
21:03:45 [ axxium] I feel every 2 weeks on Thursday
21:03:48 [ r2d2rogers] did we like monthly or twice monthly?
21:03:52 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: +1
21:03:54 [ wharp] I think twice monthly
21:03:59 [ Palintheus] 2/mo
21:04:12 [ r2d2rogers] and different times between the two?
21:04:21 [ Palintheus] I think that would cause confusion
21:04:23 [ wharp] Yeah, different times/days would be good I think
21:04:36 [ axxium] Starting from today someone can write in the meetings for the remainder of the year.
21:04:45 [ r2d2rogers] just make it recurring
21:04:48 [ r2d2rogers] easy
21:04:53 [ axxium] What times are better for some? Earlier or later?
21:04:55 [ wharp] You don't think it would make it more flexible for those who have an obligation for that one day?
21:04:58 [ Palintheus] later
21:05:01 [ ChrisULM] later
21:05:04 [ r2d2rogers] later
21:05:08 [ wharp] define later
21:05:10 [ Palintheus] wharp: true
21:05:16 [ axxium] 11? 10?
21:05:17 [ r2d2rogers] I know Boomer is at work right now
21:05:18 [ YoMedi1] around this time?
21:05:20 [ ChrisULM] > 8 o'clock
21:05:22 [ Palintheus] say alternate tues and thurs?
21:05:22 [ kepardue] 9:00?
21:05:33 [ Palintheus] 9 or later
21:05:34 [ wharp] I think 9 is a good time
21:05:44 [ kepardue] seems to have worked pretty well for this meeting.
21:05:52 [ fxef] I like 9
21:05:52 [ r2d2rogers] 9 was a compromise, but It hink it's the better one
21:06:01 [ hfwilke] 9
21:06:19 [ r2d2rogers] sounds like we have lots for it
21:06:24 [ r2d2rogers] any against that?
21:06:34 [ wharp] So do we want 9 for both meetings? Or one at 9, one later?
21:06:38 [ axxium] I think the base time should be 9. However we should have at least one meeting a month to accommodate the night owls.
21:06:39 [ Palintheus] nope....one ? same day or alternating?
21:06:46 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: +1
21:06:54 [ wharp] axxium: +1
21:06:54 [ Palintheus] like boom
21:06:57 [ Palintheus] +1
21:07:06 [ r2d2rogers] eariler in the month the 9pm time
21:07:06 [ axxium] How late is ok for Boom?
21:07:18 [ r2d2rogers] later in the month 10 or later?
21:07:21 [ Palintheus] he is usually on a bit after 10
21:07:28 [ Palintheus] I think anyway
21:07:33  * Palintheus checks scroll
21:07:49 [ axxium] How about 1st Thurs 9 next on 10 and vice versa?
21:08:17 [ wharp] 1st Thursday of the month?
21:08:19 [ r2d2rogers] 1st thurs 9pm 3rd 10 or so?
21:08:22 [ kepardue] sounds good to me.
21:08:27 [ ChrisULM] that works
21:08:29 [ r2d2rogers] 3rd thursday 10 or so I mean
21:08:32 [ r2d2rogers] k
21:08:34 [ wharp] +1
21:08:36 [ YoMedi1] cool wit me
21:08:38 [ hfwilke] r2d2rogers, +1
21:08:40 [ r2d2rogers] I can set the calendar like that
21:08:57 [ axxium] Let's make this happen and see how it works for a few months
21:09:02 [ wharp] agreed
21:09:03 [ axxium] r2d2rogers, go for it
21:09:08 [ fxef] send email reminder
21:09:22 [ Palintheus] please
21:09:28 [ axxium] email reminder to ML is great idea
21:09:34 [ wharp] speaking of
21:09:43 [ r2d2rogers] [ACTION ITEM: r2d2rogers] Set calendar for meetings 1st thursday at 9pm 3rd thursday at 10:15pm
21:09:43 [ wharp] We need to make sure everyone is signed up for the ML
21:09:59 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: +1
21:10:04 [ wharp] which goes along with the next item
21:10:23 [ axxium] Who can trace forums names to send P.M.s? Another method perhaps?
21:10:41 [ r2d2rogers] I have almost everyone's email
21:10:43 [ Palintheus] forum names aren't well documented for the entire team
21:10:51 [ r2d2rogers] jakamo is the only one I don't have
21:10:58 [ r2d2rogers] some I have some question about
21:11:05 [ r2d2rogers] but most are correct
21:11:14 [ r2d2rogers] did anyone here Not get a meeting invite?
21:11:18 [ axxium] I'm just wondering how to contact them. Since r2d2rogers has most email addr that will help
21:11:44 [ axxium] Discuss single points of failure
21:11:44 [ axxium]    1.
21:11:44 [ axxium]       IRC
21:12:14 [ axxium] The point of failure in IRC is perhaps too few people with the ability to manage the channel
21:12:19 [ wharp] As a whole, we just need to make sure we're not dependent on one person to handle everything.
21:12:22 [ axxium] Correct?
21:12:22 [ Palintheus] topic mainly yes
21:12:26 [ r2d2rogers] how many managers would be good?
21:12:29 [ wharp] Its really the same issue for all the resources
21:12:31 [ Palintheus] imo 3-4
21:12:53 [ wharp] It doesn't need to be half the group, but I'd prefer if we were "self sufficient"
21:12:54 [ r2d2rogers] right now we have axxium and hfwilke ?
21:13:00 [ r2d2rogers] ::nods::
21:13:07 [ axxium] I feel as a trial, perhaps one person from each major area.
21:13:14 [ Palintheus] right I think it would be best not to rely on vorian and freenode staggers
21:13:17 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: +1
21:13:18 [ wharp] define major area
21:13:22 [ Palintheus] *staffers
21:13:24 [ axxium] as we eventually will have more local locos
21:13:25 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: +1
21:13:58 [ r2d2rogers] I'd suggest adding Palintheus  and wharp
21:14:01 [ axxium] Say the Greater N.O. area, The Monroe area. Wherever we start getting more than 1 person
21:14:11 [ Palintheus] tnx r2d2rogers 
21:14:19 [ r2d2rogers] monroe is doing better, I think we are up to 4+
21:14:37 [ wharp] Well I would suggest r2d2rogers.  There are more people in North LA.
21:14:40 [ axxium] aye for Palintheus
21:14:46 [ kepardue] wharp, is there anyone else from cenla besides me and you?
21:14:54 [ axxium] I say Palintheus and r2d2rogers
21:14:57 [ wharp] Unless they havent spoken up, no
21:15:01 [ hfwilke] +1 on Palintheus
21:15:02 [ Palintheus] tnx axxium 
21:15:04 [ Palintheus] tnx hfwilke 
21:15:07 [ wharp] axxium +1
21:15:18 [ YoMedi1] kepardue: Define central La
21:15:30 [ r2d2rogers] thanks wharp, axxium
21:15:43 [ wharp] Alexandria, Pineville, Ball, etc
21:15:47 [ kepardue] rapides parish, up to natchitchoes and down to marksville, maybe?
21:15:48 [ wharp] Marksville
21:15:59 [ YoMedi1] OK, never mind
21:16:02 [ wharp] middle of the state
21:16:03 [ axxium] I'm going to assign the new levels momentarily
21:16:35 [ axxium] LP admin item 2
21:16:42 [ wharp] I think it would be simplest to have the same people have permissions to all the resources so its not confusing as to who has what permissions where.
21:17:22 [ axxium] Palintheus and r2d2rogers are now level 10
21:17:28 [ r2d2rogers] thanks axxium
21:17:43 [ axxium] Back to LP
21:17:44 [ Palintheus] tnx axxium and LoCo
21:17:48 [ axxium] your welcome r2d2rogers
21:18:08 [ axxium] I'm going to have to look into how to give another person access
21:18:15 [ Robdgreat] congrats Trey and Rob
21:18:32 [ wharp] Ok
21:18:39 [ Palintheus] axxium: let me check on the OK teams I have admin there
21:18:46 [ axxium] np
21:19:05 [ axxium] I will grant another access if possible (it should be)
21:19:07 [ Palintheus] I got it
21:19:10 [ r2d2rogers] not to jump too far ahead, but I think we are waiting on a response or for a ticket to not error out for the ML admin right?
21:19:24 [ Palintheus] you can create add 1+ admins
21:19:30 [ wharp] Yes.  I resent the email and haven't gotten it bounced back yet
21:19:42 [ wharp] so cross your fingers
21:19:48 [ axxium] r2d2rogers, what is that about?
21:19:53 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: wharp has been doing a great job on heading that up
21:19:54 [ wharp] Ownership of the ML
21:20:02 [ Palintheus] with the amount of work done by wharp I think he could handle the ML or LP
21:20:03 [ wharp] It's still listed as speed being the admin
21:20:10 [ r2d2rogers] getting ML admin assigned to you
21:20:15 [ axxium] I see wharp is all over the place. Great work wharp
21:20:16 [ axxium] :)
21:20:19 [ wharp] lol
21:20:23 [ wharp] tnx
21:20:27 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: +1
21:20:37 [ r2d2rogers] I suggest wharp for the LP second
21:20:38 [ axxium] Speed?
21:20:41 [ axxium] Oh my
21:20:44 [ r2d2rogers] yeah
21:20:58 [ r2d2rogers] he had mentioned trying to attend the meetin from what I understand
21:20:58 [ Palintheus] He stated he was going to make the meeting, guess something came up
21:21:01 [ wharp] Not that I don't appreciate it.  BUt I think that whoever has admin for the LP should be the same people who have admin on IRC and forum
21:21:07 [ axxium] Remind me to get invloved with that in the morning.
21:21:16 [ wharp] What's that axxium?
21:21:18 [ r2d2rogers] axxium:  wilco
21:21:20 [ r2d2rogers] the ML
21:21:26 [ Palintheus] axxium: if you were in channel more ;)
21:21:32 [ axxium] Remind me to send an email to edit the ML admin
21:21:41 [ axxium] Palintheus, you suxxorz
21:21:41 [ wharp] I've send the ticket in so now its really just a waiting game.
21:21:43 [ axxium] jj
21:22:08 [ wharp] And apparently a long waiting game.  The tickets are backlogged and may take several weeks.
21:22:09 [ Palintheus] ;)
21:22:17 [ Palintheus] s/weeks/months
21:22:23 [ wharp] Right
21:22:25 [ axxium] So we cannot do anything about that then.
21:22:31 [ r2d2rogers] apparently there are plans to move the ML's into LP
21:22:46 [ Palintheus] yup but how far into the future....
21:22:53 [ axxium] Well as long as some one is on top of it we are perfect
21:23:12 [ axxium] And wharp is all over the place
21:23:15 [ axxium] :D
21:23:21 [ wharp] lol
21:23:30 [ axxium] Ok then, the forums...
21:23:31 [ r2d2rogers] last there is the forums
21:23:42 [ axxium] We need another moderator?
21:23:48 [ axxium] What is wrong?
21:23:57 [ Palintheus] post sticky info about meetings etc
21:23:57 [ r2d2rogers] I think that's more for future?
21:24:04 [ Palintheus] s/info/threads
21:24:04 [ r2d2rogers] ::nods::
21:24:06 [ wharp] Right to both
21:24:09 [ r2d2rogers] edit closed threads
21:24:16 [ Palintheus] I think vorian is the contact to get that done
21:24:21 [ axxium] Palintheus, yes
21:24:30 [ r2d2rogers] this channel is listed wrong in the stick
21:24:30 [ axxium] I can speak for someone
21:24:48 [ axxium] I'm also a bit liimited as a moderator and not a forum admin
21:25:17 [ axxium] About the stickies... any sugeestions?
21:25:38 [ r2d2rogers] we can draft them on the wiki
21:25:43 [ wharp] r2d2rogers: +1
21:25:46 [ Palintheus] well I think it should be used most(the forum) since they look at that when approving teams
21:26:07 [ axxium] Palintheus, I can believe that (it's easier)
21:26:39 [ r2d2rogers] some forum topic suggestions would be nice
21:26:40 [ Palintheus] mainly forum and ML from what Ive seen and both are kinda dead atm
21:26:49 [ axxium] Yes
21:26:58 [ axxium] But that can change :)
21:27:02 [ wharp] well hopefully that will change once things get rolling
21:27:02 [ r2d2rogers] maybe involve team members who can't make the IRC channel that way
21:27:08 [ Palintheus] I think that is the key to getting others involved
21:27:10 [ Palintheus] wharp: +1
21:27:26 [ wharp] r2d2rogers: +1
21:27:30 [ axxium] Keeping people active keeps them interested (or the other way around)
21:28:08 [ axxium] Looks like the stickies may be abbrv versions of the wiki?
21:28:17 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: +1
21:28:48 [ r2d2rogers] just need another mod or two to help keep the stickies up to date IMO
21:29:37 [ axxium] Within a week I plan to get another mod.
21:29:58 [ wharp] Ok.  Next item then?
21:30:00 [ r2d2rogers] I'm happy with the Points of failure topic at this point.
21:30:04 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: +1
21:30:16 [ kepardue] +1
21:30:29 [ Palintheus] yup
21:30:47 [ YoMedi1] Sounds good
21:31:09 [ axxium] Let's get the ugly out of the way and then come back
21:31:33 [ axxium] Member retention
21:31:54 [ wharp] Well I think that's a larger issue.  We need to be actively pulling in the new members.
21:31:55 [ axxium] Maybe that can be seen as cleaning out inactive members as well as trying to get them active?
21:32:26 [ r2d2rogers] I know Palintheus had the expiration setting discussion in OK
21:32:35 [ Palintheus] yup
21:32:39 [ r2d2rogers] what time frame would we want to do that?
21:32:44 [ Palintheus] something like 18mos+
21:32:45 [ axxium] I've only kicked one so far
21:32:48 [ wharp] Well I really hate to just start kickign people out
21:32:55 [ Palintheus] wharp: +5
21:33:06 [ r2d2rogers] It might be better to try the welcome/mentor type approach first
21:33:09 [ wharp] That could get real ugly real quick
21:33:12 [ wharp] r2d2rogers: +1
21:33:18 [ Palintheus] exactly
21:33:25 [ r2d2rogers] do we know if we have any Ubuntu Members in the team yet?
21:33:25 [ wharp] I think a new member team would be a good idea for that
21:33:26 [ axxium] I agree.
21:33:41 [ r2d2rogers] I know some have mentioned wanting to get to MOTU
21:33:50 [ Palintheus] r2d2rogers: not that I know of, and yes on the MOTU
21:33:52 [ wharp] was it macd?
21:33:55 [ Palintheus] I think macd was
21:33:57 [ r2d2rogers] he's one
21:34:06 [ Palintheus] but he is moving to CA....which is another point
21:34:09 [ r2d2rogers] who was pursuing MOTU at least
21:34:10 [ wharp] right
21:34:10 [ r2d2rogers] yeha
21:34:18 [ axxium] Off topic... Is someone going to edit the wiki to show who's addressing what topics?
21:34:23 [ Palintheus] wilco
21:34:29 [ r2d2rogers] Log good for that
21:34:33 [ axxium] :P
21:34:37 [ Palintheus] or that
21:34:40 [ r2d2rogers] editing the wiki realtime is tough
21:34:45 [ Palintheus] as we learned
21:34:46 [ wharp] yeah
21:34:47 [ r2d2rogers] that's what the minutes will be
21:34:59 [ axxium] r2d2rogers, that's great
21:35:01 [ r2d2rogers] action items and discussion summary
21:35:19 [ axxium] easier reading than a log
21:35:23 [ r2d2rogers] ::nods::
21:35:26 [ wharp] Ok, so we're thinking new member team.  Is there any other discussion needed, or should we try that and see how it goes?
21:35:33 [ r2d2rogers] better for finding which log to read
21:36:09 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: I'd say call for volunteers who feel comfortable welcoming and help new team members
21:36:22 [ wharp] Ok
21:36:28 [ wharp] Volunteers?
21:36:33 [ r2d2rogers] make a wiki page for the NewMemberSubTeam
21:36:37 [ axxium] wharp, the entire team needs to do that but having a small group could help.
21:36:37 [ Palintheus] hwilke, Robdgreat ?
21:36:48 [ hwilke] me?
21:36:53 [ Palintheus] kepardue, jakamo bobradarbob ?
21:37:12 [ axxium] hfwilke, offer them mint icecream. That'l get them running
21:37:20 [ Palintheus] YoMedi1: ?
21:37:26 [ hwilke] lol
21:37:28 [ r2d2rogers] I'm up for it, but I find meself doing a bit more meta stuff in getting the connections going
21:37:32 [ YoMedi1] I'm willing to help (this post unrelated to the mint ice cream offer ;))
21:37:38 [ axxium] lol
21:37:50 [ kepardue] yeah, i'm definitely for helping however i can.
21:37:51 [ wharp] Well, nobody needs to make a commitment tonight.
21:37:59 [ wharp] As long as its followed up on.
21:38:02 [ Palintheus] right
21:38:11 [ Palintheus] just getting people active ;)
21:38:19 [ hwilke] sorry i'm distracted
21:38:19 [ r2d2rogers] It will be an item on the Minutes and I volunteer to get those typed up and posted
21:38:22 [ Palintheus] np
21:38:24 [ hwilke] i'm helping w/ snack
21:38:29 [ wharp] Thanks r2d2rogers
21:38:36 [ r2d2rogers]  and people can sign up like on the wiki sub team
21:38:37 [ Palintheus] r2d2rogers: tnx
21:38:55 [ axxium] Forgive me but have we started a small section (bottom of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisianaTeam ) so we can build from there.
21:39:05 [ r2d2rogers] ::nods::
21:39:06 [ axxium] And list the members?
21:39:14 [ r2d2rogers] see the wiki one
21:39:15 [ r2d2rogers] yes
21:39:17 [ axxium] Is a LP group needed?
21:39:26 [ wharp] I don't think so
21:39:38 [ r2d2rogers] not at this time
21:39:39 [ axxium] Me either
21:39:43 [ wharp] simple is better
21:40:01 [ r2d2rogers] we'll split to city and area loco's before we get that bit I think
21:40:09 [ r2d2rogers] bi
21:40:12 [ r2d2rogers] big
21:40:18 [ r2d2rogers] typing pwns me again
21:40:21 [ wharp] yep
21:40:30 [ wharp] Ok, so along the same lines, members who move out of state.
21:40:40 [ axxium] The web team so far is I and r2d2rogers so that page is ready to be edited
21:40:49 [ Palintheus] and those already out of state ;)
21:40:50 [ r2d2rogers] ::nods:::
21:40:59 [ wharp] We discussed keeping them involved if they don't join another loco.
21:41:11 [ wharp] and if they do.
21:41:28 [ wharp] Discussion?
21:41:33 [ r2d2rogers] WirelessMike mentioned staying in our team for a bit, but at the same time he hasn't participated much so far
21:41:33 [ Palintheus] I think that is dependent on the member and what they want to do
21:41:39 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: +1
21:41:53 [ hwilke] Palintheus, seems to participate in multiple teams just fine
21:42:01 [ Palintheus] well one is near dead
21:42:04 [ wharp] Right, but some may not want to.
21:42:08 [ Palintheus] trying to resurrect it
21:42:20 [ wharp] undead LoCo?
21:42:26 [ r2d2rogers] Lol
21:42:35 [ axxium] Keeping people active means we need to see what people can/like/want to do.
21:42:41 [ Palintheus] If they don't move them to inactive, but still invite to IRC, etc....keep them welcome
21:42:57 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: I think that should be part of the new member team's process
21:43:04 [ axxium] yes
21:43:12 [ wharp] r2d2rogers: +1
21:43:44 [ axxium] The oos people can still offer IRC and Forum support
21:43:52 [ Palintheus] :)
21:44:05 [ axxium] Palintheus, I agree
21:44:33 [ r2d2rogers] so for now the Member retention will be part of the NewMember team's tasking
21:44:36 [ r2d2rogers] ?
21:44:45 [ wharp] yes
21:44:55 [ kepardue] makes sense
21:44:56 [ axxium] Yes, but no one gets kicked without a vote
21:45:02 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: +1
21:45:02 [ Palintheus] +100
21:45:10 [ YoMedi1] Agree
21:45:14 [ wharp] +1
21:45:15 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: only one vote in a meeting!
21:45:17 [ r2d2rogers] ;)
21:45:19 [ Palintheus] awww
21:45:21 [ axxium] haha
21:45:37 [ r2d2rogers] you can who's line it other times ;)
21:45:37 [ Palintheus] -99
21:45:38 [ axxium] Palintheus, you can give unlimited in private chat ;)
21:45:59 [ wharp] So next item?
21:46:00 [ r2d2rogers] so clear on member retention?
21:46:04 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: +1
21:46:20 [ axxium] OK I skipped goals.
21:46:28 [ axxium] That' a BIG subject
21:46:31 [ r2d2rogers] Yup
21:46:51 [ axxium] I think official status was disscussed from day1
21:46:52 [ wharp] right, and we don't need to talk about all of our goals.
21:46:53 [ Palintheus] I think thats pretty but and dry just making sure everyone is on the same page about the reqs, road map....
21:47:01 [ Palintheus] s/but/cut
21:47:10 [ axxium] cut but? ouch
21:47:13 [ Palintheus] typ0nwd
21:47:31 [ wharp] Well, to encompass the enter topic of goals, we need to draw up a Plan of Action
21:47:34 [ r2d2rogers] I'd like to get that Checklist populated (the link on progress in the agenda)
21:47:47 [ r2d2rogers] wharp is that part fo the todo page?
21:47:57 [ axxium] wharp, I agree. We had started something somewhere
21:48:19 [ wharp] an example: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/POA
21:48:21 [ wharp] I'm not sure
21:48:24 [ r2d2rogers] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisianaTeam/ToDo
21:48:27 [ r2d2rogers] top item
21:48:27 [ r2d2rogers] ;)
21:48:38 [ wharp] Yes it is.
21:48:45 [ wharp] It needs to be given priority though.
21:48:48 [ axxium] For sure we need a strong wiki team
21:48:55 [ r2d2rogers] ::nods::
21:48:58 [ wharp] hey now
21:49:04 [ axxium] I think everyone can type?
21:49:05 [ Palintheus] that reminds me I forgot about getting that table done....will do post-meeting
21:49:56 [ wharp] Well everyone needs to be involved in the wiki
21:49:57 [ axxium] How about we expand in the wiki a list of teams needed and go from there with volunteers?
21:50:00 [ Palintheus] axxium: true, but having 22 people manage the wiki seems kinda hard
21:50:09 [ wharp] I have a short list started
21:50:10 [ Palintheus] wharp: ^
21:50:23 [ axxium] wharp, in the wiki?
21:50:24 [ r2d2rogers] I think we have some work to do to clarify current activities, but part of whaht i'd like to see in this area(Goals) is ideas from the team as a whole
21:50:39 [ wharp] NOt sure.
21:50:45 [ Palintheus] I think we can take ideas from the forum or ML and get them into the wiki, expanded and with more info
21:51:08 [ r2d2rogers] teams so far: Web Wiki NewMember
21:51:19 [ axxium] Start with things we can do in the next 6 months
21:51:27 [ Palintheus] that way everyone can contribute, but only a few are handling the editing which would be easier to track issues/changes/needed
21:51:28 [ wharp] THe wiki team should just make sure the wiki is working properly, check for errors.  We should do content as well, but everyone should do content
21:51:34 [ r2d2rogers] [ACTION ITEM
21:51:36 [ r2d2rogers] ?
21:51:38 [ Palintheus] fail
21:51:41 [ r2d2rogers] yeah
21:52:00 [ axxium] If someone sees an error in the wiki...should they contact the wiki team?
21:52:10 [ r2d2rogers] not necesarily
21:52:11 [ Palintheus] on tables yes....;)
21:52:19 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: +!
21:52:19 [ Palintheus] tables == hell
21:52:21 [ r2d2rogers] +1
21:52:25 [ r2d2rogers] yeah
21:52:28 [ r2d2rogers] I have to agree there
21:52:43 [ Robdgreat] tables ftl
21:52:47 [ r2d2rogers] but the wiki team is subscribed to changes on the team pages
21:52:49 [ Palintheus] not so much on agendas etc
21:52:58 [ axxium] When can we get the list of teams needed ready?
21:53:17 [ wharp] well I've got: recruiting, marketing, wiki, web, events, and new member
21:53:17 [ r2d2rogers] Monday?
21:53:18 [ axxium] Perhaps at next meeting we can get the names of volunteers for those teams?
21:53:36 [ wharp] axxium: +1
21:53:42 [ Palintheus] +1
21:53:47 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: +1
21:54:03 [ axxium] Create the list. Post in forum and ML if possible looking for volunteers.
21:54:13 [ axxium] Perhaps wiki as well.
21:54:18 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: +1
21:54:19 [ axxium] Make it easy to find
21:54:21 [ r2d2rogers] all three
21:54:31 [ axxium] I will include it on our website asap
21:54:36 [ r2d2rogers] list teams on the front page
21:55:08 [ wharp] Ok.  If anyone has an idea for a needed team, should we make a page on the wiki where you can put them?
21:55:21 [ Palintheus] and Ideas page...or should that be in the forum/ML
21:55:29 [ wharp] forum topic
21:55:34 [ Palintheus] +1
21:55:37 [ r2d2rogers] forum...
21:55:37 [ wharp] I think that's a better idea
21:55:54 [ r2d2rogers] Needed pages is already a part of the WikiTeam page
21:56:03 [ axxium] Something like a requests post?
21:56:11 [ r2d2rogers] they should be added there with a line of description
21:56:18 [ Palintheus] yeah or Ideas for the Wiki/Web Site, or anything else
21:56:40 [ wharp] Sounds good
21:56:46 [ r2d2rogers] I check the forum daily for new posts (at least week days)
21:56:52 [ Palintheus] Im rss'd to it
21:56:59 [ wharp] I jsut subscribbed via email.
21:57:11 [ Palintheus] wharp: fyi it takes a while to get the email
21:57:11 [ axxium] 5 mins... I would like to briefly discuss personal meetings
21:57:16 [ r2d2rogers] yeah I stopped trusting that when I realized new posts in an old topic doesn't rss
21:57:17 [ wharp] True
21:57:20 [ axxium] A few of us met before last year
21:57:26 [ axxium] Was fun
21:57:28 [ axxium] :)
21:57:32 [ Palintheus] I plan to make one
21:57:35 [ r2d2rogers] heh *few*
21:57:35 [ Palintheus] s/plan/hope
21:57:40 [ axxium] I still did not post the pics...:P
21:57:56 [ wharp] Before we move to that, I'd like to mention signign the Code of Conduct
21:58:01 [ r2d2rogers] we on #5 now?
21:58:05 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: +1
21:58:17 [ Palintheus] wharp: agree
21:58:26 [ r2d2rogers] GPG keys, fun but confusing,
21:58:28 [ axxium] That is a prerequisite
21:58:42 [ wharp] http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct
21:58:43 [ Palintheus] wharp: how many did we count 7? that had signed?
21:58:45 [ r2d2rogers] If you haven't signed a code of conduct, ask any of us who have
21:58:50 [ axxium] Make a forum sticky step by step with that
21:58:57 [ r2d2rogers] axxium: +1
21:59:01 [ Palintheus] mirrored to the wiki
21:59:11 [ wharp] Its not hard, but it does take a bit to setup.  So instructions would be a good idea.
21:59:19 [ axxium] Should be in our about post
21:59:21 [ Palintheus] that way it cuts down on 'i can't find it'
21:59:23 [ axxium] or a link to it
21:59:33 [ axxium] and wiki and website
21:59:37 [ axxium] :)
21:59:44 [ wharp] right, but if anyone still needs help, several of us in IRC should be able to help
21:59:48 [ Palintheus] yeah
21:59:52 [ Palintheus] axxium: +1
21:59:54 [ Palintheus] wharp: +1
21:59:55 [ axxium] true
22:00:04 [ wharp] SO everybody out there lurking, check out the Code of Conduct and see about signing it!
22:00:14 [ axxium] :)
22:00:15 [ kepardue] lol, will do
22:00:31 [ axxium] wharp, +1.01
22:00:37 [ axxium] is that legal?
22:00:55 [ wharp] Ok, now moving on..
22:00:55 [ YoMedi1] No problem
22:01:06 [ wharp] ?
22:01:15 ::: ATDT [n=trey@unaffiliated/palintheus/bot/atdt] has joined #ubuntu-us-la
22:01:15 [ wharp] lol
22:01:23 [ wharp] ACHMED!
22:01:27 [ Palintheus] just prepping
22:01:31 [ wharp] lol
22:01:33 [ r2d2rogers] <G>
22:01:36 [ wharp] so f2f meetings....
22:01:44 [ axxium] yes
22:01:44 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: +1
22:01:52 [ r2d2rogers] Rotate locations Quarterly?
22:01:59 [ r2d2rogers] we're due for one this quarter
22:02:03 [ axxium] We mentioned B.R. in March as a group last time
22:02:10 [ wharp] Is quarterly a good schedule for everyone?
22:02:13 [ axxium] Quarterly is good
22:02:16 [ wharp] or rather frequency
22:02:16 [ YoMedi1] Cool.
22:02:24 [ Palintheus] *cough* Monroe *cough*
22:02:27 [ axxium] lol
22:02:36 [ Palintheus] shorter drive
22:02:42 [ axxium] What;s in Monroe? don;t shoot!
22:02:44 [ wharp] Well there's a reason they call it Central Louisiana....
22:02:46 [ Palintheus] if I convince $WIFE
22:02:56 [ wharp] wow, wife is a variable?
22:03:00 [ Palintheus] sure
22:03:03 [ Palintheus] why not
22:03:10 [ Palintheus] not everyone knows her name
22:03:17 [ axxium] My wife made the last one :)
22:03:17 [ wharp] ah
22:03:17 [ Palintheus] meh
22:03:34 [ hwilke] in br mine will make it...past that, nope
22:03:39 [ wharp] So do we want to try setting a date tonight, or have our not-yet-formed events team do that?
22:04:07 [ axxium] wharp, we can't, but we need to start by next meeting
22:04:15 [ r2d2rogers] location, then date
22:04:23 [ axxium] Picking a place was HARD last time
22:04:30 [ r2d2rogers] location determine's travel time
22:04:35 [ wharp] reason?
22:04:39 [ r2d2rogers] which changes date issues
22:04:42 [ wharp] I thought we'd said B.R.?
22:04:52 [ axxium] We committed to B.R.
22:05:01 [ Palintheus] brb
22:05:07 [ r2d2rogers] the building in BR was the hard
22:05:11 [ wharp] ah
22:05:31 [ wharp] Are we talking resturant, conference room?
22:05:52 [ axxium] The meetings are mostly meet greet and eat
22:05:54 [ r2d2rogers] depends on social v.s. conference type meetup
22:06:00 [ r2d2rogers] right
22:06:11 [ Palintheus] and gpg signing
22:06:22 [ r2d2rogers] I'd suggest sticking with social for another meetup or two
22:06:24 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: +1
22:06:29 [ axxium] Once we get regular groupings we can get technical and in with the public
22:06:29 [ wharp] r2d2rogers: +1
22:06:31 [ YoMedi1] Yeah...
22:06:52 [ r2d2rogers] so BR again or different?
22:07:13 [ r2d2rogers] and the after meal time was a good thing I hear?
22:07:26 [ axxium] Good for me, a short drive
22:07:28 [ axxium] :)
22:07:30 [ r2d2rogers] I was of course driving back to Monroe at that point
22:07:34 [ wharp] I'd suggest an early afternoon
22:08:00 [ YoMedi1] BR works for me :)
22:08:16 [ axxium] If we're going to eat and consider B.R. traffic...
22:08:23 [ axxium] Something we need to discuss
22:08:38 [ wharp] well that's a discussion for those familiar with the area
22:08:45 [ YoMedi1] axxium: Don't get me started on traffic ... :(
22:08:49 [ axxium] That was a problem last time :)
22:08:56 [ r2d2rogers] say yes, we want one shortly, within a month...
22:09:10 [ r2d2rogers] open the location discussion to the ML and forums?
22:09:11 [ axxium] r2d2rogers, say yes to what?
22:09:12 [ wharp] Ok, shoot for early march?
22:09:25 [ axxium] March is release party
22:09:28 [ axxium] 17th?
22:09:32 [ Palintheus] could combine
22:09:35 [ r2d2rogers] wow
22:09:37 [ r2d2rogers] release?
22:09:39 [ Palintheus] HH
22:09:41 [ r2d2rogers] already bee 6 mos?
22:09:46 [ Palintheus] close
22:09:46 [ axxium] yes
22:09:46 [ r2d2rogers] fast
22:09:47 [ wharp] lol
22:09:49 [ YoMedi1] Isn't Ubuntu in April?
22:09:53 [ YoMedi1] The releases?
22:10:00 [ Palintheus] yeah think so
22:10:07 [ Palintheus] 8.04
22:10:09 [ Palintheus] so yeah
22:10:15 [ Palintheus] Y.MM
22:10:16 [ wharp] I think it would be too much to have two that close together
22:10:57 [ Palintheus] yeah
22:11:14 [ wharp] So we just need to plan the release party.
22:11:17 [ r2d2rogers] delay till release or?
22:11:21 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: +1
22:11:27 [ wharp] Ok.
22:11:32 [ wharp] next item then?
22:11:36 [ Palintheus] +1 on delay
22:12:17 [ r2d2rogers] Project/task management?
22:12:23 [ axxium] yes
22:12:29 [ wharp] What features do we need in this app?
22:12:53 [ r2d2rogers] assigning items
22:13:11 [ r2d2rogers] multiple people can complete an item
22:13:21 [ wharp] Perhaps we should just do a forum post for this discussion?
22:13:24 [ r2d2rogers] multiple projects
22:13:32 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: +1
22:14:00 [ r2d2rogers] I really would like to see more input so that's a good idea
22:14:06 [ hfwilke] i hate windows
22:14:12 [ YoMedi1] ;)
22:14:13 [ r2d2rogers] hfwilke: +500
22:14:17 [ Palintheus] hey now
22:14:19 [ Palintheus] so like bugs in LP, but for projects?
22:14:28 [ axxium] What's wrong with windows? They let in fresh air.
22:14:28 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: right
22:14:44 [ hfwilke] and have blue screens
22:15:01 [ axxium] The screens are to keep out the bugs hfwilke
22:15:39 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: I think we are down to some ACHMED time <G>
22:15:45 [ ATDT] ME?!
22:16:11 [ r2d2rogers] youtube link?
22:16:15  * axxium wonders what's ACHMED time
22:16:32 [ wharp] Achmed is the name of our IRC bot
22:16:40 [ ATDT] ok...not that I know anything about this, but it has been greatly suggested that we need a bot, similar to UncleSam, ubotu, and locobot
22:16:40 [ wharp] who happens not to exist yet
22:16:44 [ r2d2rogers] planned bot ;)
22:17:11 [ ATDT] inspiration for my name: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1uwOL4rB-go
22:17:42 [ ATDT] I suggest we talk to vorian about UncleSam....-ops about ubotu, and explore eggdrop for options
22:17:57 [ wharp] Mootbot is always something I'd look at
22:18:00 [ ATDT] this will be an ongoing project
22:18:03 [ wharp] has some useful meeting features
22:18:06 [ ATDT] oh yeah Mootbot as well
22:18:27 [ ATDT] obviously some of the features will have to be worked on over time as they are not readily packaged
22:18:33 [ r2d2rogers] I'd like to see our bot take and shuffle action items to our project managment app
22:18:35 [ wharp] If we had a project mgmt app we could have people sign on to the project
22:18:43 [ ATDT] heh
22:19:09 [ ATDT] any input?
22:19:10 [ wharp] but as far as projects go, everyone can look at the few projects we have listed here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisianaTeam/Projects
22:19:42 [ axxium] Achmed's great :)
22:19:51 [ r2d2rogers] Feel free to add project ideas
22:20:00 [ kepardue] dotproject or pier?
22:20:03 [ wharp] Yes, feel free
22:20:14 [ ATDT] I think we can implement a simple one just to get it going and add features as we can
22:20:16 [ wharp] Those are two I've suggested we look at, but I don't know of many others.
22:20:26 [ kepardue] i've used dotproject some in the past, but not sure it'll work it the more collaborative environment of the loco
22:22:02 [ wharp] We need to create a list of apps to look at
22:22:14 [ ATDT] also something not on the agenda, anyone willing to host ATDT ?
22:22:25 [ wharp] That's something I meant to ask about
22:22:40 [ wharp] How much do it need to run?  A full computer? or would a hosting account work?
22:22:42 [ ATDT] I don't mind...but my server may have down time....significant
22:22:44 [ ATDT] not much
22:22:59 [ ATDT] I wouldn't expect it make a big imprint
22:23:08 [ wharp] Well what I'm wondering is there a reason multiple people couldn't have it in case the other went down?
22:23:24 [ ATDT] yeah there are botnets, I know nothing about them
22:23:38 [ wharp] Well then we need to do some research
22:23:53 [ ATDT] +1
22:24:15 [ ATDT] like I said I think we should get it up and running and add to it, I think it would be easier that way
22:24:25 [ wharp] agreed
22:24:26 [ ATDT] just get a generic bot in place and mess with it
22:24:35 [ r2d2rogers] ATDT: +1
22:24:42 [ r2d2rogers] language preference?
22:24:44 [ r2d2rogers] perl ?
22:24:47 [ wharp] ...english?
22:24:55 [ ATDT] whats eggdrop? /me goes to lok
22:24:57 [ ATDT] *look
22:24:58 [ r2d2rogers] programming..
22:25:14 [ wharp] Are we going to have project teams or be less formal?
22:25:35 [ ATDT] http://packages.ubuntu.com/edgy/net/eggdrop
22:25:48 [ ATDT] s/edgy/gutsy
22:26:01 [ wharp] sounds like gncbot
22:26:13 [ r2d2rogers] C
22:26:26 [ r2d2rogers] I not much help there unless it does scripts
22:26:31 [ ATDT] heh
22:27:01 [ wharp] Well we don't need to get bogged down in the details at this point.  We need to get some people involved with it and start development.
22:27:03 [ r2d2rogers] I'm up for ruby or perl
22:27:10 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: +1
22:27:24 [ ATDT] just pinged vorian about it
22:27:25 [ r2d2rogers] I think I already threw my name in from before
22:27:27 [ ATDT] wharp, +1
22:27:36 [ Palintheus] wharp: +1
22:27:42 [ Palintheus] ;)
22:27:44 [ wharp] Ok, that's cheating Palintheus
22:27:47 [ Palintheus] meh
22:27:55 [ wharp] we've already warned you about this once
22:28:01 [ ATDT] SILENCE
22:28:03 [ wharp] gonna start taking points next
22:28:10 [ Palintheus] OK we wanna wrap this up, seems like everyone is falling out
22:28:28 [ axxium] I'm adicted to ACHMED
22:28:31 [ r2d2rogers] <G>
22:28:32 [ wharp] lol
22:28:43 [ r2d2rogers] Agenda done?
22:28:46 [ axxium] I copied it from /tmp to email, lol
22:28:48 [ wharp] Ok, is there anything else that needs to be said/covered re projects or anythign else?
22:29:04 [ r2d2rogers] wharp: +1
22:29:07 [ ATDT] axxium, you looked at the ATDT feature request list?
22:29:22 [ wharp] ATDT: bring me a pizza!
22:29:38 [ axxium] ATDT, where?
22:29:47  * ATDT places order on pizzahut.com for wharp 
22:29:54 [ ATDT] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LouisianaTeam/Projects/IRCBot
22:30:08 [ wharp] Well if no one has anything, I'd like to ask again that everyone read and sign the Code of Conduct, and make sure you're subscribed to the mailing list.
22:30:30 [ Palintheus] and volunteer if you have the time
22:30:34 [ wharp] Yes.
22:30:47 [ wharp] CHeck the wiki, post on the forums, and hang out on IRC if you're so inclined
22:31:12  * Palintheus moves to adjourn with general discussion
22:31:19 [ wharp] axxium: anything else?
22:31:25 [ axxium] I have to go, wife falling asleep on sofa
22:31:35 [ axxium] wharp, no I'm good
22:31:39 [ r2d2rogers] Palintheus: +1
22:31:39 [ wharp] Ok.
22:31:48 [ wharp] +1
22:31:51 [ r2d2rogers] Good meeting guys
22:31:53 [ wharp] MEETING ADJOURNED
</pre>
