{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The <nowiki>[[http://www.commell.com.tw/Product/SBC/LS-372.HTM|LS-372]]</nowiki> is a 3.5" form factor single board computer based on the Intel® GME965 chipset. Features:

* Intel® Core™ 2 Duo Merom (Socket P)
* 800 MHz FSB
* DDR2 up to 2GB
* Gigabit Ethernet
* VGA, LVDS, HDTV, HDMI (DVI with adapter cable)
* 1SATA, 1 IDE
* HD Audio + SPDIF
* 8-bit Digital I/O
* 2 x COM
* 1 Mini PCI slot
* 1 Compact Flash® socket
----
System:
* OS: Hardy-64 bit.
* 2GB DDR2
* 320GB SATA
* 100GB IDE
----
Notes:

Except for the comments noted below, all systems (audio, network, USB, etc) were operational after install. However, installation was somewhat complicated by the fact that the IDE port does not play well with many CD-ROM drives. I therefore installed from a bootable 2-GB memory stick (Kingston !DataTraveler® with no difficulty - see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromCForUSBStick|here]]</nowiki> for instructions - for Feisty, but easily adaptable). However, note that the bootable USB stick ''will not show up for selection in the BIOS unless it is plugged in '''before''' powering up the machine''.

The dual-monitor setup is a bit complicated. First, there is a VGA and an HDMI connector on the motherboard. To connect a standard DVI computer monitor as the second monitor, you will need an HDMI to DVI cable (available from on-line retailers for about $5.00 US, if you hunt around a bit). Second, since this is a ''mobile'' chipset which has an additional connector for a laptop style flat panel (LVDS), Ubuntu presumes that at least one of the monitors will be the LVDS flatpanel, even if nothing at all is using the LVDS connector. The case with the LS-372 is that the VGA connector is ignored and the 2 monitors are assigned to DVI and LVDS. This makes the Dual Screen capability appear to be broken.

One solution is to edit ''xorg.conf'' to manually set up the monitors and screens - I've done this once and do not recommend it. Another alternative is to add a few lines to ''xorg.conf'' that instruct the OS to completely ignore the LVDS connection. When this is done, the initialization will pick the remaining 2 ports that have a monitor connected - in this case the DVI and VGA ports.  Here is the stuff that needs to be done to ''xorg.conf'' (in /etc/X11):

<pre>
# Modify the "Device" section by adding the 2 commented lines.
# The rest should already look like what is shown here.

 Section "Device"
  Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
  Boardname	"Intel 945"
  Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
  Driver	"intel"
  Screen	0
  Vendorname	"Intel"
  Option	"monitor-TV"	"TV"	#Activates the ''Monitor "TV"'' section below
  Option	"monitor-LVDS"	"LVDS"	#Activates the ''Monitor "LVDS"'' section below
 EndSection

# Then add the following 2 sections.

# The first prevents an annoying screen blanking when testing to see if there is
# a TV attached. You may need to remove this if the TV connection is ever used.

 Section "Monitor"
  Identifier	"TV"
  Option	"Ignore" "True"
 EndSection

# The second prevents selection of the (unused) LVDS output on the LS-372 computer when
# setting up dual screen. Useful when the 2 screens are DVI and VGA. Ubuntu always assumes
# that the LVDS connector is the default screen - which it is on laptops. So any MOBO that
# has LVDS connector will have primary screen dumped there, even though there is no panel
# connected.

 Section "Monitor"
  Identifier	"LVDS"
  Option	"Ignore" "True"
 EndSection

# Finally, the "Screen" subsection needs the Display Subsection to be modified for the
# larger frame buffer needed for 2-1280x1024 monitors. You should only need to change
# the ''Virtual'' option:

 Section "Screen"
  Identifier	"Default Screen"
  Device	"Configured Video Device"
  Monitor	"Configured Monitor"
  SubSection "Display"
   Virtual	2560	1024	#Add/change this to set larger frame buffer.
  EndSubSection
 EndSection
</pre>

Once editing is finished - be careful, xorg is completely intolerant of typos - shutdown, power off and restart the machine. If you don't, the new frame buffer may not be set up properly and you won't get a full dual screen. Once you've logged back in, run xrandr to configure the screens:

 xrandr --output TDMS-1 --left-of VGA
