{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Setup Notes ===
Before starting the tests, install the following packages (and their dependencies):
 lsb
 libqt3-mt-sqlite
 libperl-dev
 libxml-parser-perl
 libxml-sax-perl
 libtest-harness-perl
 libtest-simple-perl

Also, run the following command:
 sudo locale-gen de_DE de_DE@euro en_HK en_PH en_US en_US.ISO-8859-15 en_US.UTF-8 es_ES es_MX fr_FR fr_FR@euro is_IS is_IS.UTF-8 it_IT ja_JP.EUC-JP se_NO ta_IN zh_TW

When doing the manual tests, you need to type "unset SESSION_MANAGER" prior to running designer, otherwise it will crash.  Launch designer manually.

With these additions, most of the entire lsb test suite will run without error.

=== Where do you get the LSB test manager? ===

LSB 4.0 distribution testkit information is <nowiki>[[http://ispras.linux-foundation.org/index.php/LSB_DTK_Manager_Releases|here]]</nowiki>.
----------
== LSB 4.0 Test Results ==
=== Jaunty (9.04) ===
===== Summary =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| IA32
| x86-64
|-
| Total
| 113179
| 113191
|-
| Passed
| 106236
| 106246
|-
| Failures
| 404
| 407
|-
| Waived
| 270
| 268
|-
| Skipped
| 6157
| 6158
|}

'''<nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/lsb4.0/jaunty-rc-ia32/test_log.html|IA32 Test Results]]</nowiki>'''

'''<nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/lsb4.0/jaunty-rc-x86_64/test_log.html|x86-64 Test Results]]</nowiki>'''

(note - these results were gathered against Jaunty RC.  Since there were no changes between RC and Release, these results are accurate).
--------
=== Karmic (9.10) ===
===== Summary =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| IA32
| AMD64
|-
| Total
| 107921
| 107938
|-
| Passed
| 102354
| 102366
|-
| Failures
| 257
| 266
|-
| Waived
| 254
| 251
|-
| Skipped
| 4953
| 4952
|}
There are canceled tests

'''<nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/lsb4.0/karmic-release-ia32/test_log.html|IA32 Test Results]]</nowiki>'''

'''<nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~tobin/lsb4.0/karmic-release-x86_64/test_log.html|X86-64 Test Results ]]</nowiki>'''
------
