{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/ltsp-netbooting-enhancement
* '''Created''':  by OliverGrawert
* '''Contributors''': OliverGrawert
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

This spec resolves the problem of a lack of etherboot support for Ubuntu's LTSP implementation.

=== Rationale ===

Many clasrooms have older machines which are not pxe enabled, but can boot via an etherboot floppy or rom.  Currently, these machines can't be used directly with Ubuntu's LTSP.

=== Use cases ===

Roger has a classroom full of very old pc's that have really cheap RTL8139 cards in them that he bought on an online used parts site for $20.00.  He starts off the day by putting in his Etherboot boot floppies in the machines, and turning them on.  They boot up Edubuntu, and he's ready for his students.

=== Scope ===

ltsp-update-kernels might need modifying.  Looks like basic code is there, just needs to be tested thoroughly.  mknbi needs to be a depends for ltsp-standalone-server.

=== Design ===

* import mknbi into main
* fix ltsp-standalone-server for depends to mknbi

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

mknbi 1.4.4 has a bug that incorrectly generates code with Geode processors.  Upstream bug that needs to be fixed.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
