{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/ltsp-daily-image-tarballs
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': OliverGrawert
* '''Packages affected''':  none

=== Summary ===

LTSP.org wants to maintain their client tarball in launchpad. A way to modify the packagelist of the contained packages needs to be set up. Builds of the tarball should happen on a daily base but it should also be able to trigger them on demand. The tarbal needs to be public available for download.

=== Rationale ===

* set up an autobuild environment for LTSP.org chroot tarballs

=== Use Cases ===

* Jim is working on a new version of LTSP, he wants to provide a new version of the client chroot as well, so he edits his thin client seed and pushes it to the launchpad supremirror. some hours later if the cronjob is run that tars the image up and publishes it on a webserver he just downloads the complete thin client tarball from a webserver.

* Scott wants to build an iso of LTSP for powerpc and i386, he just downloads the tarballs from launchpad, and drops them into the nautilus CD burning app together with documentation and a script that sets up the server parts and burns that.

=== Implementation ===

* A bzr branch similar to a seed branch has to be set up on the supermirror, changes for that are pulled from a ltsp.org maintained branch on a regular basis. 
* A Script will build a thin client environment by calling ltsp-build-client for i386 and powerpc architectures with the appropriate EARLY_PACKAGES and LATE_PACKAGES options filled from the seedfile on the architecture specific servers in the canonical datacenter. It will tar up the created chroot and upload it to a public place for download.
* The building of the tarball/chroot will happen on a crond based schedule and will only happen if there are channges in the seedfile.
* A ltsp-autobuilder product has to be registered in launchpad to make it possible to file bugs if anything is broken.
* A webinterface will be added later, showing statistics (size, build log and age of the tarballs) and having a button to trigger new builds.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

According to JamesTroup that needs to be run by fakechroot to make it working safely in the datacenter, so looking at fakechroot is required.

----
CategorySpec
