{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background:#ffffcc;border:1;">This page is specific to Ubuntu versions 10.10
|}
''If you find this information applicable to additional versions/releases, '''''please''''' edit this page and modify this header to reflect that. Please also include any necessary modifications for this information to apply to the additional versions.''
----

This is a quick Howto to get local apps (applications that are running on the thin client directly instead of running in the servers desktop session)

=== Preparation of the LTSP configuration and the server ===
First edit your lts.conf file and add LOCAL_APPS=True to enable localapp handling.

On the server you need to copy the localapps wrapper script into your system PATH (i.e. /usr/bin/) and make it executable.
<pre>
sudo cp /usr/share/doc/ltsp-server/examples/ltsp-localapps /usr/bin/
sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/ltsp-localapps
</pre>

=== Preparation of the client chroot ===
Install the application you want to run locally on the client into the image with the following commands:
<pre>
sudo chroot /opt/ltsp/i386 apt-get install xterm
sudo ltsp-update-image
</pre>

Reboot the client ...

=== Running a localapp ===
Log in to a LTSP session on your client, open a gnome-terminal and execute the following:
<pre>
ltsp-localapps xterm
</pre>

You should see an xterm starting in your session.

=== Running thin client's own hardware with a localapp ===

Here are two examples about using thin client's own hardware. Thin client is in this case Asus Eee 701 4G.

First example is built-in webcam. Install Cheese (http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/cheese) in the chroot just like xterm above.

<pre>
ltsp-localapps cheese
</pre>

Screenshot: http://www.arkki.info/howto/Wiki/LTSP5/ltsp-localapps_cheese_01.png

Another example is a USB mic with Mumble ([http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/mumble). USB mic is Zoom H2. Intall Mumble just like xterm above.

<pre>
ltsp-localapps mumble
</pre>

Screenshot: http://www.arkki.info/howto/Mumble/Mumble_thin-client_01.png

Picture: http://www.arkki.info/howto/Mumble/Mumble_thin-client_02.png

NB: If you are using a 2-interface LTSP setup, a thin client will probably not be able to get to the internet using local apps.  The solution is to set your LTSP server up as a router so you can access the internet through it.  Some instructions are available at: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP/ThinClientHowtoNAT/

----
CategoryLtsp
