{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Goal ===

==== Use cases ====

* Alex quota are full : it's last session crashed and lots of "temporary" files have been dumped into it's home directory. When bob's try to log in a windows is launched displaying an error message in Alex langage. Once he has read the error message, a file explorer is launched and Alex can make some cleanup (more recent files and largest file first ?). When he closed the file explorer, a new display manager fires up and Alex have to re-authentify to access its session [note : in an ideal World, Alex don't have to authentify again...].

* John's home disk is full : others users have filled the disk ! There is no more space on the device. When John try to log in a windows is launched displaying an error message in Alex langage. Once he has read the error message, a file explorer is launched and Alex can make some cleanup (more recent files and largest file first ?). When he closed the file explorer, a new display manager fires up and Alex have to re-authentify to access its session [note : in an ideal World, John don't have to authentify again...].

* Alice password has expired. When she tries to log in she can not access to her regular window manager. An error message asked her to change her password. When she closed the error message, a dedicated password management application (a Web Page, a python script, etc.) is fired up and Alice can change her password. When she has changed her password, Alice have to re-authentify in order to access her regular windows manager.

==== Problem to solve ====

* When a user quota or disk is full : it is impossible to launch a graphical user interface because some files have to be created into the user $HOME directory
* * In order to log in the user has to place a call to the helpdesk, the helpdesk has to remove some files (root access, no GUI most of the time, etc.). 
 
* When a password has expired : the user can not log in and no feedback is given to the user
* * Often, in order to logged in the user has to : use another OS ;-( (Windows!), or place a call to the helpdesk "I've forgotten my password"

==== Before the graphical environment is launched (KDE|Gnome|X) ====

* allow users to log in when overquota/disk full by launching a dedicated application that allow them to remove some files
* allow users to change their password when the password is expired

==== During the user session ====

* Have an applet that check the quota and password expiration
* If overquota or near a fixed threshold : message to the user + file explorer to remove files
* If password is expired / will expire in a couple of days/hours : allow the user to change its password

=== Requirements ===

* Multilingual : gettext 
* A request for LDAP querying of expiration password
* A request for quota check / disk space check
* An application for password change
* An application for file cleanup (a file explorer)
* Configuration : messages to the user, etc.

=== Pre desktop launch ===

* Should check for blocking info only : filesystem full, overquota, expired password
* Non blocking info should not be used at this point (ex: sysadmin message, print quota, etc.)

==== Quota / disk full ====

* Message to the user : please remove some files, disk full
* Launch a file explorer in the user directory
* When the cleanup is done : restart a session 

==== Expired password ====

* Support for : openLDAP, eDirectory, Active Directory
* * An LDAP request should be used
* Message to the user
* Login to a kiosk session with the "change password" application
* When done : message to the user "please login again with your new password"
* New login screen

=== System tray ===

 Once the user is logged-in, the goal of the tray is to monitor certain critical components in order to make sure that the user session will continue in good conditions. Critical components are :
* Disk full
* Over Quota
* Password expired 

In every case, the same application + error message.
