{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Abaixo está a lista do EdgyEft.
[ Above is the EdgyEft source list. ]

Use apenas no Brasil.
[ Use inside Brazil, or change every br. to en. or contryprefix. ]

Dúvidas? Me contate (LucasArruda).
[ Doubts? Contact me (LucasArruda). ]

<pre>

deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 6.10 _Edgy Eft_ - Release Candidate i386 (20061017.2)]/ edgy main restricted

deb http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ edgy main restricted multiverse universe
deb-src http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ edgy main restricted multiverse universe

deb http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ edgy-updates main restricted multiverse universe
deb-src http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ edgy-updates main restricted multiverse universe

deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu edgy-security main restricted multiverse universe
deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu edgy-security main restricted multiverse universe
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ edgy-proposed restricted main multiverse universe
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ edgy-proposed restricted main multiverse universe
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ edgy-backports restricted main multiverse universe
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ edgy-backports restricted main multiverse universe

deb http://www.beerorkid.com/compiz edgy main-edgy
deb http://media.blutkind.org/xgl/ edgy main-edgy
deb http://compiz-mirror.lupine.me.uk/ edgy main-edgy
deb http://ubuntu.compiz.net/ edgy main-edgy

deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu edgy-commercial main
deb-src http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu edgy-commercial main 

deb http://jsms.com.br/apt sarge main

deb http://theli.free.fr/packages/ dapper listen listen-unstable
deb-src http://theli.free.fr/packages/ dapper listen listen-unstable

deb http://packages.freecontrib.org/ubuntu/plf edgy-plf free non-free
deb-src http://packages.freecontrib.org/ubuntu/plf edgy-plf free non-free

deb http://wine.budgetdedicated.com/apt edgy main
deb-src http://wine.budgetdedicated.com/apt edgy main

deb http://www.albertomilone.com/drivers/edgy/latest/32bit binary/

deb  http://repository.debuntu.org/ edgy multiverse
deb-src http://repository.debuntu.org/ edgy multiverse

deb http://thomas.pub.enix.org/debian/ edgy main

deb http://download.gna.org/wormux/ package/

</pre>
