{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''OUTDATED !'''

== Ubuntu-dev candidacy ==

=== Lucas Nussbaum's key facts ===
* 24 years old free software developer living in Grenoble, France
* Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/people/nussbaum
* Personal homepage: http://www.lucas-nussbaum.net/
* PhD student (very general topic: clusters, grids, peer-to-peer systems, and ways to study those cool things) and computer science engineer (in France, we can follow both path)
* Debian user since ~1998, Ubuntu user since it was<nowiki>[[http://www.no-name-yet.com|n't named yet]]</nowiki>.
* Member of <nowiki>[[http://pkg-ruby-extras.debian.org|Debian's pkg-ruby-extras team]]</nowiki> and Ubuntu's <nowiki>[[MOTU/Teams/Ruby]]</nowiki>, Debian maintainer for a few packages through the pkg-ruby-extras team (main maintainer for 4 packages)

=== Why I would like to become a MOTU ===
I've been around the MOTU Galaxy for a while. I first got involved to improve the quality of ruby-related packages (Breezy wasn't really the distribution of choice for Ruby developers, and I'm working inside '''<nowiki>[[MOTU/Teams/Ruby]]</nowiki>''' to improve this). But then I got interested by the global picture.

==== Universe quality & divergence management ====
I see ''universe'' as an '''interesting problem of large-scale quality management'''. I worked on MultiDistroTools (<nowiki>[[http://tiber.tauware.de/~lucas/versions/|example output here]]</nowiki>) to easily track version divergence between Debian and Ubuntu. Other tools or improvements to mdt would help improve the MOTU workflow.

==== Collaboration between Debian and Ubuntu ====
I also plan to work with other MOTUs on a database keeping track of the kind of divergence a package has from Debian (for example, it would say package XXX has local Ubuntu changes because of the Python version, and an AMD64 fix which was filed as Debian bug 424242). This would help the merging process and would make Scott's patches more useful for Debian maintainers. It would also help killing some of the concerns DDs have about how much Ubuntu contributes to Debian.

On the same topic, I wrote the ContributingToDebian and DebianCollaboration wiki pages and I worked with Raphael Hertzog (buxy) on a <nowiki>[[http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2006/01/msg00008.html|mail to debian-devel-announce]]</nowiki> to make sure Debian developers were aware of the UVF ''deadline''. I've also started working on UbuntuDemystification, a FAQ for Debian maintainers about the inner workings of Ubuntu (it seems to me that the main cause of disagreement is misunderstanding of the Ubuntu processes, currently).

=== Some kind of conclusion ===
To be honest, I'm not sure I'll be able to do general MOTU work on the long term. I expect my main contributions to Ubuntu to be :
* Keeping care of <nowiki>[[MOTU/Teams/Ruby]]</nowiki> and its packages, and of the universe packages I am using. I'm also interested in using <nowiki>[[AutomatedTesting]]</nowiki> to test ruby packages (which is easy, since most ruby software already comes with unit tests).
* General MOTU work during rush period (right now would be a good example ;)
* Writing and maintaining tools to help manage the universe.
* Doing human-interaction work where needed to help collaboration with Debian.

=== Links ===
* LucasNussbaum: Wiki homepage, with my ubuntu-members candidacy
* Work outside Debian & Ubuntu
** <nowiki>[[http://home.gna.org/feed2imap/|Feed2Imap]]</nowiki> - RSS/Atom aggregator that uploads to IMAP
** <nowiki>[[http://home.gna.org/ruby-feedparser/|Ruby-Feedparser]]</nowiki> - RSS/Atom feed parser library (to be uploaded to Debian soon)
** <nowiki>[[http://home.gna.org/xmpp4r/|XMPP4R]]</nowiki> - Jabber library for Ruby
** Other Jabber stuff: active member of the <nowiki>[[http://www.jabber.org/|Jabber Software Foundation]]</nowiki>, administrator of the <nowiki>[[http://jabber.apinc.org/|french largest Jabber server]]</nowiki>, founder of the <nowiki>[[http://www.jabberfr.org/|JabberFR.org community site]]</nowiki>.
** One of the administrators of the <nowiki>[[http://www.gna.org|Gna!]]</nowiki> sourceforge-like service.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.lucas-nussbaum.net/|personal homepage]]</nowiki>
