{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== UVF is difficult to manage for MOTUs ==

I find UpstreamVersionFreeze incredibly frustrating when dealing with Universe packages. There are several issues, sometimes contradictory, about this.

=== "We can't relax UVF rules for universe because we will have to support Dapper for 3 years." ===
Dapper will be supported for 3 years (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2005-September/010876.html|source]]</nowiki>).
* Yes, but universe is not and will not be supported. ''it comes with no guarantee of security fixes and support.'' (<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/components|ubuntu/components]]</nowiki>)
* main is supposed to be self-contained (universe is not enabled by default), so chances are low that broken packages in universe will break main packages.
* Our quality standard for universe is already quite low, since our goal is to have as many packages in as possible (for example, we regularly import packages from <nowiki>[[http://www.apt-get.org/|apt-get.org]]</nowiki> and other sources). Also, we prefer to have unmaintained packages in universe rather than no package at all.

=== MOTUs lacks a lot of resources for this task ===
* As of 2006-02-08, more than 1100 source packages are newer in Debian than in Ubuntu. (<nowiki>[[http://tiber.tauware.de/~lucas/versions/unimultiverse-outdated-ubuntu.html|source]]</nowiki>)
* MOTUs are all volunteers.
* Micro-managing is boring, since it's only about trying to catch up with Debian. We might lose more MOTUs (and not get others in).

=== Risks ===
* A lot of people need universe packages for their daily tasks.
** We might have broken packages in universe, and we might not know. People will only notice after the release, will complain, and we probably won't do anything about this (see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/librmagick-ruby/+bug/1299|this bug]]</nowiki> for example). => Bad press, especially if Debian had the package fixed a long time ago.
** Security problems : universe packages might introduce security problems, and we might not know about it. Do we have a way to list universe packages installed on a system ? (I don't think so) => Very bad press if a server is rooted because of universe packages.
** Some packages might be outdated in Dapper. Some packages are very important for some people. It might make Dapper unsuitable for them. => Bad press, especially if the package is up to date in Debian.
* The general opinion of our users is "Even if universe/multiverse is not officially supported, a lot of developers are working to support in unofficially, and it works quite well." With my insider point of view, I don't think it's true :
** I'm in MOTURuby, but I have never looked at the status of Ruby in breezy for example. There might be some security flaws in some packages, but I wouldn't know about it.
** There are not so many active MOTUs.

=== Proposal ===
* Improve the sync/merge process to make it more clever and continue to use it even after UVF.
* Based on more throughout '''automatic''' testing of candidate packages.
* Example rule of acceptance (only meant to be an example of what could be possible)
** The updated package builds on dapper (easy to test using pbuilder)
** The updated package installs on dapper (easy to test using piuparts or an home-made script)
** The updated package has been in Debian sid for ''n'' days, without any severity >= normal bug opened against it
** If the package provides some tests, they all pass when running on dapper.
