{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Abaixo está a lista do FeistyFawn.
[ Above is the FeistyFawn source list. ]

Use apenas no Brasil.
[ Use inside Brazil, or change every br. to en. or contryprefix. ]

Dúvidas? Me contate (LucasArruda).
[ Doubts? Contact me (LucasArruda). ]

Use-a por sua conta e risco.
[ Use it by your own risk. ]

<nowiki>[[LucasArruda/BrazilBrasilSourceList|Todas versões]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[LucasArruda/BrazilBrasilSourceList/EdgyEft|EdgyEft (Versão anterior)]]</nowiki>

<pre>

deb http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty main restricted universe multiverse

deb http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-updates main restricted universe multiverse

deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-security main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ feisty-security main restricted universe multiverse

deb http://archive.canonical.com/ feisty-commercial main
deb-src http://archive.canonical.com/ feisty-commercial main

deb http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/ feisty free non-free
deb-src http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/ feisty free non-free

deb  http://repository.debuntu.org/ feisty multiverse
deb-src http://repository.debuntu.org/ feisty multiverse

deb http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty main
deb-src http://ubuntu.beryl-project.org feisty main

</pre>
