{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===
My name is Luca Waldner, 40 years old, Italian, Email 
I started to use a personal computer in september 1992, a very nice Mac Classic (I still have a folder named 09-1992). After a lot of years with Mac, I used a Windows XP for about 3 years, very intensive years for study Windows and try to ''clean'' it.
I started to use Ubuntu just when Edgy Eft was released (26/10/2006), a very good start for me!
I migrate to Linux mainly for ethical reasons, then I discovered in it a really good OS, and with Ubuntu I found all what I was searching for.

=== What I'm doing here ===
Basically, I'm here for amusement. I like very much the Ubuntu community, I like very much Ubuntu and I like very much to learn and understand more and more about it. All this is very pleasant for me!

After I have undestand and learn something, I try to help someone other. I'm trying to do all I can do...

=== My wiki pages ===
ConvertireFileAudioMp3ApeOggWavMpcFlac (italian)

=== My software development ===
whhoohooo! May be in the next life, ok? :-)

== Testimonials ==
"Luca is a really a good boy, very intelligent, brilliant, humorous, a so deep and open mind, honest, loyal. Talk with him is a great experience, and I'm sure to not exaggerate if I say that it's a unique experience: he's so.... sexy! And sincere :-) " -- LucaWaldner

----
CategoryHomepage
