{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

So, you are willing to contribute to Ubuntu development through a <nowiki>[[MOTU-Mentoring|mentor]]</nowiki>? Welcome aboard and enjoy the ride. These are random bits of what you will need to start playing with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-universe-sponsors/+bugs|sponsoring queue]]</nowiki> and have your contributions into the archives soon. I hope you find them useful.

=== Prerequisites ===

==== Packages ====

Please, be sure to have these packages installed. They are widely used, having them installed avoids you to discover why your terminal complains loudly:

* devscripts
* fakeroot
* debhelper
* cdbs
* dpatch
* quilt

==== Pbuilder ====

In order to prepare and test packages for development releases, you don't have to have them installed, a chroot is usually enough to do almost everything. pbuilder is a powerful tool to quickly setup a chroot. Please read <nowiki>[[PbuilderHowto|pbuilder Howto]]</nowiki> to create a new pbuilder.

==== Virtual machines ====

Sometimes, pbuilder is not enough to test GUI/interface packages, so a real installation is required. In oder to have a devlopment box on top of a stable Ubuntu release, you may want to install it by means of a virtual machine. <nowiki>[[VirtualBox]]</nowiki> is available in Ubuntu repositories and it is quite simple to use.

=== Documentation ===

First of all, read UbuntuDevelopment. It has several informations about development process and it is a must-read document. Try to understand it as much as you can and, if unsure, I will be happy to answer your questions.

Next step requires you to look at some documents related to MOTU world, here are a few examples:

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/GettingStarted
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/TODO

These pages will give you a quick introduction to MOTU team and common tasks MOTUs do every day. Again, feel free to ask me questions.

=== What to do now? ===

Once you have your development tools installed and read important documentation about Ubuntu development, it is time to work on some bugs:

* <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/3cbrps|Easy tasks]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2szf29|Packaging tasks]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~dktrkranz/+mentoring|Bugs I mentor]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://merges.ubuntu.com|Merge packages from Debian]]</nowiki>

If you like challenges, you could look at some QA tasks:

* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/ftbfs|Package which fail to build from source]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/debcheck/debcheck.py?dist=jaunty&list=relationship-Depends&arch=ANY|Package with unmet dependencies]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/bugs/rcbugs/|Import packages with important fixes from Debian]]</nowiki>
* [[|Packages
