{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

It seems to me that the state of the Ubuntu Archive is getting worse and worse
over time. We lack a lot of QA in a lot of different areas.

=== Processing of new packages in Debian ===

There are a lot of packages which have been in Debian for a long time (even
before edgy UVF), but were never sync'ed to Ubuntu. This is a bit funny to work
on getting new software in through REVU when we have so many packages just
waiting for us to sync them.

Examples picked randomly (I have no particular interest in those packages):
* http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xwine.html
* http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xspecs.html
* http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/squid3.html

Someone should definitely review packages in this case to see if they should
be included in edgy.

=== Processing of removals from Debian ===

A lot of packages are removed from Debian for good reasons, but aren't removed
from Ubuntu. In the archive, we have a lot of broken packages, or packages which
were replaced by another source package, and generate a binpkg with the same name
of another pkg. Someone should definitely review all the removals from Debian
to see if they should be applied to Ubuntu as well.

=== Processing of merges and syncs ===

Currently, many MOTUs choose packages to merge and sync on a pseudo-random
basis. It would be better to work on a goal such as :
  
 In edgy, there should be NO package that is older than the version in
 Debian as of Dapper release date (or Edgy UVF date).

For various reasons, there still are 79 packages in this case in edgy.
