{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the second beta release of Ubuntu
10.04 LTS (Long-Term Support) Desktop and Server Editions and Ubuntu 10.04
LTS Server for Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud (UEC) and Amazon's EC2, as well as
Ubuntu 10.04 Netbook Edition.  Codenamed "Lucid Lynx", 10.04 LTS continues
Ubuntu's proud tradition of integrating the latest and greatest open source
technologies into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution.

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop Edition and Ubuntu 10.04 Netbook Edition continue
the trend of ever-faster boot speeds, with improved startup times and a
streamlined, smoother boot experience.

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Server Edition provides even better integration of the
Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud, with its install-time cloud setup.

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Server for UEC and EC2 brings the power and stability of
the Ubuntu Server Edition to cloud computing, whether you're using Amazon
EC2 or your own Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud.

The Ubuntu 10.04 family of variants, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Edubuntu, Ubuntu
Studio, and Mythbuntu, also reach beta status today.

Desktop features
----------------
Social from the start:  We now feature built-in integration with Twitter,
identi.ca, Facebook, and other social networks with the MeMenu in the panel.

New Design: Cleaner and faster boot, new notification area, new themes, new
icons, and new wallpaper bring a dramatically updated look and feel to
Ubuntu.

Ubuntu One: Choose any folder in your home directory to sync, choose from
millions of songs for purchase in the Ubuntu One Music store.

Please see http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/lucid/beta2 for details.

Server features
---------------

Cloud computing:  The Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud installer has been vastly
improved in order to support alternative installation topologies. UEC
components are now automatically discovered and registered, even when
the storage controller, cluster controller and walrus are installed on
different servers. Finally, UEC is now powered by the latest Eucalyptus
version 1.6.2.

UEC and EC2:  Ubuntu 10.04 LTS continues the tradition of official Ubuntu
Server image releases for UEC and for Amazon's EC2, giving you everything
you need for rapid deployment of Ubuntu instances in a cloud computing
environment. UEC images, and information on running Ubuntu 10.04 on EC2, are
available at:

  http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/beta2

Stability and security:  Ubuntu 10.04 LTS brings many improvements over
Ubuntu 8.04 LTS to keep your servers safe and secure for the next five
years, including AppArmor profiles for many key services, kernel hardening,
and an easy-to-configure firewall.

Ubuntu Netbook features
-----------------------
Ubuntu Netbook Edition is optimised to run on Intel atom based netbooks. It
includes a new consumer-friendly interface that allows users to quickly and
easily get on-line and use their favourite applications. This interface is
optimised for a retail sales environment.

It includes the same faster boot times and improved boot experience as
Ubuntu desktop.

Kubuntu features
----------------

Kubuntu 10.04 LTS will be the first LTS to feature KDE 4 Platform and
Applications.  KDE 4 has come a long way since its early releases and is now
suitable for the high demands of LTS users.  Being an LTS we have focused on
bug fixing and stability for this release, but we did find time to add
features such as touchpad configuration, Firefox KDE integration, Kubuntu
notification improvements, and cross-desktop systray menu standardisation.
Kubuntu features the Plasma Desktop while Kubuntu Netbook Remix comes out of
preview status with the Plasma Netbook workspace.

See https://wiki.kubuntu.org/LucidLynx/Beta2/Kubuntu for more details.

Xubuntu features
----------------

FIXME: waiting for input

Please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/LucidLynx/Beta2 for the
full list and details about all the great enhancements Xubuntu 9.10 
has to offer.

Edubuntu features
-----------------

Edubuntu in Lucid features a more complete live environment containing more
software from universe and all existing language packs as well as our usual
educational software in their current version. For Lucid the text installer
has been removed and so is LTSP for the time being. We expect to have LTSP
back on the DVD for the next beta. The DVD is then much smaller than it used
to be but will still provide a complete education environment based on
Ubuntu Lucid.

Also included on the Edubuntu DVD is a small repository containing the
required packages to transform the regular Edubuntu desktop into a LTSP
server or install the Netbook edition interface.

Ubuntu Studio features
----------------------

FIXME: waiting for input

Mythbuntu features
------------------

Mythbuntu 10.04 introduces MythTV 0.23.  This new version is significantly
faster and should feel more responsive and stable than older versions.  It
also integrates better into the OS with better support for things like
ConsoleKit and Upstart.

Please see http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Release_Notes_-_0.23 for more details
about changes introduced in 0.23.

See http://mythbuntu.org/10.04/beta2 for information about the Mythbuntu
beta release.

Other
-----

* On the Desktop: GNOME 2.30, KDE SC 4.4.2, XFCE 4.6.1, OpenOffice.org 3.2.0,
  X.Org server 1.7.5

* On the Server: Apache 2.2, PostgreSQL 8.4, PHP 5.3.1, LTSP 5.2

* "Under the hood": GCC 4.4.3, eglibc 2.11, Linux 2.6.32.9, Python 2.6.5

The full release notes can be found at
http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/lucid/beta2

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, and
servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and an
incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

To Get Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Beta 2
------------------------------

To upgrade to Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Beta 2 from Ubuntu 9.10 or Ubuntu 8.04 LTS,
follow these instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades

'''FIXME:''' populate this with current mirror list at the time of the announcement

Or, download Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Beta 2 here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Africa:

*** http://ubuntu.saix.net/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (South Africa)

  Asia:

*** http://mirror.rootguide.org/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (China)
*** http://ubuntutym2.u-toyama.ac.jp/ubuntu/10.04 (Japan)
*** http://mirror.khlug.org/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (Korea, Republic of)
*** http://ubuntu.qualitynet.net/releases/10.04 (Kuwait)
*** http://ftp.mtu.ru/pub/ubuntu/releases/10.04 (Russian Federation)
*** http://tw.releases.ubuntu.com/10.04 (Taiwan)
*** http://ftp.linux.org.tr/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (Turkey)

  Europe:

*** http://ubuntu.linuxbe.com/10.04 (Belgium)
*** http://ubuntu.ipacct.com/releases/10.04 (Bulgaria)
*** http://hr.releases.ubuntu.com/10.04 (Croatia)
*** http://releases.ubuntu.mirror.dkm.cz/releases/10.04 (Czech Republic)
*** http://mirrors.dotsrc.org/ubuntu-cd/10.04 (Denmark)
*** http://ftp.estpak.ee/pub/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (Estonia)
*** http://ubuntu.trumpetti.atm.tut.fi/releases/10.04 (Finland)
*** http://ftp.oleane.net/ubuntu-cd/10.04 (France)
*** http://ubuntu.mirror.tudos.de/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (Germany)
*** http://speglar.simnet.is/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (Iceland)
*** http://ftp.heanet.ie/pub/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (Ireland)
*** http://releases.ubuntu.fastbull.org/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (Italy)
*** http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04 (Netherlands)
*** http://no.releases.ubuntu.com/10.04 (Norway)
*** http://cesium.di.uminho.pt/pub/ubuntu/10.04 (Portugal)
*** http://rs.releases.ubuntu.com/10.04 (Serbia)
*** http://ubuntu.cica.es/releases/10.04 (Spain)
*** http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/10.04 (Sweden)

  North America:

*** http://mirror.csclub.uwaterloo.ca/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (Canada)
*** http://mirror.pnl.gov/releases/10.04 (United States)
*** http://mirror.yellowfiber.net/ubuntu/10.04 (United States)
*** http://mirrors.ccs.neu.edu/releases.ubuntu.com/10.04 (United States)
*** http://mirrors.gigenet.com/ubuntu/10.04 (United States)

  Oceania/Australia:

*** http://ftp.citylink.co.nz/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (New Zealand)
*** http://ubuntu-releases.optus.net/10.04 (Australia)
*** http://mirror.internode.on.net/pub/ubuntu/releases/10.04 (Australia)
*** http://mirror.pacific.net.au/linux/ubuntu-releases/10.04 (Australia)
*** http://planetmirror.com/pub/ubuntu/releases/10.04 (Australia)

  South America:

*** http://ubuntu-cd.innova-red.net/10.04 (Argentina)
*** http://mirror.pop-sc.rnp.br/mirror/ubuntu/10.04 (Brazil)
*** http://ubuntu.c3sl.ufpr.br/releases/10.04 (Brazil)

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.04 (Great Britain)

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

The final version of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS is expected to be released in April
2010.

Feedback and Participation
--------------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you
can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn this
Beta into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please note that, where
possible, we prefer that bugs be reported using the tools provided, rather
than by visiting Launchpad directly.  Instructions can be found at

  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but are not
sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on freenode, on the Ubuntu
Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on our
website, IRC channel and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please visit:  

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
