{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Firefox Rapid Release Migration in Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and Ubuntu 10.10 ==

=== Background ===

The upstream Mozilla Firefox web browser has moved to a rapid release cycle. New Firefox versions are being released every six weeks and contain new features and security enhancements. Until now, Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and Ubuntu 10.10 have been getting 3.6 point releases of Firefox. As such, users have not been benefiting from new features, support for new web technologies, security enhancements, and performance improvements.  Firefox 3.6 will be reaching its end of life soon, so we need to migrate users to rapid release so that they will continue to receive security updates in a timely fashion.

=== What is changing? ===

Starting on January 17, Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and Ubuntu 10.10 users will be migrated to the latest Firefox version, and will track the rapid releases going forward, as is currently done in newer releases of Ubuntu. This will enable users to get the numerous improvements offered by new Firefox versions.

=== What is the impact of this migration? ===

Add-ons that were previously in the Ubuntu archive, such as flashblock or webdeveloper, will be automatically migrated to reside in your user profile so that they may be updated through the regular update process using addons.mozilla.org. This is necessary to ensure that you automatically get a working version of these addons, if one is available, when a new version of Firefox is released.

As Firefox will be updated to a new version every 6 weeks, the browsing experience might change slightly with each update.

=== What do I need to do? ===

These updates will be pushed automatically through the regular update process once testing has been completed. No action is required on your part.

Users who access specialized web sites, such as intranets or corporate portals, need to make sure they are compatible with the latest Firefox releases before the migration occurs.

=== Can I help with testing? ===

If you would like to assist with testing, you can enable the proposed repository on non-production Ubuntu 10.04 LTS or Ubuntu 10.10 systems [1].

=== For more information ===

Please see the following wiki page for information on the migration: [2]

You may also track progress of the update in the tracking bug: [3]

[1] - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/EnableProposed

[2] - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes/FirefoxRapidReleaseMigration

[3] - https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/904594
