{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the release of Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS, the first 
maintenance update to Ubuntu's 10.04 LTS release.  This release includes updated 
server, desktop, and alternate installation CDs for the i386 and amd64 architectures.

Numerous updates have been integrated, and updated installation
media has been provided so that fewer updates will need to be downloaded
after installation.  These include security updates and corrections for
other high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining stability and
compatibility with Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

To Get Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS
-------------------------

To download Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004

About Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS
------------------------

This is the first maintenance release of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, which
continues to be supported with maintenance updates and security fixes
until April 2013 on desktops and April 2015 on servers.

Numerous post-release updates have been integrated, and a number of bugs 
in the installation system have been corrected.  These include security 
updates and corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a focus on 
maintaining stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

See http://www.ubuntu.com/usn for a full list of Ubuntu security updates.

See https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu for specific information about a
particular bug number.  A complete list of post-release updates will be made
available tomorrow at:

  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes/ChangeSummary/10.04.1

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, netbooks
and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and an
incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu on our website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
</pre>
