{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Compiz Defaults Review for Lucid ==

== Rationale ==

Default Compiz settings need to be evaluated for:

1. Appearance; consistency with Ubuntu's default Look and Feel
2. Behavior; consistent, discoverable keyboard shortcuts.
3. Performance; disable resource-intensive or unused functionality.

== Objectives ==

=== Visual Consistency with Theme ===

==== Window Switcher ====
** Behavior
** Appearance
** Launchpad bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/495712|Improve window switcher by not showing it for instant switches & showing only the selected window]]</nowiki>

==== Window Resize ====
** Appearance of resize hint (border color, fill color).
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/495702|Make resize appearance consistent with Ubuntu's look-and-feel]]</nowiki>

==== Viewport Switch Preview ====
** '''Review colors, sizing, border treatment.'''
** Launchpad bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/495687|Ensure that Viewport switcher appearance matches the look and feel of the default theme(s)]]</nowiki>

==== Window Shadows ====
** Launchpad bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/495717|Window shadow radius is too small; shadows fall off unnaturally]]</nowiki>

=== Coherent Keybindings ===
** Can we consolidate window movement shortcuts (i.e. Expo, Scale, Show Desktop) on some other modifier key (combination).
** Proposal: Change "Show Desktop" from ''Ctrl+Alt+D'' to ''Super+D''.
** Scale = Super+W
** Compiz Accessibility Proposal: People who uses keyboard navigation (like blind users) will find that compiz keybindings <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/507962 | conflicts with gnome defaults]]</nowiki>. For instance the application switcher keybindings is an example of such conflicts <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/507964 | bug 507964]]</nowiki>. 

=== Increase Awareness of Useful Features ===

==== Scale ====
** Default keybinding is extremely difficult to discover.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/495641|Ensure that Scale is clean, fast, and usable]]</nowiki>

==== Expo ====
** Maintain ''Super+E'' keybinding.
** Change inactive viewport brightness from 75% to 100%.
** '''Review reflection colors.'''
** Launchpad bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/495634|Ensure that Expo is clean, fast, and usable]]</nowiki>

==== Show Desktop ====
** Behavior is advanced/confusing. Avoid.

=== Evaluate Use of Workspaces ===

Currently, Ubuntu Desktop provides two workspaces (2 columns, 1 row). This introduces an overhead of confusion around the concept of workspace while providing the smallest marginal benefit of only one additional workspace. For Lucid, if we continue to support Workspaces, we should increase the default number of workspaces to four, either in a 1x4 array, or a 2x2 array.

Consider:
** Number and arrangement of workspaces.
** Appearance of switcher preview.
** Behavior of window switcher with respect to workspaces

==== 2 rows, 2 columns ====
** Poor use of space within workspace switcher in bottom panel.
** Good use of space in Expo mode.

=== Improve Animations ===
** Increase speeds in general to make system feel more responsive
** Remove extraneous effects
** Launchpad bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/478016|Fine-tune window animations to be clean, quick, and consistent]]</nowiki>

=== Other Improvements ===
==== Decrease window snapping strength ====
** Launchpad bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/495708|Window snapping is too strong, making it difficult to move windows near panels]]</nowiki>

==== Disable Focus Stealing Prevention ====

=== Allow Resetting to Defaults ===

==== Resetting to Defaults on Upgrade ====
What is the upgrade experience? Do we backup the user's Compiz settings and replace them with new settings?

=== Tear-down Beautification ===
* low-hanging fruit for improving the logout (of desktop-session) experience is to make compiz (if used as wm) be the last process to be quit, this prevents the sudden visual break of seeing a non-composited desktop when compiz is quit while other apps-windows are still open

== User Input ==

Here users can suggest different animations and settings that would improve the desktop experience.
* Focus Animation: Dodge (500ms) - try it! It's easier to keep track of where your windows are with this on.
