{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre>
Trabalhando para aperfeiçoar e divulgar o Ubuntu no Brasil (Em construção)
</pre>

Bem Vindo a minha Lista Semanal do Ubuntu, Issue ## . Para a semana de @MONTH@, @DAY@ - @DAY+7@ @YEAR@. Em breve você encontrará algumas informações sobre placas de tv, placas de som, além de obter partes do Ubuntu traduzidas para o Português (Brasil)
Neste período foram realizadas as seguintes tarefas..

Você pode encontrar notícias antigas em: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

=== In This Issue ===

=== General Community News ===

=== Changes In Edgy ===

=== Launchpad News ===

=== In The Press ===

=== Meetings and other similar events ===

=== Upcoming Events ===

=== Feature Of The Week - ??? ===

=== Security Updates ===

=== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ===

=== Bug Stats ===

New Bugs: # <<BR>>
Closed Bugs: #

==== Infamous Bugs ====

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Caso você tenha encontrado alguma falha por favor deixe aqui sua mensagem.
Obrigado por sua visita. Até a próxima.

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Tradução do Ubuntu de inglês para português - mantenedor - Luciano A Silva
* Você também poderá encontrar informações sobre placas de TV
* Em breve estarei postando e você poderá utilizar algumas versões traduzidas por mim.

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam|Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page]]</nowiki>.
----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
