{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-seeds
* '''Created''': MattZimmerman
* '''Contributors''':  MathiasGug
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-meta

=== Summary ===

Perform a critical review of the current packages in main related to the Ubuntu Server product in view of Lucid being an LTS release. A complete list of packages to be added to main as well as removed from main can be found in the <nowiki>[[#Design|Design section]]</nowiki>.

=== Release Note ===

Provide an overview of some important packages that have been promoted to main for Lucid.

=== Rationale ===

Since Lucid is LTS, a critical review of the current contents of the server CD is necessary, both to free some space on the CD and to reduce the number of packages we'll be maintaining for 5 years. Some packages are not necessary and might be abandoned. Some packages are brought up in main by recommends while they should just be suggested. Some very useful packages are missing and should be added.

=== User stories ===

* James, an IS manager, wants to ensure that his production infrastructure relies only on fully supported and maintained software. He checks that all of the installed packages come from the Ubuntu "main" repository, and sleeps soundly at night.

=== Design ===

==== Packages to be demoted to universe ====

Universe demotion proposals should be added to the <nowiki>[[#proposed-universe-demotions|Proposed universe demotions list]]</nowiki> and discussion should take place <nowiki>[[#proposed-universe-demotions|there]]</nowiki>. 

List of package that should be demoted to universe for Lucid with an (optional) reason:
* nis - IN_UNIVERSE
* elinks - IN_UNIVERSE
* sensord - IN_UNIVERSE
* cricket - IN_UNIVERSE
* vlock - IN_UNIVERSE
* analog - IN_UNIVERSE
* minicom - IN_UNIVERSE
* nut-hal-drivers - IN_COMPONENT_MISMATCH
* kernel-package - IN_UNIVERSE

==== Packages to be promoted to main ====

Main promotion proposals should be added to the <nowiki>[[#proposed-main-promotions|Proposed main promotions list]]</nowiki> and discussion should take place <nowiki>[[#proposed-main-promotions|there]]</nowiki>. 

List of package that should be promoted to main for Lucid with an (optional) reason:
* oidentd
* tdb-tools:
** samba cluster
* ctdb:
** samba cluster
* acl
* zip: 
** default (server) install
* unzip: 
** default (server) install

==== Recommends downgraded to Suggests ====

Abusive recommends that should be downgraded to Suggests, as it brings a lot of packages into main as well:

==== Misc ====
* supported-misc-servers needs reorg/comments/etc. for readability/documentation
* Take lilo off the server CD, but leave it in main for Lucid.

==== Autofs 5 upgrade ====

RHEL has been shipping autofs5 since RHEL 4 (at least).

=== Implementation ===

See the work items in the <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-seeds|blueprint]]</nowiki>.

==== Timeline ====

# Call for package proposal to be added to main and demoted to universe (ubuntu-server@, blog): Week 0
# Request for discussion on package lists (ubuntu-devel@, ubuntu-server@, blog): Week 1
# Final review of package lists: Week 3
# Write MIR and file demotion bugs: Week 4+

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== Proposed universe demotions ====

* redhat-cluster-suite:
** not properly maintained
** Recommend removal, modulo objections from enterprise customers:
*** enterprise customer objecting
** See ClusterStack blueprint.

==== Rejected universe demotions ====

List of packages that have been considered to be demoted to universe. However after discussion it was decided to keep these in main. Include the reason why the package is kept in main when a package is added to this list:

* quagga:
** still maintained, needed for BGP
* siege:
** ivoks: i'd like to keep this one cause it's only usable http benchmarking tool
* virt-manager:
** There is an existing user base. We'd better properly maintain it in Ubuntu.
** I'd like to request that virt-manager be dropped from Main to Universe.  It ships on the DVD, but not the other installable media.  Most all virt-manager users have to apt-get install it post installation anyway.  From a maintainability standpoint, no core-developer is really looking after the package.  It falls outside of the scope of the Server team, since it's a GUI/desktop package, but no one from the Desktop team is looking after it either.  The interface is years and years behind the interface of VirtualBox.  And the bug backlog is huge.  I suggest that virt-manager be dropped from the Main seeds, to Universe, for Lucid. -- DustinKirkland
** I'd like to keep virt-manager in main. It's the preferred GUI option for our virtualisation stack. Whether or not anyone is properly maintaining it has '''nothing''' to do with ''maintainability'' (i.e. whether it ''can'' be maintained). It's perfectly maintainable: Upstream is very active, it speaks to a very well defined API, and it's written in Python, which we all love. Someone just needs to spend an hour a week on it. The majority of the bugs filed against virt-manager aren't even bugs in virt-manager, but bugs in kvm, libvirt, or virtinst. -- SorenHansen (who by the way thinks a wiki is a horrible place to have conversations/discussions like this)
** I use virt-manager on ubuntu and there are some issues related to kvm but is quite usable if you know it's quircks, source code seems to be maintained http://hg.fedorahosted.org/hg/virt-manager and maybe we should have dialogue with upstream 
* backuppc:
** Sizeable Ubuntu user base.
** jmdault says almost all his customers use backuppc at the moment
** Yann: our company is also using backuppc. In favour of what other tool is it being demoted for?
** bacula is the backup solution in main
* logwatch & logcheck: 
** tools serve a different purposes. Keep both in main (fine for the security team as well).
* ipsec-tools and racoon: 
** the security team would not mind not needing to update ipsec-tools any more.
** Should we support an IPSEC based VPN solution in main? Yes. So keep ipsec-tools in main.
* libxp6: build dependency of openjdk.

==== Proposed main promotions ====

* pacemaker:
** See ClusterStack blueprint: 
** Debian Maintainer wants to coordinate this cluster stack that they are shipping in squeeze with our LTS.

==== Rejected main promotions ====
List of packages that have been considered to be promoted to main. However after discussion it was decided to keep these in universe. Include the reason why the package is kept in universe when a package is added to this list:

* wordpress: 
** security team is against it.
* apache-openid: 
** does this mean libapache2-mod-auth-openid? - ask IS: nope.
* nginx:
** there is already an http server in main: apache.
** According to <nowiki>[[ http:--news.netcraft.com-archives-2009-11-10-november_2009_web_server_survey.html |Netcraft ]]</nowiki>, nginx has quietly developed a 6.21 percent market share. (I hope this is an appropriate place to propose this for main.)
* firebird:
** MySQL and PostgreSQL are already in main.
** One of the main open source databases , Winner of sourceforge.net community award 2009 :Best project for Enterprise , included by default in main repository in :fedora,mandriva

==== Proposed Recommends downgrades ====

List of Recommends that have been considered to be dropped to Suggests in order to not be pulled in main or not be on the -server iso:

==== List of packages pulled in by server seeds ====

See <nowiki>[[LucidServerSeeds-ServerPackages]]</nowiki>.

===== List of Recommended packages on the -server isos =====
<pre>
$ wget http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/germinate-output/ubuntu.lucid/server-ship
$ grep -i recommends server-ship | cut -d\| -f 1-3
Package                            | Source                       | Why
aspell-en                          | aspell-en                    | libaspell15 (Recommends)              
bzrtools                           | bzrtools                     | bzr (Recommends)                      
cracklib-runtime                   | cracklib2                    | libcrack2 (Recommends)                
dctrl-tools                        | dctrl-tools                  | devscripts (Recommends)               
debconf-utils                      | debconf                      | drbd8-source (Recommends)             
dput                               | dput                         | devscripts (Recommends)               
erlang-crypto                      | erlang                       | erlang-base (Recommends)              
erlang-syntax-tools                | erlang                       | erlang-base (Recommends)              
gcc                                | gcc-defaults                 | libc6-dev (Recommends)                
kernel-package                     | kernel-package               | drbd8-source (Recommends)             
libapache2-reload-perl             | libapache2-reload-perl       | libapache2-mod-perl2 (Recommends)     
libaugeas-ruby1.8                  | libaugeas-ruby               | puppet (Recommends)                   
libauthen-sasl-perl                | libauthen-sasl-perl          | devscripts (Recommends)               
libbsd-resource-perl               | libbsd-resource-perl         | libapache2-mod-perl2 (Recommends)     
libcompress-raw-zlib-perl          | libcompress-raw-zlib-perl    | amavisd-new (Recommends)              
libdate-manip-perl                 | libdate-manip-perl           | munin (Recommends)                    
libfile-rsyncp-perl                | libfile-rsyncp-perl          | backuppc (Recommends)                 
libio-socket-inet6-perl            | libio-socket-inet6-perl      | spamassassin (Recommends)             
libmail-sendmail-perl              | libmail-sendmail-perl        | po-debconf (Recommends)               
libmail-spf-perl                   | mail-spf-perl                | spamassassin (Recommends)             
libnet-xwhois-perl                 | libnet-xwhois-perl           | awstats (Recommends)                  
libparse-debcontrol-perl           | libparse-debcontrol-perl     | devscripts (Recommends)               
libpod-coverage-perl               | libpod-coverage-perl         | libparse-debcontrol-perl (Recommends) 
libsctp1                           | lksctp-tools                 | erlang-base (Recommends)              
libterm-size-perl                  | libterm-size-perl            | devscripts (Recommends)               
libtest-pod-perl                   | libtest-pod-perl             | libparse-debcontrol-perl (Recommends) 
libtie-ixhash-perl                 | libtie-ixhash-perl           | libparse-debcontrol-perl (Recommends) 
lintian                            | lintian                      | devscripts (Recommends)               
lksctp-tools                       | lksctp-tools                 | libsctp1 (Recommends)                 
nagios-images                      | nagios-images                | nagios3-cgi (Recommends)              
nagios-plugins                     | nagios-plugins               | nagios3-common (Recommends)           
openssh-blacklist                  | openssh-blacklist            | openssh-blacklist-extra (Recommends)  
patchutils                         | patchutils                   | devscripts (Recommends)               
python-gst0.10                     | gst0.10-python               | checkbox (Recommends)                 
python-paramiko                    | paramiko                     | bzr (Recommends)                      
rdoc                               | ruby-defaults                | puppet (Recommends)                   
re2c                               | re2c                         | spamassassin (Recommends)             
sensible-utils                     | sensible-utils               | devscripts (Recommends)               
spamc                              | spamassassin                 | spamassassin (Recommends)             
wdiff                              | wdiff                        | devscripts (Recommends)               
</pre>

===== List of recommended only packages pulled by one of the server seeds =====

<pre>
apport-symptoms
esound-clients
freeradius-utils
geoip-database
gvfs-backends
libapache2-reload-perl
libatk1.0-data
libfont-freetype-perl
libglib2.0-data
libhtml-format-perl
libmail-sendmail-perl
libnet-xwhois-perl
libnss-mdns
libpam-gnome-keyring
libpaper-utils
libparse-debcontrol-perl
lksctp-tools
menu
min12xxw
nagios-images
nagios-plugins
ntfs-3g
openssh-blacklist
powernap
powerwake
psfontmgr
python-image-store-proxy
python-paramiko
radeontool
sensible-utils
smartdimmer
spamc
tla-doc
vbetool
wdiff
</pre>

The script to generate the list (on people.canonical.com) above uses the output of germinate (<nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/germinate-output/ubuntu.lucid/rdepends/ALL/|rdepends/]]</nowiki>):
<pre>

SEEDS_LIST="(Dns-Server|Eucalyptus-Cloud|Eucalyptus-Cluster|Eucalyptus-Node|Eucalyptus-Storage|Eucalyptus-Walrus|Lamp-Server|Mail-Server|Openssh-Server|Postgresql-Server|Print-Server|Samba-Server|Server|Server-Ship|Supported-Misc-Servers|Tomcat-Server|Uec|Virt-Host)"

RDEPENDS_DIR=${RDEPENDS_DIR=~ubuntu-archive/public_html/germinate-output/ubuntu.lucid/rdepends/ALL/}

[ -e ~/public_html/recommends-only ] && mv ~/public_html/recommends-only ~/public_html/recommends-only.old

for f in ${RDEPENDS_DIR}/* 
do 
        echo $f
##### Packages that have only Reverse recommends, one of which is one of the seeds.
        if [ $(grep -c '^*' $f) -eq 1 ] \
           && grep -q '^* Reverse Recommends:' $f \
           && egrep -q "${SEEDS_LIST} seed" $f
        then
                basename $f >> ~/public_html/recommends-only
        fi
done
</pre>
==== UDS session agenda ====

* Canonical application support (UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-canonical-application-support) -mdz
* Update autofs4 to autofs5? -mdz
* Cluster stack (UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-cluster-stack) -mdz
* sysstat package be shipped with Ubuntu Server - jsalisbury
* oprofile and systemtap package be shipped to provide deeper performance analysis. -jsalisbury
* I'd like to request that virt-manager be dropped from Main to Universe.  It ships on the DVD, but not the other installable media.  Most all virt-manager users have to apt-get install it post installation anyway.  From a maintainability standpoint, no core-developer is really looking after the package.  It falls outside of the scope of the Server team, since it's a GUI/desktop package, but no one from the Desktop team is looking after it either.  The interface is years and years behind the interface of VirtualBox.  And the bug backlog is huge.  I suggest that virt-manager be dropped from the Main seeds, to Universe, for Lucid. -- DustinKirkland
* Look at the delta between hardy and karmic
* General server seeds review / server package set
* Look into dvd seed for server packages (time permitting)

==== UDS Lucid discussion notes ====

* Canonical application support (UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-canonical-application-support) -mdz
** Xen: not feasible
** drupal (v6)
** security team says core is "quite good"
** uses wwwconfig-common (universe) which we do not want
** would need to be repackaged
** asterisk
** long-term release 1.8 is coming up (Q2 2010). Lucid will have 1.6.X most likely.
** 1.8 is still vaporware, and will not likely be even beta for Lucid.
** gives the security team "pause" (7 CVEs last year, 13 the year before)
** could add an apparmor profile (jdstrand has one)
** hard to fully test (potentially lots of hardware bits)
** will have more information after asterisk session tomorrow
** wordpress
** kees says "no", jamie says "whoa"!
** irqbalance
** James T. says this is very important
** should be upstartified
** install by default on servers and desktops
** python-* for Launchpad
** python-celementtree
*** only built for python2.4, not 2.5; requires small amount of porting, but there's no reason we should pull this back into main (or even have it in the archive)
** python-svn
*** python-subversion already in main; check with Launchpad team on whether we need both)
** python-tickcount
** python-simplejson
*** already in main
** python-magic
*** already in main
** python-psycopg2
** python-pygments
*** already in main
** python-* for Landscape 
** python-genshi
*** +1 from kees, good overall design
** python-psycopg2
** python-pysqlite2
** python-simplejson
*** already in main
** smartpm-core
*** already in main
** python-smartpm
*** already in main
** python-* for Ubuntu One
** apache-openid
** does this mean libapache2-mod-auth-openid?
** oidentd
** nagios-nrpe
** nagios-nrpe-plugin, nagios-nrpe-server? both?
* Update autofs4 to autofs5? -mdz
** autofs5 description says it is "experimental" - need to confirm this
* Cluster stack (UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-cluster-stack) -mdz
** removal of redhat-cluster-suite from main (because not properly maintained).
** Push pacemaker instead (Debian Maintainer wants to coordinate this cluster stack that they are shipping in squeeze with our LTS).
** recommend removal, modulo objections from enterprise customers? enterprise customer objecting
* Build samba with clustering extensions, means including tdb-tools (source already in main) and ctdb in main. -- reduces debian delta
** already included in the Debian package, so this is a revert of existing delta
** Need to move "acl" package in main (was a hal dependency but not since karmic)
* exim4 (in supported-misc-servers)
** used by Canonical IS
** keep
* Review hardy/lucid diff
** Mail filtering (Spec: server-lucid-more-mail-integration)
** postgrey
** Possibly a few small python-modules/app (all packages ScottK maintains in Debian)
** amavisd-postfix package
* sysstat package be shipped with Ubuntu Server - jsalisbury
** already in main
* oprofile and systemtap package be shipped to provide deeper performance analysis. -jsalisbury
** NAK on systemtap -- it is young and actively generating CVEs --Kees
** no reason for these to be in main
* I'd like to request that virt-manager be dropped from Main to Universe.  It ships on the DVD, but not the other installable media.  Most all virt-manager users have to apt-get install it post installation anyway.  From a maintainability standpoint, no core-developer is really looking after the package.  It falls outside of the scope of the Server team, since it's a GUI/desktop package, but no one from the Desktop team is looking after it either.  The interface is years and years behind the interface of VirtualBox.  And the bug backlog is huge.  I suggest that virt-manager be dropped from the Main seeds, to Universe, for Lucid. -- DustinKirkland
* General server seeds review / server package set
* Look into dvd seed for server packages (time permitting)
* Look into NAS developemnt for SMB/Home Users. Would recommend making it a install option on list of installables (or separate lightweight flavor). - azteech
* remove backuppc? (jmdault says almost all his customers use backuppc at the moment)
* remove nis
* no need to explicitly seed?
** libaio1
** libaio-dev
** libpkcs11-helper1
** cvs
** dbconfig-common
** pnm2ppa
* remove gnbd-*
* remove elinks
* sensors
** lm-sensors
** sensord
** still needed on modern hardware?
* remove racoon? Should we support an IPSEC based VPN solution in main?  isakmpd is the only(?) other ISPec daemon, and is in universe.  That said, the security team would not mind not needing to update ipsec-tools any more.
** ipsec-tools?
* remove cricket
* section for tomcat
* remove analog
* remove freenet6 (already gone from archive)
* remove quagga? (NAK, still maintained, needed for BGP)
* remove radvd
* remove minicom? (cu is tiny and trivial to support, but doesn't support error correction)
* remove siege (ivoks: i'd like to keep this one cause it's only usable http benchmarking tool)
* further consideration (duplicate functionality?)
** logwatch (has existed for a long time, cargo-culted by Kees)
** logcheck (potentially better package integration, preferred by IS)
* remove vlock
* needs further consideration by cjwatson: openssh-blacklist, openssl-blacklist 
* remove system-cleaner (gone)
* kvm -> qemu-kvm
* remove lilo?
* promote zip, unzip to server default install?
* remove libxp6? - 29153
* supported-misc-servers needs reorg/comments/etc. for readability/documentation

=== Hardy/Lucid diff ===

PLEASE DO NOT PANIC; THIS IS A ROUGH ANALYSIS AND DOES NOT ACTUALLY DIRECTLY CORRESPOND TO DROPPING STUFF FROM MAIN! IT NEEDS MANUAL REVIEW.

<pre>
-aoetools (can we keep aoetools in main please?) Who's asking? Andrew Pollock jmdault as well it is not in main, but we will add it for eucalyptus anyway
+antlr
+antlr3
-apache2-mpm-perchild
-apache2-prefork-dev
-apache2-src
-apache2-threaded-dev
+apache2.2-bin
+aspell
+aspell-en
+augeas-lenses
-autoconf
-automake1.4
-autotools-dev
+avahi-daemon
+avahi-utils
+bacula-common-mysql
+bacula-common-sqlite3
+bacula-director-sqlite3
+bacula-sd-sqlite3
-bacula-traymonitor
+bind9utils
-bittornado
-bonnie++
+bogl-bterm
+bsd-mailx
-cdebconf-udeb
+bzrtools
+ca-certificates-java
+checkbox
+checkbox-cli
+clamav
+clamav-base
+clamav-daemon
+clamav-freshclam
-comerr-dev
-console-terminus
+corosync
-cracklib2
-crypto-modules-2.6.24-16-386-di
-crypto-modules-2.6.24-16-generic-di
-cryptsetup
-cups-pdf
-cupsddk
-cupsddk-drivers
-cupsys
-cupsys-bsd
-cupsys-client
-cupsys-common
-cupsys-driver-gutenprint
+cups
+cups-bsd
+cups-client
+cups-common
+cups-driver-gutenprint
-db4.6-util
+db4.7-util
+dbconfig-common
+dbus-x11
-debootstrap
+default-jre-headless
+devicekit-disks
-dmsetup
+diffstat
+dkms
-dovecot-dev
+dovecot-postfix
+dpatch
+dput
+drbd8-source
+erlang-base
+erlang-crypto
+erlang-mnesia
+erlang-os-mon
+erlang-public-key
+erlang-runtime-tools
+erlang-snmp
+erlang-ssl
+erlang-syntax-tools
+esound-clients
+ethtool
+euca2ools
+eucalyptus-cc
+eucalyptus-cloud
+eucalyptus-common
+eucalyptus-gl
+eucalyptus-java-common
+eucalyptus-nc
+eucalyptus-sc
+eucalyptus-udeb
+eucalyptus-walrus
-exim4-daemon-heavy-dbg
-exim4-daemon-light-dbg
-exim4-dbg
-exim4-dev
-eximon4
+facter
-foomatic-db-hpijs
-freeradius-dialupadmin
-freeradius-iodbc
-freeradius-krb5
-freeradius-ldap
-freeradius-mysql
-freeradius-postgresql
+freeradius-common
+freeradius-utils
+freetds-common
-g++-4.2
+g++-4.4
-gcc-4.2
-gcj-4.2-base
+gcc-4.4
-gij
-gij-4.2
-git-core
-gnbd-client
-gnbd-server
+ghostscript-cups
+gnome-keyring
+groovy
+gvfs
+gvfs-backends
+hal
+hal-info
+hicolor-icon-theme
+icedtea-6-jre-cacao
-jfsutils
+irb1.8
+ivy
+janino
+java-common
+john-data
+jsvc
+junit
+junit4
-kernel-image-2.6.24-16-386-di
-kernel-image-2.6.24-16-generic-di
+kernel-package
+kerneloops-daemon
+landscape-client
+language-selector-common
+libantlr-java
-libapache2-mod-auth-pam
-libapache2-mod-auth-sys-group
+libapache2-mod-axis2c
-libapache2-svn
+libapache2-reload-perl
-libapr1-dev
-libaprutil1-dev
-libarchive-tar-perl
+libaprutil1-dbd-sqlite3
+libaprutil1-ldap
+libapt-pkg-perl
+libarchive1
+libasm-java
+libasm2-java
-libasound2-plugins
+libatasmart4
+libatk1.0-data
+libaugeas-ruby1.8
+libaugeas0
+libauthen-sasl-perl
-libavahi-compat-libdnssd1
+libavahi-common3-udeb
+libavahi-core6
+libavahi-core6-udeb
-libbeecrypt6
+libaxiom-java
+libaxis2c0
+libbackport-util-concurrent-java
+libbcel-java
+libbcprov-java
+libbluetooth3
+libbsd-resource-perl
+libbsf-java
+libc-dev-bin
+libc3p0-java
-libc6-udeb
-libcap-bin
+libccs3
+libcdio-cdda0
+libcdio-paranoia0
+libcdio10
+libcdio7
+libcglib2.1-java
-libcman2
+libclamav6
+libcman3
+libcommons-beanutils-java
+libcommons-cli-java
+libcommons-codec-java
+libcommons-collections-java
+libcommons-collections3-java
+libcommons-daemon-java
+libcommons-dbcp-java
+libcommons-discovery-java
+libcommons-fileupload-java
+libcommons-httpclient-java
+libcommons-io-java
+libcommons-jxpath-java
+libcommons-lang-java
+libcommons-logging-java
+libcommons-pool-java
-libcompress-zlib-perl
+libcorosync4
+libcrack2
-libct3
+libcrypt-openssl-bignum-perl
+libcrypt-openssl-rsa-perl
+libcups2
+libcupscgi1
+libcupsdriver1
-libcupsys2
+libcupsmime1
+libcupsppdc1
-libdatrie0
-libdb4.2
-libdb4.6-dev
+libdaemon0
+libdate-manip-perl
+libdatrie1
+libdb4.6
-libdebian-installer4-udeb
+libdebconfclient0
+libdebian-installer4
+libdigest-hmac-perl
-libdirectfb-1.0-0
-libdlm2
-libdrm2
-libecpg-compat3
-libecpg-dev
-libecpg6
+libdirectfb-1.2-0
+libdjvulibre-text
+libdjvulibre21
+libdlm3
+libdlmcontrol3
+libdnsjava-java
+libdom4j-java
+libdrools-core-java
+libecj-java
+libeggdbus-1-0
-libevent1
+libeucalyptus-commons-ext-java
+libevent-1.4-2
+libexcalibur-logkit-java
-libexpat1-dev
-libffi4
+libezmorph-java
+libfence4
+libffi5
-libfile-temp-perl
+libflac8
+libfreeradius2
-libfs6
-libgcj-bc
-libgcj8-1
+libgcr0
-libgl1-mesa-glx
+libgdu0
+libgeronimo-ejb-3.0-spec-java
+libgeronimo-interceptor-3.0-spec-java
+libgeronimo-j2ee-connector-1.5-spec-java
+libgeronimo-jacc-1.1-spec-java
+libgeronimo-jms-1.1-spec-java
+libgeronimo-jpa-3.0-spec-java
+libgeronimo-jta-1.0.1b-spec-java
-libglib2.0-0
-libgmp3c2
+libgnuinet-java
+libgnujaf-java
+libgnumail-java
+libgoogle-collections-java
+libgp11-0
+libgpgme11
-libgsf-1-114
-libgsf-1-common
-libgtk-vnc-1.0-0
+libgssrpc4
+libgstreamer-plugins-base0.10-0
+libgstreamer0.10-0
+libgtk2.0-bin
+libgudev-1.0-0
+libgvfscommon0
+libgwt-user-java
+libhamcrest-java
+libhsqldb-java
-libhx10
+libhx18
+libicu40
-libio-compress-base-perl
-libio-compress-zlib-perl
+libijs-0.35
+libilmbase6
+libio-pty-perl
+libio-socket-inet6-perl
-libio-zlib-perl
-libiodbc2
+libipc-run-perl
+libjasper1
+libjavassist-java
+libjaxen-java
+libjaxme-java
+libjaxp1.3-java
+libjdom1-java
+libjetty6-java
+libjibx-java
+libjline-java
-libkadm55
-libkrb5-dev
-libldap2-dev
-liblockfile1
-libltdl3
+libjson-java
+libjug-java
+libkadm5clnt6
+liblcms1
+liblog4j1.2-java
+liblogthread3
+libltdl7
+liblua5.1-0
-libmailtools-perl
+liblzo2-2
+libmagickcore2
+libmagickwand2
+libmail-dkim-perl
+libmail-sendmail-perl
+libmail-spf-perl
-libmime-perl
-libmysqlclient15-dev
-libmysqlclient15off
-libneon27
-libneon27-dev
+libmockobjects-java
+libmvel-java
+libmx4j-java
+libmysqlclient16
+libnet-dns-perl
+libnet-ip-perl
+libnet-xwhois-perl
+libnetaddr-ip-perl
+libnetty-java
-libnss-files-udeb
+libnss-mdns
-libopenais2
+libntfs10
+libogg0
+libopenais3
+libopenexr6
+libopenobex1
+libopenssl-ruby
+libopenssl-ruby1.8
+liboro-java
+libpam-ck-connector
+libpam-gnome-keyring
-libpcre3
-libpcre3-dev
-libpcrecpp0
-libperl5.8
-libpgtypes3
+libparse-debcontrol-perl
+libpciaccess0
+libperl5.10
+libpkcs11-helper1
+libpod-coverage-perl
+libpolkit-agent-1-0
+libpolkit-backend-1-0
+libpolkit-gobject-1-0
-libpoppler2
-libpq-dev
+libpoppler5
+libproxy0
+libpth20
+libpython2.6
+libqdox-java
+librampart0
+libreadline-ruby1.8
+libregexp-java
-librpm4.4
-librrd2
+librpm0
+librpmbuild0
+librpmio0
+librrd4
-librsvg2-2
-librsvg2-common
+libruby
-libsamplerate0
+libsctp1
+libservlet2.4-java
+libservlet2.5-java
+libsgutils2-2
+libshadow-ruby1.8
+libslf4j-java
-libsmbclient-dev
+libsndfile1
+libsocket6-perl
+libsoup-gnome2.4-1
+libsoup2.4-1
-libsqlite3-dev
-libssl-dev
-libstdc++6-4.2-dev
-libsvn-dev
-libsvn-doc
-libsvn-java
-libsvn-javahl
-libsvn-perl
-libsvn-ruby
-libsvn-ruby1.8
-libsvn1
+libstdc++6-4.4-dev
+libstringtemplate-java
+libsys-hostname-long-perl
+libsysfs2
-libtextwrap1-udeb
+libtalloc1
+libterm-size-perl
+libtest-pod-perl
+libtie-ixhash-perl
-libtimedate-perl
-libtool
+libtomcat6-java
+libtommath0
+libts-0.0-0
+libupsclient1
+libv4l-0
-libvte-common
-libvte9
-libx11-6
-libx11-data
-libxau6
+libvorbis0a
+libvorbisenc2
+libwbclient0
+libwmf0.2-7
+libwrap0
+libwsdl4j-java
+libwss4j-java
+libx86-1
+libxalan2-java
-libxcb-xlib0
-libxcb1
+libxcb-render-util0
+libxcb-render0
-libxdmcp6
-libxext6
+libxerces2-java
+libxfont1
-libxkbfile1
-libxml-writer-perl
-libxml2
-libxml2-dev
+libxml-security-java
+libxmlrpc-ruby
-libxmuu1
+libxom-java
+libxpp2-java
+libxpp3-java
+libxstream-java
-libxtrap6
-libxv1
-libxxf86dga1
-libxxf86misc1
-libxxf86vm1
-linux-headers-2.6.24-16
-linux-headers-2.6.24-16-server
-linux-headers-server
-linux-image-2.6.24-16-server
-linux-image-server
+lintian
+linux-generic-pae
+linux-headers-2.6.32-4
+linux-headers-2.6.32-4-generic-pae
+linux-headers-generic-pae
+linux-headers-virtual
+linux-image-2.6.32-4-generic-pae
+linux-image-2.6.32-4-virtual
+linux-image-generic-pae
+linux-image-virtual
-linux-server
-linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24-16-server
+linux-virtual
+lksctp-tools
-lockfile-progs
-ltsp-server
-ltsp-server-standalone
-ltspfs
-make
-mdadm
+min12xxw
-moinmoin-common
+mtools
-mysql-client-5.0
+mysql-client-5.1
-mysql-server-5.0
+mysql-server-5.1
+mysql-server-core-5.1
+nagios-images
+nagios-plugins
+nagios3
+nagios3-cgi
+nagios3-common
+nagios3-core
+nagios3-doc
+ntfsprogs
+obex-data-server
+oem-config
+oem-config-debconf
+open-iscsi-utils
+openjdk-6-jre-headless
+openjdk-6-jre-lib
+openssh-blacklist
+openssh-blacklist-extra
-openssl
+openssl-blacklist
+openssl-blacklist-extra
+openvpn-blacklist
-patch
+partman-iscsi
+patchutils
-php5-dev
-pkg-config
+pm-utils
+policykit-1
+policykit-1-gnome
-postfix-dev
-postgresql-8.3
+postgresql-8.4
-postgresql-client-8.3
+postgresql-client-8.4
-postgresql-contrib-8.3
+postgresql-contrib-8.4
-postgresql-doc-8.3
-postgresql-plperl-8.3
-postgresql-plpython-8.3
-postgresql-pltcl-8.3
-postgresql-server-dev-8.3
+postgresql-doc-8.4
+powernap
+powerwake
+psfontmgr
+puppet
+puppetmaster
-python-cairo
-python-clientform
+python-boto
-python-dbg
-python-docutils
-python-gconf
-python-glade2
-python-gnome2
-python-gnomecanvas
+python-django
-python-gtk-vnc
-python-gtk2
+python-gst0.10
+python-image-store-proxy
-python-mechanize
+python-m2crypto
-python-numeric
-python-pyorbit
-python-roman
-python-subversion
-python-subversion-dbg
-python-twisted-bin
-python-twisted-conch
-python-twisted-core
-python-twisted-web2
-python-tz
+python-paramiko
+python-pyicu
+python-twisted-web
-python-virtinst
-python-vte
-python-zopeinterface
-python2.4
-python2.4-minimal
-python2.5-dbg
+python-xapian
+qemu-kvm
+rabbitmq-server
+radeontool
+rdate
+rdoc
+rdoc1.8
+re2c
+rhino
+ruby
-samba-dbg
+samba-common-bin
+sane-utils
-screen
-scsi-modules-2.6.24-16-386-di
-scsi-modules-2.6.24-16-generic-di
-shared-mime-info
-shorewall
-shorewall-common
-shorewall-shell
-shtool
+sg3-utils
+smartdimmer
-squashfs-tools
+spamassassin
+spamc
+sqlite3
+squid-langpack
-storage-core-modules-2.6.24-16-386-di
-storage-core-modules-2.6.24-16-generic-di
-subversion
-subversion-tools
-swat
-sysvinit
-tcl8.4
+tcpd
+tomcat6
+tomcat6-admin
+tomcat6-common
+tomcat6-docs
+tomcat6-examples
+tomcat6-user
+tsconf
-ubuntu-serverguide
-unifont
+ttf-freefont
+ttf-liberation
+tzdata-java
+ubiquity
+ubiquity-casper
+ubiquity-frontend-debconf
+ubiquity-ubuntu-artwork
+ubuntu-virt-server
+unattended-upgrades
-uuid-dev
+update-inetd
+update-motd
+vbetool
-vgabios
-virt-manager
+wakeonlan
+watershed
+wdiff
-x11-apps
-x11-common
-x11-session-utils
-x11-utils
-x11-xfs-utils
-x11-xkb-utils
-x11-xserver-utils
-xauth
-xbase-clients
-xfsprogs
+x-ttcidfont-conf
+xfonts-encodings
+xfonts-utils
-xinit
-zlib1g-dev
-zope-common
-zope3
-zope3-sandbox
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
