{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

The Ubuntu team is happy to bring you the latest and greatest software the Open Source community has to offer. Our newest release, the Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, brings a host of exciting new features for users.

== Upgrading from Ubuntu 9.10 or Ubuntu 8.04 LTS ==

To upgrade from Ubuntu 9.10 on a desktop system, press Alt+F2 and type in "update-manager" (without the quotes) into the command box. Update Manager should open up and tell you: New distribution release '10.04' is available. Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions.

To upgrade from Ubuntu 9.10 on a server system: install the <code>update-manager-core</code> package if it is not already installed; edit <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> and set <code>Prompt=normal</code>; launch the upgrade tool with the command <code>sudo do-release-upgrade</code>; and follow the on-screen instructions.  

To upgrade from Ubuntu 8.04 LTS: follow the same instructions as for the appropriate Ubuntu 9.10 upgrade, but set <code>Prompt=lts</code> instead of <code>Prompt=normal</code>.

== Download ==

Get it while it's hot. ISOs and torrents are available at:

 http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ (Ubuntu Desktop, Netbook and Server) <<BR>>
 http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/release/ (Ubuntu Server for UEC and EC2) <<BR>>
 http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/10.04/ (Kubuntu Desktop and Netbook Remix) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/lucid/release/ (Xubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/lucid/release/ (Edubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/lucid/release/ (Mythbuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/lucid/release/ (Ubuntu Studio) <<BR>>

Local mirrors are also available:

'''FIXME: import mirror list automatically'''

== New features since Ubuntu 9.10 ==

=== GNOME ===

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS includes the latest <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org|GNOME]]</nowiki> desktop environment with a number of great new features.

=== Translations ===

Thanks to the efforts of the broad translations community around the globe, Ubuntu is available in the following 29 languages: Spanish, English (United Kingdom), Brazilian Portuguese, German, French, Italian, Hungarian, Swedish, Russian, Chinese (Simplified), Dutch, Portuguese, Finnish, Danish, Japanese, Greek, Korean, Czech, Catalan, Polish, Galician, Chinese (Traditional), Slovenian, Bulgarian, Asturian, Vietnamese, Basque, Turkish and Serbian. Congratulations to the Asturian, Vietnamese, Turkish and Serbian teams for having made it to the list.

<nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dpm/ubuntu-10.04-translation-stats.html|Here]]</nowiki> you can see the full list of languages, along with their detailed statistics.

This list represents the languages which have achieved the target of what we consider a translated operating system. However, Ubuntu is also available in many other languages with varying degrees of coverage, many of which are very close to what we consider complete.

=== Linux kernel 2.6.32 ===

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS includes the 2.6.32-21.32 <nowiki>[[http://kernel.org|kernel]]</nowiki> based on 2.6.32.11.

=== KDE SC 4.4 ===

Kubuntu 10.04 LTS features the new <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org|KDE]]</nowiki> SC 4.4.  For more information about new features in Kubuntu, see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/LucidLynx/|the Kubuntu technical overview]]</nowiki>.

=== HAL removal ===

This release fully removes HAL from the boot process, making Ubuntu faster to boot and faster to resume from suspend.

=== Major new version of likewise-open ===

The <nowiki>[[http://www.likewise.com/products/likewise_open/|likewise-open]]</nowiki> package, which provides Active Directory authentication and server support for Linux, has been updated to version 5.4. The package supports upgrades from both the officially supported versions 4.0 (Ubuntu 8.04 LTS) and 4.1 (Ubuntu 9.10), as well as the `likewise-open5` packages from universe.

Since this upgrade involves a lot of configuration file changes and in-place database upgrades, testing and feedback is appreciated.

=== New default open source driver for nVidia hardware ===

The <nowiki>[[http://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/|Nouveau]]</nowiki> video driver is now the default for nVidia hardware.  This driver provides kernel mode setting, which will give improved resolution detection.  This driver provides hardware accelerated 2D functionality, like the -nv driver it replaces.  The nouveau driver is being actively developed upstream and we anticipate this will enable faster bug fixes for problems encountered. There is some <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Nouveau|troubleshooting information]]</nowiki> available.

=== Improved support for nVidia proprietary graphics drivers ===

Three different NVIDIA proprietary drivers are currently available: <code>nvidia-current</code> (190.53), <code>nvidia-173</code>, and <code>nvidia-96</code>. Thanks to a new alternatives system, it is now possible to install all three of these packages at the same time (although it is only possible to have one configured for use at a time).

=== Social from the Start ===

We now feature built-in integration with Twitter, identi.ca, Facebook, and other social networks with the <nowiki>[[MeMenu]]</nowiki> in the panel, which is built upon the <nowiki>[[http://gwibber.com|Gwibber]]</nowiki> project, which has a completely new, more reliable backend built on top of desktopcouch. Gwibber now also supports a <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/2010/02/09/social-from-the-start/|multi-column view]]</nowiki> for monitoring multiple feeds simultaneously.

=== New boot experience ===

Multiple changes to look, feel and speed of the boot experience have been included in the Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

=== New Indicators ===

The notification area now features more consistent user experience and design for communication, session management, and many other tasks. See the <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-ApplicationIndicators|application indicators]]</nowiki> page for information on this change.

=== New Themes ===

The desktop has been beautified with the addition of two brand new themes, Ambiance and Radiance. New wallpaper and icons are also included.

=== Ubuntu One File Syncing ===

Select any folder in your home directory for sync, pick from your existing contacts when sharing folders.  An updated preferences application has been added, with more features.

=== Ubuntu One Music Store ===

Millions of songs are available for purchase from your Ubuntu desktop, integrated with the Rhythmbox Music Player and using Ubuntu One cloud storage for backup and easy sync.

=== New features for Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud (UEC) ===

The Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud installer has been vastly improved in order to support alternative installation topologies. UEC components are now automatically discovered and registered, including for complex topologies. Finally, UEC is now powered by <nowiki>[[http://eucalyptus.com/|Eucalyptus]]</nowiki> 1.6.2 codebase.
      
== Security Issue when upgrading from Lucid Alpha 2 ==

If you installed Lucid prior to Alpha 3, you may have <code>libmysqlclient16</code> 7.0.9-1 installed.  This package was present in the Ubuntu archive by mistake and was retracted, but because it has a later version number than the real <code>libmysqlclient16</code> package, the real package will not be installed automatically on upgrade.  To ensure that you have the official package installed on your Lucid system and will receive security support for it throughout Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, it is important that you run <code>sudo apt-get install libmysqlclient16/lucid</code> and follow the instructions.

== Known issues ==

For a full list of errata for Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, please see the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004|Ubuntu 10.04 LTS release notes]]</nowiki>.

== Help Spread the Word About Ubuntu 10.04 LTS ==

New banners are available for counting down the days until the Ubuntu 10.04 LTS release:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/countdown

You can add the countdown banner to your website to help build excitement for the new release as the date approaches.

== Participate in Ubuntu ==

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

== More information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

To sign up for future Ubuntu development announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's development announcement list at:

 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce
