{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Tässä julkaisumuistiossa kerrotaan tunnetuista huomion arvoisista asioista ja ongelmista Ubuntun versiossa 10.04 LTS ja Ubuntun sisarjulkaisuissa liittyen niiden asentamiseen, päivittämiseen tai käyttöön. 

Huom. sivun suomennos on keskeneräinen ~-(<nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-fi.org/TODO/10.04|osallistu (lue ohje sivun alareunasta)]]</nowiki>)-~

== Laitevaatimukset ==

Vaadittu keskusmuistin määrä Ubuntu 9.10 -julkaisulle on 256MB. Huomioi, että osa järjestelmän keskusmuistista saattaa olla näytönohjaimen käytössä. Pienimmällä vaaditulla muistin määrällä asennus kestää tavallista pidempään, mutta valmistuu lopulta, ja järjestelmä toimii kohtuullisella nopeudella asennuksen jälkeen.

Vähemmän muistia sisältävillä tietokoneilla saattaa olla mahdollista suorittaa asennus käyttämällä ”Asenna Ubuntu” -käynnistysvalintaa, jolloin käynnistetään vain asennusohjelma koko työpöydän sijaan. Vaihtoehtoisesti voi myös käyttää tekstitila-asennus-CD-levyä (”alternate”).

== Julkaisumuistio Ubuntu 10.04:n ARM-versiolle ==

Kehittäjille suunnattu erillinen julkaisumuistio on saatavilla Ubuntu 10.04 armel porttaukselle. Katso lisätietoja <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/LucidReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> liittyen ARM asennukseen.

== Asentaminen ==

=== Performance regressions with ext4 under certain workloads ===

The default file system for installations of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS is `ext4`, the latest version in the popular series of Linux extended file systems. `ext4` includes a number of performance tuning changes relative to previous versions such as `ext3`, the file system used by default up to Ubuntu 9.04. These generally produce improvements, but some particular workloads are known to be significantly slower when using `ext4` than when using `ext3`. If you have performance-sensitive applications, we recommend that you run benchmarks using multiple file systems in your environment and select the most appropriate.

In particular, the `dpkg` package manager is known to run significantly slower on `ext4`, causing installations using the server or alternate install CD to take on the order of twice as long as before. `ext4` does not guarantee atomic renames of new files over existing files in the event of a power failure shortly after the rename, and so `dpkg` needs to force the contents of the new file out to disk before renaming it in order to avoid leaving corrupt zero-length files after power failures. This operation involves waiting for the disk significantly more than it strictly needs to, and so degrades performance. If fast package management operations are most important to you, then you should use `ext3` instead. (Bug:570805)

The simplest way to select a different file system such as `ext3` at installation time is to add the `partman/default_filesystem=ext3` boot parameter when starting the installer. If you are deploying Ubuntu automatically using Kickstart or preseeding, then you can set a different file system in the partitioning recipe instead.

=== Suositellut paketit asentuvat oletuksena ===

Debianin käytäntöjen mukaisesti paketinhallintaohjelma asentaa automaattisesti asennettavan paketin suosittelemat (Recommends) paketit riippuvuuksien lisäksi. Jos tätä toimintoa ei haluta käyttää tiettyä pakettia asennettaessa on paketti asennettava komennolla `apt-get --no-install-recommends`. Jos tämä ominaisuus halutaan kytkeä pysyvästi pois päältä, se tapahtuu asettamalla avain `APT::Install-Recommends` arvoon `false` tiedostossa '/etc/apt/apt.conf'. Huomaa että tämä saattaa joissain tilanteissa johtaa puuttuviin ominaisuuksiin. 

(Tämä muutos tehtiin Ubuntu 8.10:ssä)

=== Lepotila ei välttämättä toimi automaattisen osioinnin jälkeen ===

Asennusohjelman oletuksena tekemä osiointi saattaa joissain tilanteissa luoda niin pienen sivutusosion (''swap-osion''), että keskusmuisti ei mahdu sille. Tämä estää lepotilan käytön. Jos haluat käyttää lepotilaa varmista asennuksen aikana, että sivutusosio on vähintään yhtä suuri kuin järjestelmässä on keskusmuistia. (Bug:345126)

=== I/O error after CD is ejected at end of install ===

In some cases, ejecting the CD at the end of installation will leave errors on the screen such as:

<pre>
end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 437628
</pre>

these error messages indicate that the system is still trying to access some files on the CD, and are harmless except that they obscure the message asking the user to press Enter to reboot. You can safely remove the CD from the tray and press Enter at this point to reboot to your new Ubuntu system. (Bug:539027)

=== Käynnistysvalinnat on piilotettu oletuksena Desktop and Netbook CD -levyillä ===

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop ja Netbook CD -levyillä uudessa käynnistyskäyttöliittymässä on lisävalinnat piilotettu oletuksena. Määrittääksesi käynnistysvalintoja, paina jotain näppäintä alkukäynnistyksen näytössä.

=== Dmraid aktivoituna oletuksena Desktop CD -levyllä ===

Dmraid "fake raid" laitteet ovat automaattisesti tuettuja Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop CD:llä. Dmraid tunnistaa ja aktivoi ne käynnistyksen yhteydessä. Ubiquity tarjoaa asentamisen RAID -pakkaan eikä RAID -jäsenille.
 
Dmraidin automaattisen aktivoinnin voi kytkeä pois päältä "nodmraid" käynnistysvalinnalla,  jonka saa painamalla F6 CD:n käynnistysvalikossa. Tämä voi olla hyödyllistä asennuksissa, joissa  fakeraid metatieto on levyillä, mutta dmraidin aktivointi voisi aiheuttaa ongelmia tai ei ole muuten toivottua. 

=== Partition alignment changes may break some systems ===

By default, Ubuntu 10.04 LTS aligns partitions on disk to 1 MiB (1048576 bytes) boundaries. This ensures maximum performance on many modern disks, particularly solid state drives but also new "Advanced Format" disks with physical sectors larger than the traditional 512 bytes. Very few systems nowadays need the old alignment, used in the days of MS-DOS when it was useful for partitions to start at the beginning of a cylinder.

In some rare cases, optimal alignment may cause problems. Some BIOS implementations (those on Asus P5``P800-MX and Asus P5GZ-MX motherboards) have been reported to hang after installation. It may be difficult to install Microsoft Windows XP and older after installing Ubuntu, although more recent versions of Windows should be compatible with optimal alignment and indeed may produce it themselves. If you find that you need to use the old cylinder alignment instead, then add the <code>partman/alignment=cylinder</code> boot parameter when starting the installer. (Bug:551965)

=== Desktop installer sometimes crashes on startup ===

On some machines, the CD boot fails with the message "The installer encountered an unrecoverable error. A desktop session will now be run so that you may investigate the problem or try installing again." If you encounter this error, restart your computer with the CD inserted, press any key at the splash screen (when you see the keyboard icon at the bottom of the screen), and select "Try Ubuntu without installing". Once the desktop appears, use the "Install Ubuntu 10.04" icon to begin installing Ubuntu. (Bug:567899)

== Päivittäminen ==

Ubuntu 9.10- ja Ubuntu 8.04 LTS -käyttäjät voivat päivittää Ubuntu 10.04 -versioon helposti ja automaattisesti. Muiden Ubuntu-julkaisujen käyttäjien tulee päivittää ensin Ubuntu 8.04 LTS- tai 9.10-versioon, ja sitten versioon 10.04. Täydelliset ohjeet löytyvät osoitteista http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading (englanniksi) ja http://wiki.ubuntu-fi.org/Paivittaminen (suomeksi).

=== GRUB menu.lst: asenna ylläpitäjän versio vs. pidä paikallinen versio ===

Jos olet aikaisemmin muokannut <code>menu.lst</code> käynnistyslataajan määrityksiä GRUB:lle joko käsin tai työkalulla kuten <code>kgrubeditor</code>, sinulta voidaan kysyä päivityksen yhteydessä haluatko pitää paikallisen version vai asentaa paketin ylläpitäjän version menu.lst tiedostosta. Tämä kysymys kysytään, koska tällaisia muutoksia ei voida yhteensulauttaa automaattisesti 100% luotettavuudella ja halutaan huolehtia ettei käyttäjän itse muokkaamaa käynnistyslataajan määritystä päällekirjoiteta varoittamatta.

Jos kuitenkin valitset "keep the local version currently installed," järjestelmäsi ei käytä käynnistyksessä uusimpia asennettuja kerneleitä.  '''Sinun täytyy itse varmistaa, että järjestemäsi käyttää uusinta, turvallista kerneliä päivityksen jälkeen.''' Jos sinulla omia asetuksia käynnistyslataajallesi, jotka haluat säilyttää, on suositeltavaa, että seuraat näitä ohjeita:

* Valitse "keep the local version currently installed" kysyttäessä.
* Avaa <code>/boot/grub/menu.lst</code> tekstieditorissa (esim. <code>sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst</code>).
* Ota käyttöön muutokset, joita teit kernelin käynnistysvalintoihin kommentoiduille muuttujille (esim. <code>groot</code>, <code>kopt</code>, <code>defoptions</code>).

* Siirrä itse lisätyt toisten käyttöjärjestelmien käynnistysvalinnat tämän viivan yläpuolelle <pre>
</pre> tai tämän viivan alapuolelle <pre>
</pre>
* Tallenna tiedosto ja suorita <code>sudo update-grub</code> komentorivillä.
* Valitse "install the package maintainer's version".

Jos esimerkiksi lisäsit ehdon `i915.modeset=0` "kernel" riville:

<pre>
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=0e7... ro quiet splash i915.modeset=0
</pre>

lisää tämä ehto <code>kopt</code> muuttujaan:

<pre>
</pre>

Päivitetty versio <code>grub</code> paketista sisältää tietoa tästä ongelmasta help -näytössä. (Bug:470490)

=== Langattoman sääntelyalueen asettamista moduulivalitsimella ei enää tueta ===

Ubuntu 10.04 ottaa käyttöön langattoman säätelyn CRDA-kehyksen tietyssä sijainnissa käytettävissä ja näkyvissä olevien langattomien kanavien hallintaan. Jos aiemmin jouduit käyttämään alla olevan kaltaista moduulivalitsininta /etc/modprobe.d/options-tiedostossa pääsyn mahdollistamiseksi tietyille kanaville ympäristössäsi, on mahdollista että langaton verkko ei toimi lainkaan:

    options cfg80211 ieee80211_regdom=EU

Tämä ydinmoduulin valitsin tulee poistaa päivitettäessä Ubuntu 10.04:ään vanhemmista kuin Ubuntu 9.04 -julkaisusta ja käyttää <code>iw reg</code> -komentoa sen sijaan.

(Tämä muutos tehtiin Ubuntu 9.04:ssä.)

=== Yhdistettyjen verkkorajapintojen pitää käyttää hotplug-tyylistä määritystä ===

Verkonhallinnan nopea yhdistyminen tarkoittaa, että kaikki verkkolaitteet käsitellään nyt hotplug-tyylisesti. Tämän seurauksena  are yhdistetyt liitynnät käynnistyvät luotettavasti vain järjestelmän latauksen yhteydessä, kun yhteinen rajapinta luodaan osana fyysisen liitynnän määritystä; muutoin, järjestelmä saattaa yrittää bring luoda yhteistä rajapintaa ennen kuin fyysiset liitynnät ovat saatavilla ja epäonnistuu. Esimerkiksi, kuinka määrittää yhdistetty rajapinta hotplugille,  katso <code>/usr/share/doc/ifenslave-2.6/examples/two_hotplug_ethernet</code> <code>ifenslave-2.6</code> paketissa.

(Tämä muutos tehtiin Ubuntu 9.10 versioon.) 

=== Kubuntu säästää tarpeettomat guidance power paketit ===

Kubuntun päivitys voi säästää tarpeettomat paketit "kde-guidance-powermanager" tai "guidance-power-manager". Nämä voi poistaa.

=== Kubuntu's Akonadi may need restarting ===

Akonadi startup is sometimes faulty preventing access to the address book and other resources. To work around this, close and restart Kontact. (Bug:564263)

=== Ctrl-Alt-Backspace poissa käytöstä oletuksena Xorgissa, määritellään XKB:ssa ===

Ubuntu 9.04 versiosta lähtien Ctrl-Alt-Backspace näppäinyhdistelmä, joka pakottaa X -ikkunamanagerin käynnistymään uudelleen, on poissa käytöstä oletuksena. Tällä estetään käyttäjiä vahingossa painamasta kyseistä näppäinyhdistelmää. Ctrl-Alt-Backspace yhdistelmä on nyt määritettävissä X keymap (XKB) asetuksena korvaten X palvelimen "DontZap" asetuksen  ja sallien käyttäjäkohtaisen asetusmäärityksen.
 
Tämän ansiosta Ctrl+Alt+Backspace pikanäppäimen päälle ja poiskytkeminen voidaan nyt tehdä helposti työpöydältä.
 
==== Ctrl-Alt-Backspace käyttöönotto Ubuntussa ====

* Valitse "Järjestelmä"->"Asetukset"->"Näppäimistö" 
* Valitse "Asettelu" välilehti ja napauta "Asetteluvalinnat" näppäintä. 
* Valitse "Näppäinyhdistelmä X palvelimen lopettamiseksi" ja ota käyttöön "Control + Alt + Backspace".

==== Ctrl-Alt-Backspace käyttöönotto Kubuntussa ====

* Paina sovelluskäynnistintä ja valitse "Järjestelmäasetukset" 
* Paina "Alue & Kieliasetukset". 
* Valitse "Näppäimistöasettelu". 
* Paina "Ota käyttöön näppäimistöasettelut" (Asettelut välilehdellä). 
* Valitse "Lisäasetukset" välilehti. Valitse sitten "Näppäinyhdistelmä X palvelimen lopettamiseksi" ja ota käyttöön "Control + Alt + Backspace".

Lisätietoa, katso: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/DontZap

=== Muutos saatavilla olevien päivitysten ilmoituksiin ===

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS esittelee <code>update-manager</code>in , joka hoitaa suoraan pakettien päivitykset sen sijaan, että näyttäisi ilmoituskuvakkeen GNOME paneelissa. Käyttäjiä huomautetaan turvallisuuspäivityksistä päivittäin, mutta muista päivityksistä huomautetaan vain kerran viikossa.

Käyttäjät, jotka haluavat saada huomautuksia entiseen tapaan, voivat palauttaa aikaisemman toiminnallisuuden seuraavalla komennolla:

<pre>
gconftool -s --type bool /apps/update-notifier/auto_launch false
</pre>

(Tämä muutos tehtiin Ubuntu 9.04 versioon.)

=== MySQL päivitys ===

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS versiossa MySQL 5.1 toimii oletusarvoisena MySQL palvelimena. MySQL 5.0 versio on edelleen saatavilla universe säilöstä. Suorittamalla päivityksen päivitysten hallinnan kautta suorittaa oikein siirtymisen MySQL 5.0 versiosta MySQL 5.1 versioon.

==== MySQL klusterin asennus ====

Jos MySQL on asennettu käyttämään MySQL klusterimoottoria (NDB engine), päivittäminen MySQL 5.1 versioon '''ei''' toimi, koska mysql-dfsg-5.1 paketit eivät tue MySQL klusteria. Asenna sen sijaan '''mysql-cluster-server''' paketti.

=== /etc/event.d no longer used ===

The version of <code>upstart</code> included in Ubuntu 10.04 LTS no longer uses the configuration files in the <code>/etc/event.d</code> directory, looking to <code>/etc/init</code> instead.  No automatic migration of changes to <code>/etc/event.d</code> is possible.  If you have modified any settings in this directory, you will need to reapply them to <code>/etc/init</code> in the new configuration format by hand. (Bug:402759)

(This change was made in Ubuntu 9.10.)

=== Syslog upgrade ===

The `sysklogd` package has been replaced with `rsyslog`.  Configurations in `/etc/syslog.conf` will be automatically migrated to `/etc/rsyslog.d/50-default`.  If you modified the log rotation settings in `/etc/cron.daily/sysklogd` or `/etc/cron.weekly/sysklogd`, you will need to change the new configurations in `/etc/logrotate.d/rsyslog`.  Also note that the prior rotation configurations used `.0` as the first rotated file extension, and now with logrotate it will be `.1`.

(This change was made in Ubuntu 9.10.)

=== OpenOffice.org registry may be corrupted on upgrade from version 3.1.1-14 ===

Users who had installed pre-release versions of Ubuntu 9.10 may have corrupted Open``Office.org service or component registry files on their system as a result of a bug in version 1:3.1.1-14 of the Open``Office.org packages. If you experience segfaults in either <code>unopkg</code> or Open``Office.org after upgrade, you may need to remove and regenerate the registry files in <code>/var/lib/openoffice/basis3.2/program/</code> and <code>/var/spool/openoffice/uno_packages/cache</code>. (Bug:546797)

=== LPIA architecture discontinued ===

The <code>lpia</code> architecture present in previous releases has been discontinued as of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.  The hardware is still supported, but systems that were installed as <code>lpia</code> will need to be backed up and reinstalled from scratch using either the <code>i386</code> or <code>amd64</code> architectures.  See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/523295|bug 523295]]</nowiki>, which includes an unsupported method for migration from <code>lpia</code> to <code>i386</code>.

=== Dovecot cmusieve plugin renamed to sieve ===

The "cmusieve" plugin used in dovecot has been renamed to "sieve".  Users who have the following set in their dovecot configuration:

<pre>
	mail_plugins = cmusieve
</pre>

should change this to:

<pre>
	mail_plugins = sieve
</pre>

== Muut tunnetut ongelmat ==

=== Security Issue when upgrading from Lucid Alpha 2 ===

If you installed Lucid prior to Alpha 3, you may have <code>libmysqlclient16</code> 7.0.9-1 installed.  This package was present in the Ubuntu archive by mistake and was retracted, but because it has a later version number than the real <code>libmysqlclient16</code> package, the real package will not be installed automatically on upgrade.  To ensure that you have the official package installed on your Lucid system and will receive security support for it throughout Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, it is important that you run <code>sudo apt-get install libmysqlclient16/lucid</code> and follow the instructions. (Bug:522225)

=== ext4:ään vaihtaminen vaatii grubin päivittämisen käsin ===

Jos aiot päivittää ”/”- tai ”/boot”-tiedostojärjestelmäsi ext2:sta tai ext3:sta ext4:ään säilyttäen tiedot (kuten dokumentoitu <nowiki>[[http://ext4.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Ext4_Howto#Converting_an_ext3_filesystem_to_ext4|ext4-wikissä]]</nowiki>), sinun ''täytyy'' myös käyttää ”grub-install”-komentoa Ubuntu 10.04 LTS:ään päivittämisen jälkeen asentaaksesi käynnistyslataimen uudelleen. Jos et tee tätä, käynnistyssektorille asennettu GRUB-versio ei osaa lukea ydintä ext4-tiedostojärjestelmästä ja järjestelmä ei käynnisty.

=== Upstart jobs cannot be run in a chroot ===

Upstart jobs cannot be started in a chroot because upstart acts as a service supervisor, and processes within the chroot are unable to communicate with the upstart running outside of the chroot (Bug:430224).  This will cause some packages that have been converted to use upstart jobs instead of init scripts to fail to upgrade within a chroot.  Users are advised to configure their chroots with /sbin/initctl pointing to /bin/true, with the following commands run within the chroot:

<pre>
dpkg-divert --local --rename --add /sbin/initctl
ln -s /bin/true /sbin/initctl
</pre>

=== Use of degraded RAID 1 array may cause data loss in exceptional cases ===

If each member of a RAID 1 array is separately brought up in degraded mode across subsequent runs of the array with no reassembly in between, there is a risk that the disks will be reported as in sync when they are not, resulting in data loss due to inconsistencies between the data that has been written to each member. This is an unlikely occurrence during normal operations, but admins of systems using RAID 1 arrays should take care during maintenance to avoid this situation. (Bug:557429)

=== Encrypted partitions must be listed in /etc/fstab ===

Users who have configured any encrypted partitions in <code>/etc/crypttab</code> to start at boot time (i.e., not using the <code>noauto</code> option) should make sure that the filesystems on these volumes are listed in <code>/etc/fstab</code>.  Otherwise, the passphrase prompt is not guaranteed to be displayed at boot time.

=== LVM filesystems should be listed in /etc/fstab by name ===

In general, filesystems are listed in <code>/etc/fstab</code> by UUID rather than by device name, to ensure that the filesystem can always be found reliably. If you are mounting a filesystem located on LVM, however, it is recommended that you list them in <code>/etc/fstab</code> by device name, not by UUID, because UUIDs are not unique if LVM snapshots are used, which can result in wrong filesystems being mounted at boot. (Bug:563902)

=== Boot failures with LVM on ia64, powerpc, sparc ===

The linux kernel packages for the ia64, powerpc, and sparc architectures builds device-mapper support as a module, where the packages for the other architectures have the driver built in, which leads to boot failures on ia64/powerpc/sparc when using LVM. To work around this, users must run these commands manually from the initramfs:
<pre>
modprobe dm_mod
lvm vgchange -a y
</pre>

This issue will be addressed in a post-release kernel update. (Bug:560717)

=== Avahi will always start even if a .local domain is present ===

The <code>avahi-daemon</code> package, which implements the mDNS "zeroconf" standard, formerly included a check to avoid running when a conflicting <code>.local</code> DNS domain is present, as it was reported that some ISPs advertise such a <code>.local</code> domain on their networks, leaving Ubuntu hosts unable to see names advertised on the local network (Bug:327362).  In Ubuntu 9.10, <code>avahi-daemon</code> is started regardless.

It is possible that this may cause other problems.  If your network is configured this way, you can disable mDNS using the following command:

<pre>
sudo stop avahi-daemon
sudo sed -e '/^start/,+1s/^/#/' /etc/init/avahi-daemon.conf
</pre>

=== Working around bugs in the new kernel video architecture ===

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS enables the new kernel-mode-setting (KMS) technology by default on most common video chipsets. While this is a major step forward for the graphics architecture in Ubuntu, in some rare cases KMS will prevent your video output from working correctly, or from working at all. If you need to disable KMS, you can do so by booting with the <code>nomodeset</code> option. You can also save this setting so that it's applied at every boot by adding it to your grub config (for GRUB 2: edit `/etc/default/grub` and add `nomodeset` to `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX`, then run `sudo update-grub`; for GRUB 1: edit `/boot/grub/menu.lst` and add `nomodeset` to the line beginning with `# kopt=`, then run `sudo update-grub`). (Bug:533784, Bug:541501)

=== Evince PDF viewer does not work for nonstandard home directories ===

Evince, the GNOME document viewer, now ships with an enforcing AppArmor profile. This greatly increases security by protecting users against flaws in the historically problematic PDF and image libraries. Users who use a non-standard location for their home directory will need to adjust the home tunable in /etc/apparmor.d/tunables/home. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingApparmor#Adjusting%20Tunables for details.

=== No delay for boot menu with GRUB 2 ===

When using the GRUB 2 bootloader included in Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, the first boot option will by default be loaded automatically without pausing for user input. To interrupt the boot, users can hold down the Shift key to bring up the boot menu, allowing them to select a different boot option or to configure kernel arguments. (https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#GRUB%20vs%20GRUB%202)

=== Changes in boot-time output on Ubuntu Server ===

With the introduction of plymouth, boot-time messages from startup scripts are no longer displayed above the login prompt on tty1. Instead, they are all output to tty7 and on Ubuntu Server, can be viewed after boot by pressing Alt+F7. On all systems the boot output can also be found in <code>/var/log/boot.log</code>.

On new installs of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Server, no boot splash screen is shown by default. While this provides server administrators with more immediate feedback about their system while booting, it also prevents prompts from reaching the user in the event of filesystem mounting failures. Users can add the <code>splash</code> option to <code>/etc/default/grub</code> if they prefer to always see the splash screen. Hotkeys for interacting with <code>mountall</code> will still work without the splash screen, but are not discoverable: <code>C</code> to cancel a running fsck; <code>M</code> to request a maintenance shell; <code>S</code> to skip an unavailable mount; and <code>F</code> to try to fix errors found by a fsck. (Bug:563916)

=== NSS resolution breaks with LDAP over SSL in Ubuntu Server ===

Upgrading systems configured to use LDAP via SSL as the first service in the NSS stack (in /etc/nsswitch.conf) leads to broken NSS resolution afterwards such that `setuid` applications like `sudo` would stop working. To work around this, switch to the libnss-ldapd package instead of libnss-ldap before the upgrade, or use nscd. (Bug:423252)

=== OpenLDAP may fail to start on upgrade ===

When upgrading some systems from Karmic or pre-release versions of Lucid, OpenLDAP may fail to start by logging messages similar to "ordered_value_sort failed on attr olcAccess#012". To workaround the problem remove the line "olcAccess: to * by dn.exact=cn=localroot,cn=config manage by * break" from /etc/ldap/slapd.d/cn=config/olcDatabase={-1}frontend.ldif and /etc/ldap/slapd./cn=config/olcDatabase={0}config.ldif. An update fixing this automatically should be available soon after release. (Bug:571057)

=== Sun Java moved to the Partner repository ===

For Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, the <code>sun-java6</code> packages have been dropped from the Multiverse section of the Ubuntu archive. It is recommended that you use <code>openjdk-6</code> instead.

If you can not switch from the proprietary Sun JDK/JRE to OpenJDK, you can install <code>sun-java6</code> packages from the Canonical Partner Repository. You can configure your system to use this repository via command-line:
<pre>
     add-apt-repository "deb http://archive.canonical.com/ lucid partner"
</pre>

=== Window corruption with older ATI graphics cards ===
 
With older ATI graphics cards with 32MB or less of video RAM some corruption of direct rendered windows, for example OSD notifier windows, might appear. This may be worked around by disabling 'Render``Accel' in the Xorg configuration.  (Bug:426582)

To do this first exit to the console using the following command:
<pre>
sudo service gdm stop
</pre>
Then create an Xorg configuration file with the command below:
<pre>
sudo Xorg -configure
</pre>

Then add the 'Render``Accel' option to <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code>:
<pre>
Section "Device"
        ...
        Driver "radeon"
        Option "RenderAccel" "off"
EndSection
</pre>

And restart X/GDM.
<pre>
sudo service gdm start
</pre>

=== Incompatibility with nVidia upstream driver installer ===

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS includes improved integration for nVidia binary driver packages.  Unfortunately, this comes at the expense of compatibility with the installer provided upstream on the nVidia website.  Users who wish to use the nVidia binary video drivers with 10.04 LTS should install them using the Ubuntu packages, as made available under <code>System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers</code>.

=== Intel 8xx X freezes/crashes ===

The -intel driver fails with X freezes or crashes on certain i8xx hardware. The issue is known upstream but solutions are still under development. For now, to work around the issue, boot with the -vesa video driver. See http://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes for further details.

=== AbiWord freezes when accessing help documentation ===

A bug in the Abi``Word package in Xubuntu 10.04 causes the application to hang whenever accessing the help interface, either from the menu or by pressing F1. Users of Xubuntu should upgrade to version 2.8.2-2ubuntu1.1 of Abi``Word in the <code>lucid-updates</code> repository to get the fix for this issue. (Bug:519541)

=== Lightning extension not yet available for Thunderbird 3 ===

The Thunderbird mail and news client has been upgraded to version 3, but the "Lightning" calendar extension is not yet available for this version. We hope to provide a backport soon. (Bug:532232)
