{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:lucid-serverguide
* '''Created''': 10 November 2009
* '''Contributors''': Ubuntu Doc Team
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-serverguide

=== Summary ===

Gather and confirm ideas on additions and updates for the Server Guide during the Ubuntu 10.04 release cycle. 

=== Release Note ===

TBD

=== Rationale ===

A significant amount of problems with any computer system can be solved with good documentation. To that end having relevant and up to date documentation for the Ubuntu Server Edition is a worthwhile venture.

=== Use Cases ===

Documentation shipped with Ubuntu Server Edition in the ubuntu-serverguide package. Also, the content is available on the help.ubuntu.com web site.

=== Assumptions ===

Server admins are reading the Server Guide. 

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

Confirm or add to the proposed list of ideas gathered on the ServerTeam/IdeaPool page. Then document the confirmed subjects in DocBook format. Also, updating any relevant pages in the community wiki. 

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Read through the Server Guide, and report bugs on any issues with the guide.  Issues will include grammar errors, spelling errors, command errors, application/package names, path names, etc.

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* Fix issues with LDAP section.
** Multiple bugs with the Replication Section.
** Make sure instructions are as clear as possible.

* Clustering
** Better document the Ubuntu cluster stack.

* Credential caching for LDAP and Kerberos client authentication. 

* Power management
** wakeonlan
** pmsuspend
** pmhibertnate 

* Dynamic DNS updates via DHCP. 

* Bug Fixes

* Updates to custom developed apps.
** ufw
** vmbuilder 

* Section updates. 
** New versions, new commands, etc.

* Mail Section 
** Better document the dovecot-postfix package.
** Merge Dovecot section with Postfix. 

* Improve Eucalyptus and OpenNebula sections.

* Merge UEC documentation with the Server Guide. 

* Upgrading from an EOL release. 

* Instructions for virtio disks.
** http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=859982

----
CategorySpec
