{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== OverView ==
Specification page for Luciole blueprint dedicated to <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/luciole/+spec/libglade-to-gtkbuilder| replace of Libglade by gtk.builder]]</nowiki>. 

The goal is to have a native usage of gtk.builder
* In glade tool use gtk builder instead of libglade
* remove usage gtk-builder-convert ( cf . Makefile)
* Update code to call the correct gui file
* Reorganise all the UI due to horizontal/verfical info missing . see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/glade-3/+bug/425221 | Bug #425221]]</nowiki>
* Remove usage of gtkUiManager as is not used by glade/Gtk.Builder but by gtk-builder-convert. see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glade-3/+bug/490701 | Bug #490701]]</nowiki>
* Create an ui dir for storing the ui file and update ui file with the correct link to images
* Update the translation stuff with those new ui
 
* TBC : Add an UI file by window ? To clarify the organisation of UI. Needs brainstorm 

== Specification ==
=== In / Outs ===

==== Inputs ====
The luciole.glade file in images dirs

==== Output ====
N/A  

=== GUI ===
Refactor the GUI . Major work 
* Reorganise all the UI due to horizontal/verfical info missing .
* Rewite all the menu widgets
* set correct path for images in ../images

=== Translation ===
Update translation directives. Needs spec work 
* Update po/POTFILES.in : add 

=== Details ===
No further details 

== Implementation ==
=== create an ui dir. ===
 dir for storing ui files ( gtk.Builder xml specification)

=== move the luciole.glade file ===
 in ui/luciole.glade ( keep the extension for i18n : xgettext interprets correctly .glade files not .ui files )

=== modify lucioLib/gui/gui_controller.py ===
* update path to ui/luciole.ui
* correct/rename attribute ui_manager for getting MenuItem instead of UiMangager. Used for manage of "open recent" stuff
 

=== modify lucioLib/luciole_manage_recent.py ===
* remove usage of uiManager

=== update Makefile ===
* remove directive gui
* update install and make-install-dirs with new ui dir.
 
=== remove LibGlade files ===
* remove images/luciole.glade
* remove images/luciole.xml

=== modify po/POTFILES.in ===
change images/luciole.glade by ui/luciole.glade
 
