{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-apt-netrc-mechanism
* '''Created''': MichaelVogt
* '''Contributors''': DavidKalnischkies
* '''Packages affected''': apt

=== Summary ===

The goal is provide a way to store username/password information for apt in a secure
location (600). Currently the password needs to be stored in the sources.list and that
file is by default world readable (644).

=== Release Note ===

TBD. It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

Storing the authentication information is useful for environments that use private
PPAs.

=== Design ===

A netrc parser is added to libapt that is then used accross all the download backends that
apt supports. 
 
The following steps needs to be taken
* implement netrc parser (Dir::Etc::netrc)
* add a dir.d directory (Dir::Etc::netrcdir)
* setup test environment / regressions/unit tests
* look into using for proxy passwords as well
* the "machine" keyword is not flexible enough, we need host+baseurl there (for e.g. ppa.launchpad.net with multiple archives)
* a UI in softare-center/software-properties should be added that can read/write the netrc file/dir

=== Implementation ===

Some code available in lp:~mvo/apt/netrc it needs to be cleaned up and tests needs to be 
added to ensure its working properly. 

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Add apache config that 

=== Unresolved issues ===

* ubuntu-one may be interessted in doing syncs of those passwords
  at some point, but not right now for lucid

----
CategorySpec
