{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

"Dear Lucid, Our Time Is Right Now"  - Evans Blue

The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the release of Ubuntu 10.04.4 LTS,
the fourth maintenance update to Ubuntu's 10.04 LTS release.  This
release includes updated server, desktop, alternate installation CDs 
and DVDs for the i386 and amd64 architectures.

The Kubuntu team is proud to announce the release of Kubuntu 10.04.4.
This release includes updated images for the desktop and alternate
installation CDs and DVDs for the i386 and amd64 architectures.    

This is the last planned maintenance release for the 10.04 LTS series.  
Future security updates and bug fixes will be individually downloadable 
from the Ubuntu archive in the same way as before, but no further 
updates to installation media will be provided for 10.04 LTS.  The next 
LTS release, 12.04 LTS, will be released in April 2012.  We recommend 
that users installing Ubuntu after April install the latest LTS release.

To Get Ubuntu 10.04.4 LTS
-------------------------

To download Ubuntu 10.04.4 LTS visit:

desktop: http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download
server:  http://www.ubuntu.com/download/server/download

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues. They are available at:

http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004

To get Kubuntu 10.04.4 visit:

http://www.kubuntu.org

About Ubuntu 10.04.4 LTS
------------------------

This is the fourth and last planned maintenance release of Ubuntu 10.04 
LTS, which continues to be supported with maintenance updates and security 
fixes until April 2013 on desktops and April 2015 on servers.

For the first time, this point release includes backported updated hardware 
support.  In addition, numerous post-release updates have been integrated, 
and a number of bugs in the installation system have been corrected. These 
include security updates and corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a 
focus on maintaining stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

See http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/lucid for a full list of Ubuntu security
updates that have been applied to 10.04.4

See https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu for specific information about a
particular bug number. A complete list of post-release updates 
since 10.04.3 is available at:

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes/ChangeSummary/10.04.4

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
netbooks and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular 
releases. A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications 
is included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just 
a few clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical 
and hundreds of other companies around the world. For more information
about support, visit:

http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu on our website:

http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
