{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bugs]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
Add your feedack here.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claydoh]]</nowiki>  Most things seem to work really well. Two annoying bugs:
* a missing 'enable network' checkbox in the knetworkmanager applet
* the addressbook used in kmail is not the same as the addressbook from the contacts in kontact. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:vdkuil]]</nowiki> 

* Grub only installs in hd0 and will pick up Win7 in dual boot configurations but are not able to boot it, resetting the computer 
* Kontact have to be restarted several times for Akonadi to start and pick up contacts.<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:hvralpha]]</nowiki> 

* FeedBack widget does not appear to work - adding to my desktop results in a fullscreen widget with no config dialog and the text "No online surveys availble". Had to reset plasma to get rid of it <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:blackpaw]]</nowiki> 
* Kontact/Akonadi still broken. On startup Kontact always displays "Akonadi not operational" and the akonadi arror log show "no resource agents". Restarting Kontact fixes it till the next reboot or logoff/logon. It has been like this in all the alphas and betas - all clean installs on multiple machines. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:blackpaw]]</nowiki> 
* Selecting the summary page in kontact cause it to freeze. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:blackpaw]]</nowiki> 

* Plymouth still has issues with nvidia :( -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:blackpaw]]</nowiki>  * I will add that apart from akonadi (which can be worked around) this is an excellent release, very slick and a pleasure to use. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:blackpaw]]</nowiki>  * Everything works really well, no problems at all, except for one: everything is just incredibly slow. But I think that's a problem with the open source ati driver. Unfortunately that makes the system almost unusable. EDIT: After disabling KMS it's back to normal. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:aermler]]</nowiki>
* Does anybody knows which packages are needed to get wideband enabled in knetworkmanager, like in ubuntu? 
