{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bugs]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* Add feedback here!  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claydoh]]</nowiki>  * Boot time is nice, but session is very long comparing to intrepid (have to try with empty configuration user). The new design and new plugins of the command launcher are a killer feature. Default wallpaper is original but may be controversed … very special. Nepomuk won't work for instance, and I got a lot of crashes at logout. Still usable for work, thank you. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nicolas-dumoulin]]</nowiki>  * First impression quite well. Knetworkmanager crashes at logout. Korganzier deamon starts at login though "Start reiminder Daemon at login" is disabled. Keyboard-layout flat is shown in systray though "Show indicator for single layout" is disabled. Perhaps same bug? Dolphin's search bar doesn't find anything. krunner+strigi+virtuoso works though - nice. Kmail + new Kaddressbook is awful but I guess we must wait till kde 4.5 for complete akonadi based kontact.
