{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* Add feedback here!  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claydoh]]</nowiki>  * KDE SC 4.4 allows us to chose font sizes more precisely. People will argue that it's a matter of taste, but Kubuntu's default font configuration really did not look good at all. We should enable subpixel rendering (slightly) and RGB hinting by default (like Ubuntu), and more importantly, I think a font size of 8,6pt looks fantastic, as it combines the advantages of 8pt and 9pt. 8pt, 9pt and even 8,5pt don't look too nice. I'd like to hear what others think about my suggestion. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:d2kxweb]]</nowiki>  * Quite stable for an Alpha1. However, the system was installed in english even if I selected Italian at boot prompt, and on every bootup there are annoying notifications about new global shorcuts registered. Boot screen still doesn't work in kvm. Tried btrfs as root filsystem and it works great, but please put the latest btrfs-progs in the repository so that it is possible to delete snapshots/subvolumes. Openbve is still uninstallable due to dependency problems. Mouse scroll finally works in kvm (very bad problem in karmic). d2kxweb: I tried setting antialiasing and subpixel; I couldn't notice the difference from the default ("System Settings"); it is very noticeable instead if I turn off completely AA.-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kbios]]</nowiki>  * @d2kxweb: I agree with you about subpixel rendering enabled by default, but do not agree with you about the font size. I think 8,6 is a little too small for me, 10 is better for me. @kbios: The notification bug with new global shortcuts registered is a KDE bug, because it also happens on my other computer with openSUSE 11.2 and KDE 4.4 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:Vistaus]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
