{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': LucioleSpec:luciole-with-sound
* '''Created''': 2010 Sep 07
* '''Contributors''': NicoInattendu 
* '''Packages affected''': luciole

=== Summary ===
Add a sound track to movie animations.

=== Release Note ===

Sound feature who allow play of a sound track with the movie generated from 'Montage'/chrono view.
A Scale bar allow to play the movie ( image + sound) at any position. 

2 buttons added : 
* one to indicate if video should be played with sound or not.
* one to open and load a sound file. Accepted format(wav, ogg?,mp3?)

The project can be exported to video or other video tool with the sound track.

=== Rationale ===
Give the opportunity of making simple animation movie ( main goal of luciole), with a sound track. 
Sound can be music, voices, noises, etc ....

The goal of luciole is not to be a sound editor, so work around the sound track should be done with other software as audacity, ardour, etc ...  

=== User stories ===
Alice likes very much a song ( a free one). She wants to make a animation movie for this song.

Conrad has made an animation movie with several characters. He wants to add the voice for each characters.

Patric has mad an animation movie with a spectacular chopper crash. He wants to add incredible sounds effect.  

=== Assumptions ===
Load an unique sound file in wav (mp3 ?, ogg ?) format 

=== Design ===

The scope of the design is inside luciole

=== Implementation ===

* Implement an gstreamer module/plug in for play video with sound
* Implement a 'seek' function to allow play of video at any position
* Modify project file with a tag with sound file name.
* Copy sound-file inside the project dir
* Allow export video with or without sound
* allow export tool with or without sound

==== UI Changes ====

* Modify glade file with buttons and seek bar
* 2 buttons added : 
** one to indicate if video should be played with sound or not.
** one to open and load a sound file. Accepted format(wav, ogg?,mp3?)
* Add a scale bar for seeking. 

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====
N/A

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
