{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bugs]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* I love the new Logo! I especially love that the new logo is an optional Kmenu icon. Also enjoying the touchpad settings. Good work guys!  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:Lunarcloud]]</nowiki> 
* ﻿I took a spin with the Lucid Beta 2 and here is what I ran into.
** When I change the screen resolution it does not stay changed after I restart the computer. It always defaults back to an 800*600  resolution. It does not even change when I start krandrtray as it used to do in karmic. Changing screen resolutions every time KDE starts can be annoying. 

** Also, my computer crashed a couple times running beta 2. When it was crashing the screen cut to the terminal for a second and then the monitor went off. I saw a message in the terminal "Could not write bytes: broken pipe". It happened as I was navigating Appearance in System Settings as well as when I was modifying the settings of the system tray. I hope it isn't a problem.

** In some windows that have a scroll-bar the window scrolls by very slowly when using the mouse's scroll button. The main "System Settings" window and the "All Effects" tab in the "Desktop Effects module" are two examples that are notorious for this. Hopefully you all can look into this minor annoyance.

** I must say that I end up crashing my computer many times when I try to enable desktop effects "with Opengl".The screen just goes black,  the computer freezes and then I am unable to do anything else. I am not sure if the way KDE checks to see if your hardware supports desktop effects is robust or if it is just a problem with video drivers; I run Intel 845G/GL[Brookdale-G] Integrated Graphics).( I am able to run compiz on Hardy with this video card but not on Karmic) Every time I enable desktop effects (with Opengl) I have to do so with crossed fingers (so to speak). I have never ran the fail safe session at login but, if anything, the failsafe session should disable desktop effects as one of its failsafe measures.

** I am also worried about some of the screen resolutions presented in Kubuntu. Some of them do not work properly (1024*768 by 85hz gives a black screen) and, from what I have seen, the resolution does not revert back to the previous resolution after the 15 seconds. So you are stuck until you restart Kubuntu and it defaults back to the 800*600 resolution.

** Those were just a few things I ran into but overall Kubuntu is shaping up well.The speed of this KDE desktop is better than Karmic. It feels more solid as well. It looks pretty and it is going to be an LTS release.  I look forward to seeing good things from this release of Kubuntu. --Sil

* Most things went really smoothly on my dist-upgrade. A couple oddities:

** The KDE dist-upgrade tool needs some work handling config files. It lacks the ability to merge local changes with changes from the new version. If you have made local changes this is necessary functionality.

** KOffice was removed from my system! I never used it much, but that's kind of a big deal.

** There seems to be a lot of new junk in the system tray. Why did it add a bluetooth icon on a computer that doesn't have bluetooth support?

** On the good side, every new version of KDE is better than the last. Also, this time the upgrade didn't try to make my GTK+ programs look all KDE-like. Which is nice.
