{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''This is a draft.''' The release is not out.  Whoever told you that is pulling your leg.

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (Long-Term Support).
This release incorporates the Desktop Edition and the Server Edition.  The
Server Edition can be used on physical servers, on Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud
(UEC), and on Amazon's EC2 public cloud.  Codenamed "Lucid Lynx", 10.04 LTS
continues Ubuntu's proud tradition of integrating the latest and greatest
open source technologies into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux
distribution.

We are also pleased to announce Ubuntu 10.04 Netbook Edition, which is not a
long-term support release.

Read more about the features of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS in the following press
releases:

  Desktop and Netbook editions
                     http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-10.04-desktop-edition
  Server edition     http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-10.04-server-edition

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS will be supported for three years on desktops and five
years on servers.  Ubuntu 10.04 Netbook Edition will be supported for 18
months.

Thanks to the efforts of the global translation community, Ubuntu is
available in 29 languages.  For a list of supported languages and detailed
translation statistics for these and other languages, see:

  http://people.ubuntu.com/~dpm/ubuntu-10.04-translation-stats.html

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS is also the basis for new 10.04 releases of Kubuntu,
Xubuntu, Edubuntu, UbuntuStudio, and Mythbuntu:

        Kubuntu      http://kubuntu.org/news/10.04-lts-release
        Xubuntu      http://xubuntu.org/news/10.04-release
       Edubuntu      http://edubuntu.org/news/10.04-release
      Mythbuntu      http://mythbuntu.org/10.04/release
  Ubuntu Studio      https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/10.04release_notes

To Get Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
-----------------------

To download Ubuntu 10.04, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu

Users of Ubuntu 9.10 will be offered an automatic upgrade to 10.04 LTS via
Update Manager.  For further information about upgrading, see:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading

Users of Ubuntu 8.04 LTS may wish to wait for 10.04.1 LTS, due in July 2010,
before upgrading.

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of
charge.

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical overview:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004overview

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel, on the Ubuntu Users
mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

## ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

Ubuntu Netbook Edition on ARM
-----------------------------

The ARM optimised variant of Ubuntu Netbook Edition comes with a lightweight
application selection tailored specifically for ARM deployments, including a
web-based office and mail solution and a launcher that works with and
without graphics acceleration.

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, netbooks
and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and an
incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
