{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== General Information ==

<nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1914|"Lucid Lynx"]]</nowiki> is the code name for Ubuntu 10.04, released on 29 April 2010.

<nowiki>[[UDS-L|The Ubuntu Developer Summit for Lucid]]</nowiki> took place from November 16th to 20th, 2009 at the Renaissance Hotel in Dallas, Texas, United States.

Check the <nowiki>[[TechnicalOverview|technical overview]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid|blueprints]]</nowiki> for technical information about Lucid.

<<BR>>
For more information on the final Ubuntu 10.04 LTS releases:
** <nowiki>[[ReleaseNotes|Lucid Release Notes]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 10.04 LTS release announcement <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2010-April/000133.html|April 29, 2010]]</nowiki>

** Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS release announcement <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2010-August/000134.html|August 17, 2010]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[ReleaseNotes-ChangeSummary-10.04.1|ChangeSummary]]</nowiki>

** Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS release announcement <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2011-February/000141.html|February 18, 2011]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[ReleaseNotes-ChangeSummary-10.04.2|ChangeSummary]]</nowiki>

** Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS release annoucement <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2011-July/000150.html|July 21, 2011]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[ReleaseNotes-ChangeSummary-10.04.3|ChangeSummary]]</nowiki>

== Bugs in Lucid ==

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs per the instructions on ReportingBugs.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[BugSquad|Ubuntu Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== More Information ==

The next release after Lucid is codenamed Maverick Meerkat; the <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki> page contains a list of all Ubuntu releases.

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, please take a look at the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|Get Involved]]</nowiki> page.

To have future Ubuntu development announcements emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce|ubuntu-devel-announce]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

To have future Ubuntu package updates emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/lucid-changes|lucid-changes]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

More Kubuntu information can also be found at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Lucid|Kubuntuguide]]</nowiki>. 
----
CategoryMarketing
