{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background: white; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Kubuntu will release version 10.04, the Lucid Lynx, in April 2010. This will be an <nowiki>[[LTS|LTS]]</nowiki> release, so our overall focus will be bringing a more stable and polished desktop to our users. However, this does not mean there will be nothing new or exciting. Quite the contrary! Read on for highlights of what is new and upcoming for Kubuntu 10.04.

'''NOTE:''' ''This is an alpha (pre-) release. Pre-release versions of Lucid are '''__NOT__''' encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or for anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent, breakage. Pre-release versions '''__ARE__''' recommended for Kubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing bugs.' Please do not use this in a production environment with data  or workflows that you cannot do without''

== Getting Alpha 2 ==
Alpha releases can be downloaded from the following URL:
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/
Its always best to <nowiki>[[HowToMD5SUM|check cd image]]</nowiki> before install!
The md5sums can be found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/MD5SUMS|here]]</nowiki>

== What's New in Alpha 2 ==
=== KDE SC 4.4 release candidate 1 ===
<nowiki>[[http://kde.org/announcements/announce-4.4-rc1.php|KDE Software Compilation 4.4 RC 1]]</nowiki> is one of the final steps towards the next version of the popular KDE Desktop.  The System Tray, Device Notifier, Nepomuk Semantic Search and KNetworkmanager are just a few of the items that will see improvements. New features such as grouping windows into tabs have been added, and new and improved widgets, effects, and configuration/ui changes are just some of the great things <nowiki>[[http://techbase.kde.org/Schedules/KDE4/4.4_Release_Goals|planned]]</nowiki> for SC 4.4.   

== What's in the Works ==
The Kubuntu Team are working on their own set of <nowiki>[[KubuntuLucidSpecs|tools and new features for 10.04]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[Kubuntu-Specs-LucidTouchpadConfig | Touchpad configuration]]</nowiki> will be added
* <nowiki>[[Kubuntu-Specs-LucidFileSharing | Simple File Sharing]]</nowiki> will be implemented as well
* <nowiki>[[Kubuntu-Specs-LucidNetbookPackaging | The Kubuntu Netbook Remix]]</nowiki> will come out of preview status.
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-firefox-kde-integration | Better Firefox KDE integration]]</nowiki> is expected.  

== Known Issues ==
* Due to the recent changeover to Plymouth, the boot splash shows the Ubuntu logo instead of Kubuntu's. (For now)
* You have to log in twice Bug:495100
* Autologin doesn't work Bug:495057
* The wallpaper is missing and the panel geometry is funky to work around Bug:494731 (Will be fixed shortly after the alpha release)

== Feedback ==
We want to hear what you think about this Alpha. We want to know what works, as well as what does not. No matter the feedback, as long as it is in line with the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> we would like to hear it.

So what are you waiting for, head on over to the <nowiki>[[LucidLynx-Alpha2-Kubuntu-Feedback|Feedback Page]]</nowiki> and let us know!
