{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Hello,

== About me: ==

* Name: Ludovic Claude (Claude is my last name!)
* French guy, originally from Lorraine, currently living in Bath, UK
* Languages: French, English, Spanish (getting old), Russian, Kalmyk (experimental)
* Learned Computer Science at a French High School. 
* Senior Java developer and architect, currently looking for a new position

== Contact Details: ==
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~ludovicc
* LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/in/ludovicclaude
* Mail: ludovicc@users.sourceforge.net

== Interests: ==
I'm been programming since I was 9 years old, making BASIC programs on Commodore Vic 20 in 1982 (that long ago!).

I'm an Ubuntu user since 2005. My main skills are Java development.

I'm currently trying to help packaging Java software into Ubuntu and Debian, in particular software that is built with Maven, hopefully moving up the J2EE stack. 

Other interests: Travelling, Russia, the little Kalmyk state (check Wikipedia...)

== Ubuntu membership details ==

I'm working on the following projects:
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/maven-packaging-support: Specification sponsored by Thierry Carrez
* https://launchpad.net/maven-packaging-support: provides tools for packaging Java programs built with Maven, I'm also working on the maven-debian-helper project (http://wiki.debian.org/Java/MavenBuilder) created by Torsten Werner from Debian.
* https://launchpad.net/uj: I have updated a lot of existing Java packages to include Maven metadata in them, and I'm starting to package new libraries as well. All new and updated packages are available on my PPA.

My plans for Ubuntu in the future: become the best platform for developing and deploying Java applications. I think Ubuntu has a lot of potential as a plaftform to run J2EE application servers in a grid/cloud environment.

=== Comments on application ===

''Ludovic has been invaluable in fleshing out the design of the Maven support stuff both for Ubuntu and Debian Java teams over the Jaunty cycle. I wholeheartedly recommend his addition to the Ubuntu member family !'' -- ThierryCarrez
