{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Alias:  Brunellus (ubuntuforums & IRC (usually lurking/ talking on #ubuntuforums at irc.freenode.net)

* UbuntuForums: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=9506|Brunellus]]</nowiki>

* Jabber:  Brunellus1511@jabber.org

* SIP/Ekiga:  sip:Brunellus@ekiga.net

* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~luigi12081

* Blog: http://ouij.livejournal.com

Ubuntu user since 4.10 (Warty).  

=== Contributions ===

* Divers <nowiki>[[http://ouij.livejournal.com/tag/ubuntu|blog posts]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[Fluxbox]]</nowiki>:  Created page, wrote "Installation" section, edits to other additions.  

* <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsIBM/LaptopTestingTeam/Thinkpad570E]]</nowiki>.  Also, a rather long, rambling, and very personal <nowiki>[[http://ouij.livejournal.com/207594.html|installation report]]</nowiki>, which deals with the peculiarities of that installation.

* UbuntuForums Staff
 
* NU Ubuntu Locoteam 

* Sundry edits to <nowiki>[[CriticismFAQ]]</nowiki>

=== Inspiration ===
"If I have seen further, it is by standing on the shoulders of giants."
- '' Newton ''

=== Testimonials ===

Brunellus is one of the most helpful people I have met in the Ubuntu Community.  He is always ready to offer help with new users.  He is also a very active and thoughtful Staff Member on UbuntuForums. The Ubuntu Community needs more people like Brunellus! -StephenStalcup 

This guy is one of the best moderators we have on the forums. He is consistently helpful, he is knowledgeable, and he's an all-around great guy. It would be silly to do anything less than give him membership with open arms and a huge welcome. -MattHelmke

I would have to concur with both above statements. Brunellus is an outstanding member of the forums, and I must say anyone would glad to work with him. -Timothy

Brunellus is fantastic moderator, who is a pleasure to work with. He is very active on the forums, and a great boon to that community area. He should definitely be given membership. - MikeBasinger
