{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Basic Information ==

'''Name:''' Luis Alvarado (Luis Manuel Alvarado Viloria)

'''Location:''' San Jose, Costa Rica

'''Hometown:''' Maracaibo, Venezuela

'''Email:''' luisalvarado@ubuntu.com

'''Reddit:''' https://www.reddit.com/user/xtremeLinux

'''IRC:''' luisalvarado@irc.freenode.net

'''Ubuntu Member Since:''' April 19 2012

'''Ubuntu User:''' 25487

'''Linux User:''' 463503

'''AskUbuntu:''' http://askubuntu.com/users/7035/

'''Youtube:''' https://youtube.com/@xtremelinux

'''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~luisalvarado

'''Ubuntu User Since:''' 2005 (Ubuntu 5.04)

'''Current OS:''' Ubuntu 25.04

== Education ==

System Engineer (UNEFA Venezuela)

Master's  Degree in Open Source Software (CEDIC Venezuela)

Master's Degree in Pedagogy (LUZ Venezuela)

Linux System Administrator (LFCS)

SEO Technical Specialist (Since 2006)

Former Senior Developer for Brilliant Directories (Over 10+ Years of Experience and 2300+ Clients)

Creator of several of the plugins and sections used by Brilliant Directories

== Knowledge ==

'''Coding:''' C/C++, MySQL, PHP, Bash, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, GoLang, MongoDB, Rust, Python

'''Tools:''' Puppet, Chef, Ansible, Jenkins, Juju, OpenStack, K8

'''General:''' Network Administration, Network Security, Linux Administration, White Hat Hacking, Cloud Computing, Digital Forensic Security, Dedicated Servers (Mail, Virtual, Web, Printers...), VoIP, Remote Assistance

== Linux Distros / OSes / Toys ==

* Started using Caldera in 2001 (For 2 Years)

* Started using Gentoo & Slackware in 2004 (For 5 Years)

* Started using Debian, Puppy Linux, Knoppix, SmallDamnLinux and OpenSuse in 2005 (Between 2 to 5 Years)

* Started using LFS (For 2 Years, Linux Master's Degree / Understanding of Linux)

* Started using Ubuntu in 2005 (Since 2005)

* Started using Mepis in 2006 (For 4 Years)

* Started using Fedora in 2006 (For 10 Years)

* Started using Arch in 2009 (For 10 Years)

* Started using Red Hat in 2005 (For 6 Years)

* Started using Manjaro in 2013 (For 4 Years)

* Started using Nobara in 2022 (1 Year)

Other Used Distros: SystemRescueCD, Kali, CrunchBang, Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Xubuntu, Mythbuntu, Edubuntu, Linux Mint, LibreElec and about 30+ others in 23 years of Linux experience.

Other OS: macOS, MSDOS, Unix, HP-UX, SailFish, NetWare, Tizen, Solaris, OpenBSD, FreeBSD, PowerPC

Other Devices: Raspberry Pi, Beagleboard, CuBox i4Pro, Arduino

== Activity ==

* Active Member in AskUbuntu
* First Latin American Moderator in AskUbuntu
* Teaching Network Administration, Linux, Programming & Computer Hardware to College Graduates/Post-Graduates.  
* Teaching Ubuntu to Costa Rican, Argentinian, Colombian, USA, UK, Indian, Australian and Mexican Users.
* Taught Ubuntu to Venezuelan Users (Typical Windows users that do not know or are moving to Linux). Moved at least 500+ to Ubuntu in the past 6 years and about 400 are still using Ubuntu and are active Ubuntu users (They have seen the light ^^).

* Taught Ubuntu in multiple elementary schools.

* Updated several commercial businesses to Ubuntu, Xubuntu or Lubuntu.

* Participated in FLISOL 2009 - http://flisol.info/FLISOL2009/Venezuela/Maracaibo

* Participated in FLISOL 2012 - http://flisol.info/FLISOL2012/Venezuela/Maracaibo

* Main Coordinator in FLISOL 2013 - http://flisol.info/FLISOL2013/Venezuela/Maracaibo

* Performed numerous talks about Open Source in several universities in Costa Rica & Venezuela

== Future ==

I plan to keep on propagating the use of Ubuntu among all that want to enjoy the benefits of Linux. For me, Ubuntu is an example of how the power of open source software can go beyond of what is expected, and show that open source software can reach many types of users, businesses and benefit them in so many ways, be it the end user, the middle man, corporate or developers.

== Testimonials ==

Luis Alvarado has been an active member of the local and international community. Assists on the local LUG forums, promoting and supporting Ubuntu Linux. Also participates in the local events like FLISOL which is the Latin America Free Software Installation Festival, it is held simultaneously in every country in LA and he installs Ubuntu. Besides that he is a good team player in OSS developer meetings and projects. -Miguel Alvarado (aka Exodus)
