{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== LuisLopez ==

=== About me ===

* I am 23 years old from spain. My first contact with free software was 5 years ago, last 4 years with diferent flavours of Debian.
* My email and JID is xuzo at ikossi dot org
* Nickname at irc.freenode.org: xuzo (usually around #ubuntu-{es,devel,motu})
* GPG Key: 77CBCCCF

=== Projects ===

Some years ago my LUG (<nowiki>[[http://www.aditel.org|Aditel]]</nowiki>) together with my University (<nowiki>[[http://www.uji.es|UJI]]</nowiki>) started a Ubuntu-like proyect called Selene. An effort to make Debian easy, after some problems it was reviewed and renamed to Helios, which is a tool for build personalized Live-{CD/Flash/usb disk} and Install all in one, its still alive but very stopped.

My principal project at this moment is <nowiki>[[http://www.ikossi.org/?page=eina-en|Eina]]</nowiki> a Gnome/Gstreamer music player similar to xmms/beep.

Some months ago NatxoMorell and I started a new project called ubuntu-es.org, the local spanish site for Ubuntu Linux. I really like the philosophy and the _great_ work of Ubuntu developers.

Others:

<nowiki>[[http://winslow.aditel.org/|Winslow and Macfly]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://bolgo.cent.uji.es/proyectos/|Other personal projects]]</nowiki>

=== Interests ===

C & Perl programing.

Graphical Interfaces and usability related stuff (I like the Gnome project :) )
----
CategoryHomepage
