{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Łukasz Zemczak, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Łukasz 'sil2100' Zemczak
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~sil2100
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| N/A
|-
| Website
| http://sil2100.vexillium.org
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a software engineer and a long time GNU/Linux user. I am an operating system enthusiast, interested in OS development, programming and embedded systems. I started out with Red Hat and Slackware in my childhood days, later on getting sucked into BeOS and its open-source rewrite Haiku - both as an user and developer (I even successfully completed Google Summer of Code as a Haiku student). I have worked on the development of the niche' <nowiki>[[http://lintrack.org|Lintrack]]</nowiki> GNU/Linux distribution for around 2 years. During the same time I have worked on a few custom Linux distributions used for embedded systems and network devices from the Miure and ASN products (Miure Duo, ASN RadioOS) - also working on GNU/Linux kernel and driver development for those platforms. Since 2012 onward I am also involved in the release process of many Ubuntu upstream flagship projects, e.g. Unity, HUD, Compiz. Member of the Canonical Ubuntu Engineering Landing Team, responsible for scheduling and preparing releases for many desktop and touch related projects. My programming languages of choice are C, C++ and Python.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started out as an Ubuntu user in the year 2006 - I don't know the exact date, but that's when I remember using Xubuntu and contributing to the then-used XArchiver file archiver. Since then Ubuntu became my primary operating system and I'm using it daily since then. 

=== My involvement ===

Besides my contributions to some smaller Ubuntu/Xubuntu projects, after joining Canonical in 2011 I have worked on many packaging related tasks for internal projects. Later I was helping out with preparing new releases of components from the Unity stack (Unity, Nux, Compiz, BAMF etc.) into the archive. Currently maintaining package releases from the CI Train and the now deprecated cu2d (daily-release infrastructure). I am acting as a debian packaging helper for those projects, reviewing packaging changes, helping out in package maintenance.

I am the current maintainer of the appmenu-qt and appmenu-qt5 projects used in Ubuntu. I am currently also helping out in the maintenance of the ubuntu-keyboard package.
I also did some bug-fixes for the Compiz, Unity and Unity-2D projects back in the past.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

==== Notable bugs I have been working on ====

===== Unity/Compiz: =====

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity-2d/+bug/839628
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz-shift-plugin/+bug/954079
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/880449
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/5.0/+bug/949448
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/6.0/+bug/1060195
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/1071298
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz/+bug/1078244
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/1081871
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz/+bug/1141079
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/863230
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/971097
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz/+bug/770283
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/987156
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/1097189
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1089482
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/1077131

===== Appmenu-qt: =====

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtbase-opensource-src/+bug/1157213
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/appmenu-qt5/+bug/1306472

===== Others: =====

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-system-settings/+bug/1221179
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-system-settings/+bug/1223798
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-keyboard/+bug/1251285
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-terminal-app/+bug/1257791

==== Blueprints ====

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/appmenu-qt/+spec/qt5-qpa-appmenu|Blueprint of QPA appmenu support for Qt5]]</nowiki>

==== Package maintenance ====

I'm the current main package maintainer of the following projects:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/zmqpp|zmqpp]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lucene++|lucene++]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-evdev|python-evdev]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/appmenu-qt|appmenu-qt]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/appmenu-qt5|appmenu-qt5]]</nowiki>

==== Sponsored packages ====

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=*&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*Zemczak*&sponsoree_search=name|List of packages I have prepared which got sponsored by others]]</nowiki>

==== Misc ====

Throughout my career I have also helped preparing many packages for SRU's, preparing the paperwork, checking the changes, packages and making sure they end up being correctly released.

=== Areas of work ===

* Package maintenance, review and preparation
* C/C++ generic GNU/Linux programming - both for bug-fixing and feature implementation
* Package release management for various Ubuntu upstream projects

=== Things I could do better ===

Most certainly I need to pay much more attention to small details. 

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== KenVanDine ===
==== General feedback ====
Lukasz has always be a pleasure to work with, and takes feedback well.  He's shown great attention to detail and good judgement in regard to what should and shouldn't be uploaded to the archive.  I think he would be a valuable contributor as a MOTU. 

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have reviewed quite a few (dozens at least) packages for Lukasz.   I've also had Lukasz review changes from me before uploading, he's been thorough provided good feedback.  

=== Sebastien Bacher ===
I've been working with Łukasz since the quantal cycle. During that time I sponsored quite some fix and new packages for him. His work is usually good quality and he showed that he knows the Debian packaging and how to work in Ubuntu and with Debian/upstreams. I recommend him as MOTU

=== Didier Roche ===
It's been a long time I'm working with Łukasz. He has done more work in term of packaging (NEW packages, transitions, and dependency changes) in the Canonical upstream stack (so before it was uploaded to the distribution) and reviewing peer packaging changes than most of people I knew when they applied for MOTU.
He learnt quite quickly from his errors and even if he's sometimes making mistakes, he's always there and responsive to recover from them and want to do it better the next time. I trust him as a MOTU to ask when he's unsure about a newly case he never encountered (which would be really few I guess). I recommend him as a MOTU.

=== Timo Jyrinki ===
I've worked with Łukasz since the first precise SRU & quantal Unity stack updates, all the way to the currently working in the landing team for Ubuntu Phone with him. Because of the role that started in Unity stack and expanding to landing any of the Canonical upstream developed components nowadays, he has a very wide experience of packaging and distribution issues. He has also dwelled into the code like with Qt, ubuntu-keyboard and the landing infra. He knows all the processes related to Ubuntu development. I think there's no reason not to think he'd do a good job as a MOTU too.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
