{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Łukasz Zemczak, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Łukasz 'sil2100' Zemczak
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~sil2100
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| N/A
|-
| Website
| http://sil2100.vexillium.org
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a software engineer and a long time GNU/Linux user. I am an operating system enthusiast interested in OS development, programming and embedded systems. I started out with Red Hat and Slackware in my childhood days, later getting sucked into BeOS and its open-source rewrite Haiku - both as an user and developer (I even successfully completed Google Summer of Code as a Haiku student). I have worked on the development of the niche' <nowiki>[[http://lintrack.org|Lintrack]]</nowiki> GNU/Linux distribution for around 2 years. During the same time I have worked on a few custom Linux distributions used for embedded systems and network devices from the Miure and ASN products (Miure Duo, ASN RadioOS) - also working on GNU/Linux kernel and driver development for those platforms. 

Since 2012 onward I am also involved in the release process of many Ubuntu upstream flagship projects, e.g. Unity, HUD, Compiz. Member (and current lead) of the Canonical Ubuntu Engineering Landing Team, responsible for scheduling and preparing releases for many desktop and touch related projects. My programming languages of choice are C, C++ and Python.

I am also part of the Ubuntu MOTU team since half a year.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started out as an Ubuntu user in the year 2006 - I don't know the exact date, but that's when I remember using Xubuntu and contributing to the then-used XArchiver file archiver. Since then Ubuntu became my primary operating system and I'm using it daily since then. 

=== My involvement ===

Besides my contributions to some smaller Ubuntu/Xubuntu projects, after joining Canonical in 2011 I have worked on many packaging related tasks for internal projects. Later I was helping out with preparing new releases of components from the Unity stack (Unity, Nux, Compiz, BAMF etc.) into the archive. Currently maintaining package releases from the CI Train and the now deprecated cu2d (daily-release infrastructure). I am acting as a debian packaging helper for those projects, reviewing packaging changes, helping out in package maintenance and was responsible for early development and enhancements of the CI Train infrastructure.

As the current LandingTeam lead, I am also responsible for coordinating Ubuntu Touch development, schedules, releases and channel promotions.

I am the current maintainer of the appmenu-qt and appmenu-qt5 projects used in Ubuntu. In the past I also did some bug-fixes for the Compiz, Unity and Unity-2D projects back in the past.

After becoming a MOTU I have started participating in patch piloting sessions, spending at least 4 hours per month doing patch pilot duty during which I try sponsoring universe uploads for developers, cleaning up stale merges and helping out with Ubuntu development.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

==== Package maintenance ====

I'm the current package maintainer of the following projects:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/zmqpp|zmqpp]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lucene++|lucene++]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-evdev|python-evdev]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/appmenu-qt|appmenu-qt]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/appmenu-qt5|appmenu-qt5]]</nowiki>

For a period of one month I have been participating in +1 Maintenance (for Utopic), but sadly due to the magnitude of CI Train and Landing Team work I could not help as much as I wanted. During that time I was helping out with the libav11 transition.

Many of my uploads and work are related to the Ubuntu-RTM derived distribution. I have handled the transition to upower 0.99 there as well.

==== Notable bugs I have been working on ====

This list has only part of the bugs I have been worked on.

===== Unity/Compiz: =====

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity-2d/+bug/839628
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz-shift-plugin/+bug/954079
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/880449
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/5.0/+bug/949448
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/6.0/+bug/1060195
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/1071298
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz/+bug/1078244
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/1081871
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz/+bug/1141079
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/863230
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/971097
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz/+bug/770283
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/987156
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/1097189
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1089482
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/1077131

===== Appmenu-qt: =====

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtbase-opensource-src/+bug/1157213
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/appmenu-qt5/+bug/1306472
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/appmenu-qt5/+bug/1394887

===== Others: =====

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-system-settings/+bug/1221179
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-system-settings/+bug/1223798
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-keyboard/+bug/1251285
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-terminal-app/+bug/1257791

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/cupstream2distro/+bug/1366028
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/cupstream2distro/+bug/1320264
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/cupstream2distro/+bug/1355999
* (many other untracked CI Train changes, such as addition of derived-distribution support)

==== Blueprints ====

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/appmenu-qt/+spec/qt5-qpa-appmenu|Blueprint of QPA appmenu support for Qt5]]</nowiki>

==== Sponsored packages ====

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=*&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*Zemczak*&sponsoree_search=name|List of packages I have prepared which got sponsored by others]]</nowiki>

==== Misc ====

Throughout my career I have also helped preparing many packages for SRU's, preparing the paperwork, checking the changes, packages and making sure they end up being correctly released.

=== Areas of work ===

* Package maintenance, review, preparation and sponsoring (MOTU)
* C/C++ generic GNU/Linux programming - both for bug-fixing and feature implementation
* Package release management for various Ubuntu upstream projects
* Landing Team lead: coordination of Ubuntu Touch releases, announcements, scheduling
* Management of landing-related documentation

=== Things I could do better ===

I could try being more involved in development of desktop components, as my current focus was on touch devices.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
