{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Luka Renko ==
* '''IRC:''' Lure
* '''Forums:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=69941|luka74]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~lure
* '''Email:''' 
=== Me & Kubuntu ===
* First tried Kubuntu Hoary on my old notebook (HP Omnibook 6100) - impressed with how good laptop support can be out-of-box
* Switched my work notebook (HP nw8240) completely to Kubuntu Breezy (using Vm``Player for remaining Win stuff I need)
* Started testing with Kubuntu Flight 2 and got hooked into improving it even further 
* With Flight 5 switched to Dapper completely
* I have attended  UbuntuDeveloperSummitMountainView which was great to meet others from great community.
* Always having my laptop with dual-boot: current stable + current development.

=== Kubuntu Laptop Support ===
I am very interested in great laptop support in Kubuntu. Kubuntu is already best debian-based distribution in that regard, but there are some development that we need to follow closely to keep up-to-date. 

==== Laptop Buttons ====
I have worked on KubuntuLaptopButtons spec for Edgy and as part of that effort I am collecting info about various laptops in KubuntuLaptopKeycodes sub-page.
For Feisty, we want to even further refine this as defined in KubuntuFeistyLaptop.

==== Power Management ====
Ubuntu power management is based on hal, acpi-support scripts and powernowd. This is then controlled with gnome-power-manager (GNOME) and guidance-power-manager (KDE), which has replaced older klaptop solution. I have worked on multi-battery support on guidance-power-manager and various fixes.

There is work going on on <nowiki>[[http://powersave.sourceforge.net|powersave]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[http://www.kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=29295|kpowersave]]</nowiki> solution: see KubuntuPowersave for details (from Dapper times). As KPowersave is also switching to HAL and is more complex that we would like it is not used by default.

I am working on Guidance Power Manager upstream (KDE SVN) for multi-battery support and CPU frequency handling.

==== Network Management ====
For mobile users, good network management is key. Kubuntu is currently lacking in wireless management tools (wifimonitor, knemo). During Dapper, I have helped to get latest knetworkmanager into the product, but it looks like Feisty will be first release to finally support knetworkmanager by default - see NetworkRoaming specification for details.

Since other networking stuff is changing, I plan to work on further improvements in Kubuntu networking as specified in KubuntuFeistyNetworking.

=== Specifications ===
* KubuntuLaptopButtons: implementation for Edgy
* KubuntuFeistyLaptop: spec on UDS-MTV and implementation for Feisty
* KubuntuFeistyNetworking: spec on UDS-MTV and help with implementation for Feisty

=== Packages ===
As my main interest is KDE and laptop support, these are also the area where I have contributed regarding packages:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/powersave/|powersave]]</nowiki> - improved integration with Ubuntu, sync with upstream, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/39215|UVFe]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/42651|UVFe]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kpowersave/|kpowersave]]</nowiki> - sync with upstream, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/39221|UVFe]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/knetworkmanager|knetworkmanager]]</nowiki> - worked on required patches for inclusion into Dapper, sync with upstream
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdeadmin|kdeadmin]]</nowiki> - patched knetworkconf in order to stabilize it for Dapper
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase|kdebase]]</nowiki> - patched for Kubuntu laptop support, Logout dialog changes for Suspend/Hibernate
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kde-guidance|kde-guidance]]</nowiki> - one of developers of Power Manager application (developed for Kubuntu)

Other packages of interest are:
* digikam, digikamimageplugins, kipi-plugins, libkipi: I am also contributing as developer  
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/basket|basket]]</nowiki>: keeping it up-to-date with upstream
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eqonomize|eqonomize]]</nowiki>: keeping it up-to-date with upstream
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/soundkonverter|soundkonverter]]</nowiki>: keeping it up-to-date with upstream
Complete list of packages from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/lure/+packages|Launchpad]]</nowiki>

=== Testing ===
* Kubuntu on my notebook: <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/HPNW8240/Kubuntu]]</nowiki>
* Kubuntu on my desktop 
* Kubuntu Live CD Installer (Ubiquity)

=== Bugs ===
I do bug triage for Kubuntu specific bugs with focus on laptop support, networking and live CD installer:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/lure/+reportedbugs|Bugs reported by me - Still Open]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/lure/+reportedbugs?field.omit_dupes.used=|Bugs reported by me - All]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/lure/+packagebugs|My Package Bugs]]</nowiki>
* Have worked on nailing down some strange regressions: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/34592|34592]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/31974|31974]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/34587|34587]]</nowiki>,  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/32785|32785]]</nowiki>
* Worked on Edgy <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/75017|SRU]]</nowiki>

=== Future ===
* more laptop & networking greatness
* help with KDE 4 migration.
 
=== Related pages ===
<<FullSearch>>

----
CategoryHomepage
