{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Luka Renko, apply for upload rights for package(s) kdegraphics, digikam and kipi-plugins.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Luka Renko
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~lure
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| LukaRenko
|}

== Who I am ==
I am KDE developer working on Digikam and KIPI-Plugins. 

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===
I started using Ubuntu since first Kubuntu version - Hoary. I started contributing in late Breezy time, became MOTU, even though most of my uploads still had to be sponsored as they were for packages in main.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Initial laptop keys support for KDE 3.x in Kubuntu
* Being <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=149308|one]]</nowiki> of the community members that took care of Network-Manager 0.6 for Dapper
* Worked on several Main inclusion requests to get some KDE flagship apps and depends in main
* Worked on big library transition for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/309684|exiv2]]</nowiki> in jaunty

=== Areas of work ===
Primarily I focused on good laptop support for KDE 3.5 in Kubuntu, adding support for laptop keys, working on Kubuntu's Guidance Power Manager and integrating the initial Network Manager stack (knetworkmanager). In past years I have also worked on some core KDE packages (primarily bug fixes) and mostly taking care of photo stack in KDE. In last year, I had limited time for my Kubuntu work, therefore I mostly focused on getting Kubuntu photo stack up-to-date.

Most of my interaction is with the Kubuntu team, I got involved with wider MOTU and core-dev community when working on library transitions.

=== Things I could do better ===
I could communicate/warn other Kubuntu members when I do not have time to work on stuff. Sometimes I find myself catching various Ubuntu freeze dates which I could avoid if I would delegate some stuff earlier.
We should also avoid Karmic digikam 1.0 beta issue in future by discussing options with Kubuntu members/council more formally (not just quick irc) and potentially revert to older 0.10 version when digikam release plan slipped for several months (missing Karmic schedule).

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Keep kdegraphics/digikam/kipi-plugins in sync with upstream, take care that we have decent dependencies in each release of Ubuntu. Help Kubuntu team with bug fixing/polish.

I would like to have zero difference to debian, but currently still not possible due to fast changes in debian's kde packaging infrastructure. However we have managed to get all bugs upstream and do not have need track them locally.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I liked the governance by process which is used in Ubuntu, but now that I am only occasional contributor, it is hard to follow all the changes going on. It is very hard for occasional contributer to follow all the changes and understand the bottom of some changes. I think there should be some low-traffic announcements list for really important changes, where this should be communicated clearly when things have changes and in place (with links to background info). Example: new upload rights structure and per package uploads (which I think is great!), but still not completely clear to me how this works now.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== JonathanRiddell ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored lots of packages from Lure and reviewed patches he's written.  The quality is always high even for tricky transitions like the exiv libraries.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Lure has been looking after Digikam and related packages for some releases now, he has a good feel for the needs of the packages and I don't remember having to make any changes recently before uploading.

=== AnthonyMercatante ===
==== General feedback ====
I've been working with Luka for years now and had to review some work he did. His packages and patches are generally very good.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Luka has been specifying his contributions to Digikam for quite some time now, and he has very serious in getting packages available very quickly for testing. Also his knowledge of the application makes his work generally useless for fixing anything...

=== Harald Sitter ===
==== General feedback ====
Also sponsored quite some uploads, all of perfect quality.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Perfect work on Digikam and Kipi, most recently he started efforts to get digikam in 9.10 updated, since 9.10 currently provides a pre-release version of digikam preventing ultimate user experience. The packages for 10.04 were intentional kept backportable, making both backporting and possible copy to karmic-updates much less of a headache.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Get generally more involved, so he can become Kubuntu Dev ;)

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
