{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== General ===
* Name: Luke Faraone
* Contact details: https://luke.faraone.cc/contact
==== Key Achievements ====

I'm a Debian developer, and an Ubuntu MOTU. In addition, I'm part of upstream for the <nowiki>[[http://sugarlabs.org|Sugar]]</nowiki> "desktop environment" in Debian and Ubuntu. Over the past few months, I've helped facilitate two introduction-to-packaging hackathons at <nowiki>[[http://sipb.mit.edu/|MIT SIPB]]</nowiki>. (<nowiki>[[http://www.asheesh.org/note/debian/sep-2011-bsp.html|Sept 2011]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/events/2011/1002-debub-bsp|Oct 2011]]</nowiki>)

=== Vision ===
Ubuntu is quickly developing into a platform for other developers to build their applications off of. As an ARB member, I'd help ensure that users can experience the latest and greatest applications within the scope of Ubuntu Extras. 

== Testimonials == 

* I've worked with Luke both in Debian and Ubuntu and think he has a good technical background and attention to detail that ARB needs.  As an active Debian AM, he's also used to working with new developers and encouraging them to learn how things work in a Debian/Debian based distribution. ScottKitterman

* ... (please don't forget to sign with your `@``SIG``@`)

=== Comments ===
* ... (please don't forget to sign with your `@``SIG``@`)
