{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I am 20 years old and am studying Mechanical engineering, this year I am on placement. I enjoy learning to program 

== My Ubuntu story ==
''Tell us how and when you got involved, what you liked working on and what you could probably do better.''

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
Luke has been heavily involved with the Ubuntu Manual Project. He is part of the core team, he has logged bugs, edited the manual and committed fixes, and been involved in meetings. On IRC he is always willing to help anybody that needs it. As well as this, he is responsible for the development of Quickshot. This is a tool that has been developed to quickly capture screenshots for use within the manual. It is always really great to work with Luke, I look forward to working with him in future. -- <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cwoollard| Chris Woollard]]</nowiki>
