{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Basic Stuff ==

'''Note:''' ''any similarity between JeffreyElkner, MatthewGallagher, MacoMorgan and my page is purely coincidental.''

'''Contact:''' https://luke.faraone.cc/contact

'''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~lfaraone

'''Current OSs:''' Ubuntu, Debian

== Other Stuff ==

I've been using Linux since 2002 , and actively involved in the Ubuntu Community since 2007. I work with Sugar Labs on their systems maintenance, and am currently an undergraduate at George Mason University.

== Ubuntu Stuff ==
I started using Ubuntu since "edgy", and have tested all the betas of Ubuntu starting with Feisty. I was previously the administrator of an Edubuntu lab of more than 20 computers at my local high school. 

I am a Debian developer, and I maintain <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=Luke+Faraone|several packages]]</nowiki> there. I strive to ensure they are all work as expected in Ubuntu, and that bugs fixed in `unstable` are backported to Ubuntu releases. A list of my software uploads can be found <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lfaraone/+related-software|on Launchpad]]</nowiki>. 

=== Community Involvement ===

I'm a member of the DC Ubuntu LoCo Team and YHSLUG. In the DCLoCo team I've helped promote Ubuntu via various installfests and bug sprints, as well as other community events.

== Testimonials ==

* SugarTeam: Luke has been doing valuable work testing Sugar, reporting and fixing bugs for Intrepid. I recommend him for Ubuntu membership. --MorganCollett, SugarTeam lead, Ubuntu member

----
CategoryHomepage
