{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

Ubuntu user since September 2010. I joined the ubuntu-tn on 16 April 2011 as normal member and I become a team cordinator in july 2011. I'm a members of the Tunisian Local Community. I’m a Web Developper and FOSS supporter  and I love cats and chocolate.I feel like I have too many passions like Humanitarian and associative activities and reading.

When we speak about the Ubuntu Spirit, we are referring to the spirit of unity, love, peace and compassion, which expresses itself in a desire to help others and includes everyone.The philosophy is simple enough,it does require a massive shift in how we think about ourselves, how we see each other, and how we view every other living thing on the planet i love the way the community are that’s why it became my second family  xD

=== Contact details ===

 {*} irc.freenode.org: luna Persa

 {*} Email: hammouda-mariam [AT] ubuntu [DOT] com

 {*} Launchpad profile: https://launchpad.net/~hammouda-mariam

 {*} Blog: http://persaluna.wordpress.com/

=== Ubuntu activity ===

 {*} Tunisian LoCo Team Member and member of Ubuntu Tunisian Team and Ubuntu-Tn Management Committee

 {*} Coordinator of the Redaction Team : I participate actively in drafting content for the site or other media for the use of the Team. I also coordinate and mentor the activities of the other members who participates in the activities of the Redaction Team. 

 {*} Participate in drafting and validating WiKi pages for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam|the ubuntu-tn Team ]]</nowiki>

 {*} Organizing IRC meetings and keeping order during meetings.

 {*} Wiki updates -  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Events|Event preparation]]</nowiki>,   <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/TeamReports|event report]]</nowiki>, uploading photos, other...

 {*} LoCo directory updates - Updating LoCo dir with new important events etc...

 {*} Personal blog - Blogging about few Ubuntu-TN events

 {*} Ubuntu Flash Coffee - Meeting IRL with Ubuntu-TN members

 {*} Always connected on the IRC Channels #ubuntu-tn, #ubuntu-fr Channel, to improve my skills

 {*} Actif on the ubuntu-tn MLModest participation on the Launchpad

 {*} Preparation of ReApprovalApplication2013 juin 2013

=== Contributions ===

I was also present during many events which I helped during the preparations.

==== 2014 ====

 {*} Education Freedom Day Tunisia
** Simple participation, taking photos. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.nizarus.tn/EFD-2014|Photo album]]</nowiki>

==== 2013 ====

 {*} the Software Freedom Day 2013 in cooperation with Science Palace of Monastir 27 october 2013

** Co-coordination and organisation of the event 
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.nizarus.tn/SFD-Tunisia-2013|Photo album]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://persaluna.wordpress.com/2013/11/02/la-tunisie-fete-la-journee-mondiale-des-logiciels-libres|Article]]</nowiki>
 

 {*} GNU30 Esprit: 28/29 September 2013 

** Simple participation, taking photos..
** Translation workshop assistant  
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.nizarus.tn/GNU30|Photo album]]</nowiki>

 {*} Ubuntu Global Jam13.09 13, 14, and 15 September 2013

** Co-coordination and organisation of the event

 {*} PSM 13.05 : 4 May 2013 

** Co-coordination and organisation of the event
** Translation workshop assistant 
** <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.452821051468788.1073741886.174976779253218&type=3|Photo album]]</nowiki>

 {*} Global Jam 13.03 : 1, 2 and 3 March 2013

** Co-coordination and organisation of the event
** Translation workshop assistant and contributor
** <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dlrXkTzNkDA|video trailer]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/photos/+AhmedSghaier/albums/5850589588739056433|Photo album]]</nowiki>

==== 2012 ====

 {*} Richard Mathew Stallman conference at Science Palace of Monastir

** Organising and preparing for the event

 {*} Support the opening event of the CLL "The Faculty of Science" Monastir

 {*} Supervising the planning and taking part at  the Software Freedom Day 2012 in cooperation with Science Palace of Monastir 
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.nizarus.tn/SFD-Tunisia-2012|Photo album]]</nowiki>

 {*} Supervising the planning and taking part at the TIME Private University of Tunis-Ubuntu conferences day and install partySamedi 21 April 2012 
** <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/events/c1hc33a79bk3f7pqe0qkjahhihg?authkey=CLHmg5in37-I-AE&cfem=1|Photo album]]</nowiki> 

 {*} Supervising the planning and taking part at the Global Jam 12.03 ( three days) 2, 3 and 4 March 2012
** Translation workshop assistant and contributor
** <nowiki>[[http://persaluna.wordpress.com/2012/02/26/ugj-pour-la-deuxieme-fois-en-tunisie|Article]]</nowiki>

 {*} Supervising <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/ReunionPhysique12.01|the planning]]</nowiki> and taking part at the  IRL National Ubuntu-TN meeting at Hackerspace Tunis - National meeting to discuss community progress and main issues 29 January 2012

==== 2011 ====

 {*} Ubuntu Global Jam 11.09  2, 3 and 4 September 2011(three days, more than 30 members) - The first UGJ for Ubuntu-TN, introducing five contribution activities to the local team (Training and contribution activites : translation, testing and upgrade, bug triagging, packaging, documentation)  
** Simple participation.
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.nizarus.org/UGJ-TN-11-09|Photo album]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://persaluna.wordpress.com/2011/08/18/the-ubuntu-global-jam-debarquera-enfin-en-tunisie|Article]]</nowiki>

=== Others ===

I was also present during other events organized by Tunisian communities and associations

 {*} Clibre.tn 

 meshSayada: 14-15/11/2013 <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.nizarus.tn/MeshSayada/WeekEnd-2|Photo album]]</nowiki>

 {*} Social Media Club Tunisia 

 Blogging & Social Media Event ~ Sousse: 12/01/2013 <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.205634226293960.1073741844.125193851004665&type=3|Photo album]]</nowiki>

 {*} Wikipedia Tunisia 

 Wiki Loves Monuments Ceremony ~ Sousse: 23/11/2013 <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.nizarus.tn/WLM2013|Photo album]]</nowiki>

 {*} Drupal Tunisia 

 Ubuntu & Drupal install day 13.11: 16/11/2013 <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.537485096346538.1073741827.244745468953837&type=3|Photo album]]</nowiki>

=== Future involvement ===

 {*} Continue my involvement in the LoCo Team and planning of the certification (LPI).

 {*} Preparation of an online magazine Mag_Ubuntu-tn

 {*} Encouraging tunisian women to use Ubuntu and especially to participate in the Ubuntu community and to increase the visibility and contribution of women 

 {*} Become more active in Ubuntu Women Project 

I leave you with this: Mr. Mandela, “And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same.”  And so it is! :)

=== Testimonials ===

 {*} LunaPersa is one of the most active members in Ubuntu-tn LoCo team and the Management Committee. She's very smart and helps our community to be more organized and have a better communication between members.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[elacheche|El Achèche ANIS]]</nowiki>''''', Ubuntu-tn MC Member & Ubuntu Member, 21-01-2014.

 {*} LunaPersa is one of my best friends that I have met in Ubuntu-TN. Luna is an active member in our LoCo team and. She's very smart and helps our community and help many people on ML, IRC, Forum and Facebook.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[Na3iL|Naeil Zoueidi]]</nowiki>''''', Ubuntu-tn Member, 08-02-2014.

 {*} '''''<nowiki>[[LunaPersa|Luna]]</nowiki>''''' is the heart of Ubuntu-TN that does her best to bring everybody together and push the community forward. She is one of the most active Ubuntu-TN members for more than three years now. I hope she keeps moving forward with our community and inspires the new members.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[Neo31|Ahmed Sghaier]]</nowiki>''''', Official Ubuntu Member & Ubuntu-TN LoCo Contact, 13-02-2014.
  
 {*} '''''<nowiki>[[LunaPersa|Luna]]</nowiki>''''' is one of the fewest girl active in the Open source community and even in IT domain in Tunisia , she have a sense of organisation and also a big web developement talent. She is the one who really deserve to be as ubuntu member because she belive in the humanity and she wanna spread the spirit of opensource all over the world." She inspires me "
  - '''''<nowiki>[[geekette86|Manal Lamine]]</nowiki>'''''.Ubuntu-tn MC Member, 16-02-2014

 {*} '''<nowiki>[[LunaPersa|Luna]]</nowiki>''' is one of the most active members in the Ubuntu-tn community. In the management committee she takes care, with determination, of writing monthly reports and other reports. Helpful, full of energy, and always available to help with a smile. She deserves to be the first woman as Ubuntu member in Tunisia and the Arab world.
  - '''''<nowiki>[[nizarus|Nizar Kerkeni]]</nowiki>''''', former LoCo contact, 16-02-2014.

 {*} '''<nowiki>[[LunaPersa|Luna]]</nowiki>''' is the best organized  members int Ubuntu-tn , i like her method of event management, her attitude and her smiles.I never forget her presentation in ubuntu events and her help for all the members .
  - '''''<nowiki>[[bill_gaag| bilel gaabel]]</nowiki>''''', Ubuntu-tn FF Member, 16-02-2014.

 {*} '''<nowiki>[[LunaPersa|Luna]]</nowiki>''' is one of most active members in the ubuntu tn community. she's is characterized by sensibility and neutrality. she always listen carefully to everybody. she has a sense of organization and also has a magic touch in the community. she is one of the fewest girl active in it domain in Tunisia, also she participated actively in ubuntu-tn. i'm so proud to seen  someome like her, that's why I recommend her.
   
   - '''''<nowiki>[[Goldenscorp| Goldenscorp]]</nowiki>''''', Ubuntu-tn MC Membe, 17-02-2014.

 {*} '''<nowiki>[[LunaPersa|Luna Persa]]</nowiki>''' is one of the most active members in our LoCo team. She was elected as a member in the management committee. She participate in most activies. I'm sure she deserve to be a Ubuntu Member.
  - '''''<nowiki>[[Zied_ALAYA|Zied ALAYA]]</nowiki>''''', former LoCo contact, 17-02-2014.

 {*} '''<nowiki>[[LunaPersa|Luna Persa]]</nowiki>''' is one of the most active ladies in ubuntu-tn LoCo team. She participate in most of ubuntu-tn event, in reality and on the net, in the locoteam mailing list and via social networks. I recommand a lot her ubuntu membership.
  - '''''<nowiki>[[Abdelmonam|Abdelmonam Kouka]]</nowiki>''''', former LoCo contact, 17-02-2014.

 {*} '''<nowiki>[[LunaPersa|Luna Persa]]</nowiki>''' Is one of keys of ubuntu-tn , she work always harder to put us together and up to date about events and new procedure. She always fulfill his role in management committee and walk through to make ubuntu-tn in the front of opensource event and known everywhere in our country. I'm sure that ubuntu membership will be a good recognition to let here to go ahead. 
  - '''''<nowiki>[[sabri-icone|Boukari Sabri]]</nowiki>''''', Ubuntu-tn Member, 18-02-2014.
