{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Welcome to the Luxembourg Ubuntu Team wiki page'''

This is the wiki page of the Luxembourgian Local Community Team. Our goal is to provide free community support to users of Ubuntu as well as advocating the use of Ubuntu to individuals and organizations.

''' Latest News'''

~+ The Luxemburgian Team is participating in the Ubuntu Global Jam! +~

Where: Books and Beans, avenue de la Liberté, Luxembourg (next to the Arcelor Building) 

When : 03 Oct 2009, between 13:00 and 16:00

What : Demo/hands-on practice on Ubuntu Karmic Koala Beta version, documentation, translation,...

Who  : Everybody is welcome!

~+ We are doing the (im)possible to get the Luxemburgian Team running again before the Ubuntu Global Jam! +~

The weekend of 2-4 October Ubuntu organises the "Global Ubuntu Jam"
.
We would like to take this opportunity to officially restart the "Local Community Team Luxembourg".

If you are interested please let us know! We need you! ( Oh! And no, you don't need to have technical skills ;) )

Everybody is welcome!

'''How do I join or How can I help?'''

Just sign up to our mailing-list ubuntu-lu@lists.ubuntu.com (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-lu|Signup]]</nowiki>) or come to our IRC Channel (#ubuntu-lu on irc.freenode.net).

'''Useful links'''

While we are getting everything set up, you might want to check the site of the <nowiki>[[http://www.lilux.lu/|LiLux - GNU/Linux User Group Luxembourg]]</nowiki>.

All further questions should go to the team contact is DirkEstievenart
