{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== LXC - Linux Containers ===

LXC refers to <nowiki>[[http://lxc.sourceforge.net/ | linux containers]]</nowiki>, usually created using either <nowiki>[[http://libvirt.org | libvirt]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://lxc.sf.net | liblxc]]</nowiki>.  Both suites are actively developed and used, and both use namespaces and cgroups to implement the containers.

==== Software suites around liblxc ====

Liblxc is designed to be very flexible, and comes with some basic tools for creating, cloning, and managing containers.  Many people have written their own management layers using the liblxc commands (perhaps some using the libraries?) to suit their specific needs and usage preferences.  Please feel free to add your own here.

* <nowiki>[[http://derek.simkowiak.net/lxc-ubuntu-x/ | lxc-ubuntu-x ]]</nowiki> - focuses on flexible container generation based on existing containers and templates.
* <nowiki>[[http://fex.rus.uni-stuttgart.de/lxc.html | lxc ]]</nowiki> - Just called lxc, this suite allows creating, starting and stopping (Ubuntu) containers and running commands in containers without ssh.

==== Miscellaneous info ====

* <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-LxcUsernsIrcChat | Log of User Namespaces IRC chat on Feb 7, 2013 ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-LxcAPIConversion | List of programs still needing to be converted to using the LXC API ]]</nowiki>
