{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #lubuntu-devel: Lubuntu Team Meeting, 09 Mar at 18:59 &mdash; 20:20 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/lubuntu-devel/2016/lubuntu-devel.2016-03-09-18.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== LXQt ====
The discussion about "LXQt" started at 19:02.

** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/lubuntu-next 
** ''ACTION:'' wxl: talk to release team to get a lubuntu-lxqt ISO produced for y-cycle
** ''ACTION:'' wxl: communicate goal of having apps figured out before y-cycle alpha testing begins
** ''ACTION:'' tsimonq2: Make a prototype of the LXQt ISO for Monday, March 14, 2016
** lxqt-metapackage development in progress, to be ready for y-cycle, but hopefully available before xenial release

==== QA ====
The discussion about "QA" started at 19:18.

** we need ppc testers for xenial!!!!!
** we need more bug triagers!
** ''ACTION:'' tsimonq2: obtain Bug Control *soon*
** ''HELP:'' abiword is orphaned in Debian and needs someone to fix bugs!  (wxl, 19:27)
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=740678 << details on the abiword orphanage
** ''ACTION:'' tsimonq2: Seek out the Abiword Ubuntu maintainers and ask for help
** ''LINK:'' https://ubuntu-pi-flavour-maker.org/ 
** ''ACTION:'' tsimonq2: Make a wiki page that has all the known bugs for Lubuntu Xenial on it
** Raspberry Pi 3 now supported! https://ubuntu-pi-flavour-maker.org/

==== Donation Area ====
The discussion about "Donation Area" started at 19:35.

==== wiki ====
The discussion about "wiki" started at 19:41.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RecentChanges 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpContents 

==== startup disk creator (mkusb, etc) ====
The discussion about "startup disk creator (mkusb, etc)" started at 19:56.

** ''ACTION:'' sudodus: research depends of usb-creator-kde for LXQt
** ''HELP:'' someone help sudodus get mkusb in the Debian repos!  (wxl, 20:05)
** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxqt-metapackages 
** lxqt and lxqt-core are now available in xenialâ€” test it!
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=814923 

==== #Lubuntu Vs Win7, does this need updating to lubuntu Vs win10? ====
The discussion about "#Lubuntu Vs Win7, does this need updating to lubuntu Vs win10?" started at 20:14.

** ''ACTION:'' phillw: find someone with Windows 10 to update Lubuntu v. Windows table

==== any other items? ====
The discussion about "any other items?" started at 20:18.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* phillw
** phillw: find someone with Windows 10 to update Lubuntu v. Windows table
* sudodus
** sudodus: research depends of usb-creator-kde for LXQt
* tsimonq2
** tsimonq2: Make a prototype of the LXQt ISO for Monday, March 14, 2016
** tsimonq2: obtain Bug Control *soon*
** tsimonq2: Seek out the Abiword Ubuntu maintainers and ask for help
** tsimonq2: Make a wiki page that has all the known bugs for Lubuntu Xenial on it
* wxl
** wxl: talk to release team to get a lubuntu-lxqt ISO produced for y-cycle
** wxl: communicate goal of having apps figured out before y-cycle alpha testing begins

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* wxl (200)
* tsimonq2 (64)
* gilir (25)
* redwolf (23)
* sudodus (23)
* phillw (21)
* agaida (12)
* meetingology (11)
* rican-linux (6)
* ubot93 (6)
* LStranger (2)
* marcus68 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:59 <wxl> #startmeeting Lubuntu Team Meeting

 18:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Mar  9 18:59:12 2016 UTC.  The chair is wxl. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 18:59 <meetingology> 

 18:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 18:59 <wxl> agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 19:00 <wxl> everyone in attendance please say hi, feel free to introduce yourself, etc.

 19:00 <wxl> i'm Walter Lapchynski and i'm Release Manager, and Head of QA

 19:00 <gilir> o/

 19:00 <redwolf> o/

 19:01 <wxl> hi gilir :)

 19:01 <wxl> good to see you!

 19:01 <gilir> hi wxl :-)

 19:01 <gilir> Julien, Dev team (just for the log) :-)

 19:01 <wxl> looks like it might be the three of us then XD

 19:01 <wxl> i know phillw is coming by later

 19:02 <redwolf> Rafael, Artwork Team, but you already knew that :)

 19:02 <wxl> i'd like to advise, since you're here, gilir, that we move the lxqt topic up a bit so if you need to take off, you can. is that ok?

 19:02 <gilir> I'm quite short in time, so if I can start ... :-)

 19:02 <wxl> ok

 19:02 <wxl> then!

 19:02 <wxl> #topic LXQt

 19:02 <gilir> thanks :-)

 19:02 <wxl> all you!

 19:02 <tsimonq2> (o/ I'm here)

 19:03 <gilir> I started the preparation for the qt metapackage

 19:03 <wxl> yayayay!

 19:03 <redwolf> :)

 19:03 <gilir> the goal is to be ready to build something for xenial +1

 19:03 <gilir> as we have lxqt packages, we "just" need to add the others packages to make a distro

 19:03 <wxl> gilir: meaning the packages will be available after xenial, or will they potentially be availabvle for testing before then?

 19:04 <gilir> wxl, yes

 19:04 <wxl> great, please keep us updated and i'll sick everyone on it

 19:05 <tsimonq2> while we are on the topic of LXQt, on my list of weekend projects is to make an LXQt ISO for my convienence, I'll be willing to share if you guys want it

 19:05 * agaida - guest - hi

 19:05 <gilir> we may ask for an ISO with lxqt for xenial +1

 19:05 <wxl> yes so if you get the build system really honed, we can start creating those for y cycle testing, tsimonq2

 19:05 <gilir> it may be easier for testing

 19:06 <wxl> on the subject of apps, i'm sure there's still more to do

 19:06 <wxl> discussion can be had on the blueprints:

 19:06 <wxl> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/lubuntu-next

 19:06 <gilir> wxl, yes :-/

 19:06 <tsimonq2> wxl, gilir: So I'll get a process done and I'll throw it on a server, I'll let you know what I come up with. :)

 19:06 <tsimonq2> (I'll throw it on a server so it can generate dailies)

 19:07 <tsimonq2> anyways, it's all tenetive at this point, but I'm working on it :)

 19:07 <agaida> gilir: only a hint - leave the metapackages untouched and use a desktop task for lxqt

 19:07 <gilir> clearly, it will not be ready for default soon

 19:07 <wxl> we need to figure out these apps sooner than later because we have testcases to write

 19:07 <tsimonq2> yes

 19:08 <tsimonq2> also on my weekend project list :)

 19:08 <wxl> so i think it would be great if we could set some sort of deadline

 19:08 <redwolf> anyway, wxl, due to the qt5 "core", we're "limited" to some well known apps

 19:09 <tsimonq2> wxl: I vote March 24, Final Beta

 19:09 <gilir> agaida, I'll see when it hits ubuntu repo

 19:09 <tsimonq2> does that sound reasonable to anyone else?

 19:09 <wxl> that's probably too soon, tsimonq2

 19:09 <tsimonq2> hmm, okay

 19:09 <tsimonq2> it would be good to have it done by release day

 19:09 <gilir> tsimonq2, not for this cycle

 19:09 <tsimonq2> hmm, okay gilir

 19:09 <wxl> gilir: but ideally before alpha1 of y-cycle

 19:10 <gilir> tsimonq2, all the deadline will be for xenial +1

 19:10 <wxl> so maybe 2 weeks after xenial release?

 19:10 <wxl> to at least make the decision on which apps we're going to use

 19:11 <tsimonq2> well, I'll do what I can, even if the deadline is A1 of Y :)

 19:11 <tsimonq2> or whatever is suggested :)

 19:11 <gilir> wxl, do you have good contacts with release team for asking for an ISO ?

 19:11 <sudodus> Hello everybody o/

 19:11 <wxl> gilir: yeah

 19:12 <gilir> just for the default apps, I would like to keep with qt5 and limited kf5 / kde components

 19:12 <redwolf> +1

 19:12 <tsimonq2> wxl: in the mean time, I can get that ISO for Monday, let me know if you want extra packages, I just want something to play with and a prototype to build off of

 19:13 <gilir> and the iso will be good test the performance , I'm a bit worry about this

 19:13 <wxl> gilir: why specifically?

 19:13 <gilir> that's all for me

 19:13 <tsimonq2> yes, good point gilir, I can write some unofficial, adapted test cases for the ISO that I can run through and give as sort of a prototype

 19:14 <gilir> wxl, to have good perf, and too much space on the ISO ...

 19:14 <tsimonq2> ahh yes, space :)

 19:14 <wxl> gilir: k, so no specific reason (like you think some app or another is going to be a problem), but you mean the whole iso. right.

 19:14 <gilir> tsimonq2, we can see the test case after for the non-lxqt apps, that's not urgent

 19:14 <wxl> so let's make some actions

 19:15 <gilir> tsimonq2, if you want to priorize, test cases for lxqt will be much helpful

 19:15 * gilir really need to go :-/

 19:15 <wxl> #action wxl: talk to release team to get a lubuntu-lxqt ISO produced for y-cycle

 19:15 * meetingology wxl: talk to release team to get a lubuntu-lxqt ISO produced for y-cycle

 19:15 <wxl> ok thanks very much gilir!

 19:15 <redwolf> okies, gilir. thanks!

 19:15 <gilir> thanks, good meeting :-)

 19:15 <wxl> #action wxl: communicate goal of having apps figured out before y-cycle alpha testing begins

 19:15 * meetingology wxl: communicate goal of having apps figured out before y-cycle alpha testing begins

 19:16 <wxl> tsimonq2: feel free to make an action for yourself to create a prototype

 19:17 <tsimonq2> #action tsimonq2: Make a prototype of the LXQt ISO for Monday, March 14, 2016

 19:17 * meetingology tsimonq2: Make a prototype of the LXQt ISO for Monday, March 14, 2016

 19:17 <tsimonq2> wxl: already thought of that :)

 19:17 <redwolf> :)

 19:17 <tsimonq2> o/ redwolf :)

 19:17 <wxl> #info lxqt-metapackage development in progress, to be ready for y-cycle, but hopefully available before xenial release

 19:17 <redwolf> O.O

 19:18 <wxl> not sure it recorded that

 19:18 <wxl> weird

 19:18 <wxl> oh well

 19:18 <wxl> ok

 19:18 <wxl> next subject

 19:18 <wxl> #topic QA

 19:18 <wxl> as you can see in the topic, we're coming down to the end of xenial, with beta 2 testing beginning 22 mar (to be released 24 mar)

 19:19 <wxl> if anyone knows any ppc testers, please tell them to help testing!

 19:19 <sudodus> There are a number of bugs. Should we focus on some particular ones?

 19:19 <wxl> #info we need ppc testers for xenial!!!!!

 19:19 <tsimonq2> so we already talked about test cases, but maybe LXDE test cases need to be discussed?

 19:19 <tsimonq2> (sorry for interrupting)

 19:20 <wxl> sudodus: i think the goal is to make sure that the new wiki page reflects the current state of things first and foremost

 19:20 <wxl> in other words, fixed bugs are removed and new bugs are added

 19:20 <sudodus> I can ask Lars NoodÃ©n

 19:20 <wxl> that page is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/Beta2/Lubuntu

 19:21 <wxl> i have had like zero time to help with triage, so if there's a particular urgent bug that needs my help, feel free to contact me directly

 19:21 <wxl> and i will remind us all, that we could use more bug control members. as of yet, we really have no one dedicated 100% to triage

 19:21 <tsimonq2> wxl: *sigh* I should get Bug Control :)

 19:21 <wxl> #info we need more bug triagers!

 19:21 <tsimonq2> next weekend! :)

 19:21 <wxl> tsimonq2: yes, you should.

 19:21 <wxl> that would make a big difference

 19:22 <tsimonq2> I agree

 19:22 <wxl> i think it's also important for us to continue to communicate with one another how to properly deal with bugs

 19:22 <wxl> i.e. report everything

 19:22 <tsimonq2> #action tsimonq2: obtain Bug Control *soon*

 19:22 * meetingology tsimonq2: obtain Bug Control *soon*

 19:22 <wxl> then clean them up

 19:22 <tsimonq2> I agree

 19:22 <sudodus> Maybe the bug with plymouth, that hides the passphrase of encrypted disk installs

 19:22 <wxl> remove variables

 19:23 <wxl> ask other teams for help

 19:23 <wxl> make the descriptions really simple

 19:23 <tsimonq2> wxl: BTW abiword is orphaned in Debian so we need someone to fix the bugs

 19:23 <wxl> with: steps to reproduce, expected results, actual results, affected, etc.

 19:23 <rican-linux> I am testing on my iBook G4

 19:23 <tsimonq2> the language selector one, specifically

 19:23 <wxl> tsimonq2: in light of lxqt, it's probably irrelevant

 19:23 <wxl> rican-linux: thank you so much!!!!

 19:24 <rican-linux> no worries I sent you the LXQT pic

 19:24 <rican-linux> this is Herminio

 19:24 <sudodus> Yes, that Abiword bug is important too.

 19:24 <tsimonq2> wxl: but we have an LTS coming up, 5 years, remember? :)

 19:24 <wxl> i figured as such rican-linux :)

 19:24 <wxl> tsimonq2: ah, that's true

 19:24 <tsimonq2> wxl: we need to support LXDE for 5 more years :)

 19:24 <tsimonq2> so

 19:24 <wxl> tsimonq2: unfortunately, we don't have a big dev team, so i'll remind you, tsimonq2: patches welcome :)

 19:25 <rican-linux> I can tell you there is real improvement in how it performs

 19:25 <tsimonq2> wxl: I tried, I'll try again, but still :)

 19:25 <rican-linux> in 16.04

 19:25 <wxl> tsimonq2: i also encourage you to try to see if you can find someone to help with it

 19:25 <wxl> rican-linux: excellent!

 19:26 <rican-linux> there is only issue with radeon acceleration but that is an issue upstream

 19:26 <wxl> our dev team is pretty much full on trying to deal with lxqt while dealing with lxde bugs. we kind of expect our apps to sort of take care of themselves

 19:26 <wxl> so this is an unfortunate situation

 19:26 <redwolf> but understandable, apps have their own teams

 19:26 <tsimonq2> ^

 19:27 <wxl> #help abiword is orphaned in Debian and needs someone to fix bugs!

 19:27 <wxl> so we'll have to continue to call out for help on that one. that's all i can say unfortunately

 19:27 <tsimonq2> https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=740678 << details on the abiword orphanage

 19:27 <ubot93> Debian bug 740678 in wnpp "O: abiword -- efficient, featureful word processor with collaboration" [Normal,Open]

 19:27 <sudodus> How many Lubuntu users use Abiword (I think many of us use LibreOffice)

 19:28 <tsimonq2> sudodus: my mom does :)

 19:28 <wxl> i use libreoffice, but that's not going to fit on the freaking iso

 19:28 <wxl> well

 19:28 <wxl> not the alternate

 19:28 <wxl> on a cd

 19:29 <tsimonq2> s/cd/DVD/

 19:29 <tsimonq2> maybe?

 19:29 <wxl> yes

 19:29 <tsimonq2> *shrug*

 19:29 <sudodus> Abiword works with the installed language, it is only changing language, that fails (bad enough, but not a show stopper)

 19:29 <wxl> but the goal is to keep alternate on a CD

 19:29 <sudodus> Yes

 19:29 <wxl> since we can no longer promise that the desktop will be CD sized

 19:30 <wxl> ok, well, we'll try to seek help

 19:30 <tsimonq2> ^ yeah

 19:30 <wxl> anyone want to try to seek out the ubuntu abiword maintainers to ask for help?

 19:30 <tsimonq2> o/ I'll do it

 19:30 <wxl> make yourself an action

 19:30 <tsimonq2> #action tsimonq2: Seek out the Abiword Ubuntu maintainers and ask for help

 19:30 * meetingology tsimonq2: Seek out the Abiword Ubuntu maintainers and ask for help

 19:30 <tsimonq2> wxl: ik :)

 19:31 <wxl> yeah i don't think we have any showstopping bugs per se

 19:31 <wxl> certainly are some annoying ones though

 19:31 <wxl> even the plymouth one has a workaround

 19:31 <tsimonq2> yeah :)

 19:31 <sudodus> +1

 19:31 <wxl> and that's the thing. as long as we don't have showstoppers, i say we march on

 19:32 <tsimonq2> yep

 19:32 <redwolf> yup

 19:32 <wxl> ok

 19:32 <sudodus> yup

 19:32 <tsimonq2> heh

 19:32 <wxl> so let's see what else we have for QA

 19:33 <tsimonq2> OH I have an idea for QA

 19:33 <wxl> only other thing i wanted to mention is there's a new series of pi images

 19:33 <tsimonq2> let's keep a page of all the known bugs so collecting release notes is easier

 19:33 <wxl> https://ubuntu-pi-flavour-maker.org/

 19:33 <tsimonq2> so we don't have to hunt around

 19:33 <tsimonq2> and someone tests regularly for existance

 19:34 <tsimonq2> wxl: good idea or not?

 19:34 <wxl> tsimonq2: yeah that would be a good idea. make a wiki page somewhere and then reference it on our PrePostTODO page

 19:34 <tsimonq2> making an action :)

 19:34 <wxl> so the deal with the new pi images is the raspberry pi 3 is now supported

 19:34 <wxl> onboard bluetooth isn't supported yet but they're working on it

 19:34 <tsimonq2> #action tsimonq2: Make a wiki page that has all the known bugs for Lubuntu Xenial on it

 19:34 * meetingology tsimonq2: Make a wiki page that has all the known bugs for Lubuntu Xenial on it

 19:34 <wxl> i have a pi 3 coming saturday and i'll play around with it

 19:35 <wxl> #info Raspberry Pi 3 now supported! https://ubuntu-pi-flavour-maker.org/

 19:35 <wxl> i think that's all i have for QA

 19:35 <tsimonq2> hey, I betcha we'll have a Softpedia article soon ;)

 19:35 <wxl> so

 19:35 <wxl> #topic Donation Area

 19:36 <wxl> we've lost a major contributor to the donations project, so we have some reorganizing to do

 19:36 <wxl> sadly, i have to say the project is kind of stalled until that happens

 19:36 <wxl> nothing but sad news there :(

 19:36 <wxl> but we'll get it

 19:36 <tsimonq2> so what's the status of this now and what needss to happen to continue?

 19:36 <tsimonq2> *needs

 19:37 <phillw> wxl: i did get the papers that were countersigned by redwolf back safely. I'm guessing a mistake in the addressing to you.

 19:37 <wxl> tsimonq2: i will probably have to go to my local bank and figure out their rules to set everything up

 19:37 <wxl> phillw: aren't we missing one of the members, though?

 19:37 <tsimonq2> wxl: okay, makes sense :)

 19:37 <phillw> wxl: gilir has his scanned, awaiting to be signed and returned.

 19:38 <wxl> oh well

 19:38 <wxl> if we're continuing on then great

 19:38 <redwolf> oh phillw and wxl, what about the donation to opensource?

 19:38 <redwolf> from stickers

 19:38 <phillw> it is the ones already signed that are the greatest risk.

 19:38 <wxl> redwolf: it's unclear. it seems we have a hard time emailing unixstickers

 19:39 <wxl> redwolf: it's on my TODO list to follow up, but it's WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY down at the bottom of the list, so if someone else wants to take that on, please do!

 19:39 <phillw> redwolf: once we have the account up, I'm sure they'll be happy to use that for lubuntu goodies bought

 19:39 <redwolf> okies, not my first task either

 19:39 <tsimonq2> need me to do a task? :D

 19:40 <wxl> tsimonq2: naw, for now, you got enough on your plate XD

 19:40 <wxl> tsimonq2: (especially when you consider all the other stuff i'm lining up for you) XD

 19:40 <tsimonq2> well hit me and it'll go on my list XD

 19:40 <wxl> okok

 19:41 <wxl> so tl;dr we're waiting on the mail for more info about the donation area XD

 19:41 <wxl> next subject

 19:41 <wxl> #topic wiki

 19:41 <phillw> wxl: I've had good liasing with unix stickers, it was me who 1st got things, and I do get  emails from them directly.

 19:41 <wxl> you may have noticed i made a call out for help with the docs

 19:42 <wxl> i did get some responses, which i have not followed up with

 19:42 <wxl> phillw and i (both the de facto interim wiki people, it seems) made a goal to go over them together and formulate a larger plan for getting things back together and get some new work done (e.g. lubuntu manual)

 19:43 <wxl> in other news, i'd like to update everyone about the general status of the wiki

 19:43 <redwolf> :)

 19:43 <wxl> so

 19:44 <wxl> we've had a real problem with spammers lately

 19:44 <wxl> people editing the wiki may have only seen it as a bunch of 500 Internal Server errors, but no, spam. big problem

 19:44 <redwolf> spam?

 19:44 <redwolf> like attacks?

 19:44 <wxl> we seem to be having issues with people (not bots) signing up for launchpad accounts and then making tons of spam pages

 19:44 <wxl> to be clear, i'm talking about the UBUNTU wiki, not just our section of it

 19:44 <redwolf> and not forget the @ubuntu.com addresses being compromised

 19:45 <redwolf> *don't

 19:45 <wxl> look here and you can see all the pages i deleted yesterday for example:

 19:45 <wxl> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RecentChanges

 19:45 <tsimonq2> redwolf: HUH?

 19:45 <redwolf> some @ubuntu.com are having massive spam too

 19:45 <wxl> redwolf: yeah, well, that's not necessarily related to the wiki update but XD

 19:45 <redwolf> same "spam package" :P

 19:45 <tsimonq2> well I want to know if my email is compromised :/

 19:45 <wxl> redwolf: (stay on topic man) XD

 19:45 <tsimonq2> XD ^

 19:45 <wxl> anywho

 19:46 <wxl> so there is a new process for users to gain edit access

 19:46 <wxl> that's explained here:

 19:46 <wxl> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpContents

 19:46 * phillw was guniea pig :D

 19:46 <wxl> and on the other wiki, here: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WikiGuide

 19:47 <wxl> just the other day that made that wiki mutable again

 19:47 <wxl> (the help.u.c. one)

 19:47 <wxl> so now, as long as yyou are an ubuntu member and/or you have ubuntu-etherpad access, you can edit the wiki

 19:48 <wxl> if you're logged in when you get this access, you'll need to log out and back in again

 19:48 <wxl> just to make sure that everyone knows how to use the wiki now, i'm telling you this

 19:48 <wxl> i'm an admin on ubuntu-etherpad, so see me if you need access

 19:48 * LStranger waves

 19:48 <wxl> though i'll warn you that we are eying applications very skeptically

 19:49 <sudodus> No I'm an Ubuntu member, but I can't edit the pages, they are immutable for me.

 19:49 <wxl> especially considering the spammers are even creating fake teams and sending messages to the admins of the team asking for access

 19:49 <tsimonq2> sudodus: the best option would be to join #canonical-sysadmin and ask the Vanguard

 19:50 <wxl> sudodus: although yoiu're not on the ACL so you probably need to get a new login, as i said https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntumembersTeamACL

 19:50 <LStranger> seems I've missed gilir

 19:50 <redwolf> what means a new Login?

 19:50 <marcus68> who? me?

 19:50 <phillw> LStranger: yeah, a fleeting visit

 19:50 <wxl> the other ACL for ubuntu-etherpad is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntuetherpadTeamACL

 19:51 <wxl> so if you're not on one of those, you need a whole new login

 19:51 <wxl> redwolf: like log out, clear your cache, log in all over again and make sure you click the checkboxes for ubuntu-members and/or ubuntu-etherpad

 19:51 <redwolf> ah, okies

 19:52 <wxl> we have confirmed this methodology works on both wikis for all combinations of ubuntu-members and ubuntu-etherpad

 19:52 <wxl> plus we have confirmed both direct and indirect memberships work

 19:52 <wxl> so if for some reason you still have a problem, as tsimonq2 said, go to #canonical-sysadmins and ping the vanguard (person running the show for IS) in the topic

 19:53 <wxl> or you can come ask around at #ubuntu-community-team as many folks there have been involved in this whole process

 19:53 <sudodus> OK, I found a second login on the wiki - and after logging in, I can edit again, but I think not in the help pages (only the wiki pages)

 19:53 <wxl> there's a long term goal of switching to mediawiki to deal with performance issues and better deal with spam, etc

 19:53 <tsimonq2> o/ bye

 19:53 <wxl> sudodus: recent changes

 19:54 <wxl> sudodus: so try again there :) they're two separate logins

 19:54 <redwolf> it works for me. but some things (links) are wrong (user links to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/?action=userprefs). but yes, method works

 19:54 <wxl> rather they're two separate OpenID transactions if you want to be specific

 19:55 <wxl> redwolf: that may be something they changed. i don't know

 19:55 <sudodus> OK, I will try again tomorrow with the help pages

 19:55 <wxl> if anyone else has issues with the wiki, feel free to come to me, too, as i'm happy to liase with IS/community-team

 19:55 <wxl> #ubuntu-doc is also another place you can go for help

 19:56 <wxl> ok done with wiki

 19:56 <wxl> i'll let sudodus give us an update on startup disks

 19:56 <wxl> #topic startup disk creator (mkusb, etc)

 19:58 <sudodus> mkusb is as before - it works, and I can help people at the Ubuntu Forums (and Lubuntu Users). I have tried, but not received any real help to get mkusb into a debian repository

 19:59 <wxl> sudodus: i thought melodie was going to help facilitate

 19:59 <wxl> ?

 19:59 <sudodus> the Startup Disk Creator usb-creator-gtk is cloning (like mkusb's standard mode) and I think it is stable in Xenial.

 20:00 <wxl> sudodus: do you know of any qt support, looking forward to y-cycle?

 20:00 <sudodus> I have tested it in Trusty and Wlly too, and it works.

 20:01 <sudodus> there is also usb-creator-kde. Would that work out of the box in qt?

 20:01 <wxl> maybe. we'll have to check the depends

 20:01 <wxl> none of us want kdelibs and usually -kde is a sign of them

 20:02 <wxl> do you think you could check on that, sudodus ? not urgent, but looking forward to what our solution is going to be for y-cycle

 20:02 <sudodus> It must be checked

 20:03 <sudodus> Yes, I can check that. What is the current status of LXQt - How should I set it up to get something to test?

 20:03 <phillw> sudodus: there is a meta package available for xenail

 20:03 <phillw> *xenial

 20:03 <wxl> hm we don't seem to have a blueprint related to the startup disc creator

 20:03 <wxl> there is this one for cd burning, though: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/lubuntu-next/+spec/1610-qt-burning

 20:04 <wxl> feel free to add it there, i think

 20:04 <wxl> #action sudodus: research depends of usb-creator-kde for LXQt

 20:04 * meetingology sudodus: research depends of usb-creator-kde for LXQt

 20:05 <wxl> #help someone help sudodus get mkusb in the Debian repos!

 20:05 <wxl> i guess that's that, then :)

 20:05 <sudodus> It should work with mkusb (it works without problems in Kubuntu), but I should check it too in LXQt

 20:06 <wxl> here's the howto on lxqt btw: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/LXQ

 20:06 <wxl> um

 20:06 <wxl> here's the howto on lxqt btw: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/LXQt

 20:06 <sudodus> melodie gave some tips, but has no time to really help

 20:06 <phillw> wxl: agaida added in an update for the lxqt-metapackage. It still needs some testing.

 20:07 <wxl> phillw: in the ppa?

 20:07 <agaida> nope - it should be rock stable and is in xenial

 20:07 <phillw> I'd have to scroll back on the channel.

 20:07 <sudodus> thanks for the link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/LXQt

 20:07 <phillw> agaida: :) Thanks, and sorry - it IS on my list, honest!

 20:07 <wxl> agaida: is in the normal repos???? cuz gilir earlier said he's working on it

 20:08 <wxl> !info lxqt-metapackage xenial

 20:08 <agaida> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxqt-metapackages

 20:08 <ubot93> Package lxqt-metapackage does not exist in xenial

 20:08 <agaida> wxl: it depends what gilir want to achieve with a metapackage

 20:09 <wxl> !info lxqt-metapackages xenial

 20:09 <ubot93> Package lxqt-metapackages does not exist in xenial

 20:09 <wxl> oic

 20:09 <agaida> !info lxqt

 20:09 <ubot93> lxqt (source: lxqt-metapackages): Metapackage for LXQt. In component universe, is optional. Version 4 (xenial), package size 2 kB, installed size 9 kB

 20:09 <agaida> !info lxqt-core

 20:09 <ubot93> lxqt-core (source: lxqt-metapackages): Metapackage for the LXQt core. In component universe, is optional. Version 4 (xenial), package size 2 kB, installed size 9 kB

 20:10 <wxl> ok so we need to test those and then update the wiki

 20:10 <agaida> its a carbon copy of lxde and lxde-core - with some specific dependencies

 20:10 <wxl> #info lxqt and lxqt-core are now available in xenialâ€” test it!

 20:10 <phillw> wxl: as I said.... It IS on my list, and I'm behind ;'(

 20:10 <phillw> :'(

 20:10 <wxl> we need to check with gilir and see what he meant in light of that

 20:10 <agaida> and for iso-building i would suggest to go with desktop-task-lxqt

 20:11 <wxl> phillw: could you ask gilir if we really need to have him do anything further with metapackages? maybe he doesn't know

 20:12 <phillw> wxl: okies, I'll try and grab him :)

 20:12 <agaida> https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=814923

 20:12 <ubot93> Debian bug 814923 in tasksel "tasksel: Please add task-lxqt-desktop to tasksel" [Normal,Open]

 20:12 <wxl> thanks

 20:12 <wxl> wait what topic were we on? XD

 20:13 <agaida> that package would fit for lubuntu too - and i would suggest to use the lxqt metapackages as is and make needed changes in the thasksel task

 20:13 <wxl> phillw: you ready for your agenda item?

 20:14 <phillw> yup

 20:14 <wxl> #topic #Lubuntu Vs Win7, does this need updating to lubuntu Vs win10?

 20:14 <wxl> all you phillw

 20:14 <agaida> wxl: the plan behind the tasksel thing is great and would fit your needs perfectly fine

 20:15 <wxl> agaida: this is gilir's realm. so i'll let him know

 20:15 <sudodus> I have to leave from the keyboard for a while

 20:15 <phillw> okies, for a couple of cycles we have had a compare of lubuntu to Win7. This seems out of date. So, my suggestion is that we do a 16.04 Vs Win 10 table to replace it?

 20:16 <wxl> i'm in favor of that

 20:16 <wxl> but who has windows 10 laying around to help with that?

 20:16 * wxl NOT ME

 20:16 <phillw> wxl: I'll go into borg mode :)

 20:16 <phillw> I still have time for this to happen.

 20:17 <wxl> in that caseâ€”

 20:18 <wxl> #action phillw: find someone with Windows 10 to update Lubuntu v. Windows table

 20:18 * meetingology phillw: find someone with Windows 10 to update Lubuntu v. Windows table

 20:18 <phillw> kk

 20:18 <wxl> alright

 20:18 <wxl> that being done

 20:18 <wxl> #topic any other items?

 20:18 <wxl> this one's open to everyone

 20:18 <wxl> so speak now or forever hold your peace XD

 20:19 * wxl notes the deafening sound of a pin dropping

 20:19 <phillw> always a good sign :)

 20:20 <wxl> ok, in the case, i'm calling the meeting

 20:20 <wxl> thanks everyone

 20:20 <wxl> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
