{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team
|-
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from IRC OP's team
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from comms team
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Support Team
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Devs teams
|-
| <nowiki>[[MrChrisDruif]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Docs team
|-
| 
| Any Other Business
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20120314T20 | Wednesday, March 14, 2012, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===

Meeting started by gilir at 20:08:51 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/lubuntu-offtopic/2012/lubuntu-offtopic.2012-03-14-20.08.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* gilir - Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

* phillw - Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team

* Unit193 - Weekly report - Update from IRC OP's team
The OPs training session went well, but low turnout from Lubuntu OPs.  (Unit193, 20:17:03)

* gilir - Weekly report - Update from Devs teams

* Any Other Business

Meeting ended at 20:29:26 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gilir (26)
* phillw (12)
* meetingology (3)
* Unit193 (2)

=== Full Log ===

 20:08:51 <gilir> #startmeeting Lubuntu Team Meeting

 20:08:51 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Mar 14 20:08:51 2012 UTC.  The chair is gilir. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:08:51 <meetingology> 

 20:08:51 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:09:23 <gilir> let's see how many people are still with us with this location change :)

 20:09:33 <Unit193> Well, I am.

 20:09:38 <gilir> agenda : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 20:09:40 <phillw> o/

 20:11:31 <gilir> ok, so let's make it short :)

 20:11:52 <gilir> #topic gilir - Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

 20:12:33 <gilir> MrChrisDruif is not here, I'll check with him by mailing list about the remaining action

 20:12:51 <gilir> bothing more from last meeting

 20:13:11 <gilir> #topic phillw - Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team

 20:13:20 <phillw> The ubuntu-qa team are organising an ubiquity and casper sprint (Chase and fix bugs) for Mon - Wed next week. Whilst most likely affecting macs, it is important to ensure there are no regressions to i386 / amd64 isos.

 20:14:20 <phillw> As this is likely to be the last sprint they do before beta 2, I do ask that people test and report via http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/204/builds I will confirm on the main lubuntu mailing list when I have the final details.

 20:14:58 <phillw> that's all from QA

 20:15:35 <gilir> thanks phillw :)

 20:16:29 <gilir> #topic Unit193 - Weekly report - Update from IRC OP's team

 20:16:46 <gilir> Unit193, anything new from IRC ?

 20:17:03 <Unit193> #info The OPs training session went well, but low turnout from Lubuntu OPs.

 20:18:23 <gilir> cool :)

 20:19:46 <gilir> thanks Unit193 :)

 20:20:18 <gilir> phillw, do you want to talk about comm team, or we can continue to the other topics ?

 20:20:35 <phillw> RE: comms with Ali back (face book) and kanilot prepared to look after our lubuntu.net area, I think we can get that team active again under their leadership. I'll post up the final request for comments on the new look lubuntu.net to the main use mailing list.

 20:21:04 <phillw> thats all on comms.

 20:22:17 <gilir> thanks phillw, nice to see more activity :)

 20:22:38 * phillw will also be glad to see it have a team leader :)

 20:22:47 <gilir> #topic gilir - Weekly report - Update from Devs teams

 20:23:11 <gilir> this week was focused on bug fixes

 20:23:42 <gilir> new version of the theme uploaded, close to the final theme I hope

 20:24:09 <gilir> that's all for the week, any questions ?

 20:24:32 <phillw> great work on Rapaell's part to get such a massive job done so quickly.

 20:24:38 <phillw> +h

 20:25:07 <gilir> yes, I hope we don't need to stress it more this cycle :)

 20:26:09 <gilir> #topic Any Other Business

 20:26:21 <phillw> o/

 20:26:27 <gilir> yes phillw

 20:26:49 <phillw> just a question if any progress has been made for bluetooth for the mac users?

 20:27:47 <gilir> I need to upload the change I made, but it should be fixed shortly

 20:27:54 <phillw> thanks :)

 20:28:50 <gilir> anything else ?

 20:29:22 <gilir> ok, thanks everyone :)

 20:29:26 <gilir> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
