{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Please note that the cut off time for amending the agenda is 24 hours before the meeting.
=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
|-
| <nowiki>[[kanliot]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team
|-
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from IRC OP's team
|-
| <nowiki>[[kanliot]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Comms team
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Devs teams
|-
| <nowiki>[[MrChrisDruif]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Docs team
|-
| 
| Any Other Business
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20120411T20 | Wednesday, April 11, 2012, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===

Meeting started by gilir at 20:03:06 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-04-11-20.03.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* gilir - Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
''ACTION:'' MrChrisDruif to discover how to do offline documentation easily  (gilir, 20:07:21)

* kanliot - Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team
''LINK:'' http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/   (kanliot, 20:08:28)

* Unit193 - Weekly report - Update from IRC OP's team

* kanliot - Weekly report - Update from Comms team

* gilir - Weekly report - Update from Devs teams

* Any Other Business
''LINK:'' http://people.canonical.com/~stgraber/package_sets/precise/lubuntu   (micahg, 20:23:02)

Meeting ended at 20:28:35 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* MrChrisDruif to discover how to do offline documentation easily

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gilir (33)
* kanliot (16)
* micahg (9)
* Unit193 (5)
* meetingology (4)
* wxl (4)
* StephenSmally (1)
* jmarsden|work (1)
* Myrtti (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:03:06 <gilir> #startmeeting Lubuntu Team Meeting

 20:03:06 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Apr 11 20:03:06 2012 UTC.  The chair is gilir. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:03:06 <meetingology> 

 20:03:06 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:03:17 <gilir> hi :)

 20:03:29 <StephenSmally> hi!

 20:03:35 <kanliot> o/

 20:03:49 <wxl> \@/

 20:03:54 <gilir> Agenda is here : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 20:04:10 <Unit193> wxl: Your face is messed up.

 20:04:18 <Unit193> \ \o

 20:04:23 <wxl> Unit193: no, that's my new hairstyle ;)

 20:05:24 <gilir> some people are missing this week :)

 20:06:07 <gilir> #topic gilir - Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

 20:06:34 <gilir> phillw updated the wiki page about the uptades

 20:06:36 <jmarsden|work> o/

 20:07:02 <gilir> MrChrisDruif is missing, I will re-add the ACTION item

 20:07:21 <gilir> #action MrChrisDruif to discover how to do offline documentation easily

 20:07:21 * meetingology MrChrisDruif to discover how to do offline documentation easily

 20:07:50 <gilir> #topic kanliot - Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team

 20:07:51 <wxl> mrman = frakken or whatever?

 20:07:56 <kanliot> hi

 20:07:59 <wxl> oops

 20:08:14 <kanliot> ubuntu team has aked us to work on the iso testing tracker

 20:08:23 <kanliot> and test the daily build tomorrow on regression tests

 20:08:28 <kanliot> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/

 20:08:50 <kanliot> also phillw just mentioned that there might be a problem completeing all the ppc tests on time

 20:08:52 <kanliot> end of report

 20:09:40 <gilir> thanks kanliot, let me know if there is any big problems when testing the lubuntu ISOs

 20:09:53 <kanliot> yes

 20:10:51 <gilir> #topic Unit193 - Weekly report - Update from IRC OP's team

 20:11:32 <Unit193> Had one person/problem that thought the only way to get help was to insult the channel. No training events that I know either.

 20:11:52 <Unit193> wxl handled that since he was there, did well.

 20:11:58 <gilir> nice :-/

 20:12:07 <kanliot> i was there and handled it poorly

 20:12:15 <kanliot> ;)

 20:12:29 <Myrtti> I tried my best

 20:13:03 <gilir> well it's over, let's think about other stuff :)

 20:13:38 <gilir> thanks Unit193 :) I'll switch to the next topic if there is no question

 20:13:56 <Unit193> Think that's it, unless someone else has more.

 20:14:19 <gilir> #topic kanliot - Weekly report - Update from Comms team

 20:14:36 <kanliot> hi

 20:14:52 <kanliot> for next week i'll try and get another update from mario on progress from osuosl

 20:14:55 <kanliot> end of report

 20:16:16 <gilir> thanks kanliot

 20:17:12 <gilir> #topic gilir - Weekly report - Update from Devs teams

 20:17:37 <gilir> a couple a small fixes last week

 20:18:14 <gilir> there is still one fix for 3G modem that I need to prepare

 20:18:53 <gilir> after that, it should be quiet until the release I hope ("just" testing)

 20:19:08 <gilir> any questions ?

 20:20:17 <gilir> #topic Any Other Business

 20:20:25 <micahg> o/

 20:20:33 <gilir> anything to add ?

 20:20:38 <micahg> yes :)

 20:20:42 <gilir> micahg, yes ? :)

 20:21:10 <micahg> I had a lubuntu packageset created to allow for easier tracking of build failures that affect lubuntu

 20:21:55 <gilir> micahg, ah, yes that could be nice :)

 20:22:00 <micahg> at the moment it doesn't grant upload rights, but the DMB would welcome applications from people involved in maintaining these packages

 20:22:28 <gilir> micahg, what did you included in it ?

 20:22:46 <micahg> gilir: it's auto-generated from the seeds, so should include any universe packages in lubuntu

 20:23:02 <micahg> http://people.canonical.com/~stgraber/package_sets/precise/lubuntu

 20:24:15 <gilir> micahg, thanks :)

 20:24:44 <micahg> you're welcome, I'm looking forward to reviewing DMB applications in due time from lubuntu people :)

 20:25:15 <micahg> err..applications for upload rights :)

 20:25:45 <gilir> I hope there will have some in the future :)

 20:26:00 <kanliot> what's a dmb

 20:26:02 <kanliot> ?

 20:26:10 <micahg> Developer Membership Board

 20:26:15 <kanliot> thx

 20:26:55 <gilir> kanliot, I'll prepare a mail about this, to explain with more details

 20:27:09 <gilir> it should be a source of motivation :)

 20:27:40 <gilir> anything to add before the end of the meeting ?

 20:28:32 <gilir> ok, thanks everyone :)

 20:28:35 <gilir> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
