{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>

<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

<<BR>>
The Lubuntu Artwork team and mailing list serves as a get-together for people who create artwork with and/or for Lubuntu. Besides a great visual design, our interests include the use of Free Software and open processes to get there.

Process of creating themes, wallpaper and icon sets for Lubuntu are lead by the Lubuntu Artwork Team and is supervised by the Lubuntu Desktop Team.

=== What we do! ===

* Answer requests from the Community
* Develop and distribute logos and other graphic design for related projects
* Maintain marketing made to specification (posters, web banners, etc)
* Create and make available artwork (wallpapers, themes, etc)
* Participation in upstream open source projects
* Provide resources (art assets, advice, graphic elements) and encouragement

=== Contributing ===

* If you feel you are talented and available to assist in the creation of an entire theme, please consider using the Incoming Artwork page, where you can submit new projects for future versions.
* We always need help to create icons, graphics and other resources to incorporate into Lubuntu specific apps.
* There is a web area, box-look.org (see links above), where you can share XFCE / Openbox related photos, wallpapers, themes, icons and cursors.
* Please note that we greatly appreciate your help with our specifications for the next version, or an upstream one. You may contribute to existing pieces following our specifications and that of Ubuntu's.

=== Places (web links) ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Marketing|Marketing]]</nowiki> - Official promotional items
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/|Incoming]]</nowiki> - Proposals and submissions
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Guidelines|Box guidelines]]</nowiki> - Lubuntu icons specifications
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Documentation/|Guide lines]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu general design guide
* <nowiki>[[http://box-look.org/|Box-Look]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[http://gnome-look.org/|Gnome-Look]]</nowiki> - Stuff for Openbox, GTK themes, and other things
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/groups/uawt-8/|Flickr]]</nowiki> - Wallpaper community pool
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-art|Launchpad]]</nowiki> - Lubuntu Artwork Team at Launchpad
* <nowiki>[[https://www.pinterest.com/lubuntu/|Pinterest]]</nowiki> - Wallpaper archive
* <nowiki>[[http://lubuntuofficial.deviantart.com/|Deviantart]]</nowiki> - Wallpaper and other goodies

=== Released artwork ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Lucid/LxDesign|10.04 Lucid Lynx]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Maverick/LxDesign|10.10 Maverick Meerkat]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Natty/Ozone|11.04 Natty Narwhal]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Oneiric/Ozone|11.10 Oneiric Ocelot]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Precise/Ozone|12.04 Precise Pangolin]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Quantal/Box|12.10 Quantal Quetzal]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Raring/Box|13.04 Raring Ringtail]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Saucy/Box|13.10 Saucy Salamander]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Trusty/Box|14.04 Trusty Tahr]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Utopic/Box|14.10 Utopic Unicorn]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Vivid/Box|15.04 Vivid Vervet]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Wily/Box|15.10 Wily Werewolf]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Xenial/Box|16.04 Xenial Xerus]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Yakkety|16.10 Yakkety Yak]]</nowiki>
* ...and subsequent releases.

=== Additional artwork elements ===

* <nowiki>[[https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/hemkkjpjknkkndhconammdhlhdkjclim|Chromium Scrollbars]]</nowiki> - Extension that replace the Chromium scrollbars with scrollbars that match Lubuntu. Free to download and very easy to installation through the Chrome Web Store 

=== Other artwork teams ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuArtwork|Edubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KubuntuArtwork|Kubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XubuntuArtwork|Xubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Artwork|UbuntuStudio]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Artwork|Ubuntu GNOME]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="padding:15px; font-style:italic; border-color:#DBDBD8;">As adding value to the Ubuntu community is core to our purpose, we expect contributors to conduct team interactions as suggested by the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code Of Conduct]]</nowiki>.
|}
