{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Please note that the cut off time for amending the agenda is 24 hours before the meeting.
=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| jmarsden
| choose replacement for MrChrisDruif
|-
| 
| Any Other Business
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20120516T20 | Wednesday, May 23, 2012, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===

Meeting started by jmarsden|work at 20:00:48 UTC.

The full logs are available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-05-23-20.00.log.html .

=== Meeting Summary ===

Meeting Summary

* Review of Action Items from Last Meeting (jmarsden|work, 20:02:10)

* Choose replacement for MrChrisDruif

* Any Other Business 

Meeting ended at 20:11:11 UTC.

=== Votes ===

None held.

=== Action items ===

* (None)

=== People present (lines said) ===

People present (lines said)

* jmarsden|work (19)
* kanliot (10)
* MrChrisDruif (4)
* meetingology` (3)
* will_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

<jmarsden|work> #startmeeting

20:00:48 <meetingology`> Meeting started Wed May 23 20:00:48 2012 UTC.  The chair is jmarsden|work. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

20:00:48 <meetingology`> 

20:00:48 <meetingology`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

20:00:53 <jmarsden|work> Let's see who is here :)

20:00:57 <kanliot> hi

20:01:00 <will_> hi

20:01:25 * MrChrisDruif lurks

20:01:57 <jmarsden|work> OK, this may be a short meeting...

20:02:10 <jmarsden|work> #topic Review of Action Items from Last Meeting

20:02:38 <jmarsden|work> Prevous meeting is logged at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Meetings/20120516

20:03:12 <jmarsden|work> StevenSmallty is not here, so we don't know status of his action items.

20:03:33 <kanliot> ok

20:03:41 <jmarsden|work> I failed to email the list about wiki champion volunteers, I think, but kanliot volunteered.

20:03:42 <kanliot> it's not smalty

20:03:52 <jmarsden|work> Right, typo :)

20:04:17 <jmarsden|work> *StevenSmally

20:04:44 <jmarsden|work> So, kanliot, are you willing and able to coordinate wiki changes from now onwards?

20:04:52 <kanliot> yeah

20:05:00 <kanliot> sorry for short answer

20:05:51 <jmarsden|work> OK.  I don't think we have enough people here for a very "convincing" vote, if you see what I mean, but I propose that we give you that role.  Is there any info or specific things you need from MrChrisDruif to take over this responsibility?

20:06:10 <kanliot> can't think of anything

20:06:17 <kanliot> besides chris has been very helpful

20:06:23 <jmarsden|work> OK, good -- feel free to get to work :)

20:06:30 <kanliot> not like i have to twist his arm or anything

20:06:49 <jmarsden|work> Understood.

20:06:55 <MrChrisDruif> I remain a member of the docs team, so any questions on how to change this or if needs be removing/redirecting can still be asked

20:07:04 <MrChrisDruif> this=things

20:07:45 <jmarsden|work> Good, thanks MrChrisDruif -- it is always helpful to have smooth friendly transfers of responsibilities

20:08:05 <MrChrisDruif> o7

20:08:55 <jmarsden|work> we've had some governance discussion recently but we are not ready for any specific proposals at this point, as I understand it.

20:09:10 <kanliot> ya

20:09:26 <jmarsden|work> OK... any other items we should be discussing here?

20:10:56 <jmarsden|work> OK... none heard.  Don't forget to look at the blueprint for our work towards 12.10 and see how you can help move any of those work items forward.

20:11:02 <jmarsden|work> Thanks all!

20:11:06 <kanliot> ty

20:11:11 <jmarsden|work> #endmeeting
