{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team
|-
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from IRC OP's team
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from comms team
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Support Team
|-
| <nowiki>[[--]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Devs teams
|-
| <nowiki>[[MrChrisDruif]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Docs team
|-
| <nowiki>[[StephenSmally]]</nowiki>
| LxLauncher gets revamped!
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20120201T20 | Wednesday, February 1, 2012, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===

Meeting started by phillw at 20:02:38 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-01-20.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* previous actions

* update from QA
''LINK:'' http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/   (amjjawad, 20:09:24)

* Update from IRC OPs

* Update from comms team

* Update from Support

* LXLauncher
''LINK:'' http://i40.tinypic.com/bip24y.jpg   (StephenSmally, 20:30:37)

* Update from Docs / Wiki
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs << today I updated this page  (amjjawad, 20:45:10)

* UpDate from Devs?

* any other business.

Meeting ended at 21:08:46 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* amjjawad (75)
* phillw (45)
* StephenSmally (36)
* wxl (27)
* MrChrisDruif (25)
* gilir (21)
* michaelrawson (18)
* rafaellaguna (16)
* Unit193 (9)
* Myrtti (4)
* meetingology (3)
* jmarsden|work (2)
* moergaes (2)
* iceroot (2)
* ubottu (1)
* benonsoftware (1)
* Yorvyk (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:02:38 <phillw> #startmeeting Lubuntu Team Meeting

 20:02:38 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Feb  1 20:02:38 2012 UTC.  The chair is phillw. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:02:38 <meetingology> 

 20:02:38 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:02:41 <amjjawad> easy on him guys

 20:02:48 <michaelrawson> poor phill.

 20:02:52 <benonsoftware> :P

 20:02:56 <wxl> \o/

 20:03:03 <jmarsden|work> o/

 20:03:04 <michaelrawson> o/

 20:03:08 <phillw> hi folks!

 20:03:12 <StephenSmally> hi!

 20:03:14 <Yorvyk> \o

 20:03:15 <moergaes> MÃ¶rgÃ¦s o/

 20:03:15 <amjjawad> Hi :)

 20:03:15 <iceroot> o/

 20:03:18 <rafaellaguna> hi :)

 20:03:19 <wxl> hi not-gilir

 20:03:41 <phillw> #topic previous actions

 20:04:03 <phillw> As Julien is niot here, I'll carry his action over to the next meeting

 20:04:33 <phillw> #topic update from QA

 20:04:47 <wxl> was that the unity/lightdm bug?

 20:05:26 <phillw> The bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-meta/+bug/918401 is still there and I have just seen the mailing list suggest things may have gotten worse.

 20:05:27 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 918401 in unity-greeter (Ubuntu) "Unity-greeter installed by default on Lubuntu, crashing on start" [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:05:42 <amjjawad> phillw: r u talking about my email?

 20:06:11 <phillw> the one suggesting 100MB of unity updates have appeared.

 20:06:16 <wxl> yeah, ok, bummer that we can't deal with that asap as this new unity issue in alpha 2 is probably going to end up revealing that bug is still there

 20:06:31 <wxl> i.e. i don't think they're related bugs-- but two really nasty ones

 20:06:37 <rafaellaguna> so it's a dependency bug

 20:06:42 <wxl> but i guess that's neither here nor there

 20:06:54 <michaelrawson> Are dep bugs hard to fix?

 20:07:04 <amjjawad> are we talking about this: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1918534

 20:07:21 <michaelrawson> Because the only way I see is tracing the train of deps until we find one that references unity.

 20:07:28 <wxl> amjjawad: yes

 20:07:38 <jmarsden|work> Guys, the topci is "Update from QA" -- let Phill provide the update :)

 20:07:39 <amjjawad> wxl: thanks :)

 20:07:59 <rafaellaguna> remember that we're going gtk-greeter

 20:08:07 <iceroot> michaelrawson: aptitude why unity

 20:08:18 <phillw> There were two builds today, I've got the newer one & will trying it later.

 20:08:30 <michaelrawson> aah

 20:08:34 <michaelrawson> thanks iceroot!

 20:08:51 <wxl> i looked for alpha 2 last night and couldn't find it. where is the iso?

 20:09:24 <phillw> the a2 has not been released yet. We're still on daily build.

 20:09:24 <amjjawad> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/

 20:09:37 <wxl> phillw: thx

 20:09:52 <amjjawad> this is what I told the guys on that thread but looks like they insited :/

 20:09:58 <amjjawad> anyway, so updates from QA?

 20:10:13 <amjjawad> insisted*

 20:11:13 <phillw> We still got a bug, and possibly another one has landed. I'll update the bug report, the testing system for QA of isos is progressing. Not much else from the QA team.

 20:11:44 <phillw> #topic Update from IRC OPs

 20:12:46 <phillw> Unit193: is there an update about IRC OPs?

 20:13:33 <Unit193> Seems not everyone is in the two new channels, but that coudl be because they haven't been online

 20:13:44 <Unit193> Not two new Lubu, just for OPs

 20:14:21 <wxl> new channels just for ops you mean?

 20:14:23 <Myrtti> _o/

 20:14:36 <Unit193> Well there's one

 20:14:46 <Unit193> Myrtti: Anything I'm missing?

 20:14:55 <wxl> Unit193: you said two? and one? um?

 20:15:21 <Unit193> wxl: Two new channels for the OPs, but there's one other OP that spoke

 20:15:27 <Myrtti> well the transition seems to be going well atleast from my viewpoint, we might want to discuss the duplicity of the launchpad groups

 20:16:18 <Unit193> Right, one was setup before, and had an easy way to contact other than IRC

 20:16:29 <Unit193> From this side it's hit a few bumbs

 20:16:43 <Myrtti> I'm new to Lubuntu but old to the IRC ops operations so I can help in some regards - don't plan to push my agenda or viewpoints to anyone, I'm here just for fun and giggles

 20:18:16 <phillw> Unit193: do you want to remove the listing we had before we were adopted?

 20:18:57 <Unit193> We'll see if it's of any use

 20:19:06 <Myrtti> I'd suggest no decisions on that is made yet, the issue hasn't been prepared enough to decide either way

 20:19:18 <phillw> okies, anything else to report?

 20:20:01 <phillw> #topic Update from comms team

 20:20:50 <phillw> It has been decided to not go ahead with the interviews with muktah owing to negative comments about their level of professionalism.

 20:21:25 <phillw> We'll get something re-scheduled and put onto ubuntu.net

 20:21:36 <amjjawad> phillw: so it's final?

 20:21:44 <amjjawad> nothing with them whatsoever?

 20:21:54 <phillw> yeah.

 20:22:00 <amjjawad> ok :)

 20:22:19 <phillw> #topic Update from Support

 20:22:32 <phillw> amjjawad: ?

 20:22:38 <amjjawad> Ok, I already reported that bug about Unity on the mailing list

 20:22:42 <amjjawad> everyone is informed now :)

 20:23:24 <amjjawad> another thing is, I have started to recruit new members to my team (support team). Those members are known to be very active on the forum with many years of experience

 20:23:36 <amjjawad> one of them has already joined today and I'm still looking for more

 20:23:48 <rafaellaguna> that sounds great!

 20:23:54 <phillw> excellent :)

 20:24:04 <amjjawad> One thing I don't understand ... why we keep waiting for some action from UBT?

 20:24:35 <amjjawad> I mean, can't we make our own beginner team but yet part of them somehow? I see no progress from them for months now??!!

 20:25:11 <phillw> amjjawad: I understand their draft structure will be out before the end of this month.

 20:25:27 <amjjawad> but we've been heard that many times now?

 20:25:38 <phillw> I had not.

 20:25:49 <amjjawad> point is, I can be a mentor for Lubuntu beginners users

 20:25:53 <phillw> But I'm chatting to the guy writing it :)

 20:25:59 <amjjawad> only Lubuntu

 20:26:09 <amjjawad> I care about Lubuntu the most as all of u know

 20:26:14 <michaelrawson> ;)

 20:26:24 <phillw> amjjawad: which will possibly be a Focus Group.

 20:26:30 <amjjawad> yes

 20:26:33 <amjjawad> why not :)

 20:27:11 <amjjawad> I've been very sick lately and my recovery is really slow. Once I'm fully recovered, I'll start to write a full guide for beginner

 20:27:22 <amjjawad> then I'll help StephenSmally to write some Docs about LSC :)

 20:27:50 <phillw> amjjawad: take your time & get better. Poorly people are not as efficient as well people!

 20:27:58 <amjjawad> oh, and wxl has created a group for Lubuntu and both of us are taking care of it https://www.facebook.com/groups/lubuntu.official/

 20:28:07 <StephenSmally> Ok, i figured out i had to help you, not the reverse XD

 20:28:31 <amjjawad> phillw: I can't stay clam, u know me  :P

 20:28:39 <michaelrawson> StephenSmally: it's the only way with AJ. :P

 20:28:46 <amjjawad> calm*

 20:29:06 <phillw> okay, Chris is running late this week, so we'll move onto StephenSmally

 20:29:10 <amjjawad> StephenSmally: yes yes sure :D

 20:29:11 <wxl> everyone should join the group

 20:29:18 <StephenSmally> Here i go

 20:29:19 <phillw> #topic LXLauncher

 20:29:20 <wxl> it's called "LUBUNTU OFFICIAL"

 20:29:23 <wxl> so it is THE ONE

 20:29:24 <StephenSmally> wxl: i'm joining now

 20:29:44 <StephenSmally> Well LxLauncher

 20:29:56 <rafaellaguna> o_O

 20:30:07 <StephenSmally> as you probably have seen on the Mailing List, i'm working on a rewrite of LxLauncher

 20:30:30 <StephenSmally> to give you an idea, here a screenshot (two min ago) of lxlauncher (the rewrite) themed with css

 20:30:37 <StephenSmally> http://i40.tinypic.com/bip24y.jpg

 20:30:53 <michaelrawson> now that's cool.

 20:30:57 <michaelrawson> but why the gaps?

 20:31:14 <StephenSmally> Because are category-sorted

 20:31:22 <michaelrawson> ahah. :)

 20:31:32 <StephenSmally> on the right you see the categories (needs some separators), and on the right the apps

 20:31:50 <StephenSmally> in this screenshot is themed a little like gnome shell

 20:32:03 <StephenSmally> but every theme is possible, since is just gtk theming

 20:32:27 <rafaellaguna> even icon sizes and transparency?

 20:32:30 <StephenSmally> rafaellaguna is better at this ;-)

 20:32:38 <StephenSmally> mmm no

 20:32:55 <amjjawad> StephenSmally: quick Q

 20:33:00 <StephenSmally> the icon size and the number of columns are configured by a desktop file

 20:33:14 <StephenSmally> amjjawad:

 20:33:14 <amjjawad> LXLauncher will work like Unity Menu or something similar?

 20:33:25 <phillw> grr

 20:33:28 <StephenSmally> can you explain better?

 20:33:33 <rafaellaguna> anyway, it's configurable someway

 20:33:41 <amjjawad> I couldn't follow the emails coz I was sick

 20:33:54 <michaelrawson> phillw: lol, I thought somebody would say that.

 20:33:55 <amjjawad> so LxLauncher ... why it looks like Unity menu?

 20:34:02 <StephenSmally> rafaellaguna: you can configure the columns number, the theme and the icon size

 20:34:17 <StephenSmally> amjjawad: because now is themed like the unity menu ;-)

 20:34:23 <StephenSmally> we can theme as we want

 20:34:46 <amjjawad> I'll send you later and discuss about that

 20:34:51 <amjjawad> keep the meeting going :)

 20:35:30 <StephenSmally> Anyway, it won't be ready for Precise, so we have all the time to speak about and so on

 20:35:36 <rafaellaguna> once knowing the css/gtk bases, everything will run

 20:35:54 <rafaellaguna> there was no intention of removing current LxLauncher

 20:35:58 <amjjawad> good so we have time, phew :D

 20:36:01 <rafaellaguna> until replacing with this

 20:36:25 <StephenSmally> only if we (the community) think is better than the current lxlauncher we will replace it

 20:36:33 <rafaellaguna> of course

 20:37:02 <phillw> StephenSmally: thanks.

 20:37:04 <rafaellaguna> but I'd like to get rid off that annoying GTK2 and dependant libraries from the distro

 20:37:34 <rafaellaguna> it will be cleaner for devs and for designers :)

 20:37:41 <MrChrisDruif> Aloha

 20:38:06 <amjjawad> Hola MrChrisDruif :)

 20:38:09 <MrChrisDruif> At what topic are we?

 20:38:31 <michaelrawson> lxlauncher

 20:38:43 <michaelrawson> mk. II

 20:38:47 <phillw> MrChrisDruif: just about at yours, I made you next

 20:38:57 <MrChrisDruif> Coolio

 20:39:14 <phillw> #topic Update from Docs / Wiki

 20:39:29 * MrChrisDruif first grabs food

 20:39:39 <StephenSmally> anyway, it act in way similar to unity

 20:39:39 <StephenSmally> but is not a shell

 20:39:39 <StephenSmally> is always in background (omnipresent)

 20:39:39 <StephenSmally> and if you want launch an app, just click on.

 20:39:40 <StephenSmally> just think at it like the current lxlauncher, and how it act in the current Lubuntu netbook session

 20:39:42 <StephenSmally> my rewrite is thinked also for tablet (in the current lxlauncher is impossible change tab with finger)

 20:39:42 <StephenSmally> anyway, for comparision

 20:39:43 <StephenSmally> current lxlauncher: http://wiki.lxde.org/en/images/5/5c/LXlauncher.png

 20:40:29 <rafaellaguna> my personal headache

 20:40:34 <MrChrisDruif> Is the previous topic done? Whatever it was?

 20:41:19 <phillw> MrChrisDruif: I think so, I didn't realise StephenSmally was writing!

 20:41:26 <StephenSmally> rafaellaguna: agree

 20:41:36 <MrChrisDruif> StephenSmally; done?

 20:41:42 <StephenSmally> done ;-)

 20:41:49 <MrChrisDruif> Awesome

 20:42:16 <MrChrisDruif> Anyhow, work has started on some level with the wiki

 20:43:01 <MrChrisDruif> My friend and current chair phillw began setting up some pages to practice with the #divert tag

 20:43:52 <MrChrisDruif> When he's done with that he'll also write some docs on how to use that, thanks already for what you've done phillw

 20:44:45 <amjjawad> I'm updating some pages every time I find myself ree

 20:44:47 <amjjawad> free*

 20:45:10 <amjjawad> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs << today I updated this page

 20:45:20 <MrChrisDruif> Secondly on the help pages we've got a FAQ section. which now is divided into Guides and Workarounds, which is not a good divider if you ask me

 20:45:35 <amjjawad> and I'm sure phillw and MrChrisDruif know about the issue I mentioned earlier :)

 20:45:36 <MrChrisDruif> I notice sometimes amjjawad

 20:46:03 <MrChrisDruif> About the duplicity amjjawad ?

 20:46:12 <amjjawad> +1 I don't like the current FAQ layout

 20:46:15 <amjjawad> MrChrisDruif: yes

 20:46:59 <amjjawad> I sent many emails today and I'm totally lost now :/ I did not get replies yet!

 20:47:06 <MrChrisDruif> One suggestion is replacing it with a indication level to the experience a user would require to use them

 20:47:31 <MrChrisDruif> amjjawad; I had to work today, having dinner as we speak

 20:47:35 <amjjawad> MrChrisDruif: are we talking about FAQ now?

 20:47:51 <MrChrisDruif> Yes

 20:47:57 <amjjawad> MrChrisDruif: whenever you are free, ping me on Gtalk

 20:47:58 <amjjawad> ok?

 20:48:02 <amjjawad> we need to talk :)

 20:48:20 * MrChrisDruif lost track of mind

 20:48:22 <amjjawad> so we talk discuss other stuff on the meeting as our time is tight

 20:48:49 <phillw> (20:47:06) MrChrisDruif: One suggestion is replacing it with a indication level to the experience a user would require to use them

 20:48:57 <Unit193> We also need to not sandbox out wiki from the rest

 20:49:12 <rafaellaguna> sorry guys, need to go. as always, it was a pleasure

 20:49:21 <amjjawad> cya rafaellaguna ;)

 20:49:28 <michaelrawson> bye rafael

 20:49:37 <phillw> tc rafaellaguna

 20:49:40 <MrChrisDruif> Anyhow, I think the most effective way for the docs team is to use the mailing-list

 20:49:44 <rafaellaguna> ;)

 20:49:56 <MrChrisDruif> I'm not always available for meetings or chats

 20:50:11 <phillw> sounds good :)

 20:50:16 <amjjawad> MrChrisDruif: ok but ...

 20:50:31 <MrChrisDruif> I'll reply to your mails amjjawad

 20:50:36 <amjjawad> sometimes, I get no reply for something important

 20:50:41 <amjjawad> ok then :)

 20:50:55 <amjjawad> anything else left for the meeting?

 20:51:08 <phillw> #topic UpDate from Devs?

 20:51:11 <wxl> amjjawad: as i said i've just been busy

 20:51:15 <phillw> Anyone from dev team here?

 20:51:23 <amjjawad> wxl: never mind, I knwo ;)

 20:51:25 <wxl> â€¦but i'm fully behind you :)

 20:51:28 <amjjawad> know*

 20:52:07 <gilir> phillw, I can finish the meeting with some news

 20:52:17 <phillw> of course!

 20:52:23 <gilir> (and hi guys :))

 20:52:33 <wxl> !!!

 20:52:33 <amjjawad> hey :)

 20:52:39 <gilir> sorry for missing the party today :)

 20:52:41 <MrChrisDruif> Aloha gilir

 20:52:43 <moergaes> Hi there.

 20:52:47 <wxl> (( we should finish the meeting by going back to our first topic!!! )))

 20:53:02 <gilir> speaking of alpha 2 ...

 20:53:26 <gilir> you probably noticed the "little" problem on alpha 2

 20:53:29 <MrChrisDruif> gilir; what is up with the pulling of unity to Lubuntu?

 20:53:31 <wxl> hah

 20:53:34 <wxl> </irony>

 20:53:44 <gilir> on desktop ISO, we have unity installed, it's a bug

 20:53:54 <amjjawad> gilir: yeah?

 20:54:12 <StephenSmally> i missed something?

 20:54:17 <amjjawad> great news :)

 20:54:17 <wxl> what of lightdm-gtk-greeter/unity-greeter issue? i pointed out that i still have the problem with a fresh daily.

 20:54:20 <gilir> probably because we have still unity-greeter, with generate a chain of horrible depends

 20:54:21 <amjjawad> StephenSmally: yes, gilir is here :D

 20:54:27 <StephenSmally> good!

 20:55:08 <MrChrisDruif> So it's due to unity-greeter?

 20:55:12 <amjjawad> so gilir any time frame when that bug will be fixed? just for everyone's info :)

 20:55:22 <gilir> alpha 2 will be rebuilt later tonight, but I fear the desktop ISO will not be good enough

 20:55:48 <gilir> amjjawad, problem is, I don't know why we have still it on the ISO

 20:56:02 <wxl> as i said above ^^ i think a major bug still remains

 20:56:03 <amjjawad> gilir: so is that bad news?

 20:56:28 <amjjawad> wxl: yes :(

 20:56:37 <gilir> amjjawad, not bad news, we have time to fix it, just not time to fix it for alpha 2

 20:56:48 <MrChrisDruif> Would it be a problem for anyone if we prolonged this meeting with about 30 mins?

 20:56:53 <wxl> hey *I* have a question

 20:56:57 <amjjawad> gilir: thanks but are you saying it might be fixed with Beta1 ?

 20:57:09 <wxl> is there any way we can get the ppc daily to NOT be oversized?

 20:57:18 <phillw> bugs at alpha, expected... bugs at beta... bad news.

 20:57:21 <StephenSmally> no problem MrChrisDruif

 20:57:35 <gilir> amjjawad, no, it must be fixed, alpha 2 is still a developpement release

 20:57:40 <amjjawad> phillw: good tip :)

 20:57:47 <amjjawad> gilir: ok thanks :)

 20:57:52 <gilir> don't be too nervous about it, it's a not a big problem

 20:58:03 <gilir> it's just very visible :)

 20:58:17 <amjjawad> gilir: I'm not but users on the forum are somehow freaked out ... u know :)

 20:58:34 <wxl> amjjawad: reassure them

 20:58:40 <wxl> it's an alpha, we're testing

 20:58:41 <amjjawad> for me, I'm sure you guys will fix it  :)

 20:58:46 <gilir> wxl, yes, sorry about this, I hope futur daily will be better :/

 20:58:46 <MrChrisDruif> phillw; beta's still contain bugs, it would be bad if they still exist at final

 20:58:50 <amjjawad> Yes, will do that

 20:59:11 <wxl> gilir: ok, i just remembered you saying that you didn't have problems with latest daily and so i wanted to be sure i wasn't crazy :D

 21:00:54 <gilir> other news, lubuntu-software-center 0.0.4 should be ready after alpha 2

 21:02:11 <michaelrawson> gilir: would I be rigt in thinking that 0.0.4 is in bzr already?

 21:02:50 <gilir> michaelrawson, yes, just need to check with StephenSmally the steps to release a tarball

 21:03:13 <StephenSmally> (sorry, i'm new at this release stuffs)

 21:03:32 <gilir> StephenSmally, don't worry about this :)

 21:03:54 <gilir> any others questions ?

 21:04:31 <phillw> gilir: wxl had one re: the ppc isos. The macs only have cd drives. so oversize is a serious issue.

 21:05:09 <gilir> ah, I didn't know that :/

 21:05:25 <gilir> I'll try to be carefull for the future

 21:06:16 <gilir> phillw, it's all for devs team :)

 21:06:31 <phillw> gilir: as ever, thanks.

 21:06:41 <phillw> #topic any other business.

 21:07:14 <amjjawad> Yes

 21:07:29 <phillw> if there's nothing else, we can wrap up. Hopfully gilir will be back as chair next week :)

 21:07:34 <amjjawad> I have sent an email to the Comms team regarding an official feedback channel

 21:07:37 <michaelrawson> phillw

 21:07:46 <amjjawad> but that can wait :)

 21:07:48 <michaelrawson> nvm, just making sure you noticed AJ

 21:07:52 <amjjawad> nothing urgent

 21:08:25 <amjjawad> michaelrawson: thanks mate :)

 21:08:46 <phillw> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
