{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Bug Discussion ==

An area to chat about the various bugs that affect lubuntu. Feel free to leave comments on here, but ensure things that should be on the bug report are entered on there.

=== Xenial ===

==== 1484785 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/abiword/+bug/1484785 |language selector text cut off in abiword]]</nowiki>

Affects Live / Desktop / Alternate.

==== 1497604 ====

<nowiki>[[ubuntu-+source-unetbootin-+bug-1497604 | The Unetbootin versions in the Ubuntu repos are old ]]</nowiki>

Affects Live / Desktop / Alternate.

==== 1537836 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/1537836 | papercut level infrastructure fixes for usb-creator-gtk ]]</nowiki>

Affects Live / Desktop / Alternate.

==== 1547340 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-disk-utility/+bug/1547340 | gnome-disks crashed with SIGSEGV in g_dbus_object_get_interface()]]</nowiki>

Affects Live.

==== 1547302 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/1547302 | "Check disc for defects" boot option displays no text some flavors ]]</nowiki>

Affects Live / Desktop.

==== 1571255 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-disk-utility/+bug/1571255 | gnome-disks truncates a huge image when restoring to a drive from xz-compressed image file ]]</nowiki>

Affects Live

==== 1370707 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/1370707 | Plymouth does not display the graphical boot splash ]]</nowiki>

Affects Live / Alternate.

==== 1572378 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/1572378 | The prompt asking for media removal is neither shown at the end of the installation nor at 'normal' reboot nor poweroff ]]</nowiki>

Affects Live.

==== 1572429 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-meta/+bug/1572429 | Alternate ISO's oversized]]</nowiki>

Affects Alternate.

==== 1572640 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/1572640 | cursor invisible after timeout and screen-saving ]]</nowiki>

Affects Alternate.

==== 1359689 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1359689 | cryptsetup password prompt not shown]]</nowiki>

Affects Alternate.

==== 1556918 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/light-locker/+bug/1556918 | Light locker menu entry in Lubuntu Xenial does nothing]]</nowiki>

Affects Desktop

=== Trusty ===

==== 1325801 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/1325801 | failed to boot from USB disk with error: gfxboot.c32: not a COM32R Image ]]</nowiki>

==== 1460602 ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udisks2/+bug/1460602 | Erasing disk failed: Error wiping newly created partition]]</nowiki>
