{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Please note that the cut off time for amending the agenda is 24 hours before the meeting.
=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| 
| Any Other Business
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20120613T20 | Wednesday, June 13, 2012, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

Meeting started by jmarsden|work at 20:02:57 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-06-13-20.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
''ACTION:'' phillw to write up lubuntu-qa coordinator job description and ask for volunteers on lubuntu-users list  (jmarsden|work, 20:06:55)
''ACTION:'' jmarsden to provide pretty wiki pages for meetings of 6/5 and 6/13  (jmarsden|work, 20:08:38)

* rafaellaguna - web (or whatever) team assignment

* Any Other Business

Meeting ended at 20:30:14 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* phillw to write up lubuntu-qa coordinator job description and ask for volunteers on lubuntu-users list
* jmarsden to provide pretty wiki pages for meetings of 6/5 and 6/13

=== Action items, by person ===

* phillw
* * phillw to write up lubuntu-qa coordinator job description and ask for volunteers on lubuntu-users list

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jmarsden|work (33)
* rafaellaguna (24)
* meetingology (6)
* phillw (3)
* kanliot (2)

=== Full Log ===

 20:02:57 <jmarsden|work> #startmeeting Lubuntu Weekly Meeting 2012-06-13

 20:02:57 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jun 13 20:02:57 2012 UTC.  The chair is jmarsden|work. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:02:57 <meetingology> 

 20:02:57 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:03:01 <rafaellaguna> hiya

 20:03:02 <jmarsden|work> o/

 20:03:08 <phillw> o/

 20:03:18 <kanliot> o/

 20:04:07 <jmarsden|work> Is that all we've got? :)

 20:04:32 <rafaellaguna> we're in family :D

 20:04:40 <jmarsden|work> OK.

 20:05:05 <jmarsden|work> #topic Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

 20:05:53 <jmarsden|work> We had two actions last time I think...

 20:06:12 <jmarsden|work> phillw to write up lubuntu-qa coordinator job description and ask for volunteers on lubuntu-users list

 20:06:18 <jmarsden|work> phillw: did that happen?

 20:06:29 <phillw> i have a draft :)

 20:06:50 <jmarsden|work> OK, that's progress... we'll make it an action again this week...

 20:06:55 <jmarsden|work> #action phillw to write up lubuntu-qa coordinator job description and ask for volunteers on lubuntu-users list

 20:06:55 * meetingology phillw to write up lubuntu-qa coordinator job description and ask for volunteers on lubuntu-users list

 20:07:03 <jmarsden|work> The other one was:

 20:07:11 <jmarsden|work> jmarsden to update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/TechnicalOverview with the main changes that have occured,  and any significant bugs

 20:07:41 <jmarsden|work> I didn't do that but phillw did, and I then made a minor edit... so that one is done, and Julien will try to kepe us updated as things progress.

 20:08:05 <jmarsden|work> OK... oh...

 20:08:38 <jmarsden|work> #action jmarsden to provide pretty wiki pages for meetings of 6/5 and 6/13

 20:08:38 * meetingology jmarsden to provide pretty wiki pages for meetings of 6/5 and 6/13

 20:08:51 <jmarsden|work> Since I forgot about that last week!

 20:09:03 <phillw> easily forgotten

 20:09:22 <jmarsden|work> So... only real item this week is...

 20:09:41 <jmarsden|work> #topic rafaellaguna - web (or whatever) team assignment

 20:09:53 <jmarsden|work> rafaellaguna: you have the floor

 20:09:57 <rafaellaguna> yep, artwork here

 20:10:09 <rafaellaguna> this is more a question, than other thing

 20:10:27 <rafaellaguna> I was speaking with some Canonical design board crew

 20:10:54 <rafaellaguna> ...also I'm in contact with Rick Spencer, Artwork leader for Ubuntu (and flavours). He did the guidelines

 20:11:39 <rafaellaguna> The question is... now we're an official flavour (a bit late to ask about this) must we follow the Ubuntu procedures? Xubuntu and Kubuntu did

 20:12:16 <jmarsden|work> Procedures for what?  and where are they documented?

 20:12:26 <rafaellaguna> I mean, the project leader assigns a Tem for a task (just like us) but once assigned this team is responsible for the final decision. Is this too SABDFL / Maritocratic?

 20:13:16 <rafaellaguna> You saw what happened with the web issue. I don't really know who's the decision to make one or other thing

 20:14:29 <jmarsden|work> He who owns a domain name and pays for bandwidth and server space gets to decide what happens on that server/site.  No procedure in the world can change that, as far as I know.

 20:14:40 <rafaellaguna> Rick and Iain, from  Canonical, recommended some type of vote selection and decision polithics

 20:14:58 <rafaellaguna> @jmarsden: right

 20:14:58 <meetingology> rafaellaguna: Error: "jmarsden:" is not a valid command.

 20:15:02 <rafaellaguna> jmarsden: right

 20:15:41 <rafaellaguna> But excuse me for saying this, but I see a bit disorder right now, maybe it's because we're a bit un-headed

 20:15:59 <jmarsden|work> So currently lubuntu.net is owned by and registered to Mario, and he arranged for bandwidth and server space for it.  So what happens on it is his baby, unless he chooses to grant priviledges on it to others.

 20:16:50 <rafaellaguna> So, the artwork decision should be responsability only for Artwork Team, after mailing lists voting?

 20:17:13 <rafaellaguna> And, in this case, for Mario, of course

 20:18:36 <rafaellaguna> Easier: who's my (and frankbooth) boss?

 20:19:46 <jmarsden|work> For artwork that ends up within the Lubuntu software project itself, yes, I would say we should let the Artwork team decide, subject to appropriate following of whatever rules Ubuntu as a whole imposes for artwork.

 20:20:41 <rafaellaguna> ok

 20:20:55 <jmarsden|work> Obviously all artwork that ends up in the project needs to be packaged and uploaded by someone with upload rights, which at the moment in practice means Julien, but I'd be surprised if he "betoed" artwork choices the artwork team makes.

 20:21:06 <jmarsden|work> *vetoed

 20:21:43 <rafaellaguna> no, usually is the "normal" people who wants to make veto :)

 20:21:58 <jmarsden|work> They can try all they like, it's just noise :)

 20:22:14 <rafaellaguna> But in the mailing lists, I should listen to them

 20:22:30 <jmarsden|work> Of course, it's wise to listen to others, we are a community.

 20:22:35 <rafaellaguna> even with those "bad words" and stupid suggestions

 20:23:12 <rafaellaguna> As far as we are a community we should listen to them, but you confirmed that the Team rules

 20:23:31 <jmarsden|work> But you are not under an obligation to accept or follow specific directions from random people on the mailing list.  In the end artwork choices are made by the artwork team, yes.  That makes sense to me.

 20:23:40 <jmarsden|work> Anyone else have a different viewpoint on this?

 20:24:16 <rafaellaguna> clear o_O

 20:24:24 <jmarsden|work> OK, good.

 20:24:44 <jmarsden|work> #topic Any Other Business

 20:26:46 <kanliot> no business

 20:26:54 <rafaellaguna> :D

 20:28:16 <rafaellaguna> third time, beer!

 20:30:08 <jmarsden|work> OK... sorry, i was in a conversation here locally...

 20:30:14 <jmarsden|work> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
