{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

==== Boot Managers ====
===== Boot-Up Manager (BUM) =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.marzocca.net/linux/bum.html | BUM website]]</nowiki>

==== X Tools ====
===== Gcompmgr =====
<nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gcompmgr/ | Gcompmgr project]]</nowiki> on <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/ | Sourceforge]]</nowiki>

==== Login Managers ====
===== GDM =====
<nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/gdm/ | GDM]]</nowiki>, part of the <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org | GNOME]]</nowiki> project.
===== SLiM =====
<nowiki>[[http://slim.berlios.de/ | SLiM project]]</nowiki>
* PCMan: If you consider the usability, GDM is by far the best. Besides, all gtk+ libs are loaded in memory because gdm uses them. So this possible filesystem cache effect might make the loading of LXDE faster. In addition, the core GDM is actually quite lightweight and is almost gtk+ only. The additional dependencies comes from the user-switching applet included in the package, which is gnome-dependent. If that one can be removed from gdm, and get it packaged separately, gdm can be quite clean, I think.

==== System/Network Monitors ====
===== Conky =====
<nowiki>[[http://conky.sourceforge.net/ | Conky project]]</nowiki>

==== System Services ====
===== Samba =====
<nowiki>[[http://us3.samba.org/samba/ | Samba project]]</nowiki>
===== NFS =====
* NFS-common

==== Window Manager Configuration Tools ====
<nowiki>[[http://icculus.org/openbox/index.php/Obconf |Obconf project]]</nowiki>

==== Networking ====
===== Wicd =====
<nowiki>[[http://wicd.sourceforge.net/ | Wicd project]]</nowiki>
===== Connman =====
<nowiki>[[http://moblin.org/projects/connection-manager | Connman project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~starfall87 | Shae Smittle]]</nowiki>:
*** Not based on python; quicker?
*** Part of a large project supported by Intel
*** Is it completely usable though?
===== Network Manager =====
<nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/NetworkManager/ | Network Manager project]]</nowiki>
* plus nm-applet can still be an option. It works quite well. Besides, it supports PPPOE, which is widely used in Asia but not supported by Wicd. 

==== Administration ====
===== Synaptic Package Manager =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.nongnu.org/synaptic/ | Synaptic project]]</nowiki>
===== GParted =====
* GParted (by far the best. PCMan)
* +1 <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~payne-loh | Payne Samad Loh]]</nowiki> I agree with PCMan, general users prefers more on GUI than CLI
