{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:other-lubuntu-o-clean
* '''Created''': gilir
* '''Contributors''': gilir, jmarsden
* '''Packages affected''': lxde, lubuntu-meta

=== Summary ===
The goal of this specification is to list all the different ways to optimize and clean Lubuntu for 11.10 (Oneiric)

=== Release Note ===

We expect to improve the user experience, by lowering the requirements for Lubuntu :
* Reduce the memory usage by default
* Remove non-essential programs to gain space at installation
* Reduce memory used during installation (may need alternate/text mode installer by default)

We also want to improve the code :
* Migrate to recent technology (GTK3, gsettings, GtkBuilder ...)
* Code clean up when it's possible

=== Rationale ===

The last two Lubuntu releases (10.10 and 11.04) were focused on adding missing features. It's now time to look at the improvements we can make in other ways.

GNOME3 / GTK3 migration is necessary for Oneiric cycle. This is a good opportunity for doing more code improvement.

Also, making some improvements gives us the possibility of adding more features, without the need to increase the minimum hardware requirements of Lubuntu.

=== User stories ===

Fred has an old PIII 800Mhz desktop with 256MB RAM and a 40GB hard drive.  He would like to be able to install and then use Lubuntu easily on this machine.  Currently the (ubiquity-based) default install process needs more RAM than this machine has available, so Fred needs to use a complex
minimal install and then add the Lubuntu desktop package set to it.

=== Assumptions ===

* People will continue to want to install and run Lubuntu on low spec older PCs.
* Use of an 'alternate' install image (CD) to install from is not beginner-friendly.
* With current small Lubuntu developer community, making our priorities for Oneiric be "GTK3 plus becoming fully official plus optimization and cleanup" is probably plenty of work; we should therefore avoid adding too much else to the development workload for this release.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

There are several ideas / tasks, which could be done :

==== GTK3 migration ====

GTK3 migration to avoid having GTK2 and GTK3 at the same time
* Packages Status : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Developers/GTK3Migration
* Need a theme compatible (murrine should be converted by Ubuntu)

==== gconf to gsettings migration ====

Migrate from gconf to gsettings

==== Remove old GNOME libraries ====

Remove old GNOME library : libglade, gnome-desktop etc ...

==== Compiler warnings ====

Clean compiler warnings

==== Replace update-notifier ====

Replace update-notifier by upstart scripts (see blueprint https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/packageselection-foundations-n-update-notifier-refactor)
* documentation : http://upstart.ubuntu.com/cookbook/

==== Replace screensaver ====

Replace screensaver by upstart scripts ?

Another option, rewrite it from scratch, or follow Ubuntu move (see https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-screensaver). Some ideas of the needed features of a locker / screensaver :
* (option) black screen after a timer
* (option) adjust the timer
* (option) lock after timer
* (option) lock on suspend
* deactivate notification on lock
* shortcut for lock (by openbox + slock)

* (nice to have) D-Bus API 
* (nice to have) mechanism of inhibitation 
* (nice to have) API of gnome-screensaver as fallback (see xdg-screensaver)

* (plugins) complex visualization

==== Remove xchat ? ====

Remove xchat ? (already handle by pidgin)

==== Lxsession improvements ====

Hack on lxsession to customize autostarted programs. Current ideas :
* Ability to customize differents applications started on session start
** Panel / dock
** power-manager (possibility to disable it for desktop computer)
** Network GUI (nm-applet)
** window manager (rewrite existing function)
** screensaver
** notifications ?
** ubuntu one ?
** file manager ?
** Polkit agent
* Ability to set program as default handler (call by others programs, ideally publish on D-Bus)
** Sound manager
** Keymap manager
** Quit manager
** Workspace manager
** Launcher manager
* Ability to set to "Auto" to let lxsession handle it itself
* Option to add custom commands
* Option to load third party programs
* Option to install missing components with packagekit
* Ability to detect duplicate programs with autostarted applications (don't start the panel twice)

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

* Benchmarks between 11.04 and 11.10

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
pad : http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-o/meeting/other-lubuntu-o-clean/

----
CategorySpec
