{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

"Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment", is an extremely fast and energy-saving desktop environment. It is maintained by an international community of developers and comes with a beautiful interface, multi-language support, standard keyboard short cuts and additional features like tabbed file browsing. 

LXDE uses less CPU and less RAM. It is especially designed for cloud computers with low hardware specifications like netbooks, mobile devices (e.g. MIDs) or older computers. LXDE can be installed with distributions like Ubuntu or Debian. 

It provides a fast desktop experience connecting easily with applications in the cloud. LXDE supports a wealth of programs, that can be installed with Linux systems locally. The source code of LXDE is licensed partly under the terms of the General Public License and partly under the LGPL. 

=== Related Projects in Ubuntu ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LXDE-lubuntu | Lubuntu: LXDE variant of ubuntu]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~lubuntu-desktop | Lubuntu on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lxde | LXDE on Launchpad]]</nowiki>

=== External Links ===
* http://lxde.org
* <nowiki>[[http://widget.mibbit.com/?settings=117c15d249d3e37ab1adf94784e34120&server=irc.oftc.net&channel=%23lxde&noServerTab=false | #lxde @ irc.oftc.net]]</nowiki>
* http://join.lxde.org

=== Lubuntu & LXDE - Deprecated ===

LXDE used the GTK2 toolkit which was replaced with GTK3.  The LXDE developers started porting parts (`pcmanfm` which is both file-manager & handles much of the desktop) of LXDE to GTK3 and noted how much heavier GTK3 was (which was against the intention of L in LXDE), so it was re-ported to Qt5 where it performed much better (`pcmanfm-qt`). A majority of LXDE developers joined with the Razor-Qt team creating a new desktop - LXQt.

Lubuntu now uses the LXQt desktop.

The last supported release of Lubuntu using LXDE was Lubuntu 18.04 LTS which reached EOL on 30-April-2021.
