{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Lubuntu 11.04 is now available :

* Torrent : http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/lubuntu-11.04.iso.torrent
* Direct download : http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/lubuntu-11.04.iso
* Md5: http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/md5sum.txt

=== What is Lubuntu ? ===

Lubuntu is an Ubuntu derivated using the LXDE desktop. It's designed to
be a lightweight and easy-to-use desktop environment.

Lubuntu is actually not part of the Ubuntu family, and not build with
the current Ubuntu infrastructure. This release is considered as a «
stable beta », a result that could be a final and stable release if we
was included in the Ubuntu family.

=== Features ===

* Based on the lightweight LXDE desktop environment.
* Pcmanfm 0.9.8, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* Lxdm, a lightweight GTK display manager.
* Chromium, the open-source version of Google Chrome.
* ... and, of course, based on Ubuntu 11.04

See the complete list of applications on
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications

=== Improvements since Lubuntu 10.10 ===

* New automatic way to build the ISO (thanks Jonathan Marsden)

* Modifications to the applications by default :
** Switch from aqualung to audacious for the music player.
** Switch from xarchiver to file-roller for the archives.
** Switch from cheese to guvcview for using webcams.

* New added applications by default :
** Gucharmap
** Lxkeymap
** Various documentations

* Lubuntu is now HAL free (thanks Xubuntu dev)

* New theme made by Raphael Laguna

* Lxrandr (Monitor settings) is able to save the configuration. Check
the .desktop in ~.config/autostart/lxrandr-autostart.desktop

* Lxappareance is able to configure the font (antialiasing) and openbox
directly.

* You are now able to call directly obconf to configure the number of
workspaces, on workspace applet.

* Installer (ubiquity) support installation of Lubuntu and autologin
configuration at install time includes in Ubuntu official repository.

* Icons on the desktop are now movable.

* Fake transparency is available again.

* Lubuntu use now Ubuntu font by default.

* New Lubuntu text plymouth theme.

* Menus are now correctly translated.

* Menus have now an Administration and a Preference sub-menus.

* You can now change the layout on a Lubuntu session with lxkeymap
(directly, or launched by lxinput).

* Updated installer, with new layout and screenshots.

* Fix a critical crash on qemu / kvm (thanks Fedora)

* Translations up-to-date with LXDE git.

* Up-to-date LXDE and pcmanfm.

=== Releases notes and known issues ===
The release notes, with a list of known problems are available on
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReleaseNotes/NattyNarwhal

=== Reporting bugs ===
You can find information on how to report bug on this wiki page :
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReportingBugs

=== Thanks ===

I would like to thanks all people involved in the development of Lubuntu
during this past 6 months : LXDE developpers, people helping on IRC, testing and reporting bugs, making documentation and artwork ...
It was a pleasure to work with you.

=== Links ===

* Website : http://lubuntu.net/
* Documentation : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu
* LXDE website : http://lxde.org/
* Announcement:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Announcement/NattyNarwhal
