{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== System Requirements ==

The minimum memory requirement for running lubuntu 10.10 is 128 MB of memory. Note that some of your system's memory may be unavailable due to being used by the graphics card.

To use the graphical installer from the live-cd, you need at least 256 MB of memory.

Systems with less memory need to perform a minimal installation (see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp/MinimalInstall | Minimal Install]]</nowiki>).

Ubuntu (and so Lubuntu) dropped the support for the following CPU :
* VIA C3
* AMD K6
* National Semiconductor
* AMD Geode
You will not be able to upgrade or to install if you're using this CPU model. The team are going to support <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp#10.04 | 10.04]]</nowiki> as if it were an LTS.

== Lubuntu specific notes ==

=== Untranslated menu entries ===
When you start the live-cd and select another language than English, you will have the first 2 menu entries not translated.

=== Splash screen is the Ubuntu one ===
With your system doesn't support plymouth graphical boot, the splash screen will fallback to the Ubuntu one.

=== Installer may be unstable when installing with USB ===
The installer could be unstable if you convert the iso to an usb bootable media. Especially, installation on eeePC seems problematic.

=== Synaptic and gksu not working after minimal installation ===
gksu and synaptic (package manager) may not work after a minimal installtion. To fix it, install gconf-editor (sudo apt-get install gconf-editor), launch it, go to /apps/gksu/ and check sudo-mode.

=== Network File Browsing with PCManFM ===

There has been reports of PCManFM having problems displaying networked drives and folders correctly. This is not actually a bug but a feature where it allows the user to decide if this package is required for them. If you would like to use PCManFM to browse networked drives and folders this is easily accomplished by simply installing the package gvfs-backends:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install gvfs-backends
</pre>

''Link to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/maverick-changes/2010-June/001112.html|version history]]</nowiki> of PCManFM''
=== Dual boot with Lubuntu 10.10 ===

Some users have reported that when installing Lubuntu 10.10 to a dual boot environment with another operating system the other operating system will not be shown in the Grub menu (boot menu). If this occurs the easiest work around is to install a package to detect other operating systems, update the grub menu and then to reboot. This is as easy as:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install os-prober 
sudo update-grub
sudo reboot
</pre>

The development team are looking into why, although on the iso, os-prober is not getting installed.

''Link to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10031199|Ubuntu Forum thread]]</nowiki> that displays the problem and solution''

== Ubuntu notes ==
Please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/ReleaseNotes#Known Issues with Ubuntu | the release notes]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu notes about this releases.
