{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

==== Dictionary ====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~c-david-rigby | C David Rigby]]</nowiki> Any suggestions? Should this topic be moved to Office & Productivity?
==== Multi-lingual input ====
* Any suggestions?
==== Calculators ====
===== Galculator =====
<nowiki>[[http://galculator.sourceforge.net/ | Galculator project]]</nowiki>
==== Color Pickers ====
===== Gcolor2 =====
<nowiki>[[http://gcolor2.sourceforge.net/ | Gcolor2 project]]</nowiki>
==== Text Editors ====
===== Leafpad =====
See the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-LXDEComponents | LXDE Components]]</nowiki> page.
* +1 <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~payne-loh | Payne Samad Loh]]</nowiki> one notepad is enough.
* +1 Agree. (Mario Behling)
===== Mousepad =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.xfce.org/projects/mousepad/ | Mouspad project]]</nowiki>
===== Beaver =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.nongnu.org/beaver/ | Beaver project]]</nowiki>
==== Screenshot Utilities ====
===== Xfce4 Screenshooter =====
<nowiki>[[http://goodies.xfce.org/projects/applications/xfce4-screenshooter | Xfce4 Screenshooter project]]</nowiki>
===== gnome-screenshot =====
<nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/GnomeUtils | GNOME Utilities project]]</nowiki>
===== GPE-Screenshot =====
<nowiki>[[http://gpe.handhelds.org/ | GPE Handhelds project]]</nowiki>
* screenshot tool for gpe can be considered. (PCMan)
===== Scrot & Shutter =====
<nowiki>[[http://linuxbrit.co.uk/scrot/ |Scrot project]]</nowiki> is a great tool. The only GUI is <nowiki>[[http://shutter-project.org/ |Shutter project]]</nowiki>
==== Character Map utilities ====
===== gnucharmap =====
<nowiki>[[http://gucharmap.sourceforge.net/ | gnucharmap project]]</nowiki>
==== Terminal Emulators ====
===== Xterm =====
<nowiki>[[http://invisible-island.net/xterm/ | XTerm project]]</nowiki>
===== LXTerminal =====
See the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-LXDEComponents | LXDE Components]]</nowiki> page.
===== Roxterm =====
* This is my favorite. (PCMan)
* +1 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh | Luther]]</nowiki>
==== Archivers ====
===== Xarchiver =====
<nowiki>[[http://xarchiver.xfce.org/ | Xarchiver project]]</nowiki>
===== Peazip =====
<nowiki>[[http://peazip.sourceforge.net/ | Peazip project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh | Luther]]</nowiki>: I am suggesting that we consider peazip even though we have Xarchiver. I think it looks better :p
