{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Please note that the cut off time for amending the agenda is 24 hours before the meeting.
=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
|-
| <nowiki>[[kanliot]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team
|-
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from IRC OP's team
|-
| <nowiki>[[kanliot]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Comms team
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Devs teams
|-
| <nowiki>[[MrChrisDruif]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Docs team
|-
| 
| Any Other Business
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20120418T20 | Wednesday, April 18, 2012, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===

Meeting started by gilir at 20:02:59 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-04-18-20.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* gilir - Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

* kanliot - Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team
''LINK:'' https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-qa/msg00598.html   (kanliot, 20:09:35)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing   (kanliot, 20:09:47)
''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/850264   (kanliot, 20:09:48)
''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/850264   (phillw, 20:19:03)

* kanliot - Weekly report - Update from Comms team

* gilir - Weekly report - Update from Devs teams
''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lubuntu-q-work-items   (gilir, 20:29:59)

* MrChrisDruif - Weekly report - Update from Docs team

* Any Other Business
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseSchedule   (gilir, 20:44:29)
''ACTION:'' gilir Add the Actions from meetings to the Agenda  (MrChrisDruif, 20:53:16)

Meeting ended at 20:54:37 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* gilir Add the Actions from meetings to the Agenda

=== Action items, by person ===

* gilir
* * gilir Add the Actions from meetings to the Agenda

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gilir (57)
* kanliot (38)
* phillw (35)
* MrChrisDruif (26)
* meetingology (4)
* ubottu (2)
* ScottK (2)
* stgraber (1)
* PereZ (1)
* Yorvyk (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:02:59 <gilir> #startmeeting Lubuntu Team Meeting

 20:02:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Apr 18 20:02:59 2012 UTC.  The chair is gilir. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:02:59 <meetingology> 

 20:02:59 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:03:05 <gilir> hi :)

 20:03:08 <kanliot> o/

 20:03:25 <phillw> o/

 20:03:28 <MrChrisDruif> \o

 20:03:40 <Yorvyk> o/

 20:03:48 <gilir> Agenda is still at the same place : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 20:05:51 <gilir> #topic gilir - Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

 20:05:57 * phillw phew... nothing I have not done

 20:06:15 <gilir> MrChrisDruif, any progress for offline documentation ?

 20:06:28 <MrChrisDruif> Nope, sorry about that

 20:06:51 <MrChrisDruif> Week was crazy busy

 20:07:39 <phillw> MrChrisDruif: plenty of time, not needed for about 3 months for 12.10 :)

 20:07:47 <gilir> MrChrisDruif, no problem, I think it's already too late for 12.04

 20:08:10 <gilir> let's add it to the TODO list for 12?10 :)

 20:08:11 <MrChrisDruif> True, but still it's better to get it done so we only need to add it! ^_^

 20:08:58 <gilir> ok, let's move to the next topic

 20:09:02 <phillw> MrChrisDruif: let's see what UDS-Q decide on the matter

 20:09:04 <PereZ> hi =P

 20:09:18 <gilir> #topic kanliot - Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team

 20:09:31 <MrChrisDruif> Aloha PereZ

 20:09:32 <kanliot> ok phil sent me an email i'm working from that

 20:09:35 <kanliot> https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-qa/msg00598.html

 20:09:47 <kanliot> a

 20:09:47 <kanliot> 1.thanks to the devs, and the hard-working release team

 20:09:47 <kanliot> 2. we need more testers: please read

 20:09:47 <kanliot> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing

 20:09:47 <kanliot> 3.there's a bug with 32 bit apt.  So people with 32 bit applications installed will have problems with those applications when they upgrade.  see

 20:09:48 <kanliot> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/850264

 20:09:50 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 850264 in apt (Ubuntu Oneiric) "given a foreign architecture of i386 on amd64 machine, and an outdated libc, apt tries to remove libc-bin" [High,Fix committed]

 20:09:59 <kanliot> any questions before i move on?

 20:10:29 <kanliot> k

 20:10:32 <kanliot> 4.

 20:10:44 <kanliot> the release of 12.04 will have  a bug

 20:10:48 <kanliot> unfixed bug

 20:11:05 <kanliot> full disk encryption will not be working, and you can install with full disk encryption selected

 20:11:12 <kanliot> so installs in that case will not work

 20:11:26 <kanliot> I'm looking for help. i donno how to document this

 20:11:32 <kanliot> since fixing it is not possible

 20:11:39 <kanliot> any comments phillw?

 20:11:42 <gilir> it's affecting only us or all ISO ?

 20:11:51 <kanliot> good question

 20:11:55 <kanliot> i donno

 20:12:01 <kanliot> but it's real enough

 20:12:04 <phillw> kanliot: there is work-around

 20:12:13 <MrChrisDruif> gilir; all releases

 20:12:35 <MrChrisDruif> It's just not affecting a lot of people due to how the bug happens

 20:12:41 <phillw> gilir: it is a kernel bug, for limited number of set ups. but is expected to affect everyone

 20:12:42 <gilir> so it shoudl be documented in the Ubuntu release notes

 20:13:17 <phillw> gilir: do you now have my emails go to spam :(

 20:13:33 <phillw> I did explain it earlier as to what was decided.

 20:13:53 <gilir> adding a note on the release notes sounds enough for me, since we can't fix it, we can't do better IMO

 20:14:28 <MrChrisDruif> Shouldn't it be on the "main" Ubuntu release notes if it affects us all?

 20:14:47 <phillw> gilir: no, they do not see it as warranted at this point, just that we have the work-around documented, in case it goes viral.

 20:14:48 <gilir> MrChrisDruif, yes, it should be

 20:15:43 <phillw> MrChrisDruif: it affects, so far, one person. It is a confirmed bug, but only only on that set up. They are wathing for dupes arriving.

 20:15:51 <phillw> *watching*

 20:16:28 <gilir> ok, so if it's not mentionned on the main releases notes, we can still add it on ours if we think it's necessary

 20:16:31 <MrChrisDruif> So for now only document the work-around and if it's confirmed it'll be put on Ubuntu's release notes?

 20:16:38 <MrChrisDruif> Yup

 20:16:52 <gilir> we are quite free for our release notes :)

 20:17:50 <gilir> kanliot, phillw, anything else ?

 20:17:55 <kanliot> no

 20:17:56 <phillw> gilir: ATM, just register it at FAQ/WorkAround

 20:18:34 <phillw> we can always move it higher if it does become a major problem for the entire *butnu release.

 20:18:49 <gilir> ok thanks kanliot and phillw :)

 20:18:55 <kanliot> wwia

 20:18:57 <kanliot> wait

 20:19:00 <kanliot> 1 more thing

 20:19:03 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/850264

 20:19:03 <kanliot> uh

 20:19:05 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 850264 in apt (Ubuntu Oneiric) "given a foreign architecture of i386 on amd64 machine, and an outdated libc, apt tries to remove libc-bin" [High,Fix committed]

 20:19:10 <kanliot> nvidia drivers are really bad

 20:19:16 <kanliot> phillw how bad are they?

 20:19:48 <kanliot> apparently tons of crashes

 20:19:57 <kanliot> anyhow thats all i have

 20:19:57 <phillw> I am on the previous bug, that messes up any upgrade from 11.10--> 12.04?

 20:20:10 <kanliot> and it's never clear that it's not the applications that are crashing

 20:20:29 <kanliot> ok you go first

 20:20:34 <gilir> phillw told us that it should be fixed soon

 20:21:06 <gilir> well, already fixed, just need to be uploaded,  anything to add ?

 20:21:07 <phillw> The fix for that is out and about, but it does REALLY need testing, we are running out of time for the RC's

 20:21:39 <phillw> gilir: , yes - it needs testing & proven as a fix.

 20:22:10 <gilir> phillw, ping me when it's in, and if you need test

 20:22:27 <phillw> it will be in the next respin

 20:22:42 <gilir> ok

 20:22:59 <phillw> which *should* be there now.

 20:23:43 <gilir> anything to add ?

 20:24:15 <phillw> kanliot: anything else to add? this time next week, it is D-Day+1 :)

 20:24:23 <kanliot> no thanks

 20:24:45 <kanliot> you should be studying phillw

 20:24:53 <kanliot> do your homework

 20:25:01 <gilir> ok, let's move to the next topic

 20:25:04 <phillw> gilir: I'll keep people updated for anything important.

 20:25:24 <gilir> #topic kanliot - Weekly report - Update from Comms team

 20:25:37 <kanliot> Mario Behling quickly replied to my email, he says the osuosl people will put up a test site soon.  (this allows us to test the new lubuntu.net website)

 20:25:38 <kanliot> end of report

 20:26:45 <gilir> thanks kanliot

 20:27:52 <gilir> #topic gilir - Weekly report - Update from Devs teams

 20:28:45 <gilir> nothing on 12.04 this week, it shoudl be ready for our part :)

 20:29:24 <gilir> I started the preparation for 12.10

 20:29:37 <gilir> nothing spectacular so far

 20:29:59 <gilir> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lubuntu-q-work-items

 20:30:41 <gilir> if you want to look at it ^^

 20:30:57 <gilir> you can also add comments on the whiteboard section

 20:31:32 <gilir> the goal is to prepare all importants items to discuss for UDS

 20:31:47 <MrChrisDruif> Good to hear gilir

 20:31:48 <gilir> any questions ?

 20:32:56 <gilir> of course, it's still not compete, I have still some suprises hidden ;)

 20:32:57 <phillw> when do we start the bi-anual discussions about what goes in to the next release?

 20:33:20 <gilir> phillw, you can start it on the blueprint

 20:33:24 <phillw> *bi-annual*\

 20:33:44 <gilir> ideally, I would like to start it right after the 12.04 release, and to end it just after UDS

 20:34:11 <phillw> gilir: less of the 'me' bit.... I'm holding back a queue :P

 20:34:40 <gilir> phillw, feel free to put them on the whiteboard, to be sure we don't forget them

 20:34:50 <phillw> that is a massive +1 from me :)

 20:35:10 <phillw> not from me, from others!

 20:35:57 <gilir> just, if you want to start discussion for application by default, do it with some arguments :)

 20:37:04 <gilir> any others questions ?

 20:37:40 <gilir> I forgot, you can subscribe to the blueprint, to be aware of any modifications

 20:38:37 <gilir> #topic MrChrisDruif - Weekly report - Update from Docs team

 20:38:48 <phillw> gilir: are you sure you want to let the people on the facebook page know of this?

 20:39:50 <MrChrisDruif> Ali started communicating again and in turn added a section about what differs us from Ubuntu and what we have in common. I can't remember anything else, so nothing to report

 20:39:57 <gilir> phillw, it's not a secret, but keep the warning I made about applications by default

 20:40:12 <MrChrisDruif> phillw; why not? The more people contributing the better right?

 20:41:52 <gilir> thanks MrChrisDruif

 20:42:20 <phillw> MrChrisDruif: gilir I was being light hearted.... the fb people would love to contribute..... sorry if you took it the wrong way :-(

 20:42:44 <gilir> #topic Any Other Business

 20:43:07 <MrChrisDruif> Yes, add the Actions from Meetings to the Agenda gilir

 20:43:14 <gilir> next meeting is the last meeting before the release

 20:43:22 <MrChrisDruif> Already?

 20:43:26 <MrChrisDruif> =(

 20:43:46 <phillw> gilir: it is? Release is tuesday?\

 20:44:04 <MrChrisDruif> phillw; Thursday!

 20:44:09 <gilir> phillw, usually it's on thurday, no ?

 20:44:26 <phillw> Or, so I was told

 20:44:29 <gilir> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseSchedule

 20:44:31 <ScottK> It's always Thursday unless it's 10-10-10.

 20:45:05 <phillw> This will be news to the Canonical team, then :P

 20:45:38 <phillw> RC tomorrow, release tuesday.

 20:45:47 <stgraber> RC tomorrow, release Thursday

 20:45:54 <ScottK> See the spate of late FFes from Canonical development projects over multiple releases.  The schedule is always a surprise to them.

 20:46:49 <gilir> phillw, you see, you have 2 days more, let's relax :)

 20:47:13 <MrChrisDruif> Ghehe

 20:47:18 <gilir> anyway, for the next meeting, let's make sure all it's ready for the release

 20:47:50 <gilir> documentation, release notes, news article, coffee ... :)

 20:49:07 <gilir> anything to add before the end of the meeting ?

 20:49:31 <MrChrisDruif> gilir; you got my note?

 20:49:35 <phillw> ScottK: when balloons announced release was on tuesday, we just accepted it as so :P

 20:49:54 <gilir> MrChrisDruif, about what ?

 20:50:11 <MrChrisDruif> Yes, add the Actions from Meetings to the Agenda gilir

 20:50:14 <MrChrisDruif> That one

 20:50:48 <gilir> MrChrisDruif, what do you mean by this ?

 20:51:19 <MrChrisDruif> Add the Actions from previous meeting(s) to the Agenda

 20:51:35 <MrChrisDruif> That way it's more easy to see what actions should be done

 20:52:22 <gilir> ah ok, I'll do it next time we have actions in the meeting

 20:52:55 <MrChrisDruif> Thanks ^_^

 20:52:55 <phillw> MrChrisDruif: make gilir to #action it :P

 20:53:16 <MrChrisDruif> #action gilir Add the Actions from meetings to the Agenda

 20:53:16 * meetingology gilir Add the Actions from meetings to the Agenda

 20:53:22 <MrChrisDruif> phillw; like so?

 20:53:30 <phillw> indeed :)

 20:54:12 <gilir> unless I end the meeting before this :)

 20:54:37 <gilir> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
