{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''Please note that the deadline for amending the agenda is 24 hours before the meeting.'''

== Meeting Schedule for 13.10 (all at 20:00 UTC / GMT) ==
* Tue 25th June (pre Alpha 1)
* Tue 23rd July (pre Alpha 2)
* Tue 3rd September (Pre Beta 1)
* Tue 24th September (Pre Final Beta)
* Tue 15th October (Final push for the release of 13.10).

== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #EDE7EA ;"> Who
| Subject
| Details
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
| Say '''o/''' when asked
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Update on Lubuntu 13.10
| A short session from the boss
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Report on QA (testing)
| Where we are, before asking of bug progress
|-
| <nowiki>[[ibere-fernandes]]</nowiki>
| Bugs: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1208681 | PCManFM bookmarks are not being respected by other applications due to GTK 3.0]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1216739 | ghost icons appearing to be dragged on the desktop]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1179167 | will next version of libfm fix our PCManFM bugs?]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ibere-fernandes/+reportedbugs | other reported bugs]]</nowiki>
| If we cannot fix the PCManFM bugs before releasing Beta, how about adding comments on Release Notes?, Are we aware that <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1179167 | 1179167]]</nowiki> is assigned to Source Forge?
|-
| TBA
| PPC Bugs
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[KristopherMaguire]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~krismaguire | Introducing myself]]</nowiki>.
| Ideas & a few issues to raise
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| (1) <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Brainstorming | Lubuntu Brainstorming Team]]</nowiki> Updates, (2) <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/CommunicationsTeam/WOWLubuntu | WOWLubuntu]]</nowiki> Updates, (3) <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/CommunicationsTeam/WOWLubuntu/StartUbuntu | StartUbuntu]]</nowiki> Updates and (4) <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/b/106362800741775815583/106362800741775815583/posts | Lubuntu Google+ Page]]</nowiki> Updates
| (1) Motivate users to join Lubuntu 14.04 discussion and planning. (2) WOWLubuntu Project either to shut it down or have someone to take it to the next level <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-comms/msg00524.html | as communicated on the mailing list]]</nowiki>. (3-a) StartUbuntu must move forward and have more activities (3-b) <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-comms/msg00529.html | Email sent to OMG Ubuntu]]</nowiki> (3-c) Lars has sent a list of magazines and action is required regarding that. (4) New Active Admin is required for Lubuntu Google+ Page.
|-
| Anybody
| Any Other Business
| A final round up
|}

* KristopherMaguire will not be available until around 20:30 UTC/GMT.

* <nowiki>[[Ibere-Fernandes]]</nowiki> will be on family vacation on July 23rd. Just updated the bug report using daily build 20130712 and 20130718.

== Place ==

* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #lubuntu-offtopic
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=lubuntu offtopic | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

== Time ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20130723T20&p1=1440 | Tuesday, July 23rd, 2013, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting information ===
* #lubuntu-offtopic Meeting, 03 Sep at 20:00 &mdash; 20:29 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/lubuntu-offtopic/2013/lubuntu-offtopic.2013-09-03-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda 
''LINK:'' http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/302/builds has where we're upto in testing. I'll be running the alt-64 images tomorrow.
''LINK:'' http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/300/builds has details of these test cases.
''ACTION:'' phillw update faq/workaround wiki with https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1208681/comments/5

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items ===

* phillw update faq/workaround wiki with https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1208681/comments/5

=== Action items, by person ===

* phillw
** phillw update faq/workaround wiki with https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1208681/comments/5

=== People present (lines said) ===

* phillw (27)
* gilir (18)
* ibere_SP (13)
* ubot93 (5)
* meetingology (4)
* ianorlin (3)
* HarryLweber (3)

=== Full Log ===

 20:00 <phillw> #startmeeting

 20:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep  3 20:00:57 2013 UTC.  The chair is phillw. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:00 <meetingology> 

 20:00 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:01 <phillw> hi, all those here, please say o/

 20:01 <HarryLweber> o/

 20:01 <ibere_SP> o/

 20:01 <HarryLweber> what is this meeting about?

 20:01 <phillw> an update on lubuntu 13.10

 20:02 <HarryLweber> cool ^^ registering as guest :D

 20:02 <phillw> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 20:02 <gilir> o/

 20:02 <phillw> gilir: are you about? :)

 20:03 <gilir> phillw, my turn ? :-)

 20:03 <phillw> please :)

 20:03 <gilir> ok

 20:04 <gilir> feature freeze is passed, and unfortunately not all I wanted go to saucy

 20:04 <gilir> so now, focusing on bug fixing

 20:05 <gilir> not much to say for now, but if you have questions ... :-)

 20:06 <phillw> I'll touch on bugs after a quick update on testig

 20:06 <ibere_SP> should we focus on beta1 (built yesterday i think) or is it okay to keep zsyncing everyday?

 20:06 <phillw> The beta 1 test image was released yesterday. The daily builds are suspended until Thursday / Friday

 20:07 <ibere_SP> ok. usually i run tests on weekends... so is that ok to zsync then?

 20:07 <phillw> #link http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/302/builds has where we're upto in testing. I'll be running the alt-64 images tomorrow.

 20:08 <phillw> at the weekend we will be back on daily builds, so they will need to zsynced

 20:09 <ibere_SP> thank you.

 20:10 <phillw> we'ree happy to have the ppc builds now installable and the removal of an old bug. The issue with graphics cards still remains, but is not worse than previously.

 20:11 <phillw> there are a couple of ubiquity bugs, but on the whole the lubuntu parts seem to be working well.

 20:12 <phillw> we now also have application test cases to be checked

 20:13 <ianorlin> o/

 20:13 <phillw> #link http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/300/builds has details of these test cases.

 20:13 <phillw> ianorlin: yes?

 20:14 <ianorlin> I am here

 20:14 <phillw> okies :)

 20:15 <phillw> that about rounds up testing. There are a couple of bugs assigned to pcmanfm and a couple of questions about its development. gilir can you give a status update of pcmanfm?

 20:15 <gilir> 1.1.2 is in saucy, which is a stable version

 20:16 <gilir> the developpement version is 1.2.0 (alpha), and will be available in a PPA for testing

 20:16 <gilir> 1.2.0 should be ready for 14.04

 20:16 <gilir> if you have a bug, please check with the 1.1.2 version

 20:17 <gilir> if it's still here, please check with 1.2.0

 20:17 <gilir> if it's still here, please report upstream

 20:17 <gilir> questions ? :-)

 20:18 <gilir> Ho, and I updated 2 bug reports mention on the agenda

 20:18 <phillw> thanks :)

 20:19 <ibere_SP> i have some bugs on pcmanfm: #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1216739

 20:19 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1216739 in pcmanfm (Ubuntu) "ghost icons appearing to be dragged on the desktop" [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:19 <ibere_SP> this one was pcmanfm 1.1.0, so i'll need to retest: #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1208681

 20:19 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1208681 in pcmanfm (Ubuntu) "PCManFM bookmarks are not being respected by other applications due to GTK 3.0" [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:20 <gilir> when the recipes will be fixed, 1.2.0 will be available here : https://code.launchpad.net/~lubuntu-dev/+recipe/libfm-daily-v2

 20:21 <gilir> it will show 1.1.9 version, but it's just 1.2.0 alpha

 20:21 <phillw> has anyone for any further questions about bugs? when registering bugs, if there is a testcase for the package on http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/300/builds please also add them to there so we can have a quick over view of issues.

 20:21 <ibere_SP> should we add some notes to the release notes regarding those bugs? #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta1/Lubuntu#Lubuntu_Desktop

 20:22 <phillw> ibere_SP: the beta 1 notes will have details of the bugs in it :)

 20:22 <ibere_SP> ok. :)

 20:22 <gilir> well the bookmark bug is here since 2 cycles, not really new ...

 20:23 <ibere_SP> regarding the bookmark bug, i believe it'd be nice to know that we have a workaround.

 20:24 <ibere_SP> workaround at comment 5 #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1208681/comments/5

 20:24 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1208681 in pcmanfm (Ubuntu) "PCManFM bookmarks are not being respected by other applications due to GTK 3.0" [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:25 <phillw> Has anyone else got any questions?

 20:25 <ibere_SP> nope. :)

 20:25 <ianorlin> no

 20:25 <phillw> ibere_SP: I think that should be updated into our FAQ/workaround section of the wiki.

 20:26 <phillw> #action phillw update faq/workaround wiki with https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1208681/comments/5

 20:26 * meetingology phillw update faq/workaround wiki with https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1208681/comments/5

 20:26 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1208681 in pcmanfm (Ubuntu) "PCManFM bookmarks are not being respected by other applications due to GTK 3.0" [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:26 <phillw> is there any other business?

 20:27 <ibere_SP> what about the "ghost icons"?

 20:28 <phillw> well, thanks for attending everyone. The next meeting will be on Tuesday 24th September as we have the final beta to test out.

 20:28 <phillw> ibere_SP: http://launchpad.net/bugs/1216739 is logged and confirmed.

 20:28 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1216739 in pcmanfm (Ubuntu) "ghost icons appearing to be dragged on the desktop" [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:28 <gilir> ibere_SP, please follow the steps I described below

 20:29 <ibere_SP> ok. thank you bosses.

 20:29 <phillw> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
