{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/ | phab.lubuntu.me]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

=== Bugs with the others teams ===
From the release team :
   If there is a bug you are going to be needing another team to fix, 
if it is not series targetted already,  please add the 'rls-q-incoming'
tag to it.    That will get it on the list:
http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-q-incoming-bug-tasks.html

   The list is broken down into teams, based on package assignments
(which need to be updated,  so check 'unknown' as well)

Once a team, has reviewed the bug,  it should either go on the 
http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-q-tracking-bug-tasks.html
list for bugs intending to be fixed by the team specifically,  or
on the
http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-q-notfixing-bug-tasks.html
list for bugs that the team can't commit resources to fixing, but
doesn't want to close them as "WONTFIX".  ie. volunteers to help,
welcome.  

Bugs go on the rls-q-tracking-bug-tasks list by being series targetted
to the Quantal release,  not through use of a specific tag.   Milestones
must be added for those high/critical bugs that are considered as
Release Critical blockers, but are otherwise not essential.  Once a bug
is targetted to the series,  the 'rls-q-incoming' tag should be removed.

If a bug is already targetted to a series,  and it's clear that that the
resources won't permit it to be fixed, but we don't want to close it,
then the 'rls-q-notfixing' tag should be added which will get it onto
the rls-q-notfixing-bug-tasks list.
