{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

===== General Comments =====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~c-david-rigby | CDRigby]]</nowiki> I'm as fond of games as anyone. (Indeed, probably more so.) However, the list below is a pretty extensive. In the interest of keeping image size down, I would leave out most or all of these games.
* Do we really need default games in Lubuntu? I suggest removing all of the games, and leave the disc space for other must-have tools, and for translations (*.mo). (PCMan)
* I thought that some games might be good to make a distro less "boring". Just a few simple ones and nothing complex like Wesnoth and FPS. But I fully agree that this will be on the top of the trim list if we are low on image size.

===== Games =====
/* Gracious! I'm not going to look up all of these web pages. */
** Aisleriot Solitaire
** Blackjack
** Chess
** Five or More
** Four-in-a-Row
** !FreeCell Solitaire
** Frozen Bubble
*** +1 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh | Luther]]</nowiki>: I think this is very fun for people of all ages. 
** Gnometris
** Hangman
** Iagno
** Klotski
** Mahjongg
** Math Command
** Mines
** Nibbles
** Robots
** Same GNOME
** Sudoku
** Tali
** Tetravex
** Tux
** Tux Racer
