{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Please note that the cut off time for amending the agenda is 24 hours before the meeting.
== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #EDE7EA ;"> Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Update on Lubuntu 13.10
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Report on QA (testing)
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| zRAM Testing, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/CommunicationsTeam/WOWLubuntu/StartUbuntu | Start Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, other
|-
| <nowiki>[[Ibere-Fernandes]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ibere-fernandes/+reportedbugs | Reported bugs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1192798 | Opinion]]</nowiki>, Following: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxsession/+bug/1190170 | #1190170]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1192770 | #1192770]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1186631 | #1186631]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1179167 | #1179167]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxsession/+bug/1193409 | #1193409]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1193526 | #1193526]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://lubuntublog.blogspot.com.es/2013/06/aerosnap-feature.html | Aero snap drag n drop]]</nowiki> on 13.10? , lubuntu-restricted-extras & Chromium Browser at Ali's email of 06/22
|-
| Anybody
| Any Other Business
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #lubuntu-offtopic
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=lubuntu-offtopic | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20130625T20 | Tuesday, June 25th, 2013, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting information ===
* #lubuntu-offtopic: Lubuntu meeting, 25 Jun at 20:00 &mdash; 21:10 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/lubuntu-offtopic/2013/lubuntu-offtopic.2013-06-25-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda 
==== Lubuntu meeting ====
The discussion about "Lubuntu meeting" started at 20:04.

* '''lubuntu dev status''' (20:04)
* '''QA Report''' (20:15)
** ''LINK:'' http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/297/builds 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Activities/Classroom/Saucy 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Activities/Classroom/Saucy 
* '''Bugs''' (20:37)
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxsession/+bug/1190170 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1192770 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1179167 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxsession/+bug/1193409 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1193526 
** ''LINK:'' http://lubuntublog.blogspot.com.es/2013/06/aerosnap-feature.html 
* '''Any Other Business''' (21:00)
* '''StartUbuntu''' (21:01)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/CommunicationsTeam/WOWLubuntu/StartUbuntu 
** ''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/germany-to-hand-out-free-ubuntu-cds-on-xps-deat 
** ''LINK:'' http://www.spreadubuntu.org/ 
* '''''' (21:09)
* '''Any Other Business''' (21:09)

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* amjjawad (101)
* phillw (78)
* gilir (26)
* ibere_SP (20)
* SonikkuAmerica (14)
* JoernS (11)
* ubot93 (6)
* Unit193 (4)
* meetingology (3)
* Noskcaj (3)

=== Full Log ===

 20:00 <phillw> #startmeeting Lubuntu meeting

 20:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 25 20:00:18 2013 UTC.  The chair is phillw. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:00 <meetingology> 

 20:00 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:00 <phillw> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 20:01 <phillw> Hi folks, the agenda is above

 20:01 <phillw> Can I ask for a show of hands for those in attendance?

 20:01 <amjjawad> I'm here

 20:01 <ibere_SP> o/

 20:02 <JoernS> *wave* Hello everyone!

 20:02 <amjjawad> wow, two of fb group members are here :D

 20:03 <phillw> well, this should be a quick meeting. As julien is obviously tied up (he may pop in later) I'll start with QA

 20:03 <ibere_SP> ;-)

 20:03 <amjjawad> Hello everyone :)

 20:03 <amjjawad> phillw:

 20:03 <SonikkuAmerica> o/

 20:03 <amjjawad> should we wait few mins?

 20:03 <SonikkuAmerica> (I'm here)

 20:03 <amjjawad> SonikkuAmerica: sorry, who are you? :D

 20:03 <phillw> aha gilir is about! Can you give us an overview of where 13.10 is upto from the dev perspective?

 20:04 <SonikkuAmerica> amjjawad: I'm on Lubuntu Comms (particularly because I'm interested in the Start Ubuntu project) :)

 20:04 <phillw> #topic Lubuntu meeting

 20:04 <phillw> #subtopic lubuntu dev status

 20:04 <gilir> *hide :-)*

 20:05 <amjjawad> gilir: don't, we can see you :P

 20:05 <JoernS> You can run, but you can't hide! ^^

 20:05 <gilir> too bad, so I need to talk now :-)

 20:05 <amjjawad> +1 :D

 20:05 <amjjawad> gilir: we are waiting :D

 20:06 <gilir> ok, so Alpha 1 is in 2 days, but half of the bug changes was made since

 20:07 <gilir> bug => big

 20:07 <gilir> currently, first round of default apps is in (including firefox and zram)

 20:08 <gilir> second round may arrive shortly after alpha 2

 20:08 <gilir> big update of lxsession is in, but not all features are enable by default

 20:08 <gilir> it will be enable shortly after alpha 1

 20:09 <gilir> also, artwork first update, should be in shortly after alpha 1

 20:10 <gilir> so, after this, all the big changes for the 13.10 will be in, I'll be able to work on smaller improvement and bug fixes after this

 20:11 <gilir> that's a short summarize, if you want detail, just ask before I hide again ;-)

 20:11 <amjjawad> Yes

 20:11 <amjjawad> what do you mean 2nd round? what kind of changes?

 20:12 <amjjawad> bug fixes or new stuff?

 20:12 <phillw> gilir: thanks, that's fine. Can you keep the lubuntu-qa mailing list updated as changes in the ISO arrive so we can ensure that they get thoroughly tested.

 20:12 <gilir> mostly, bug fixes, games change if we find good one ...

 20:13 <amjjawad> gilir: I see, thanks :) I would say Bug Fixes much more important than anything else

 20:13 <amjjawad> Having that said, I don't mind to vote against any game!!

 20:13 <gilir> phillw, will do

 20:13 <amjjawad> I mean, even if we won't release 13.10 with any kind of games!

 20:13 <amjjawad> Bug Fixes come first :)

 20:14 <SonikkuAmerica> (Would AisleRiot be too big?)

 20:14 <phillw> okies, next on the agenda

 20:15 <gilir> amjjawad, I only talk about applications by default, there is still a lot of improvement to include in lxsession and default settings

 20:15 <phillw> #subtopic QA Report

 20:16 <amjjawad> I was commenting on the part that you said: "games change if we find good one ..." gilir :)

 20:16 <phillw> As Julien has said, the alpha 1 is due out on Thursday (pending testing), you can down load and test it now from

 20:16 <phillw> #link http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/297/builds

 20:17 <phillw> There was a respin today to take care of bug 1193526 on the desktop installs

 20:17 <ubot93> bug 1193526 in ubiquity (Ubuntu) "Clicking "Install Xubuntu 13.10" in live session doesn't work." [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1193526

 20:17 <phillw> Unless we find any more horrors, I do not expect any more respins.

 20:18 <phillw> but, it does need testing!

 20:18 <gilir> phillw, so the fix for the shutdown and reboot is not necessary for Alpha 1 ?

 20:19 <ibere_SP> phillw,  i was wondering if i'm doing bug reporting the right way, because almost none of the bugs i reported were touched by somebody: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ibere-fernandes/+reportedbugs

 20:19 <ibere_SP> phillw, and yes.. they are reported at http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/270/builds/47372/testcases/1303/results

 20:19 <phillw> gilir: I do not consider it a show stopper, more release note worthy. If you want to puch it - we'll take the hit, but we're on Tuesday already.

 20:19 <phillw> ibere_SP:  we will be covering outstanding bugs next :)

 20:20 <gilir> phillw, I'll push it if the fix is correct tonight, so any respin will take it

 20:20 <Noskcaj> ibere_SP, you've done everything right, it just takes time. i've got a bug from quantal that isn't fixed

 20:20 <phillw> gilir: I'll respin tomorrow in that case. you love to drive the testers mad :)

 20:21 <phillw> do let me know (my PM, as my email is still down)

 20:21 <ibere_SP> Noskcaj, ok, tks. I've just wanted to make sure. :-)

 20:21 <Noskcaj> phillw, if your email stops working you can email with your Facebook account

 20:22 <phillw> Noskcaj: not yo my ubuntu.com address I cannot :)

 20:22 <Noskcaj> true

 20:22 <phillw> s/yo/to

 20:23 <phillw> But, back to testing... If you've tested before, we have done a lot of work on documenting up (and even a vid) this head over to

 20:23 <phillw> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO

 20:23 <phillw> and feel free to ask on #ubuntu-quality. There are also ongoing classroom sessions again, details of them are at

 20:24 <phillw> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Activities/Classroom/Saucy

 20:24 <phillw> for more specific lubuntu details, and a quick over view, the wiki page is still active at

 20:25 <phillw> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing

 20:25 <phillw> any Questions?

 20:25 <ibere_SP> ok. thank you for sharing. I'll read those wiki pages. Some of them are familiar already.

 20:26 <ibere_SP> no questions. ok so far.

 20:26 <SonikkuAmerica> o/

 20:26 <amjjawad> phillw: when we say "respin" you mean when the system create new ISO?

 20:26 <phillw> ibere_SP: the session on classroom from Colin was brilliant and taught all of us who file bugs new stuff!

 20:27 <phillw> amjjawad: yes, respin is when the ISO is struck through on the tracker and a new one requested to build.

 20:27 <amjjawad> phillw: thanks :)

 20:27 <phillw> as of this cycle, this is done  by Julien or myself.

 20:27 <ibere_SP> phillw, tks for prompting that class. I'll take special attention to that class.

 20:28 <phillw> all those interested in testing, or even curious as to how we get a polished release out should take a glance at some of the notes!

 20:29 <SonikkuAmerica> phillw: OK, I'm a little confused. Does this mean it's more prudent to test installation and live images before we install them to test onto a disk?

 20:29 <amjjawad> phillw: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing is a very good place to start reading from so hope everyone will have a look at it :)

 20:30 <amjjawad> SonikkuAmerica: how are you going to test them without installing them?

 20:30 <SonikkuAmerica> amjjawad: ... by booting from them, I would hope!

 20:30 <phillw> SonikkuAmerica: pre-alpha and alphas 'can' mess your system up.  We frequently test these in virtual machines or on spare machines. The last thing you want is dead system when it is your only system (keeping a LiveCD to hand is always useful !)

 20:30 <amjjawad> SonikkuAmerica: I'm afraid not

 20:31 <amjjawad> SonikkuAmerica: I would suggest to play with a VM

 20:31 <SonikkuAmerica> phillw: OK... that clears things up... (I usually test stuff in VBox anyway)

 20:31 <SonikkuAmerica> amjjawad: ^

 20:31 <amjjawad> SonikkuAmerica: bingo :)

 20:31 <amjjawad> I mean exactly :)

 20:31 <phillw> SonikkuAmerica: for those not familiar with VM's there are classroom sesssions scheduled real soon!

 20:32 <SonikkuAmerica> amjjawad: I mean still, that involves a (pseudo)boot process, but yeah, I see where you are going. No further ?s about that. phillw: Ooh, good!

 20:32 <phillw> I'm doing the virt-manager (KVM) one etc.

 20:32 <amjjawad> I use Oracle VM :)

 20:32 <phillw> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Activities/Classroom/Saucy

 20:32 <phillw> SonikkuAmerica: ^^

 20:32 <ibere_SP> phillw, i'm familiar with Vbox. Is it necessary to test the ISOs on ther VMs such as KVM?

 20:33 <amjjawad> ibere_SP: any VM :)

 20:33 <ibere_SP> amjjawad, tks.:)

 20:33 <phillw> ibere_SP: nope, choose the VM you prefer. testdrive is happy to use either.

 20:33 <amjjawad> I have never used nor seen KVM yet :D

 20:33 <amjjawad> If truth to be told, I hate VMs

 20:33 <JoernS> phillw, has KVM graphic glitches? On my machine, it has. So I have to use VBox...

 20:33 <phillw> amjjawad: it's what the 'grown ups' use :P

 20:33 <amjjawad> but because this release, I jumped in from A so I must be careful

 20:34 <amjjawad> A= Alpha

 20:34 <phillw> JoernS: there is an upstream bug in the default graphics with KVM on ubuntu.

 20:34 <amjjawad> I usually start testing from Beta

 20:35 <phillw> JoernS: I'll be covering it in my classroom, but if you PM me later I'll dig the bug and workaround out for you.

 20:35 <JoernS> That would be nice, phillw. VBox is okay, but having an alternative isn't bad.

 20:36 <phillw> don't use the default driver (cirrus, I think - choose one of the others).. but I'll get you details after the meeting.

 20:36 <phillw> Well, no more on VM's! follow the classroom sessions!

 20:37 <phillw> #subtopic Bugs

 20:37 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxsession/+bug/1190170

 20:37 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1190170 in lxsession (Ubuntu) "no gui shutdown in lubuntu" [High,In progress]

 20:38 <phillw> Julien has a proposed fix for this that may land before the end of Alpha1, if not - it will be in shortly after.

 20:38 <amjjawad> will this bug be fixed in 24hours?

 20:38 <gilir> will be fix in a few minutes / hours

 20:38 <amjjawad> great, thanks gilir :)

 20:38 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1192770

 20:38 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1192770 in lubuntu-artwork (Ubuntu) "live session of Lubuntu 13.10 says 13.04 instead" [Undecided,New]

 20:39 <phillw> artwork does not really change that much in the alphas, although I understand there is some stuff due out in the coming weeks.

 20:39 <gilir> it's just the image :-) I'll tell artwork team to make the update, no big deal

 20:39 <amjjawad> exactly, no big deal - minor bug :D

 20:39 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcmanfm/+bug/1179167

 20:39 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1179167 in pcmanfm (Ubuntu) "Drag and Drop on desktop not working correctly " [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:40 <amjjawad> YES, this one is BIG deal!!!

 20:40 <phillw> gilir: I'm assuming pcman is aware of this

 20:40 <gilir> already fixed upstream, next update of pcmanfm will fix it

 20:40 <amjjawad> gilir: when? if I may ask?

 20:40 <phillw> when do we expect that to trickle in?

 20:41 <gilir> not sure still, depending of the next release of pcmanfm

 20:41 <phillw> in time for alpha 2 do you think?

 20:41 <amjjawad> gilir: any possibility it will never be fixed for 13.10?

 20:41 <amjjawad> I mean, worse case?

 20:42 <gilir> I can't tell until feature freeze

 20:42 <amjjawad> many are complaining about this bug :(

 20:42 <amjjawad> gilir: thanks, than I guess we should just wait and see ...

 20:42 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxsession/+bug/1193409

 20:42 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1193526 in ubiquity (Ubuntu) "duplicate for #1193409 Clicking "Install Xubuntu 13.10" in live session doesn't work." [Undecided,Fix released]

 20:43 <phillw> that's a dupe and should be fixed as of now in the alpha 1.

 20:43 <amjjawad> after the respin, it will be fixed?

 20:43 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1193526

 20:43 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1193526 in ubiquity (Ubuntu) "Clicking "Install Xubuntu 13.10" in live session doesn't work." [Undecided,Fix released]

 20:43 <phillw> another dupe.

 20:44 <phillw> amjjawad: it was fixed earlier to day and I requested a re-spin of all our desktop ISO's which has been completed. if you zsync up, it should be fixed.

 20:44 <amjjawad> phillw: thanks :)

 20:45 <phillw> http://lubuntublog.blogspot.com.es/2013/06/aerosnap-feature.html

 20:46 <phillw> I'm not sure as and when this will land, or even if it is on the list of things to do? gilir, your thoughts?

 20:46 <amjjawad> phillw: I didn't understand what that link is talking about

 20:46 <gilir> hum, I thought I added it on the default settings last cycle, let me check

 20:47 <ibere_SP> amjjawad, i'm specially interested at the paragraph that says: "The next version of Openbox will support this drag'n'drop features, so we could enjoy as XFWM or Metacity users do."

 20:47 <JoernS> Does Openbox itself has this feature (mouse-driven, not keyboard)? Or is it Opensnap https://github.com/lawl/opensnap

 20:48 <amjjawad> ibere_SP: that link does not say much and I'm lost

 20:48 <amjjawad> not sure what it is all about anyway

 20:48 <gilir> phillw, I confirmed, it's in since 1304, but you need the defaults settings of openbox provided by Lubuntu

 20:48 <ibere_SP> amjjawad, today 13.04 has "drag n drop" via keyboard. super+ left, super+right...

 20:49 <gilir> but it's just with keyboard, it's not with the mouse (like Windows or Unity)

 20:49 <amjjawad> Oh, I see

 20:50 <amjjawad> so the plan is to make it happen with a Mouse Move/Click?

 20:50 <JoernS> Well, that answers my question, thanks. But Opensnap would be nice if we get into the repos.

 20:50 <amjjawad> and that is what it called "aerosnap"?

 20:51 <ibere_SP> amjjawad, "aerosnap" is the way msft calls it.

 20:51 <amjjawad> msft? you mean the enemy? :P

 20:51 <ibere_SP> amjjawad, sorry, msft = micros.... you know.

 20:51 <amjjawad> ibere_SP: they won't bite, we do :P

 20:51 <JoernS> Yes. Because the Aero desktop of.... Vista or something

 20:52 <amjjawad> JoernS: yeah, whatever they call it :P :P

 20:52 <ibere_SP> does lubuntu blog belongs to Rafael Laguna?

 20:52 <amjjawad> phillw: are we done from bugs or not yet?

 20:52 <amjjawad> ibere_SP: he is in charge of that area yes

 20:53 <amjjawad> I don't have access to the blog

 20:53 <ibere_SP> I added that to our agenda because some blog from Portugal understood that 13.10 will have mouse driven drag n drop.

 20:53 <ibere_SP> and now I understand 13.10 will keep keyboard driven only.

 20:53 <phillw> there's a bug raised for lubuntu-extras, which I'm sure gilir is aware of as it involves also the transitioning from chromium to firefox

 20:53 <amjjawad> ibere_SP: I'm not sure whether it will be mouse driven or keyboard driven??

 20:54 <amjjawad> phillw: you mean the email I sent?

 20:54 <amjjawad> I'm not sure if I reported that as a bug ???!!!

 20:54 <phillw> IDK, I don't have any email system!

 20:54 <gilir> phillw, yes, just too low in my TODO list for now

 20:54 <ibere_SP> amjjawad, since 13.04 it is keyboard driven.

 20:55 <phillw> gilir: no woriies, but while not urgent, it is pretty critical :D

 20:55 <amjjawad> ibere_SP: yes but I was asking about 13.10

 20:55 <amjjawad> gilir: I sent an email about it

 20:55 <amjjawad> but I did not report it yet. I was wondering and guess no one replied me?!

 20:56 <amjjawad> when you do : sudo apt-get install lubuntu-resctired-extras, Chromium will be installed :D gilir

 20:56 <amjjawad> I guess that should be changed :D

 20:56 <phillw> which is bit of a pain if you're on low bandwidth!

 20:57 <amjjawad> phillw: +1

 20:57 <JoernS> Or disc space.

 20:57 <amjjawad> I'm on good bandwidth and it took forever :/

 20:57 <Unit193> lubuntu-restricted-addons: Recommends: chromium-codecs-ffmpeg-extra

 20:57 <amjjawad> Unit193: which I guess should be changed since we dropped Chromium :)

 20:58 <Unit193> You think?

 20:58 <amjjawad> Unit193: I guess!

 20:58 <amjjawad> Unit193: gilir is the boss :D

 20:59 <Unit193> And?

 20:59 <amjjawad> so whatever he will decide, it is up to him

 20:59 <Unit193> I'm aware...

 20:59 <amjjawad> our job is to report the bugs/issues

 20:59 <amjjawad> and issue has been reported :)

 20:59 <gilir> ... and I'm already aware of it, just have other business to do more critical for now

 20:59 <amjjawad> gilir: if you need a bug for this issue (chromium), I can report it

 21:00 <amjjawad> gilir: ok, glad you are

 21:00 <phillw> Right, so moving on...

 21:00 <phillw> #subtopic Any Other Business

 21:00 <amjjawad> phillw: why did you cancel my part?

 21:00 <amjjawad> :)

 21:00 <phillw> can we make this quick as we've already been on for an hour and that is time spent doing other things :)

 21:00 <amjjawad> Then I am not going to talk

 21:01 <amjjawad> if someone wants to ask, I'm here

 21:01 <phillw> Ali, sorry....

 21:01 <amjjawad> phillw: I'm having tension headache and I remain silent all the time so no sorry is needed

 21:01 <phillw> Zram is in and running

 21:01 <ibere_SP> amjjawad,  you have done a great job testing zRAM!

 21:01 <amjjawad> I am here because I want that even though I'm not ok

 21:01 <phillw> #subtopic StartUbuntu

 21:01 <amjjawad> ibere_SP: thanks

 21:01 <amjjawad> is there any Q about it?

 21:01 <phillw> amjjawad: go ahead :)

 21:02 <amjjawad> zRAM? start Ubuntu? whatever in your mind?

 21:02 <amjjawad> waiting for Qs :)

 21:02 <phillw> Not a Q, but for those not aware....

 21:02 <amjjawad> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/CommunicationsTeam/WOWLubuntu/StartUbuntu

 21:02 <JoernS> Should we consider the project in Munich as part of StartUbuntu?

 21:02 <phillw> #link http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/germany-to-hand-out-free-ubuntu-cds-on-xps-deat

 21:02 <amjjawad> JoernS: why not

 21:03 <ibere_SP> amjjawad, do you think it's the best time to start ubuntu once we do not have LTS yet?

 21:03 <amjjawad> phillw: not only that. The French Gov has installed Ubuntu for their police station and saved I guess up to 30m Euros

 21:03 <amjjawad> the Spanish Gov is about to do the same and save up to 20m Euro

 21:03 <JoernS> Shall we ask MS if they support WinXP until we have a LTS? *duck and run*

 21:03 <amjjawad> so Start Ubuntu has a lot of heavy job :)

 21:04 <amjjawad> ibere_SP: start Ubuntu has started since March for me :)

 21:04 <amjjawad> and just to keep you posted for my outside activities, I'm going to spread Lubuntu in real life globely

 21:05 <amjjawad> I have contacted friends from all over the world and I've been talking to them about that. Let's see what will happen

 21:05 <SonikkuAmerica> JoernS: Shouldn't 2-3 weeks without XP support from MS be not much of a big deal, or are the l33t hax0rs going to pounce on it?

 21:05 <amjjawad> As for zRAM - here is all what I have about it: http://amjjawad.blogspot.com/2013/06/zram-testing-reports.html

 21:06 <JoernS> The "l33t hax0rs" pounce it since ten years or more :P

 21:06 <amjjawad> and I planned to talk about bugs but phillw covered everything already :D

 21:06 <amjjawad> So, I'm done unless you guys have any Qs?

 21:06 <SonikkuAmerica> amjjawad: Actually, I do have a question. How is the Start Ubuntu project different from, say, the Spread Ubuntu project?

 21:07 <amjjawad> Start Ubuntu is for Windows XP Users

 21:07 <SonikkuAmerica> #link http://www.spreadubuntu.org/

 21:07 <amjjawad> Our main focus are those with Win XP which will be forsaken after May 2014

 21:07 <SonikkuAmerica> OK, I get that... and?

 21:07 <amjjawad> SonikkuAmerica: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/CommunicationsTeam/WOWLubuntu/StartUbuntu << everything is here :D

 21:07 <amjjawad> JUST one last thing... if anyone is really interested, please sign up

 21:08 <amjjawad> Here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/CommunicationsTeam/WOWLubuntu/StartUbuntu#Start_Ubuntu_Members

 21:08 <amjjawad> I need to know who is IN and who is NOT :D

 21:08 <amjjawad> Any other Q?

 21:09 <phillw> #subtopic

 21:09 <phillw> #subtopic Any Other Business

 21:09 <phillw> Anyone got any points / questions?

 21:10 <phillw> Okay, thanks for all attending. The next meeting is Tue 23rd July same place, same time!

 21:10 <phillw> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
