{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Lubuntu 11.10 is now available :

* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/11.10/release/

=== What is Lubuntu ? ===

Lubuntu 11.10 is a brand new flavor of Ubuntu based on the Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment (LXDE), as its default GUI.  The goal is to provide a very lightweight distribution, with all the advantages of the Ubuntu world (repositories, support, etc.). Lubuntu is targeted at "normal" PC and laptop users running on low-spec hardware. Such users may not know how to use command line tools, and in most cases they just don't have enough resources for all the bells and whistles of the "full-featured" mainstream distributions. 

With many LXDE components, <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.net|Lubuntu]]</nowiki> also uses well-known applications, such as Chromium, Openbox, Pidgin, to name a few. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu project wiki]]</nowiki> contains more information on the project and the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications | applications used]]</nowiki> available.

=== Features ===

* Based on the lightweight LXDE desktop environment.
* Pcmanfm 0.9.9, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* Lxdm, a lightweight GTK display manager.
* Chromium, the open-source version of Google Chrome.
* ... and, of course, based on Ubuntu 11.10.

See the complete list of applications on
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications

=== Improvements since Lubuntu 11.04 ===
* ISOs are now build with Ubuntu official build system.
* Alternate ISOs are available.
* Many updates from LXDE (most components had official releases).
* Build with recommended packages by default.
* Use recommends instead of depends for most of components of lubuntu-desktop meta-package.
* Register correctly LXDE as a desktop environment by xdg tools.
* Switch to xfce4-power-manager for power management.
* Add a microblog client : pidgin-microblog.
* New theme made by Rafael Laguna.

=== Releases notes and known issues ===
The release notes, with a list of known problems are available on
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReleaseNotes/OneiricOcelot

=== Reporting bugs ===
You can find information on how to report bug on this wiki page :
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReportingBugs

=== Thanks ===

I would like to thanks all people involved in the development of Lubuntu
during this past 6 months : LXDE developers, people helping on IRC, testing ISOs, reporting bugs, making documentation and artwork ...
It was a pleasure to work with all of you.

=== Links ===

* Website : http://lubuntu.net/
* Documentation : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu
* LXDE website : http://lxde.org/
* Announcement: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Announcement/11.10
