{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

''''work in progress based on Ubuntu release notes''''

These release notes document known issues with lubuntu 10.04 Beta.

== System Requirements ==

The minimum memory requirement for running lubuntu 10.04 is 128 MB of memory. Note that some of your system's memory may be unavailable due to being used by the graphics card.

To use the graphical installer from the live-cd, you need at least 160 MB of memory.

Systems with less memory need to perform a minimal installation (see <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-DocumentationHelp | documentation]]</nowiki>).

== Lubuntu specific notes ==
=== "Install Lubuntu" menu entry will launch a desktop session ===
If you click on "Install Lubuntu", the desktop session will start instead of an ubiquity session only.

=== Untranslated menu entries ===
When you start the live-cd and select another language than English, you will have the first 2 menu entries not translated.

=== Missing support on live-cd ===
Ubuntu live-cd is shipped if some additional packages to enable support for some specific hardware ( like ndiswraper). Lubuntu don't have this support enable on the live-cd, but it can be installed after the installation.

=== Uninstalling lubuntu packages results in uninstalling lubuntu meta package ===
Currently the uninstalling of lubuntu packages, e.g. uninstalling chromium, results in uninstalling the lubuntu desktop meta package.

== Ubuntu generic notes ==
=== Installation ===

==== Hibernation may be unavailable with automatic partitioning ====

The default partitioning recipe in the installer will in some cases allocate a swap partition that is smaller than the physical memory in the system.  This will prevent the use of hibernation (suspend-to-disk) because the system image will not fit in the swap partition.  If you intend to use hibernation with your system, you should ensure that the swap partition's size is at least as large as the system's physical RAM. (Bug:345126)

==== Package list must be manually refreshed before installing drivers ====

The "Hardware Drivers" tool (Jockey) requires up to date package lists before it detects and advertises necessary driver packages. Immediately after a new installation, these package lists will not be present. Before running Jockey for the first time, update the package lists using <code>System->Administration->Software->Update Manager</code> (on lubuntu) or "KPackageKit" (on Klubuntu). (Bug:462704)

==== GRUB menu.lst: install the maintainer's version vs. keep the local version ====

If you have previously modified the <code>menu.lst</code> bootloader configuration for GRUB, either by hand or with a tool such as <code>kgrubeditor</code>, you may be asked on upgrade whether you wish to keep your local version of the menu.lst or install the package maintainer's version.  This question is asked because such changes cannot be merged automatically with 100% reliability, and care is taken to not overwrite the user's manually edited bootloader configuration without warning.

However, if you choose to "keep the local version currently installed," your system will not be set up to boot from any newly-installed kernels.  '''Manual action is required on your part to ensure that your system is running the current, security-supported kernel after upgrade.'''  If you have local changes to your bootloader config that you want to keep, it is recommended that you follow these steps:

* Choose "keep the local version currently installed" at the prompt.
* Open <code>/boot/grub/menu.lst</code> with a text editor (e.g., <code>sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst</code>).
* Apply any changes you've made to the kernel boot options to the commented variables (e.g., <code>groot</code>, <code>kopt</code>, <code>defoptions</code>) above.

* Move any manually-added boot options for other operating systems so that they are above the line <pre>
</pre> or below the line <pre>
</pre>
* Save the file, and run <code>sudo update-grub</code> from the commandline.
* Choose "install the package maintainer's version".

For example, if you added an option `i915.modeset=0` to the "kernel" line:

<pre>
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=0e7... ro quiet splash i915.modeset=0
</pre>

then add this option to <code>kopt</code>:

<pre>
</pre>

An updated version of the <code>grub</code> package will include information about this problem in the help screen for the <code>menu.lst</code> prompt. (Bug:470490)

==== Dovecot cmusieve plugin renamed to sieve ====

The "cmusieve" plugin used in dovecot has been renamed to "sieve".  Users who have the following set in their dovecot configuration:

<pre>
	mail_plugins = cmusieve
</pre>

should change this to:

<pre>
	mail_plugins = sieve
</pre>

=== Other known issues ===

==== Upstart jobs cannot be run in a chroot ====

Upstart jobs cannot be started in a chroot because upstart acts as a service supervisor, and processes within the chroot are unable to communicate with the upstart running outside of the chroot (Bug:430224).  This will cause some packages that have been converted to use upstart jobs instead of init scripts to fail to upgrade within a chroot.  Users are advised to configure their chroots with /sbin/initctl pointing to /bin/true, with the following commands run within the chroot:

<pre>
dpkg-divert --local --rename --add /sbin/initctl
ln -s /bin/true /sbin/initctl
</pre>

==== Encrypted partitions must be listed in /etc/fstab ====

Users who have configured any encrypted partitions in <code>/etc/crypttab</code> to start at boot time (i.e., not using the <code>noauto</code> option) should make sure that the filesystems on these volumes are listed in <code>/etc/fstab</code>.  Otherwise, the passphrase prompt is not guaranteed to be displayed at boot time.

==== Avahi will always start even if a .local domain is present ====

The <code>avahi-daemon</code> package, which implements the mDNS "zeroconf" standard, formerly included a check to avoid running when a conflicting <code>.local</code> DNS domain is present, as it was reported that some ISPs advertise such a <code>.local</code> domain on their networks, leaving lubuntu hosts unable to see names advertised on the local network (Bug:327362).  In lubuntu 9.10, <code>avahi-daemon</code> is started regardless.

It is possible that this may cause other problems.  If your network is configured this way, you can disable mDNS using the following command:

<pre>
sudo stop avahi-daemon
sudo sed -e '/^start/,+1s/^/#/' /etc/init/avahi-daemon.conf
</pre>

==== Working around bugs in the new kernel video architecture ====

lubuntu 10.04 LTS enables the new kernel-mode-setting (KMS) technology by default on most common video chipsets.  While this is a major step forward for the graphics architecture in lubuntu, in some rare cases KMS will prevent your video output from working correctly, or from working at all.  If you need to disable KMS, you can do so by booting with the <code>nomodeset</code> option.  You can also save this setting so that it's applied at every boot by adding it to your grub config (for GRUB 2: edit `/etc/default/grub` and add `nomodeset` to `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX`, then run `sudo update-grub`; for GRUB 1: edit `/boot/grub/menu.lst` and add `nomodeset` to the line beginning with `# kopt=`, then run `sudo update-grub`).  (Bug:533784, Bug:541501)

==== No delay for boot menu with GRUB 2 ====

When using the GRUB 2 bootloader included in lubuntu 10.04 LTS, the first boot option will by default be loaded automatically without pausing for user input.  To interrupt the boot, users can hold down the Shift key to bring up the boot menu, allowing them to select a different boot option or to configure kernel arguments. (https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#GRUB%20vs%20GRUB%202)

==== Sun Java moved to the Partner repository ====

For lubuntu 10.04 LTS, the <code>sun-java6</code> packages have been dropped from the Multiverse section of the lubuntu archive. It is recommended that you use <code>openjdk-6</code> instead.

If you can not switch from the proprietary Sun JDK/JRE to OpenJDK, you can install <code>sun-java6</code> packages from the Canonical Partner Repository. You can configure your system to use this repository via command-line:
<pre>
     add-apt-repository "deb http://archive.canonical.com/ lucid partner"
</pre>

==== Window corruption with older ATI graphics cards ====
 
With older ATI graphics cards with 32MB or less of video RAM some corruption of direct rendered windows, for example OSD notifier windows, might appear. This may be worked around by disabling 'Render``Accel' in the Xorg configuration.  (Bug:426582)

To do this first exit to the console using the following command:
<pre>
sudo service gdm stop
</pre>
Then create an Xorg configuration file with the command below:
<pre>
sudo Xorg -configure
</pre>

Then add the 'Render``Accel' option to <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code>:
<pre>
Section "Device"
        ...
        Driver "radeon"
        Option "RenderAccel" "off"
EndSection
</pre>

And restart X/GDM.
<pre>
sudo service gdm start
</pre>

==== Incompatibility with nVidia upstream driver installer ====

lubuntu 10.04 LTS includes improved integration for nVidia binary driver packages.  Unfortunately, this comes at the expense of compatibility with the installer provided upstream on the nVidia website.  Users who wish to use the nVidia binary video drivers with 10.04 LTS should install them using the lubuntu packages, as made available under <code>System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers</code>.

==== Intel 8xx X freezes/crashes ====

The -intel driver fails with X freezes or crashes on certain i8xx hardware. The issue is known upstream but solutions are still under development. For now, to work around the issue, boot with the -vesa video driver. See http://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes for further details. 
