{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Please note that the cut off time for amending the agenda is 24 hours before the meeting.
=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Update on Lubuntu 12.10
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Report on QA (testing)
|-
| Anybody
| Any Other Business
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20120725T20 | Wednesday, July 25th, 2012, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===

Meeting started by phillw at 20:07:43 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-07-25-20.07.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Update from Julien for 12.10
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/TechnicalOverview/Alpha3#Lubuntu   (gilir, 20:11:15)

''LINK:'' http://lxde.git.sourceforge.net/git/gitweb.cgi?p=lxde/lxsession;a=blob;f=data/desktop.conf.example;h=5d6bbbb9eee697a9200792f39793d854243c0833;hb=HEAD   (gilir, 20:16:10)

* Update from QA Testing.
''LINK:'' http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/226/builds has the list of niggles found by the testers.  (phillw, 20:20:15)

* Any Other Business

Meeting ended at 20:34:10 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* phillw (30)
* gilir (23)
* Unit193 (4)
* ubottu (3)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 20:07:43 <phillw> #startmeeting Lubuntu Weekly Meeting

 20:07:43 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jul 25 20:07:43 2012 UTC.  The chair is phillw. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:07:43 <meetingology> 

 20:07:43 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:08:14 <phillw> hi, can we have a show of hands as to who is here

 20:08:16 <gilir> o/

 20:08:51 <Unit193> \o/

 20:09:09 <phillw> hmm, should be a short meeting, then!

 20:09:19 <gilir> :-)

 20:09:34 <phillw> #topic Update from Julien for 12.10

 20:10:09 <phillw> Can you bring us up to date on 12.10, please gilir

 20:10:29 <gilir> let me 1 min to find the link :)

 20:10:43 <phillw> np

 20:11:15 <gilir> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/TechnicalOverview/Alpha3#Lubuntu

 20:11:40 <gilir> so, most of the features have landed between A2 and A3

 20:12:25 <gilir> session manager had big modifications, but it should behave like the old one

 20:12:42 <gilir> as long as you don't enable the new features in the conf file, it should be just the same

 20:13:28 <gilir> the plan is to test them in this cycle, and build a nice GUI for the next cycle, to expose the new features

 20:14:02 <gilir> with this, pcmanfm was updated, and should be more stable now

 20:14:26 <gilir> this is 2 main changes that need to be tested

 20:14:52 <phillw> thanks, is there any documentation for the session manager?

 20:15:04 <gilir> there is also an update of the artwork (smaller than previous update)

 20:15:24 <gilir> there is a desktop.conf.example file in the package

 20:15:30 <phillw> thanks

 20:15:52 <gilir> you can also find it in lxde git

 20:16:10 <gilir> http://lxde.git.sourceforge.net/git/gitweb.cgi?p=lxde/lxsession;a=blob;f=data/desktop.conf.example;h=5d6bbbb9eee697a9200792f39793d854243c0833;hb=HEAD

 20:17:10 <gilir> except for the icons theme which is coming, the A3 should be close to the final release for the features

 20:17:33 <gilir> any questions ?

 20:17:59 <phillw> it's looking really good :)

 20:19:04 <phillw> #topic Update from QA Testing.

 20:19:30 <phillw> The good news is that there are no show-stopper bugs in the A3

 20:19:54 <gilir> cool :-)

 20:20:15 <phillw> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/226/builds has the list of niggles found by the testers.

 20:20:41 <phillw> Just waiting on Lars to complete the suite for AMD64 + Mac

 20:21:17 <phillw> It was a curtailed test period (again), but we're good for a3 release :)

 20:21:42 <phillw> for the record, the bugs found are:

 20:21:56 <phillw> bug 1007674

 20:21:57 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1007674 in linux (Ubuntu) "Panel volume slider does not respond" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1007674

 20:22:16 <phillw> bug 1009896

 20:22:17 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1009896 in lubuntu-meta (Ubuntu) "Lubuntu Alternate and Desktop images exceed 700MB" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1009896

 20:22:46 <phillw> bug 967308

 20:22:47 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 967308 in ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu (Ubuntu) "Sync slideshow apps with Ubuntu : Mention Gnote or Zim in the slideshow" [Low,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/967308

 20:23:01 <gilir> there is still a big oversize for every ISO, I'm not sure what is the real cause

 20:23:37 <gilir> the slideshow was not uploaded yet, but most of the changes are already done and ready for upload

 20:23:41 <phillw> Hmm, it does cause issues for the testers for powerpc. But they seem to have adapted.

 20:24:17 <phillw> does powerpc still have both browsers installed?

 20:24:54 <gilir> phillw, probably, but the change is done, just need to be uploaded

 20:25:07 <gilir> I can do it just after A3

 20:25:20 <phillw> okies, not sure how much over sized they currently are.

 20:25:22 <gilir> sorry, I was a bit late on this one :-(

 20:25:51 <phillw> it's okay. I know that the 'main' archs have to take priority of your scarce time.

 20:26:48 <phillw> It does rather seem that Lubuntu will be the only one flying the flag for PPC macs from now on. (So, no presuure then :P ).

 20:27:01 <gilir> :-)

 20:27:45 <phillw> kubuntu may do one, if they have time. Xubuntu are not doing & I think Ubuntu is too 'big' for powerpc computers

 20:28:53 <phillw> To have only a couple of niggles at A3 is a testament to the hard work of the dev team. You've produced a nice stable system again :)

 20:29:55 <phillw> I'd also like to note that the testers have, once again, been outstanding in getting bugs reported & following them up with more information when requested.

 20:30:21 <phillw> #topic Any Other Business

 20:30:55 <phillw> Unit193: you did mention something in the -ot channel. Do you want to repeat it here?

 20:31:43 <Unit193> They were going to sync all the access lists flags, so where some ops have +r and some don't, all would or would not.

 20:31:53 <Unit193> There was also syncing with launchpad goups.

 20:31:56 <Unit193> groups.

 20:33:43 <phillw> anyone else have something to raise?

 20:34:10 <phillw> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
