{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
|-
| <nowiki>[[Mohan_chml|Mohi]]</nowiki>
| A POC for maintaining Lubuntu FAQ pages
|-
| MrChrisDruif
| Discuss continuation of Netbook Interface
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Update on QA. Also will Lubuntu have a wastebin on the desktop
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Proposal to create dedicated teams
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20111221T20 | Wednesday, December 21, 2011, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===

Meeting started by gilir at 20:02:21 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-12-21-20.02.log.txt
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

* A POC for maintaining Lubuntu FAQ pages
''ACTION:'' phillw to email  amjjawad about the POC of the FAQ  (gilir, 20:23:36)

* Update on QA. Also will Lubuntu have a wastebin on the desktop

* Proposal to create dedicated teams
''ACTION:'' gilir to send the proposal of the teams to the mailing list  (gilir, 20:43:15)
''ACTION:'' Discuss continuation of Netbook Interface  (gilir, 20:44:01)
''LINK:'' http://holageek.com/v1/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/slingshot.png   (rafaellaguna, 20:52:01)

Meeting ended at 21:03:56 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* phillw to email  amjjawad about the POC of the FAQ
* gilir to send the proposal of the teams to the mailing list
* Discuss continuation of Netbook Interface

=== Action items, by person ===

* gilir
* * gilir to send the proposal of the teams to the mailing list
* phillw
* * phillw to email  amjjawad about the POC of the FAQ

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gilir (67)
* phillw (35)
* rafaellaguna (28)
* rezbd (18)
* stephen-smally (17)
* jmarsden (11)
* Yorvyk (11)
* gastly (9)
* meetingology (6)
* MrChrisDruif (6)
* moergaes (5)
* LogicalDream (4)
* Unit193 (2)
* tp0x45 (1)
* shandy (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:02:21 <gilir> #startmeeting

 20:02:22 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Dec 21 20:02:21 2011 UTC.  The chair is gilir. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 20:02:22 <meetingology> 

 20:02:22 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:02:36 <jmarsden> o/

 20:02:43 <gastly> o/

 20:02:43 <phillw> o/

 20:02:44 <gilir> hi :)

 20:02:48 <Yorvyk> o/

 20:02:50 <LogicalDream> 'ello

 20:02:51 <rezbd> 0/

 20:02:58 <rezbd> o/

 20:02:59 <moergaes> MÃ¶rgÃ¦s here

 20:03:04 <shandy> hi

 20:03:16 <Unit193> Howdy

 20:03:24 <tp0x45> hi all

 20:04:24 <gilir> as usual : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 20:04:36 <stephen-smally> Hi

 20:05:23 <gilir> Chris will not be available, so I'll skip its topics

 20:05:48 <gilir> Mohi doesn't seem to be here also :(

 20:06:12 <rezbd> I'm first time on a lubuntu meeting

 20:06:28 <phillw> gilir: I'll take the section for POC for wiki FAQ agenda

 20:06:29 <moergaes> Me too

 20:06:39 <LogicalDream> we are  not following this agenda tonight ? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda

 20:06:43 <gilir> for new people, we will follow the agenda, if you have a question, just o/ :)

 20:06:55 <stephen-smally> The netbook interface is an interesting topic

 20:06:56 <Unit193> LogicalDream: Wrong meeting

 20:06:58 <rezbd> ok :)

 20:07:26 <LogicalDream> It was one hour ago or ... ?

 20:07:51 <gastly> LogicalDream, that meeting was on Tuesday (according to the wiki page) :)

 20:08:05 <gilir> [TOPIC] Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

 20:09:00 <LogicalDream> tnx gastly my mistake

 20:09:22 <gastly> np :)

 20:09:34 <gilir> I'm a bit late for the previous actions :/

 20:10:03 <gilir> just, if you want to follow the updates done for the release time, the page is now up-to-date : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReleaseStatus/Precise

 20:10:39 <gilir> I'll do the others items later this week

 20:11:09 <gilir> [TOPIC] A POC for maintaining Lubuntu FAQ pages

 20:11:18 <gilir> phillw, ^ :)

 20:11:44 <stephen-smally> (stupid question) o/

 20:11:47 <phillw> As has been requested, so that we all know when an FAQ has been added

 20:12:11 <phillw> is someone willing to be point of contact so that things are tied up.

 20:12:44 <phillw> one example would be letting the guy who looks after the forum thread on Lubuntu be kept up to speed on additions?

 20:13:16 <phillw> stephen-smally:

 20:13:17 <moergaes> Anybody having a link to the FAQ pages?

 20:13:35 <stephen-smally> nevermind, is a question to gilir

 20:13:56 <jmarsden> moergaes: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ

 20:14:03 <moergaes> Thanks

 20:14:05 <gilir> phillw, you suggest to propose this to amjjawad ?

 20:14:47 <phillw> gilir: as he has also shown interest in looking after another wiki based area, once he is off his sick bed, I think he would be happy to fulfil that role.

 20:15:13 <Yorvyk> phillw: As I said on the list, I think it would help if there was a brief explanation of the role of the POC

 20:15:33 <rezbd> does amjjawad not come to the meeting? or he has a different nick for IRC? he's very helpful.

 20:16:00 <phillw> A point of contact is the 'delegated' person to whom queries can be directed, instead of just to the general mailing list.

 20:16:56 <phillw> that person knows the other POC's to whom some thing in one area could affect, it speeds up the transferrerance of pertinent information.

 20:17:19 <phillw> without flooding the mailing list.

 20:17:53 <gilir> phillw, do you know someone else interesting ?

 20:18:00 <jmarsden> IMO, FAQ maintenance needs a good understanding of the tech issues being answered, and of appropriate wording for the questions and their answers... are we expecting the "POC" to be "the official" FAQ maintainer?  Or just some sort of human information relay?

 20:18:07 <phillw> rezbd: It may be that it falls at bad time for his timezone.

 20:18:31 <phillw> jmarsden: a bit of both.

 20:19:00 <rezbd> phillw, I understand. it's bad time for my time zone too. 02:19 AM here right now.

 20:19:06 <phillw> At present, only those subscribed to FAQ section get notified of any aedits.

 20:19:21 <Yorvyk> jmarsden: thats what I was trying to get at.  How much do they need to know?

 20:20:24 <phillw> I would say they need to have enough knowledge to understand the exisiting FAQ's and also understand things from a n00b point of view.

 20:20:42 <gilir> jmarsden, that would be nice, but maybe just a review from a dev would be suffisent for the beginning ?

 20:21:13 <phillw> gilir: I'm for that, I used to send my proposed to you :)

 20:22:20 <jmarsden> OK, as long as we are not expecting more tech depth from amjjawad than is realistic.

 20:22:26 <phillw> a peer review of instructions that (may) include the use of sudo is a good idea :)

 20:22:37 <gilir> let's propose it, and see what he thinks about it, phillw could you do it ?

 20:22:53 <phillw> gilir: sure, email him.

 20:23:02 <phillw> you can #action that to me.

 20:23:31 <phillw> (*Sure, I will email*

 20:23:36 <gilir> [ACTION] phillw to email  amjjawad about the POC of the FAQ

 20:23:36 * meetingology phillw to email  amjjawad about the POC of the FAQ

 20:23:55 <gilir> ok next :)

 20:24:16 <gilir> [TOPIC] Update on QA. Also will Lubuntu have a wastebin on the desktop

 20:24:24 <gilir> phillw, still you :)

 20:24:48 <phillw> The QA team are busy looking at the further automation of tests in the lab.

 20:25:21 <phillw> they are also re-writing some the tests to be flavour specific (e.g. we use pcmanfm)

 20:26:12 <phillw> At random I chose a test that is to check that you can send something to the wastebin & delete it. Hence my question as to if Lubuntu will be putting the waste bin onto the desktop?

 20:26:22 <jmarsden> phillw: Any progress on automated ISO (install) testing?

 20:26:24 * jmarsden thinks that for political correctness, we have to be ecological and have a "recycling bin" not a wastebin :)

 20:27:08 <phillw> jmarsden: yeah, they are triaging some issues as some of the recent dailies have failed due to mixture of errors on the builds and the robot that tests them.

 20:27:48 <gilir> technicaly, we can't have a "real" wastebin on the desktop, just a shortcut

 20:28:11 <gilir> so, you can't do a "right click => empty"

 20:28:22 <phillw> the new auto system is most unlikely to be in for 12.04, we are due a session on learning about it in the New Year, anyone interested in attending, please email me & I'll ensure you are informed as to when it will be held.

 20:28:41 <gastly> gilir, I thought so, pcmanfm doesn't support this afaik

 20:29:08 <phillw> gilir: that is fine, as long as when I write the test it won't be obsolete by the time 12.04 launches!

 20:29:20 <rezbd> phillw, didn't get it. attending in what?

 20:29:40 <phillw> rezbd: a session on the new auto-testing system.

 20:29:45 <Yorvyk> I have never seen a reason or justification for a waste bin on the desktop-anybody got one?

 20:30:36 <moergaes> A link to a waste bin is fine with me.

 20:30:50 <gastly> I personally never use the waste bin :p

 20:30:50 <phillw> They are also looking to 'alter' iso testing from just "does it install" to test each app in the default install actually runs as expected. This, again, is not going to be in place for 12.04 and does require the auto-testing - or a lot of testers!

 20:30:57 <gilir> Yorvyk, same opinion here

 20:32:05 <phillw> there are a couple of auto-testers being discussed atm, again in January I should have some more to report back on that.

 20:32:16 <rezbd> phillw, does it require high speed internet connection to attend on that auto-testing system?

 20:32:32 <phillw> rezbd: nope, it is being held on IRC

 20:32:40 <rezbd> oh ok :)

 20:33:15 <phillw> my guess is that it will be on the qa channel, or in the classroom.

 20:33:38 <rezbd> that's cool :) I'm interested

 20:33:56 <gilir> I think the easiest way is to contact phillw directly if you are interesting in the topic :)

 20:34:21 <gilir> phillw, anything else for the QA report ?

 20:34:24 <phillw> for anyone who has not got my email  phillw@ubuntu.com will land in my inbox :)

 20:34:39 <phillw> gilir: not until we get to the teams bit, later.

 20:34:56 <gilir> ok, so I will jump to this :)

 20:35:07 <gilir> [TOPIC] Proposal to create dedicated teams

 20:35:33 <gilir> something I would like to re-create is the system of team, we had in the past

 20:35:40 <gilir> team/teams

 20:36:08 <rezbd> phillw, it's not so difficult to get your email. I see you talk regularly in Lubuntu mailing  :)

 20:36:09 <gilir> I added my ideas on the wiki page : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Teams_New

 20:36:47 <gilir> the goal is coordinate the work inside of each team

 20:37:12 <gilir> for example, the artwork team is already working on the 12.04 artwork :)

 20:37:31 <stephen-smally> i think is a good idea

 20:37:44 <rezbd> sounds cool :)

 20:37:50 <stephen-smally> but, will each team have a mailing list?

 20:38:01 <phillw> gilir: I'm all for, as you know a QA/Testing team.

 20:38:05 <gilir> with this, we can work inside each team, and coordinate all together during the meeting on Wednesday, or the mailing list

 20:38:17 <rezbd> how many teams out there developing Lubuntu?

 20:38:32 <gilir> stephen-smally, each team can do what they want for communication :)

 20:38:43 <stephen-smally> is great

 20:38:55 <rafaellaguna> sorry, I'm late!

 20:39:12 <stephen-smally> so if a developer need a nice design for a stuff can ask on the artwork mailing list (or whatever)

 20:39:16 <gilir> rezbd, teams are not created yet :)

 20:39:27 <jmarsden> gilir: Do you have proposed leaders/coordinators for each of the proposed teams listed at : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Teams_New

 20:39:38 <gilir> rafaellaguna, just in time, I'm talking about teams and the artwork team ;)

 20:39:40 <Yorvyk> These teams will be part of the larger general ubuntu teams?

 20:39:53 <rafaellaguna> nice :)

 20:40:11 <gilir> jmarsden, no, I think each teams should nominated a leader / coordinator

 20:40:18 <gilir> but it's part of the discussion :)

 20:40:25 <rafaellaguna> I have a question about Network session (artwork related) too

 20:40:50 <gilir> Yorvyk, they can work with other ubuntu teams, but they have to organize this

 20:41:43 <gilir> rafaellaguna, we can talk about it after this topic

 20:41:50 <rafaellaguna> ok

 20:42:28 <stephen-smally> btw, +1 for the separated teams

 20:42:35 <gilir> if nobody have comment now, I can send an official proposal to the list, and open the teams :)

 20:42:48 <jmarsden> gilir: go for it :)

 20:42:51 <gastly> yup +1 for the teams

 20:42:53 <phillw> +1

 20:43:15 <gilir> [ACTION] gilir to send the proposal of the teams to the mailing list

 20:43:15 * meetingology gilir to send the proposal of the teams to the mailing list

 20:43:46 <gilir> ok, move to the netbook session

 20:44:01 <gilir> [ACTION] Discuss continuation of Netbook Interface

 20:44:01 * meetingology Discuss continuation of Netbook Interface

 20:44:25 <gilir> I'll introduce this one :)

 20:44:54 <jmarsden> gilir: what about rafaellaguna's question... ?

 20:44:54 <gilir> so the netbook interface was create just to show how lxlauncher can work :)

 20:45:27 <gilir> we did do much work about it, since the beginning

 20:45:57 <rafaellaguna> Not too many interventions on this interface

 20:46:05 <stephen-smally> i think lxlauncher needs heavy tweaks anyway

 20:46:16 <gilir> I don't think there is so much work to keep it, it's already working

 20:46:23 <rafaellaguna> I must say it's needed a complete rework

 20:46:30 <rafaellaguna> not simply patching

 20:46:57 <rafaellaguna> I'm not talking about the possibility of including a selectable background

 20:46:57 <gilir> rafaellaguna, there is a work-in-progress to add theming support for lxlauncher

 20:47:15 <gilir> but work-in-progress since more than a year :-/

 20:47:22 <rafaellaguna> gilir: no, I'm focused on Lubuntu session "only"

 20:47:37 <stephen-smally> basically, lxlauncher read a gtkrc file.

 20:47:37 <rafaellaguna> gilir: yep, I tried, but was unsuccesful

 20:47:47 <stephen-smally> but the customization is not so simple, and:

 20:48:02 <stephen-smally> 1 - the tabbed interface is not comfortable

 20:48:03 <gilir> rafaellaguna, of course, the classic session is the priority :)

 20:48:31 <rafaellaguna> My idea is, if the project continues, making something similar to Elementary's Slingshot launcher

 20:48:56 <rafaellaguna> KDE did something similar on the new Netbook Plasma environment

 20:50:26 <rafaellaguna> can I put a link?

 20:50:28 <gilir> rafaellaguna, same problem as always, do we have the manpower to do it

 20:50:47 <gilir> rafaellaguna, yes, with the LINK tag

 20:50:55 <rafaellaguna> well, you all know now "I am two"

 20:51:16 <Yorvyk> Is there any suggestion that anybody use the netbook Interface?

 20:51:28 <rafaellaguna> :) I mean, frankbooth is the other part of the artwork team

 20:51:43 <rafaellaguna> a friend of mine loves that interface, more than classic session

 20:51:45 <gilir> unless we can re-use something, which need to be lightweight, it would be difficult to change this interface

 20:52:01 <rafaellaguna> http://holageek.com/v1/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/slingshot.png

 20:52:46 <gilir> rafaellaguna, do you have a link to the source also ? :p

 20:53:15 <rafaellaguna> of lxlauncher?

 20:53:29 <gastly> rafaellaguna, that looks similar to gnome-shell

 20:53:52 <gilir> rafaellaguna, no, to slingshot

 20:53:58 <rafaellaguna> gastly: yes, but it's a hundred lighter

 20:53:58 <stephen-smally> is hosted on launchpad (and written in vala ;-P)

 20:54:08 <rezbd> it look gorgeous. rafaellaguna , what's interface is it?

 20:54:13 <rafaellaguna> gilir: no, there's a team on launchpad

 20:54:43 <gilir> find it : https://code.launchpad.net/~elementary-pantheon/slingshot/new-slingshot

 20:54:57 <Yorvyk> It looks like a load of icons on the desktop :(

 20:55:01 <rafaellaguna> warning: the new-slingshot is different

 20:55:32 <phillw> Yorvyk: that, I believe is how they run their netbooks... very wierd :)

 20:55:53 <rezbd> lol Yorvyk , yea for a classic deskop

 20:56:14 <rafaellaguna> gilir: slingshot now is a gnome2-like menu, semitransparent, like Cinnamon (the new Gnome3 fork for Mint) will look like

 20:56:34 <rafaellaguna> it's a hard work taking that and adapt to Lubuntu

 20:56:47 <rafaellaguna> also, pantheon library requierements are huge!

 20:58:12 <Yorvyk> I believe we need to find netbook users that like that style of interface and ask them for their views.

 20:58:56 <rezbd> I really like the present desktop interface of Lubuntu. I wounder what will it look like on 12.04 !

 20:58:58 <Yorvyk> 2 mins to go!

 20:59:21 <rezbd> Yorvyk, I'm a netbook user.

 20:59:43 <rafaellaguna> honestly, I think it's unnecessary, classic session looks fine on netbooks and also notebooks

 20:59:59 <jmarsden> +1

 21:00:03 <gastly> +1

 21:00:12 <gilir> well, unles we have a good replacement, I suggest to keep the situation as it is now :)

 21:00:26 <stephen-smally> yes, but anyway we shouldn't ship lxlauncher until is ready

 21:00:26 <Yorvyk> +1

 21:00:40 * rezbd agrees with gilir

 21:00:44 <MrChrisDruif> Evening

 21:00:48 <MrChrisDruif> Sorry I'm so late

 21:00:49 <rafaellaguna> me agrees gilir

 21:00:50 <MrChrisDruif> Couldn't come any earlier

 21:01:04 <gilir> stephen-smally, well it is ready, it just can't do many things :)

 21:01:22 <stephen-smally> graphically speaking ;-)

 21:01:31 <gilir> MrChrisDruif, it's time to finish :( but you will be able to read the logs

 21:01:58 <gilir> ok, let's finish, thanks everyone :)

 21:02:03 <MrChrisDruif> Unless everyone has to go, then there is no reason to stop =P

 21:02:05 <gilir> just a quick information to finish

 21:02:21 <gilir> I would like to cancel the next meeting

 21:02:23 <Yorvyk> OK bye - must dash!

 21:02:34 <stephen-smally> no problem, is christmas time

 21:02:40 <MrChrisDruif> Bye Yorvyk

 21:02:43 <rafaellaguna> due to xmas?

 21:02:59 <gilir> rafaellaguna, yes

 21:03:12 <gilir> I'll had it the minutes of the meeting

 21:03:23 <gastly> Good, I have exams next week xD

 21:03:28 <MrChrisDruif> rafaellaguna; the in-between time of Christmas & New Years

 21:03:30 <jmarsden> So next meeting Wed Jan 4 2012

 21:03:37 <gilir> thanks to everyones, see you next year ;)

 21:03:50 <rafaellaguna> happy new year to everybody! :)

 21:03:56 <gilir> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
