{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

Mailing list thread : https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-desktop/msg00412.html

==== Gxine ====
<nowiki>[[http://www.xine-project.org/home | Xine project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~starfall87 | Shae Smittle]]</nowiki> suggests.

==== MPlayer/SMPlayer ====
<nowiki>[[http://www.mplayerhq.hu/design7/news.html | MPlayer project]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://smplayer.sourceforge.net/ | SMPlayer project]]</nowiki>
* (PCMan): Mplayer is the best available lightweight multimedia player. Though written in Qt, it doesn't require any KDE libs and only needs pure Qt4 (just like VLC). Besides, this is one of the most user-friendly among availble GUI frontend for mplayers.  
* +1 (Mario Behling) 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh|Luther]]</nowiki>: Mplayer doesn't work for me some times
* Druid Of System Mplayer works very well and it doesn't depends on qt4.
* Christian Johansson: +1
* FreeAtMind +1, is lighter and good option, better for me than vlc 

==== MPlayer/gnome-mplayer ====
* +1 Leszek Lesner
* +1 Julien Lavergne
* +1 om26er

==== VLC ====
<nowiki>[[http://www.videolan.org/vlc/ | VLC project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh|Luther]]</nowiki> I always thought VLC is a must have for me.. as it handles every format I throw at it, without the need to install additional codecs.
* Ed Hewitt +1, only if we can get rid of the QT4 dependencies
* David Sugar: Well, mplayer fits the mission better than most other choices..
** Asunder -- Music ripping (Shae Smittle) 

=== Video editing software ===
PiTiVi has gstreamer dependencies :(

==== Avidemux ====
* +1 Leszek Lesner

Very easy editing/cutting and converting videos

==== LiVes ====
Videoediting System: http://lives.sourceforge.net/
perhaps to professional/complicated ?? 
