{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Please note that Lubuntu Maverick is based on Ubuntu Maverick, same
warning apply :

"Pre-releases of Maverick are *not* encouraged for anyone needing a
stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional,
even frequent breakage.  They are, however, recommended for Ubuntu
developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing
bugs."

=== What's new ? ===
Since Alpha 3 :
* New lxappareance from LXDE git (without Openbox integration)
* And the usual updates from Ubuntu.

Since the beginning of Maverick :
* Updates on programs installed by default :
** Update-notifier was added
** Xpad was added
** Parcellite was removed
** Pyneighborhood was removed
** LXtask was added, to replace Xfce4-taskmanager
** Evince is now used for reading PDF.
** Some small games, powered by ace-of-penguins.
* New theme, made by Rafael Laguna
* New slideshow available during the installation
* LXDE is now HAL-free. Lubuntu still depends on HAL for CD-burner, but by removing it, you can obtain a HAL-free system.
* A new meta-package (lubuntu-core) is available to install only core packages of Lubuntu.
* A new meta-package (lubuntu-restricted-extras) is available to install restricted packages for Lubuntu (such as flash, java and extra codecs for chromium)
* Add support for indicator applets on lxpanel (turn off by default)
* And the usual updates of LXDE and Lubuntu components packages.

=== Specific Lubuntu changes ===
Lubuntu contains 2 specific changes still not available on Ubuntu
official repository :
* Support for lxdm in ubiquity
* Lubuntu slideshow for ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu

=== Testing needed ===
We'll appreciate some feedbacks about the followings recent additions :
* The new lxappearance

=== Known bugs ===
* Start menu of the Live-CD is not correctly translated.
* Install menu entry in the Live-CD doesn't work.
* Keyboard layout is not correctly set on the Live-CD session.
* The splash screen on Live-CD session may fall-back to Ubuntu text one.
* Installer doesn't install correct restricted packages
* Installer breaks the slideshow (LP: #627623)
* Installer icon is not the Lubuntu one.
* Self test of the CD fails (see below).

=== Reporting bugs ===
You can find information on how to report bug on this wiki page :
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReportingBugs

=== Download ===
Torrent: <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/lubuntu-maverick-beta1.iso.torrent|Torrent Download]]</nowiki>

Download: <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/lubuntu-maverick-beta1.iso|Standard Download]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/lubuntu-maverick-beta1.iso|Second source for standard Download]]</nowiki>

Md5: http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/md5sum.txt

Please read the notes at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing#Check downloaded image file and CD|Checksum testing on Lubuntu]]</nowiki>.
