{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== System Requirements ==

The minimum memory requirement for running Lubuntu 11.04 is 128 MB of memory. Note that some of your system's memory may be unavailable due to being used by the graphics card.

To use the graphical installer from the live-cd, you need at least 256 MB of memory. You need to use the "Install Lubuntu" entry when you boot the Live-CD.

Systems with less memory need to perform a minimal installation (see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp/MinimalInstall | Minimal Install]]</nowiki>).

Ubuntu (and so Lubuntu) dropped the support for the following CPUs:
* VIA C3
* AMD K6
* National Semiconductor
* AMD Geode
You will not be able to upgrade or to install if you're using this CPU model. The team are going to support <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp#10.04 | 10.04]]</nowiki> as if it were an LTS.

== Lubuntu notes ==

=== Untranslated menu entries ===
When you start the live-cd and select another language than English, you will have the first 2 menu entries not translated.

=== Needed installation size for graphical installation ===
The graphical installer will not continue if you have less that 5 GB available for installation. However, you can install Lubuntu using the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-DocumentationHelp-MinimalInstall | minimal installation instructions]]</nowiki> with less than 4 GB available.

=== Quick search Synaptic ===
The quick search feature in Synaptic is disabled by default, due to hanging on some system with it enabled. However if you are confident that this won't happen to you, it is easily enabled. Just open a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp/LXTerminal | LXTerminal]]</nowiki> session and enter the following command:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install apt-xapian-index
</pre>
It has an additional dependency it wants to install to function properly. After installation it will index the repositories, which will take few minutes the first time. After this small venture to the terminal it should work properly again.

Another option is to install it with Synaptic itself, but don't be surprised it the quick search option remains grayed out / not visible at all until after a shutdown of synaptic. To install it with synaptic you only need to search for apt-xapian-index, mark it for installation and apply.

== Ubuntu notes ==
Please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyNarwhal/ReleaseNotes#Known Issues with Ubuntu | the release notes]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu notes about this releases.
