{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Lubuntu 12.04 is now available :

* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/12.04/release/

=== What is Lubuntu ? ===

Lubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu based on the Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment (LXDE), as its default GUI.  The goal is to provide a very lightweight distribution, with all the advantages of the Ubuntu world (repositories, support, etc.). Lubuntu is targeted at "normal" PC and laptop users running on low-spec hardware. Such users may not know how to use command line tools, and in most cases they just don't have enough resources for all the bells and whistles of the "full-featured" mainstream distributions.

With many LXDE components, <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.net|Lubuntu]]</nowiki> also uses well-known applications, such as Chromium, Openbox, Pidgin, to name a few. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu project wiki]]</nowiki> contains more information on the project and the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications | applications used]]</nowiki> available.

Unlike Ubuntu, Lubuntu 12.04 is not a LTS, this version will be supported for 18 months. However, a lot of work has been done to improve the stability of the system.

=== Features ===

* Based on the lightweight LXDE desktop environment.
* Pcmanfm 0.9.10, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/ | Openbox]]</nowiki>, the fast and extensible, default windows-manager of LXDE.
* Lightdm, using the simple GTK greeter
* Chromium, the open-source version of Google Chrome.
* ... and, of course, based on Ubuntu 12.04 LTS.

See the complete list of applications on
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications

=== Improvements since Lubuntu 11.10 ===
* A new software-center, optimized to be lightweight, for easy installation and removal of applications from your system.
* New theme is used, and each previous themes are available in the repositories.
* Lightdm is used as the display manager with the default gtk greeter.
* Blueman is now used instead of gnome-bluetooth for managing bluetooth devices.
* A lot of bug fixes, especially on the panel and the file manager.

=== Releases notes and known issues ===
The release notes, with a list of known problems are available on
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes/Lubuntu

=== Reporting bugs ===
You can find information on how to report a bug on this wiki page :
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReportingBugs

=== Thanks ===

A big thank to everyone involving in the development of this new great release : LXDE developers, Ubuntu developers, ISO testers, artwork and design people, social-network & blog writers, support & IRC keepers ... It's another success of a great team work :-)

=== Links ===

* Website : http://lubuntu.net/
* Documentation : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu
* LXDE website : http://lxde.org/
* Announcement: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Announcement/12.04
