{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


After Alpha 1's release on 26 June, Testing continues for this cycle.

Alpha 2 is set to be released 31 July with testing beginning around 3 July, so we need to get testing. You can see the rest of the schedule for the cycle
here, by the way: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule

All images are available at http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/318/builds

If you're not familiar with testing, it's an easy process and a simple
way to get involved. More information is in the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing area.

As many of you know, we've targeted 15.04 for the Qt transition:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing/14.10
so this cycle we will be doing mostly maintenance. That being said,
this is a great opportunity to get involved and get used to testing so
you can help us when we really need it for 15.04.

One thing to note for newbies and veterans alike: these are alphas, so
it is not recommended to replace your production machine with these
installs. Instead either use a separate partition or better yet a
virtual machine:
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VirtualMachines

I especially ask the ppc and amd64+mac users to help out. Alpha 1 did not have any such images because no one tested. It's important not just to test but to record your results in the tracker as mentioned above. Especially if you have show-stopping results like you cannot boot or the installation is unusable for some reason, we need to know this so we can get things fixed before the release. Otherwise these images will not exist. We are one of the few flavors that supports ppc at least, so I would consider this rather important. Similarly, testers need to get used to the process so they can be ready for 15.04 testing. I expect ppc to especially need help.

I'm the new release manager this cycle so bear with me as I stumble
about and learn everything, but if you have any questions, comments,
or concerns, don't hesitate to ask. On IRC, I'm always at #lubuntu,

<nowiki>[[wxl]]</nowiki>
