{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''Please note that the deadline for amending the agenda is 24 hours before the meeting.'''

== Meeting Schedule for 13.10 (all at 20:00 UTC / GMT) ==
* Tue 25th June (pre Alpha 1)
* Tue 23rd July (pre Alpha 2)
* Tue 27th August (Pre Beta 1)
* Tue 24th September (Pre Final Beta)
* Tue 15th October (Final push for the release of 13.10).

== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #EDE7EA ;"> Who
| Subject
| Details
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
| Say '''o/''' when asked
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Update on Lubuntu 13.10
| A short session from the boss
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Report on QA (testing)
| Where we are, before asking of bug progress
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Bugs
| 
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1200832 | Slide show says Chromium is included]]</nowiki> change to FF - Fixed, but need somebody with "powers" to mark as fixed. ( 1200832 )
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1192770 | 1192770]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openbox/+bug/1193051 |1193051]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxsession/+bug/1193406 | 1193406]]</nowiki>; Open bugs:
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xscreensaver/+bug/1202908 | 1202908]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/evince/+bug/1022962 | 1022962]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1192791 | 1192791]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galculator/+bug/1193033 | 1193033]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openbox/+bug/1193055 | 1193055]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lame/+bug/1194281 | 1194281]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1204052| 1204052]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ibere-fernandes/+reportedbugs | Reported bugs]]</nowiki>.
|-
| TBA
| PPC Bugs
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1066435 | 1066435]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1194319 | 1194319]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ppc/+bug/1153972 | 1153972]]</nowiki>, maybe others
|-
| <nowiki>[[KristopherMaguire]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~krismaguire | Introducing myself]]</nowiki>.
| Ideas & a few issues to raise
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| Follow Up/Updates
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/CommunicationsTeam/WOWLubuntu/StartUbuntu | Start Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Brainstorming | Lubuntu Brainstorming]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-qa/msg03052.html | Not yet confirmed bugs/Pending Bugs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-meta/+bug/1072108 | Trash on Desktop]]</nowiki>
|-
| Anybody
| Any Other Business
| A final round up
|}

* KristopherMaguire will not be available until around 20:30 UTC/GMT.

* <nowiki>[[Ibere-Fernandes]]</nowiki> will be on family vacation on July 23rd. Just updated the bug report using daily build 20130712 and 20130718.

== Place ==

* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #lubuntu-offtopic
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=lubuntu offtopic | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

== Time ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20130723T20&p1=1440 | Tuesday, July 23rd, 2013, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting information ===
* #lubuntu-offtopic: Lubuntu Meeting, 23 Jul at 20:00 &mdash; 20:46 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/lubuntu-offtopic/2013/lubuntu-offtopic.2013-07-23-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Attendance ====
The discussion about "Attendance" started at 20:00.

==== Agenda ====
The discussion about "Agenda" started at 20:04.

==== Update on Lubuntu 13.10 ====
The discussion about "Update on Lubuntu 13.10" started at 20:05.

==== Report on QA (testing) ====
The discussion about "Report on QA (testing)" started at 20:10.

==== bugs ====
The discussion about "bugs" started at 20:18.

** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1200832 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1192770 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openbox/+bug/1193051 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxsession/+bug/1193406 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-meta/+bug/1202908 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/evince/+bug/1022962 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1192791 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galculator/+bug/1193033 
** ''ACTION:'' phillw to ask about https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galculator/+bug/1193033
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openbox/+bug/1193055 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lame/+bug/1194281 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1204052 

==== PPC bugs ====
The discussion about "PPC bugs" started at 20:36.

==== Introducing myself. Kris Macguire ====
The discussion about "Introducing myself. Kris Macguire" started at 20:38.

==== Follow up from amjjawad ====
The discussion about "Follow up from amjjawad" started at 20:41.

==== Any other Business. ====
The discussion about "Any other Business." started at 20:43.

==== Next Meeting ====
The discussion about "Next Meeting" started at 20:45.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items ===

* phillw to ask about https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galculator/+bug/1193033

=== Action items, by person ===

* phillw
** phillw to ask about https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galculator/+bug/1193033

=== People present (lines said) ===

* phillw (64)
* gilir (22)
* ubot93 (12)
* Kris (5)
* meetingology (4)
* Guest93419 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:00 <phillw> #startmeeting Lubuntu Meeting

 20:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul 23 20:00:36 2013 UTC.  The chair is phillw. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:00 <meetingology> 

 20:00 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:00 <phillw> #topic Attendance

 20:01 <phillw> please say /o if you are here!

 20:02 <phillw> this could be a real short meeting!

 20:02 <gilir> hi

 20:03 <Kris> phillw: Think you're right

 20:03 <gilir> my /o was vanished, do you mean o/ ?

 20:03 <phillw> sorry, o/ :)

 20:03 <Kris> gilir: Good evening, pleased to meet you!

 20:03 <Kris> o/

 20:04 <phillw> no doubt others will catch up....

 20:04 <phillw> #topic Agenda

 20:05 <phillw> tonight's agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 20:05 <phillw> #topic Update on Lubuntu 13.10

 20:05 <phillw> gilir: the floor is yours :)

 20:06 <gilir> not a lot a say unfortunately

 20:06 <gilir> I'm still workin on the background to fix and improve the lxsession

 20:07 <gilir> there will be a round of updates after A2 probably, no big changes

 20:08 <gilir> artwork guys are working, LXDE guys are merging ...

 20:09 <gilir> everybody works, but not a lot to show :-)

 20:09 <gilir> if nobody have questions, we can pass to the next item of the agenda

 20:09 <phillw> I saw that work with qt is happening, is there any news on that?

 20:10 <gilir> nothing that will impact 13.10

 20:10 <phillw> thanks.

 20:10 <phillw> any one else got questions?

 20:10 <Kris> None here

 20:10 <phillw> #topic Report on QA (testing)

 20:11 <phillw> A set of respins (well two in rapid succession) have been done for the Alpha 2 today. The first for a bug in lightdm, the second for a new kernel release.

 20:12 <phillw> On PPC, we did not manage an Alpha 1 release and the release team have told me that alpha 2 is pretty much dead in the water.

 20:13 <phillw> They have, however, said that time will be spent after the alpha 2 to prioritise the show-shopper bugs for PPC.

 20:13 <phillw> I will keep the mailing list updated with progress.

 20:13 <phillw> has anyone any questions?

 20:14 <Kris> How popular is the PPC version?

 20:16 <phillw> Kris: it's hard to tell, we do not have numbers of those who download it, only input from when they find bugs that do not have work arounds in the release notes. As we are pretty much the last bastion of support for PPC, and it falls in our remit. We will continue to attempt a release for as long as we have an active set of testers.

 20:16 <phillw> This also is the opinion of the ubuntu-release team etc.

 20:17 <phillw> any other questions?

 20:18 <phillw> #topic bugs

 20:18 <Guest93419> Sorry, my internet is dropping out due to the storm

 20:18 <phillw> I'll quickly go through these, I know that gilir has recently updated some of them.

 20:19 <phillw> If gilir can give a quick comment on them....

 20:19 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1200832

 20:19 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1200832 in ubiquity (Ubuntu) "Slide show say Chromium is included: change to FF" [Undecided,New]

 20:20 <gilir> this will be part of the update of the slideshow

 20:21 <gilir> it's not the only one to change

 20:21 <phillw> okies, thanks

 20:21 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1192770

 20:21 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1192770 in lubuntu-artwork (Ubuntu) "live session of Lubuntu 13.10 says 13.04 instead" [Undecided,Fix released]

 20:21 <gilir> fixed

 20:21 <phillw> same as above :)

 20:22 <phillw> ooh, thanks.. I'll shut up!

 20:22 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openbox/+bug/1193051

 20:22 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1193051 in openbox (Ubuntu) "Openbox menu shows Chromium: need to change for Firefox" [Undecided,Fix released]

 20:22 <phillw> ditto

 20:22 <gilir> but yes, artwork need a bit of update for the version

 20:23 <phillw> Yeah, I'll quickly review artwork ones before posting up!

 20:23 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxsession/+bug/1193406

 20:23 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1193406 in lxsession (Ubuntu) "nm-applet crashes after quitting installation" [Undecided,Fix released]

 20:24 <gilir> fix reported by user

 20:24 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-meta/+bug/1202908

 20:24 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1204052 in lubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu) "duplicate for #1202908 Keybind to lock screen still using removed xscreensaver-command " [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:24 <phillw> I've seen a suggested patch for this....

 20:25 <gilir> duplicate, fix in progress

 20:25 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/evince/+bug/1022962

 20:25 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1022962 in evince (Ubuntu) "LXDE, apparmor: "Show Containing Folder" button failed to execute err" [Low,Confirmed]

 20:26 <gilir> I need to look at it, but I only focus on easy fix for now, there is time for bug fixes only

 20:27 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1192791

 20:27 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1192791 in lxpanel (Ubuntu) "Wired network applet: missing info when mousing over it" [Undecided,New]

 20:27 <gilir> know bug, already advertise when I update lxsession, work in progress

 20:28 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galculator/+bug/1193033

 20:28 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1193033 in galculator (Ubuntu) "Galculator crashes in Brazilian portuguese" [Undecided,New]

 20:28 <phillw> is that upstream?

 20:29 <gilir> don't know, didn't have time to look at it

 20:29 <phillw> I'll see if the there is gcalculator team and ask

 20:30 <phillw> #action phillw to ask about https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galculator/+bug/1193033

 20:30 * meetingology phillw to ask about https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/galculator/+bug/1193033

 20:30 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1193033 in galculator (Ubuntu) "Galculator crashes in Brazilian portuguese" [Undecided,New]

 20:30 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openbox/+bug/1193055

 20:30 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1193055 in lubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu) "Openbox menu: Transmission is broken" [Undecided,New]

 20:31 <gilir> probably easy to fix, I'll look at it

 20:31 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lame/+bug/1194281

 20:31 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1194281 in lame (Ubuntu) "Multimedia support available both on Live Session and fresh install without installing restricted-extras: MP3, wmv, wma" [Undecided,New]

 20:32 <gilir> not sure it's a real bug, but it's an expected behavior

 20:32 <gilir> I keep this one for later

 20:33 <phillw> okies, if it expected bahaviour (and legal) please mark it as such :D

 20:33 <phillw> https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1204052

 20:33 <ubot93> Launchpad bug 1204052 in lubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu) "Keybind to lock screen still using removed xscreensaver-command " [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:33 <gilir> fix in progress

 20:33 <phillw> ahh, that is the dupe of the earlier one.

 20:34 <phillw> the lightdm bug that was affecting Alpha 2 has been resolved and is fixed in the new versions of the A2.

 20:35 <phillw> Any other bugs worth mentioning by anyone (none PPC)

 20:36 <phillw> #topic PPC bugs

 20:37 <phillw> As the release team have requested that we suspend PPC testing on the A2 owing to some critical problem in the kernel, I'll not run through these bugs

 20:37 <phillw> For the record, they are going to spend some time getting a PPC up and running before Beta 1

 20:38 <phillw> #topic Introducing myself. Kris Macguire

 20:38 <phillw> This is depending if the electrical storms have taken his internet out.

 20:40 <phillw> As I cannot see him on the list of people, I think his internet connection has sucommed to the thunder storm (We're having several heavy ones across the UK at present).

 20:41 <phillw> #topic Follow up from amjjawad

 20:42 <phillw> I know he has had to go away from keyboard for a short while.

 20:43 <phillw> On a personal note, I'd like to re-itterate my thanks for his help to lubuntu and wish him all the best in his new areas. He will not be a stranger, just moved on to prioritise new areas.

 20:43 <phillw> #topic Any other Business.

 20:44 <phillw> Anyone got any questions in general?

 20:45 <phillw> I know Kris will be swearing like a true Scottish person at the weather!

 20:45 <phillw> #topic Next Meeting

 20:46 <phillw> the Next meeting will be held at 20:00 UTC on #lubuntu-offtopic on Tue 27th August (Pre Beta 1)

 20:46 <phillw> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
