{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Lubuntu 10.10 is now available :

* Torrent : http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/lubuntu-10.10.iso.torrent
* Direct download : http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/lubuntu-10.10.iso
* Md5: http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/md5sum.txt

=== What is Lubuntu ? ===

Lubuntu is an Ubuntu derivated using the LXDE desktop. It's designed to be a lightweight and easy-to-use desktop environment.

Lubuntu is actually not part of the Ubuntu family, and not build with the current Ubuntu infrastructure. This release is considered as a « stable beta », a result that could be a final and stable release if we was included in the Ubuntu family.

=== Features ===

* Based on the lightweight LXDE desktop environment.
* Pcmanfm 0.9.7, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* Lxdm, a lightweight GTK display manager.
* Chromium, the open-source version of Google Chrome.
* ... and, of course, based on Ubuntu 10.10

See the complete list of applications on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications

=== Improvements since Lubuntu 10.04 ===

==== Applications by default ====
Programs installed by default have been updated
* Added :
Update-notifier, to get notification for available updates.

Xpad, to create quick notes (similar to Tomboy).

Ace-of-penguins, to provide some games

* Removed 
Parcellite, which is not maintained upstream, is less useful since most of copy/paste bugs was gone with pcmanfm 0.9.X

Pyneighborhood was replaced by gvfs support of pcmanfm.

* Changes
LXtask replace Xfce4-taskmanager for tasks monitoring.

Evince is now used for reading PDF, ePDFview have some serious memory leaks.

==== New theme ====
A new and fresh theme, made by Rafael Laguna, is available.

==== Installer slideshow ====
New slideshow is available during the installation, to describe Lubuntu and its features.

==== Indicators supports ====
Lxpanel now support Ubuntu indicators applets. This feature is turn off by default, but you can activate it by adding the "Indicators applet”.

==== New extras packages ====
* A new meta-package (lubuntu-core) is available to install only core packages of Lubuntu.
* A new meta-package (lubuntu-restricted-extras) is available to install restricted packages for Lubuntu (such as flash, java and extra codecs for chromium)

==== LXDE updates ====
* LXDE is now HAL-free. Lubuntu still depends on HAL for CD-burner, but by removing it, you can obtain a HAL-free system.
* New lxappareance from LXDE git (without Openbox integration)

And the usual updates of LXDE and Ubuntu packages included in Lubuntu.

=== Releases notes and known issues ===
The release notes, with a list of known problems are available on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReleaseNotes/MaverickMeerkat

=== Specific Lubuntu changes ===

Lubuntu still contains modifications not available in the official
repository, you can see them in the Lubuntu PPA [1] :
* Autologin support in ubiquity (LP: #546445)
* Support Install only mode in ubiquity
* Support for lubuntu-restricted package in ubiquity

=== Reporting bugs ===
You can find information on how to report bug on this wiki page :
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReportingBugs

=== Thanks ===

I would like to thanks all people involved in the development of Lubuntu
during this past 6 months :

Thanks to the LXDE team for providing this fast and nice desktop environment.

Thanks to Rafael for his wonderful work on this new artwork.

Thanks to Mario for his wonderful work on the website, the wiki and all
the advertising.

Thanks to all testers which help in the testing process, making Lubuntu better.

Thanks to Phillw and Zach, our masters of the wiki and the documentation.

Thanks to all people which help to provide support and documentation to
new Lubuntu users.

It was a pleasure to work with you.

=== Links ===

* Website : http://lubuntu.net/
* Documentation : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu
* LXDE website : http://lxde.org/

[1] : https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-desktop/+archive/ppa
