{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{{{#!wiki warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
}}}

== Common Known Issues ==
=== Outline ===
There have been some common issues reported with Lubuntu, some that are bugs others that are decisions taken for a list of reasons. If these are bugs these issues have been brought up with the developers already and a bug has been filed against the appropriate application or package. If these are decisions taken then the information provided is to allow you to decide if you would like it or not. This is a place to keep up to date on any temporary fixes until the developers are able to fix the issue. If adding anything to this page please make sure you email the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|mailing list]]</nowiki> as well.

If you are not sure if a problem should be listed here or not please just email the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|mailing list]]</nowiki> for some discussion on the issue.

=== Network File Browsing with PCManFM ===

There has been reports of PCManFM having problems displaying networked drives and folders correctly. This is not actually a bug but a feature where it allows the user to decide if this package is required for them. If you would like to use PCManFM to browse networked drives and folders this is easily accomplished by simply installing the package gvfs-backends:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install gvfs-backends
</pre>

''Link to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/maverick-changes/2010-June/001112.html|version history]]</nowiki> of PCManFM''

=== Dual boot with Lubuntu 10.10 ===

Some users have reported that when installing Lubuntu 10.10 to a dual boot environment with another operating system the other operating system will not be shown in the Grub menu (boot menu). If this occurs the easiest work around is to install a package to detect other operating systems, update the grub menu and then to reboot. This is as easy as:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install os-prober 
sudo update-grub
sudo reboot
</pre>

''Link to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10031199|Ubuntu Forum thread]]</nowiki> that displays the problem and solution''

=== Further Help ===
Should you encounter an error that is not listed here then please try the following options for assistance:
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-desktop/threads.html | Mailing list]]</nowiki>
* IRC: #lubuntu on chat.freenode.net - If you have not set up your IRC yet, you can get access to the #lubuntu channel by clicking <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=lubuntu | Lubuntu Live Help]]</nowiki> (It is pretty basic, regardless of the name you choose, you will become <Guestnnnn> and the bar for typing in as at the very bottom of your screen).
* http://ubuntuforums.org/ (use the lubuntu prefix when posting)
