{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



It's that time again: time to officially start testing for this cycle.

Alpha 1 is set to be released Thursday, so we need to test over the
next couple days. You can see the rest of the schedule for the cycle
here, by the way:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule

All images are available at  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/317/builds

If you're not familiar with testing, it's an easy process and a simple
way to get involved. More information is in the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing area.

As many of you know, we've targeted 15.04 for the Qt transition:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing/14.10
so this cycle we will be doing mostly maintenance. That being said,
this is a great opportunity to get involved and get used to testing so
you can help us when we really need it for 15.04.

One thing to note for newbies and veterans alike: these are alphas, so
it is not recommended to replace your production machine with these
installs. Instead either use a separate partition or better yet a
virtual machine:
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VirtualMachines

I'm the new release manager this cycle so bear with me as I stumble
about and learn everything, but if you have any questions, comments,
or concerns, don't hesitate to ask. On IRC, I'm always at #lubuntu,

<nowiki>[[wxl]]</nowiki>
