{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Lubuntu 13.10 is now available ==

* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/13.10/release/
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu | Get Lubuntu]]</nowiki>

=== What is Lubuntu ? ===

Lubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu based on the Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment (LXDE), as its default GUI.  The goal is to provide a very lightweight distribution, with all the advantages of the Ubuntu world (repositories, support, etc.). Lubuntu is targeted at "normal" PC and laptop users running on low-spec hardware. Such users may not know how to use command line tools, and in most cases they just don't have enough resources for all the bells and whistles of the "full-featured" mainstream distributions.

With many LXDE components, <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.net|Lubuntu]]</nowiki> also uses well-known applications, such as Firefox, Openbox, Pidgin, to name a few. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu project wiki]]</nowiki> contains more information on the project and the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Setup#Applications | applications used]]</nowiki> available.

=== Features ===

* Based on the lightweight <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/ | LXDE desktop environment]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/PCManFM | Pcmanfm]]</nowiki>, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/ | Openbox]]</nowiki>, the fast and extensible, default windows-manager of LXDE.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/lightdm | Lightdm]]</nowiki>, using the simple GTK greeter
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Firefox | Firefox]]</nowiki>, as the new choice for lubuntu 13.10
* ... and, of course, based on Ubuntu 13.10.

See the complete list of applications on
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Setup#Applications

=== Improvements since Lubuntu 13.04 ===
* New version of pcmanfm / libfm (1.1.0) including a built-in search utility.
* Artwork improvements, including new wallpapers, community wallpapers, new icons ...
* Removing catfish, since pcmanfm has its own search utility
* Fix a very old bug causing gnome-mplayer to crash with some CPU (P4)
* Several fixes for the image viewer gpicview.

=== Releases notes and known issues ===
The release notes, with a list of known problems are available on
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseNotes/Lubuntu

=== Reporting bugs ===
You can find information on how to report a bug on this wiki page :
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReportingBugs

=== Thanks ===

A big thank to everyone involving in the development of this new great release : LXDE developers, Ubuntu developers, ISO testers, artwork and design people, social-network & blog writers, support & IRC keepers ... It's another success of a great team work :-)

=== Links ===

* Official Website : http://lubuntu.net/
* Project wiki : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu
* Documentation : https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation
* LXDE website : http://lxde.org/
* Announcement: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Announcement/13.10
