{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team
|-
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update on IRC OP's team
|-
| <nowiki>[[MrChrisDruif]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update on Wiki / Docs team
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from comms team
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Devs teams report
|-
| <nowiki>[[stephen-smally]]</nowiki>
| Lubuntu Software Center 0.0.4
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20120126T20 | Wednesday, January 18, 2012, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===

Meeting started by gilir at 20:03:13 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-25-20.03.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* gilir - Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
''ACTION:'' gilir to help pushing new lightdm-gtk-greeter in the archive if necessary  (gilir, 20:10:40)

* phillw - Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team

* Unit193 - Weekly report - Update on IRC OP's team

* phillw - Weekly report - Update from comms team

* gilir - Weekly report - Devs teams report

* StephenSmally Lubuntu Software Center 0.0.4

Meeting ended at 21:03:30 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* gilir to help pushing new lightdm-gtk-greeter in the archive if necessary

=== Action items, by person ===

* gilir
* * gilir to help pushing new lightdm-gtk-greeter in the archive if necessary

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gilir (66)
* phillw (36)
* StephenSmally (14)
* wxl (10)
* rafaellaguna (7)
* jmarsden|work (4)
* meetingology (4)
* Unit193 (4)
* Yorvyk (3)
* njin (2)
* ubottu (1)
* Silverlion (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:03:13 <gilir> #startmeeting Lubuntu Team meeting

 20:03:13 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jan 25 20:03:13 2012 UTC.  The chair is gilir. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 20:03:13 <meetingology> 

 20:03:13 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:03:28 <gilir> hi :)

 20:03:30 <jmarsden|work> o/

 20:03:45 <phillw> o/

 20:04:50 <gilir> as usual, meeting agenda is on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 20:05:25 <gilir> not many people today :)

 20:05:42 <Yorvyk> o/

 20:05:48 <StephenSmally> o/

 20:06:09 <gilir> ok let's start

 20:06:16 <Unit193> \o

 20:06:23 <gilir> #topic gilir - Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

 20:06:59 <gilir> the only item is the bug of unity-greeter / lightdm

 20:07:28 <gilir> I have to admit that I can't reproduce it after upgrading lighdm-gtk-greeter, and removing unity-greeter

 20:07:30 <phillw> it's still causing problems

 20:07:57 <rafaellaguna> hello, a bit late

 20:08:22 <jmarsden|work> gilir: Has the newer lightdm-gtk-greeter made it into the daily builds yet?

 20:08:52 <gilir> jmarsden|work, not yet, I'll ping the one who work it currently to see if help is needed

 20:09:20 <jmarsden|work> Yes, I think it will help a lot of testers can grab a new daily ISO and have it work OK.

 20:09:27 <gilir> but even with this, it doesn't seem sto fix the problem for some people using precise (not on daily ISO)

 20:09:58 <phillw> gilir: no, we have grabbed the new one from staging & still have problems.

 20:10:33 <rafaellaguna> about that, I'm trying to get it looking better: http://i.imgur.com/gqZ9b.png

 20:10:39 <phillw> I think wxl had even more problems today, if he'd like to say.

 20:10:40 <gilir> #action gilir to help pushing new lightdm-gtk-greeter in the archive if necessary

 20:10:40 * meetingology gilir to help pushing new lightdm-gtk-greeter in the archive if necessary

 20:12:01 <gilir> well, until we have the new version, I can't really track down the others problems

 20:13:16 <jmarsden|work> Right, until then we are somewhat stuck, I think.

 20:13:38 <gilir> yes :/

 20:13:41 <njin> I work ok with lxdm

 20:14:13 <gilir> switching to lxdm is not a fix

 20:14:35 <njin> but is a workaround

 20:14:55 <gilir> let's continue with the next items, we can't say more about this for now

 20:15:14 <gilir> #topic phillw - Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team

 20:16:07 <phillw> I'll leave out the bug.... Main thing upcoming is the pre-testing of alpha2 I'll email the list with further details of the pre-milestone release testing.

 20:17:50 <phillw> they are still working on the automated tests and re-writing the manual tests. Once this is done I can start on the lubuntu specific ones.

 20:18:00 <gilir> phillw, did you have the time to look at the actual state of daily ISO ?

 20:18:34 <wxl> sorry i was stock on the wrong channel :(

 20:18:45 <phillw> I zsync it each time I'm going to do an install onto VM to give me a 'clean' iso to test.

 20:19:43 <phillw> my last one was yesterday, with the exception of the known bug on greeter, and a minor glitch with the artwork ppa It installs fine.

 20:20:14 <gilir> it's still good news, it's not so broken :)

 20:20:53 <gilir> the artwork problem should be fixed in the staging PPA with the next update of lubuntu-artwork

 20:21:11 <rafaellaguna> only the wallpaper, isn't it?

 20:21:12 <phillw> wxl: what happened with you?

 20:21:33 <gilir> rafaellaguna, yes

 20:21:45 <phillw> yeah, a no wallpaper is not the end of the world.

 20:22:07 <phillw> possiblt for Rafael, as I know he is a perfectionist.

 20:22:16 <rafaellaguna> no, but a blank screen is sad for newcomers

 20:22:39 <rafaellaguna> phillw: yeah, you know me :)

 20:22:55 <phillw> rafaellaguna: it only affects those using the test artwork, there is a warning :)

 20:23:38 <gilir> it's the goal of the PPA ;)

 20:23:50 <gilir> phillw, anything more on QA ?

 20:24:28 <phillw> nothing more from the meeting, there will be an email re: alpha2 pre-milestone testing which I will forward.

 20:24:41 <gilir> ok thanks phillw :)

 20:24:55 <gilir> #topic Unit193 - Weekly report - Update on IRC OP's team

 20:25:11 <Unit193> Right, nothing really that I haven't already said

 20:26:11 <gilir> ok thanks Unit193 :) Anything new regarding new OPs on lubuntu chan ?

 20:27:06 <Unit193> Well, it's just to wait now

 20:27:11 <Unit193> There's a meeting Sunday

 20:27:39 <gilir> Unit193, ok thanks :)

 20:27:57 * gilir doesn't see MrChrisDruif around, moving to the next item

 20:28:13 <gilir> #topic phillw - Weekly report - Update from comms team

 20:28:26 <phillw> Silverlion: Ãƒ re you on the way home?

 20:28:53 <phillw> he doubted he would be here...

 20:29:45 <phillw> Okay, 1stly it does seem that OMGUbuntu do plug into http://lubuntu.net/ for information

 20:30:05 <Silverlion> phillw: just on the way heading home

 20:30:22 <phillw> so, for the people on the various teams, please do consider setting up a blog on there.

 20:31:42 <gilir> we need some blog writers :)

 20:31:48 <phillw> the release from OMG was clearly from there and the mailing list. The more we advertise ourselves on the likes of http://lubuntu.net/ the more likely we get picked up by OMG and Ubuntu News Weekly

 20:31:58 <rafaellaguna> I have a great candidate for that

 20:32:04 <rafaellaguna> I'll propose it to him

 20:33:32 <phillw> the second one, sort of sneaky in a way, is that any announcement goes onto http://lubuntu.net/ before general release by email etc. That will concentrate the minds of those who want to report news onto an area we have control over :)

 20:34:08 <phillw> It may only be a couple of hours... but a "you read it here 1st" does increase traffic :)

 20:34:31 <gilir> well, maybe we need a bit more coordination for this :)

 20:34:56 <gilir> for example, if a dev have somethng to annonce, maybe coordinate with a comm team member to advertise it right

 20:35:17 <Yorvyk> Why not just mail the news team and OMGUbuntu direct?

 20:35:26 <phillw> the comm team are here to serve, that would be more than okay :)

 20:35:29 <gilir> I personnaly fail to advertise right some of the stuff I do :)

 20:36:30 <phillw> Yorvyk: they will receive it, have no fear. But, IMHO, nothing reported on NEWS should be after our own site has it?

 20:36:30 <gilir> Yorvyk, that could be an idea

 20:37:09 <gilir> I don't have strong opinion on any way, just a idea I have in mind :)

 20:37:14 <phillw> Yorvyk: if you join the comms team, I know you are involved with news stuff.

 20:37:40 <Yorvyk> I'll join and get involved

 20:38:35 <phillw> and lastly, we are still at an early stage, but we are looking to source some lubuntu branded items. Mugs are pretty much out as they are only 2.00GB to buy, then cost about 20.00GBP to ship out of UK.

 20:38:38 <gilir> so, if the comm team come with a solution, I'll be interested :)

 20:40:15 <gilir> phillw, is the items done by rafaellaguna are enough to order items ?

 20:41:01 <phillw> There is a bit more artwork choices to do, so we can look at the pens + mouse pads offer.

 20:42:01 <gilir> ok, anything more for comm team phillw ?

 20:42:18 <phillw> that about sums it up.

 20:42:37 <gilir> thanks phillw

 20:42:57 <gilir> #topic gilir - Weekly report - Devs teams report

 20:43:41 <gilir> lxsession - I think it's pretty ready now

 20:44:16 <gilir> I done what I wanted for the next release, so I hope to upload it as soon as I can

 20:44:42 <gilir> lubuntu-artwork - for people using PPA staging, you probably noticed the new packages :)

 20:45:00 <gilir> artwork from previous version of lubuntu are available

 20:45:14 <wxl> sorry back for what it's worth. work got in the way :(

 20:45:42 <gilir> you need to install the package, like lubuntu-artwork-11-04 to install 11.04 artwork

 20:46:01 <gilir> unfortunatly, you have to manually change each part of the theme :(

 20:46:12 <wxl> gilir: why is that?

 20:46:50 <gilir> wxl, because lxapperance (the utility to change the theme) doesn't work globaly, like the one in GNOME for example

 20:47:18 <gilir> it's an improvement to do, maybe for 12.10

 20:47:23 <wxl> curious. sounds like a borderline bug/feature request

 20:47:58 <gilir> its not so simple, there are many small part to change, and some design to discuss

 20:48:20 <wxl> since we're talking dev stuff, my issues with unity-greeter are here https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm/+bug/918401/comments/25 although i just mention it just to mention it (since i was mentioning it on the wrong channel). i am curious what the latest version of lightdm-gtk-greeter is, though, just to check.

 20:48:22 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 918401 in lubuntu-meta (Ubuntu) "Unity-greeter installed by default on Lubuntu, crashing on start" [Undecided,Confirmed]

 20:48:47 <phillw> wxl: it was covered while you were away :)

 20:49:04 <wxl> phillw: i know. initially i was chatting away about it, but in #ubuntu-testing :( THEN work got in the way

 20:49:15 <gilir> wxl, just try to update with the PPA staging, and to remove unity-greeter

 20:49:19 <wxl> as Unit193 knows, i'm really good at sending to the wrong channel

 20:49:39 <wxl> gilir: well, i have. that's why i want to check that my version is the expected version.

 20:50:38 <gilir> wxl, as we said, we are waiting to update it on daily, so I can check with daily ISO what's going on

 20:50:57 <wxl> gilir: ok, i'll shut up now ;)

 20:51:24 <gilir> and to finish, I plan to upload new default settings tonight (which are already on the PPA staging)

 20:51:26 <phillw> gilir: can you send an email to let us know when it is in daily for us to try.

 20:51:44 <gilir> with Alpha 2, I hope to have some feedbacks on them

 20:52:12 <gilir> phillw, sure

 20:52:26 <wxl> phillw: i assume you mean to the qa list?

 20:52:41 <phillw> default works fine (you can tell - I never nagged). Just as an aside on that, when we try things from staging - is there a system of reporting how we get on seperate to bug reporting?

 20:53:02 <phillw> the lubuntu-qa, yes please.

 20:53:28 <gilir> phillw, just ping people involve in the package in staging

 20:53:37 <gilir> you should not report a bug on launchpad for something in staging

 20:53:48 <gilir> ping or mail on the mailing list

 20:54:01 <phillw> thanks. I guessed not. I have been using the ML :)

 20:54:25 <gilir> ok, just 5 min for StephenSmally :)

 20:54:32 <phillw> Just lets me put it onto the lubuntu-qa wiki page

 20:54:38 <StephenSmally> Thank you ;-)

 20:54:41 <gilir> #topic StephenSmally Lubuntu Software Center 0.0.4

 20:54:57 <StephenSmally> Well, i want to just to tell you how the LSC development is going

 20:55:52 <StephenSmally> I keep working on the main python branch, while Michael Rawson is working for the vala port (which hopefully will be ready for 12.10)

 20:57:05 <StephenSmally> the current version is pretty stable and tested, with the latest commit i refined the interface (some visual fixes like padding between buttons).

 20:57:30 <StephenSmally> in two or three days (i hope) i'll release LSC 0.0.4

 20:58:00 <gilir> StephenSmally, good :) do you need any help in the release process ?

 20:58:09 <StephenSmally> which will be (again, i hope) be ready to put in the repos before february (and the feature freeze)

 20:58:27 <StephenSmally> gilir: yes, i think so :-)

 20:58:54 <gilir> StephenSmally, ok, I'll try to be around this week-end, ping me if you need help

 20:59:03 <StephenSmally> thank you.

 20:59:26 <StephenSmally> of course, the current version will be in the PPA tomorrow (launchpad is building)

 21:00:20 <StephenSmally> that's all folks :-P

 21:00:25 <phillw> o/

 21:00:31 <gilir> thanks StephenSmally :)

 21:00:33 <gilir> yes phillw

 21:01:12 <phillw> StephenSmally: with the last LSC, it launched in small window, which I had to maximise to see the on screen choices.

 21:01:33 <StephenSmally> version? (apt-cache policy lubuntu-software-center)

 21:02:04 <gilir> phillw, maybe you can report a bug on https://launchpad.net/lubuntu-software-center ?

 21:02:06 <phillw> StephenSmally: I'll grab you later, I don't have my VM for 12.04 running right now

 21:02:21 <gilir> it would be easier I think to discuss the issue :)

 21:02:25 <phillw> I will :)

 21:02:31 <StephenSmally> ok, well, it's weird

 21:02:47 <StephenSmally> send me a mail or open a bug when you can.

 21:03:22 <gilir> ok, it's time to end the meeting, thanks everyone :)

 21:03:30 <gilir> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
