{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== How to get involved ? ===
All the information concerning the development of Lubuntu are gathered on this page.

If you want to start to contribute, you probably want to start with a small. You can start with LXDE (see LXDE development section), or with a small Lubuntu application (see Lubuntu specific development section) and check the source code, or the bug list.

You can also check the list of tasks assign to the team for this cycle (see Current Tasks section).

Finally, if you have a specific question, you can contact us on <nowiki>[[ Lubuntu-ContactUs | IRC or mailing list ]]</nowiki>.

=== Roadmap ===
==== Schedule ====
* Link : https://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=8u4b7o4ifsp2711jatjf3kb4dg%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe/Paris
* ical : https://www.google.com/calendar/ical/8u4b7o4ifsp2711jatjf3kb4dg%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

* Nov 1 : UDS
* Nov 22 : Decision for applications by default
* Nov 22 : Feature Definition Freeze (blueprint freeze)
* Feb 7 : Ping all upstream for releases
* Feb 14 : Debian Import Freeze
* Feb 28 : 1st release of artwork
* Feb 28 : 1st release of the slideshow
* Feb 28 : Feature complete release of lubuntu-default-settings, lubuntu-artwork, lubuntu-meta
* Mar 7 : Feature freeze
* Mar 14 : Beta 1
* Mar 14 : Final release of the artwork
* Mar 14 : Final release of the slideshow
* Mar 21 : UI Freeze
* Mar 28 : Beta 2
* Apr 4 : Final check / ping to upstream for point release
* Apr 11 : Final release (bug fixes) of lubuntu-default-settings, lubuntu-artwork, lubuntu-meta
* Apr 11 : Final round of bug fixes releases
* Apr 18 : Final Freeze  - RC
* Apr 25 : 13.04
* See also Raring schedule : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule , We share the same deadlines as Ubuntu.

==== Current Tasks ====

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-r-lubuntu-work-items]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-r-lubuntu-artwork-work-items]]</nowiki>

=== LXDE development ===
* Source code : http://lxde.git.sourceforge.net/git/gitweb-index.cgi
* Bug tracker : https://sourceforge.net/projects/lxde/
* Wiki : http://wiki.lxde.org/

=== Lubuntu specific development ===
All project should be gathered under https://launchpad.net/lubuntu

==== Official & used applications (available by default on Lubuntu) ====
* Lubuntu-Software-Center : https://launchpad.net/lubuntu-software-center
* Lubuntu-Artwork : https://launchpad.net/lubuntu-artwork
* Lubuntu-Default-Settings : https://launchpad.net/lubuntu-default-settings

==== Developement in-progress ====
* LxScreenshot : https://launchpad.net/lxscreenshot
* Lubuntu-Tweaks : https://launchpad.net/lubuntu-tweaks

==== Abandonned - not maintained projects ====
* LXAdmin
* Lubuntu Netbook Remix

==== Maintaining Lubuntu specific packages ====
How to manage thoses packages :
* Install bzr-builddeb and devscripts
* When you do a modification, add an entry in debian/changelog and run "debcommit" to commit change.
* To test the package, use bzr-buildpackage. It will generate the deb in ../build-area/
* To generate the source for upload, use bzr-buildpackage -S
* When you want to release, use "dch -r" and "debcommit -r"

==== Pre and Post release TODO ====
A list of things to do before, and after a release on this <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Developers-PrePostReleaseTODO | page]]</nowiki>.

=== Bugs management ===
* See <nowiki>[[ Lubuntu-ReportingBugs | how to manage bugs ]]</nowiki>

=== PPA management ===
==== Active PPA ====
* Staging (https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-dev/+archive/staging)
** Including small fixing waiting for confirmation
** Stable

* Daily builds (https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-dev/+archive/lubuntu-daily)
** Daily builds of LXDE and some Lubuntu specific components
** Unstable and not always tested.

* Daily artwork builds (https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-art/+archive/daily)
** Daily builds for all the work from Lubuntu Artwork team (Wallpapers, Icons, Themes ...)
** Visually unstable, but the system should be stable.

* Non official apps staging (https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-dev/+archive/non-official-apps)
** Staging area for non official applications in Lubuntu
** Unstable on optional components.

==== Abandonned PPA ====
* Lubuntu-desktop : https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-desktop/+archive/ppa
** Old PPA for previous releases. Not necessary if you have a recent release (11.10 or older).

==== Reverse activation of a PPA ====

You can use apt-add-repository to disable and remove packages installed by a PPA. you can use the following command:
<pre>
sudo apt-add-repository -r ppa:Name_of_ppa
</pre>
E.g., if the ppa is test/ppa the command would be:
<pre>
sudo apt-add-repository -r ppa:test/ppa
</pre>

=== Documentation for developers ===
* The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide | Ubuntu Packaging Guide]]</nowiki>.
* Autofoo documentation : http://www.sourceware.org/automake/automake.html and https://live.gnome.org/GnomeGoals/ModernAutotools

=== LXDE elsewhere ===
==== Lubuntu derivated distributions ====
* <nowiki>[[ http:--peppermintos.com- | Peppermint OS]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.deftlinux.net/ | Deftlinux]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wavesofthefuture.net/computers/linux-operating-system-refurbish-computer-free.shtml | Quelitu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.tuquito.org.ar/ | Tuquito]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://newtoos.greenie.sk/index.html | Newtoos ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ultimateedition.info/ultimate_edition/ | Ultimate Edition Lite]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ http:--zorin-os.com- | Zorin OS]]</nowiki>

==== LXDE development on other distributions ====
* <nowiki>[[https://build.opensuse.org/project/packages?project=X11:lxde | OpenSUSE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.crunchbang.org/ | Crunchbang]]</nowiki>

=== Useful Forum Links ===
* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=427 | This]]</nowiki>''' is for the discussion of the development of the next version of Lubuntu (Raring Ringtail). Raring is in development and will be released in April 2013. Please note that Lubuntu Developers do not usually read the forums, to report a problem found in Raring report the bug in Launchpad.

 
