{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Lubuntu 12.10 is now available :

* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/12.10/release/

=== What is Lubuntu ? ===

Lubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu based on the Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment (LXDE), as its default GUI.  The goal is to provide a very lightweight distribution, with all the advantages of the Ubuntu world (repositories, support, etc.). Lubuntu is targeted at "normal" PC and laptop users running on low-spec hardware. Such users may not know how to use command line tools, and in most cases they just don't have enough resources for all the bells and whistles of the "full-featured" mainstream distributions.

With many LXDE components, <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.net|Lubuntu]]</nowiki> also uses well-known applications, such as Chromium, Openbox, Pidgin, to name a few. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu project wiki]]</nowiki> contains more information on the project and the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications | applications used]]</nowiki> available.

=== Features ===

* Based on the lightweight LXDE desktop environment.
* Pcmanfm, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/ | Openbox]]</nowiki>, the fast and extensible, default windows-manager of LXDE.
* Lightdm, using the simple GTK greeter
* Chromium, the open-source version of Google Chrome.
* ... and, of course, based on Ubuntu 12.10.

See the complete list of applications on
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications

=== Improvements since Lubuntu 12.04 ===
* Update of the visual identity of Lubuntu, including :
** A completely new icon theme.
** A new wallpaper and improvements to the current theme.
** A selection of community wallpapers.
** Improving integration of many applications with the new artwork. 
* A new version of the session manager is available, including more customizations and integration options (not enable by default, but available for testing).
* A new version of pcmanfm (file manager), including at lot of bug fixes, external thumbnailer support, multiple screen support.
* Notification-daemon have been replaced for xfce4-notifyd on the default installation, to display notifications.
* Catfish, a searching utility, have been added to the default installation. 

=== Releases notes and known issues ===
The release notes, with a list of known problems are available on
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseNotes/Lubuntu

=== Reporting bugs ===
You can find information on how to report a bug on this wiki page :
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReportingBugs

=== Thanks ===

A big thank to everyone involving in the development of this new great release : LXDE developers, Ubuntu developers, ISO testers, artwork and design people, social-network & blog writers, support & IRC keepers ... It's another success of a great team work :-)

=== Links ===

* Website : http://lubuntu.net/
* Documentation : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu
* LXDE website : http://lxde.org/
* Announcement: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Announcement/12.10
