{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Lubuntu 16.04 LTS is now available ==

=== What is Lubuntu ? ===

Lubuntu is a flavour of Ubuntu based on the Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment (LXDE), as its default GUI.  The goal is to provide a very lightweight distribution, with all the advantages of the Ubuntu world (repositories, support, etc.). Lubuntu is targeted at "normal" PC and laptop users running on low-spec hardware. Such users may not know how to use command line tools, and in most cases they just don't have enough resources for all the bells and whistles of the "full-featured" mainstream distributions.

With many LXDE components, <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.net|Lubuntu]]</nowiki> also uses well-known applications, such as Firefox, Openbox, Pidgin, to name a few. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu project wiki]]</nowiki> contains more information on the project and the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Setup#Applications | applications used]]</nowiki> available.

=== Releases notes and download link ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/Lubuntu | Release notes]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu | Get Lubuntu]]</nowiki>

=== Features ===

* 16.04 is a Long Term Support (LTS) and will be supported until April 2021.
* New kernel based on 4.4 LTS to support the 16.04 LTS release.
* Based on the lightweight <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/ | LXDE desktop environment]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/PCManFM | Pcmanfm]]</nowiki>, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/ | Openbox]]</nowiki>, the fast and extensible, default windows-manager of LXDE.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/lightdm | Lightdm]]</nowiki>, using the simple GTK greeter
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Firefox | Firefox]]</nowiki>, the famous web browser.
* ... and, of course, based on Ubuntu 16.04 at the core.

See the complete list of applications on
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Setup#Applications

=== Improvements since Lubuntu 15.10 ===

* Many LXDE components have been updated with bug fixes released.
* An update of the artwork (more icons, theme update, more compatibilities ...).

=== Thanks ===

A big thank to everyone involving in the development of this new great release : LXDE developers, Ubuntu developers, ISO testers, artwork and design people, social-network & blog writers, support & IRC keepers ... It's another success of a great team work!

=== Reporting Bugs ===
You can find information on how to report a bug by following this wiki page :
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReportingBugs

=== Useful Links ===

* Official Website : http://lubuntu.me/
* Project wiki : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu
* Documentation : https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation
* LXDE website : http://lxde.org/
