{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Release meeting updates ==
=== 2011-10-10 ===
Not much to report this week.

Still fighting with bug 854837, still not reproductible and difficult to track.

Other bugs we are tracking on ISO testing are known issues since a long time on Lubuntu, or minor issues (nothing to block the release).

No 0-day SRU planned.

=== 2011-09-30 ===
Last week, we had several fixes for very old issues (apt-xapian-index, boot menu not translated, headers not installed properly), thanks to people who help on them :)

Also, with the beta 2, we had several testing reports, very complete.

With them, we found several bugs which was out of our radar.

The most annoying one is a random boot failure of the desktop ISO (bug 854837)

I'll greatly appreciate if an expert of casper/ISO boot process can have a look at it, to see what information is needed to debug this.

Also, bug 820080 is still here, but a fix seems available, it would be very nice if it can be pushed for the final release :)

=== 2011-09-23 ===
Beta 2 tests this week, no critical bug found, we are in a pretty good shape :)

Still some annoying (but not blocker) bugs remain :

bug 819542 : It's a visual bug, not blocking jockey usage, but you see it every time you want to test on VirtualBox, maybe relative to bug 820080

bug 798437 : Pull out apt-xapian-index from Lubuntu ISO, previous testing with it enable was bad on some old hardwares (the target of Lubuntu)

bug 819538 : It's blocking installing Lubuntu using a desktop ISO on hardware with an 4 Gb hard-drive (such as old  eeePC, which are good candidates for Lubuntu)

We can add a note on the release notes for the last one, about using alternate ISO instead of desktop ISO in this case.

And we planned to upload some little fixes for next week, before final freeze.

=== 2011-09-16 ===
Not much to report this week.

We adjusted the artwork (login + slideshow) to be ready for the final release.

Still working on bugs triaging, in preparation for beta 2 testing.

It will be the focus for next week

=== 2011-09-09 ===
Not much to report this week.

Bugs triaging in progress, nothing horrible so far.

We still need to update the images & the theme of ubiquity slideshow, add some alternate wallpapers, and adjust the size of the ISOs.

And just a quick note that we have now alternate ISO images, a big thank to cjwatson for fixing them, and jibel for testing them a few hours before beta release :)

=== 2011-08-26 ===
This week, the new theme was uploaded, including wallpaper, gtk2 & gtk3 theme, icons, settings adjustments ...

We finished to update LXDE components with the last releases from upstream.

Lightdm was evaluated, to see if we can set it by default, but we decided to keep LXDM for 11.10.

We still have a critical bug on upgrade (bug #834793), and I was enable to test it properly on daily builds recently.

As I'm not sure we will be able to test it properly for the release, it's safer to keep LXDM, which is already well tested on Lubuntu.

We also requested a FFe for an alternate ISO image (bug #833390).

This is one of the main request from our users, and we will have people to test it before the release.

Next week, triaging and fixing bugs :)

=== 2011-08-19 ===

Not much to report this week

We focused on merging bugfix releases/revisions from Debian, and updating bugfix releases from upstream.

Working on lightdm switch by default, configuration is working (setting session and greeter by default), but still crashing on upgrade (maybe relative to bug #829514))

For next week:

- The new theme should be uploaded, + some community wallpapers

- Finishing merging bugfix releases/revisions from upstream and Debian

- Re-enable lightdm by default on daily, test and decide before the freeze if we keep it

=== 2011-08-05 ===

First, thanks to all people who make Lubuntu images possible :)

Alpha 3 is the 1st Lubuntu 0neiric IS0 in shape for testing

So far, not so bad, essential items are working (installing, live session ...)

Next step is to finish updates of new upstream releases before FF

And try to switch back to lightdm by default if the problems reported by other flavors are solved

Also, we will probably need some help to setup alternate ISO from daily builds, if they don't magically pop up on cdimages in the next days :)
