{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{{{#!wiki warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--phab.lubuntu.me-w-testing- | Lubuntu wiki testing ]]</nowiki>.
}}}

== Mission ==

The Quality Assurance (QA) Team is responsible for ensuring the best possible product is available at release time. We share many of the same goals as the main <nowiki>[[QATeam- | Ubuntu QA Team]]</nowiki>, so make sure to check there for more info.

Historically, the QA Team has focused on <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Testing | Testing]]</nowiki>. However, since we do not have a team particularly allocated to deal with bugs like the <nowiki>[[BugSquad | Ubuntu BugSquad]]</nowiki>, that is also a part of our responsibility. Additionally, because the QA is so involved in assessing and ensuring the health of the eventual release, QA also includes many of the responsibilities of the main <nowiki>[[ReleaseTeam | Ubuntu Release Team]]</nowiki>, though this is handled by a small number of people, the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-product-managers | Release or Product Managers]]</nowiki>.

== What work is involved? ==

QA does not require development experience. Nearly anyone can join. Here are some basic duties:

# Testing
### Downloading and verifying images
### Installing images (generally in virtual machines)
### Following test cases
### Reporting bugs
### Marking a test case as passing or failing
# Bug Triage
### Cleaning up titles and descriptions
### Subscribing Lubuntu Packages Team
### Troubleshooting
### Asking for information
### Changing status appropriately
### Searching for, linking to, and writing upstream bug reports
# Miscellaneous
### Encouraging other testers, including new ones
### Getting people to file bug reports rather than just complaining
### Networking with other members of the team to find appropriate resources

See? It's simple. However, this simple work makes a ''huge'' difference to the end product.

== Join Us! ==

To join, the steps are simple:

# Get a Launchpad account and join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-qa | lubuntu-qa team]]</nowiki>.
# Join the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/lubuntu-devel/ | lubuntu-devel mailing list]]</nowiki>.
# Join us on Freenode IRC at #lubuntu-devel. 

== Next steps ==

=== Testing ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Testing | Testing Wiki]]</nowiki> for more information and procedures.

=== Bug Triage ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Bugs | Bug Wiki]]</nowiki> for more information and procedures.
