{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Review ACTIONS from the last meeting
|-
| Yorvyk
| Reporting minutes of meeting to Ubuntu News
|-
| Yorvyk
| Basic user documentation all in one place, with index
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Discuss ARM ISO for Lubuntu
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Addition of progress report on QA area
|}

=== Location ===
Lubuntu Team Meeting

Place

* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #ubuntu-meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20111130T20|Wednesday, November 30, 2011, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Logs ===

Meeting started by gilir at 20:07:23 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-11-30-20.07.log.txt
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Show of hands to gauge attendance

* Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

* Discuss ARM ISO for Lubuntu
''ACTION:'' Send a mail about ARM ISO on the mailing list  (gilir, 20:20:22)

* Addition of progress report on QA area
''ACTION:'' Keep an eye on the next QA meeting for the specific Lubuntu part  (gilir, 20:32:04)

* Various news on Lubuntu devs

* Reporting minutes of meeting to Ubuntu News
''ACTION:'' Yorvyk to contact Ubuntu News  (gilir, 20:44:39)

* Basic user documentation all in one place, with index
''ACTION:'' Start to work on an index wiki page  for help (like https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/index.html)  (gilir, 21:00:50)

Meeting ended at 21:03:00 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* Send a mail about ARM ISO on the mailing list
* Keep an eye on the next QA meeting for the specific Lubuntu part
* Yorvyk to contact Ubuntu News
* Start to work on an index wiki page  for help (like https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/index.html)

=== Action items, by person ===

* Yorvyk
* * Yorvyk to contact Ubuntu News
* **UNASSIGNED**
* * Send a mail about ARM ISO on the mailing list
* * Keep an eye on the next QA meeting for the specific Lubuntu part
* * Start to work on an index wiki page  for help (like https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/index.html)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gilir (66)
* phillw (30)
* wxl (27)
* Yorvyk (21)
* jmarsden|work (16)
* stephen-smally (12)
* meetingology (7)
* david_j_r (7)
* Unit193 (2)
* Yorvyk_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

 20:07:23 <gilir> #startmeeting

 20:07:23 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Nov 30 20:07:23 2011 UTC.  The chair is gilir. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 20:07:23 <meetingology> 

 20:07:23 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:07:42 <gilir> Agenda is available here : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/IRC%20Meetings/Agenda

 20:08:13 <gilir> [TOPIC] Show of hands to gauge attendance

 20:08:24 * wxl shows both hands

 20:08:25 <gilir> o/

 20:08:31 <wxl> \o/

 20:08:42 <jmarsden|work> o/

 20:08:46 <gilir> Yorvyk, here ? :)

 20:08:49 * phillw present

 20:09:04 * Unit193 

 20:09:08 <david_j_r> o) (numpty user - lurking)

 20:09:33 <stephen-smally> o/

 20:10:13 <gilir> [TOPIC] Review ACTIONS from the last meeting

 20:10:35 <gilir> quick review of last week actions

 20:10:54 <gilir> people still comment on the website page

 20:11:14 <gilir> I hope to have enough information for next week to decide something

 20:11:39 <wxl> from what i read briefly on the mailing list it sounds like the splinter group we had is now working with mario and they're working on a new proposal. sounds like it's happening

 20:11:54 <gilir> Alpha 1 ISO testing, if you want to help : http://91.189.93.73/ :)

 20:12:40 <wxl> on that subject julien said he will endeavour to get ppc to be included in the next round of testing

 20:12:41 <gilir> and work in progress for lxscreenshot

 20:14:28 <gilir> it seems that Yorvyk is not here, so I let his items for now

 20:14:47 <gilir> [TOPIC] Discuss ARM ISO for Lubuntu

 20:14:53 <phillw> speak of the devil :)

 20:15:04 <stephen-smally> oh, i would like ARM isos

 20:15:27 <wxl> i could see if i could get it going on my palm pre ;)

 20:15:43 <gilir> well the problem is to have hardware + people who want to test ISOs during the cycle :)

 20:16:00 <stephen-smally> i would like to put in on the RaspBerty PI, i will buy it during christmas

 20:16:07 <stephen-smally> *RaspBerry Pi

 20:16:12 <gilir> some volunteers ? :)

 20:16:24 <jmarsden|work> gilir: Does ARM mean ARMv7 and later?  Note the very low cost Rasperry Pi board will be out in December but it uses ARMv6, the project is more or less giving up on Lubuntu because Ubuntu does not officially do ARMv6...

 20:16:48 <gilir> jmarsden|work, it will be the same than Ubuntu

 20:17:05 <jmarsden|work> OK, so stephen-smally ... note you won't be able to run Lubuntu on a Rasperry Pi.

 20:17:23 <stephen-smally> damn, that's why i'm switching to arch XD

 20:17:50 <wxl> the pre has an armv7

 20:17:56 <wxl> i'd be into giving it a shot

 20:18:39 <gilir> well, maybe for the short term, sending a mail to the mailing list explaning the situation

 20:19:22 <gilir> I'm not sure there are enough people to test + debug problems on ARM for lubuntu currently :)

 20:19:37 <stephen-smally> agree

 20:19:43 <gilir> and +1 arch is probably enough for this cycle :)

 20:20:09 <jmarsden|work> gilir: I tend to agree; Rasperbby Pi support would get us more (I'd buy a board or two) ... but I'm not buying a $200 board just to test ARMv7.

 20:20:22 <gilir> [ACTION] Send a mail about ARM ISO on the mailing list

 20:20:22 * meetingology Send a mail about ARM ISO on the mailing list

 20:20:37 <gilir> ok let's go the next topic

 20:20:42 <wxl> agree.. i think arm is going to be increasingly important, but it's not a huge hot button right now

 20:21:06 <gilir> [TOPIC] Addition of progress report on QA area

 20:21:16 <stephen-smally> o/ question

 20:21:22 <gilir> phillw, it's yours :)

 20:21:43 <phillw> it was mooted and pretty much agreed at the QA meeting that an update of the progress be linked to the QA wiki area.

 20:22:03 <phillw> I was kinda hoping gilir will be doing the weekly emails this cycle?

 20:22:47 <phillw> Lunbuntu got 43% sign off for pre-alpha1 testing (not too bad... Ubuntu only got 57%).

 20:22:53 <gilir> phillw, what do you mean by a weekly email ? about QA ?

 20:22:59 <gilir> ah the ISO testing ?

 20:23:00 <jmarsden|work> phillw: Isn't seeing the work item updates in the blueprints acceptable to QA?  Why create another document?

 20:23:19 <phillw> gilir: an update as to any bugs solved / known etc in a digest format.

 20:23:47 <phillw> jmarsden|work: they have are adding sections for Xubuntu & Lubuntu.

 20:24:10 <gilir> phillw, do you have a link ? for an example ?

 20:24:14 <phillw> It is to encourage testers to try and test more areas.

 20:24:23 <jmarsden|work> +1 for link/example :)

 20:24:36 <phillw> gilir: it was only agreed 2 hours ago, it is to be set up.

 20:25:43 * gilir look at the log

 20:25:48 <jmarsden|work> phillw: Is there one for "big brother" Ubuntu already?  Or was *that* only agreed 2 hours ago too?

 20:25:53 <phillw> (17:09:49) gema: #action gema to add lubuntu and Xubuntu testing updates to the agenda

 20:26:16 <phillw> they will as part of that add a section to QA area for both flavours.

 20:27:04 <jmarsden|work> phillw: Is there a section like it for Unity-based Ubuntu already, and if so, link please?

 20:27:32 <gilir> phillw, that means we need to do a status of bug fixed for this meeting ?

 20:27:33 <phillw> I suggested that we use the update that gilir issues to keep the QA team up to date, they also asked that I cc it to the qa mailing list.

 20:28:01 <phillw> It is early days, they are bringing in new stuff for this cycle,

 20:29:04 <jmarsden|work> So we're being asked to do something for which there is no example or template?  Hmmm.

 20:29:09 <phillw> for those interested in testing then the meeting logs are at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-11-30-17.00.moin.txt

 20:29:36 <phillw> jmarsden|work: there are templates, they were discussed, but mainly it is about getting the pre-milestones 100% tested.

 20:29:50 <wxl> oh man well i'm glad i didn't start testing

 20:30:44 <gilir> phillw, ok, I propose that we will look at the next meeting to see what's going  for this

 20:31:14 <phillw> gilir: fine by me, it was news to me, there is quite a lot going on :)

 20:31:22 <gilir> I'm not sure I understand what we need to do right now, or the benefice for us

 20:32:04 <gilir> [ACTION] Keep an eye on the next QA meeting for the specific Lubuntu part

 20:32:04 * meetingology Keep an eye on the next QA meeting for the specific Lubuntu part

 20:32:32 <wxl> whine i wanna start testing NOW ;)

 20:32:49 <jmarsden|work> wxl: Go ahead, this doesn't stop you :)

 20:33:01 <jmarsden|work> (well, maybe wat until this meeting is over!)

 20:33:08 <gilir> still no Yorvyk

 20:33:08 <phillw> wxl: ping me after the meeting, I will send you the links for the QA tests.

 20:33:29 <gilir> [TOPIC] Various news on Lubuntu devs

 20:33:33 <wxl> thx phillw

 20:33:49 <gilir> ok just a quick summarize of the recent news

 20:34:46 <Yorvyk_> Hello

 20:34:47 <gilir> I started to work on the session manager, there will be some change after the Alpha 1 on this

 20:35:53 <gilir> work also was done on Lxscreenshot, which should be already useable :)

 20:36:02 <gilir> Yorvyk_, ah :)

 20:36:22 <gilir> Yorvyk_, ready for your items ?

 20:36:30 <stephen-smally> confirm about lxscreenshot, is very simple, but should be ok for most of the users

 20:36:57 <Yorvyk> Can  anybody hear me

 20:37:04 <phillw> Yorvyklod and clear

 20:37:10 <phillw> *loud*

 20:37:17 <wxl> lxscreenshot works, but i wish there was more to it.. i'd rather use scrot at this point

 20:37:23 <gilir> stephen-smally, I plan to include it in lxde git tree, so after you shoudl prepare an official release

 20:37:24 <Yorvyk> \o/  at last!

 20:37:50 <gilir> wxl, you can ping stephen-smally about the features you want ;)

 20:38:13 <stephen-smally> yes, i'm anyway looking for screen selection.

 20:38:22 <gilir> stephen-smally, also, I'll try to work on lsc, to get a release ready for the next week

 20:38:41 <gilir> at least, translation import is working now :)

 20:38:47 <stephen-smally> gilir: we tested it a lot in these days and it seems to be stable

 20:39:28 <stephen-smally> but the po files aren't builded :-(

 20:39:34 <gilir> stephen-smally, yes, I think it's time to release something :)

 20:40:18 <gilir> stephen-smally, look at the last revision, you should have .po files now

 20:40:26 <stephen-smally> ohoh, found a bug now, time to solve it ;-)

 20:40:49 <gilir> Yorvyk, are you with us now ? :)

 20:41:00 <Yorvyk> Yes, I think so

 20:41:10 <gilir> ok, moving to your items

 20:41:22 <gilir> [TOPIC] Reporting minutes of meeting to Ubuntu News

 20:42:18 <gilir> Yorvyk, ^

 20:42:28 <Yorvyk> I thought it may be a good idea to do a quick report of the meetings

 20:43:00 <gilir> do you think we have enough interesting topics for them ?

 20:43:10 <Yorvyk> as it may get more interest and a wider audiance

 20:43:27 * gilir is not sure it's the case :)

 20:43:41 <Yorvyk> Why not?

 20:43:48 <gilir> Yorvyk, maybe you can contact them, to see if there are interested ?

 20:44:03 <Yorvyk> I will

 20:44:39 <gilir> [ACTION] Yorvyk to contact Ubuntu News

 20:44:39 * meetingology Yorvyk to contact Ubuntu News

 20:45:04 <Yorvyk> Other news outlets appear to use Ubuntu News for their articles

 20:45:46 <gilir> well, if they are OK, I don't see any problems about this

 20:45:58 <Yorvyk> By the way - this meeting wasn't on the fridge calander :(

 20:46:29 <wxl> Yorvyk: it was

 20:46:30 <phillw> Yorvyk: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars/

 20:46:34 <phillw> it was :)

 20:46:36 <wxl> but you had to use the "agenda" view to see it

 20:46:44 <Yorvyk> Ah!

 20:46:45 <wxl> or weekly probably would have worked

 20:46:51 <wxl> month view truncated the list

 20:47:00 <gilir> too many meetings :)

 20:47:00 <wxl> not sure why there were no scrollbars

 20:47:34 <Unit193> I have that calendar added to my list of GCalendars, that's another way to see it

 20:47:35 <phillw> I'll look at trying to squeeze it into the topic on the two chennels

 20:48:09 <Yorvyk> OK, next

 20:48:16 <david_j_r> I'm at fridge calendar, and not seeing it in _any_ view :?

 20:48:22 <gilir> [TOPIC] Basic user documentation all in one place, with index

 20:49:28 <Yorvyk> This hads been mentioned to me a few people

 20:50:03 <Yorvyk> I'm not quite sure what they want - and nor are they Ithink.

 20:50:03 <gilir> Yorvyk, it's about the wiki pages on help.ubuntu.com ?

 20:50:16 <jmarsden|work> Yorvyk: What is "Basic User Documentation"?  man pages???

 20:50:44 <Yorvyk> People seem to have problems with the wiki

 20:51:39 <gilir> what kind of problems ?

 20:51:43 <Yorvyk> I think what people are trying to ask me for is a basic set of howtos for each application.

 20:51:45 <jmarsden|work> Yorvyk: Do you have a clear definition of what "Basic User Documentation" means?  Otherwise, we can't put it in one place...

 20:53:02 <jmarsden|work> Yorvyk: Each application?  That's thousands of apps...

 20:53:04 <phillw> Yorvyk: I know that mario popped a site map on to help navigation

 20:53:22 <Yorvyk> I don't and it is hard work trying to get people to explain what they want.  I've asked for examples from them.  I thought I'd bring it up to see if anybody had any ideas

 20:54:16 <phillw> oops, soz, he updated the links. but there is a site map, not too sure what else we can do given the limitations of wiki?

 20:54:19 <Yorvyk> I think the problem with the Wiki is that people aren't sure what terms to uses to find what they want.

 20:54:37 <david_j_r> I'm just a newcomer to Lubuntu, but it's my future. I could would appreciate a list of the L* apps - e

 20:54:48 <david_j_r> i.e., the Lubuntu/LXDE specific ones.

 20:54:52 <david_j_r> Maybe already there?

 20:55:03 <wxl> yeha maybe we could just have a "help with apps" page

 20:55:06 <wxl> with all the lists

 20:55:34 <david_j_r> The "index" may be the key here.

 20:55:41 <phillw> I see no reason that such a thing could not be put on the FAQ/Guides area?

 20:56:09 <gilir> something more like this : https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/index.html ?

 20:56:22 <wxl> i agree phillw

 20:56:46 <wxl> i like gilir

 20:56:47 <phillw> gilir: looks good :)

 20:57:00 <david_j_r> oooh - that's nice!

 20:57:02 <wxl> as long as it can be edited just the same as the wiki

 20:57:10 <phillw> it is a wiki apge :P

 20:57:13 <Yorvyk> I think that's what they're looking for

 20:57:19 <gilir> we need someone to do it :p

 20:57:32 <wxl> why don't we start with a simple list?

 20:57:38 <wxl> i mean crap i could start that

 20:57:43 <Yorvyk> I'll point a couple of them at that page and ask them if that's what they want.

 20:58:07 * phillw runs into corner.... Yeah... i'll put into my list, please give me a week after someone provides me a complete list of L* programmes!

 20:58:20 <jmarsden|work> phillw: for now, you can get a quick list of lx* packages by doing    dpkg-query -W lx\*     in a terminal window

 20:58:26 <gilir> Yorvyk, good idea, maybe you can start a prototype later

 20:58:32 <wxl> i can do it phillw

 20:58:51 <phillw> wxl: by all means, go for it. I'll help you if you get stuck.

 20:59:21 <gilir> wxl, can I put an action for you about this ?

 20:59:24 <Yorvyk> The people I'm talking to don't like/understand mailing list or forums

 20:59:29 <phillw> jmarsden|work: I killed my VM's ... can't run Lubuntu atm :'(

 20:59:31 <wxl> sure gilir

 20:59:51 <jmarsden|work> phillw: Ah... OK, email me your VM problem.

 21:00:50 <gilir> [ACTION] Start to work on an index wiki page  for help (like https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/index.html)

 21:00:50 * meetingology Start to work on an index wiki page  for help (like https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/index.html)

 21:01:36 <gilir> ok, I think it's time to end the meeting

 21:01:50 <Yorvyk> OK

 21:01:59 <gilir> no emergency for this week ?

 21:02:42 <gilir> oh, and if you don't know what to do tonight : http://91.189.93.73/ ;)

 21:02:58 <wxl> hhehehe

 21:03:00 <gilir> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
