{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<< <nowiki>[[Lubuntu | Lubuntu]]</nowiki> << <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-SubTeams- | Subteams]]</nowiki>

Wiki page for the Coding and Packaging sub-team of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu]]</nowiki> project.

===== Seeds =====
Seeds are the lists of packages we include in the lubuntu distribution. The minimal, boot, standard, desktop, and either ship or live seeds go onto lubuntu CDs. lubuntu seeds, being built on top of Ubuntu, inherit a shared set of seeds called the "platform" seeds. These platform seeds are maintained by Ubuntu Core Developers whereas the lubuntu seeds are primarily taken care of by lubuntu developers.

lubuntu seeds (as with all Ubuntu flavors) manage their seeds using the bazaar revision control system and host them on launchpad (build scripts pull the official seeds to build the cd).

* Current LXDE seeds are located here https://launchpad.net/~lxde/+archive/ppa
* More information about seed management in the Kubuntu Wiki: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/SeedManagement 

===== Current Tasks =====

* Decide what packages to be included in the default Lubuntu install
** Purpose: Have a excellent selection of applications which the enduser might want to use 'out of the box', the lightweightness of the applications and operating system must the number 1 priority.
** Status: Developing ideas
** Discussion: <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Applications-Process Documentation | here!]]</nowiki>
** Assigned to: Whole Team

* include Peazip in Ubuntu repo
* Fix bugs (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~lubuntu-packaging/+packagebugs | Current list by packages]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-SubTeams-CodingAndPackagingSubTeam-SpecificPackages | Maintained specific packages]]</nowiki>
* Maintaining ISO :
** TODO We should try to put Live CD with Ubiquity installer and alternate text-only installer together on one CD.
** use Debian installer if it's mature enough?
** need to measure the exact memory requirements for live-session and ubiquity-only session

===== Completed Tasks =====

===== LXDE project/Resources =====

Resources useful to Coders and Packagers.

* The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide | Ubuntu Packaging Guide]]</nowiki>.

Work on packaging <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org | LXDE project]]</nowiki> components is an on-going part of <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com | Ubuntu]]</nowiki>. Check these resources if you are interested in contributing to coding and packaging of LXDE components in Lubuntu:

* See the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lxde| LXDE project]]</nowiki> on Launchpad.
* Please join the <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=lxde-list | LXDE developers mailinglist]]</nowiki>.
* Please join us in the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/Category:Packaging | packaging team]]</nowiki> and create packages for new and updated LXDE components. Add them to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lxde | LXDE repository on Launchpad]]</nowiki>.
* The <nowiki>[[http://pcmanfm.sourceforge.net/ | PCManFM project]]</nowiki> provides the file manager used in LXDE. Please join the <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=pcmanfm-develop | PCManFM mailinglist]]</nowiki>.
