{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

==== General Comments ====
* Bookmarks of browsers: Web sites of LXDE and its forums should be added by default. (PCMan)
** I plan on having all the relative links, (Ubuntu, LXDE, LubuntuWiki, etc.) on the Bookmarks Toolbar by default on a Lubuntu install, similar to what Mint, fedora, and other Distros do. (Dave Slaughter)
** Lets plan together, which links to include. I would like to set up a start page, e.g. start.lubuntu.org (Mario Behling)
** Are there any browser plugins, we should include by default?
** I would also like us to define the search engines. Can we make them dependent on the language the system is installed?
==== Email ====
===== Claws =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.claws-mail.org/ | Claws Mail project]]</nowiki>
===== Sylpheed =====
<nowiki>[[http://sylpheed.sraoss.jp/en/ | Sylpheed project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~starfall87 | Shae Smittle]]</nowiki>: Surveys I held for U-lite showed people preferred Sylpheed to Claws
* I never found either of them to easily allow formatting in composing outgoing messages.
     Using an external editor to compose mail and copy it to the mail program is no less 
     resource-hungry than using Thunderbird, is it? (Robin Arnaud)
===== Balsa =====
<nowiki>[[http://pawsa.fedorapeople.org/balsa/index.html| Balsa project]]</nowiki>
==== IM & IRC ====
===== Pidgin =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.pidgin.im/ | Pidgin project]]</nowiki>
* +1 (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~zehrique|Henrique P. Machado]]</nowiki>)
===== Emesene =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.emesene.org/ | Emesene project]]</nowiki>
* The best MSN only messenger I think. (PCMan)
===== aMSN =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.amsn-project.net/ | aMSN project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh|Luther]]</nowiki>: I haven't tried Emesene, but I am happy with aMSN
===== Xchat =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.xchat.org/ | XChat project]]</nowiki>
===== Irssi =====
<nowiki>[[http://irssi.org/ | Irssi project]]</nowiki>

* We have pidgin already. maybe they are good, but as I said I would like to keep the image as small as possible.
*** +1 I think Pidgin is enough <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~starfall87 | Shae Smittle]]</nowiki>
*** +1 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~c-david-rigby | CDRigby]]</nowiki>
*** +1 I vote pidgin too since it supports multiple protocols. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh|Luther]]</nowiki>
*** +1 <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~payne-loh | Payne Samad Loh]]</nowiki>
==== FTP ====
===== gFTP =====
<nowiki>[[http://gftp.seul.org/ | gFTP project]]</nowiki>
===== Filezilla 3 =====
<nowiki>[[http://filezilla-project.org/ | Filezilla project]]</nowiki>
* Do we need a FTP program by default? <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~starfall87 | Shae Smittle]]</nowiki>
* For FTP, I believe that filezilla can do much better than gftp. It's powerful, feature-complete, and have very good support to different filename encodings (gftp cannot handle this correctly). (PCMan)
* Filezilla had issues before in Linux and with our own server (LXDE) some time ago. I dont know how it is now. Gftp worked out of the box. So I did not check more about problems with Filezilla. Have a chat with Mwei maybe. (Mario Behling)
==== Bittorrent ====
===== Transmission =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.transmissionbt.com/ | Transmission project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~starfall87 | Shae Smittle]]</nowiki> suggests.
* +1 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~zehrique|Henrique P. Machado]]</nowiki>
==== Browser ====
** Let us decide on one browser. I am for Firefox at the moment, but might favour to switch Midori in a later release. Does anyone know how to add our own plugins, change the default start page and add other search engines to Firefox?
===== Firefox =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.com | Mozilla project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~starfall87 | Shae Smittle]]</nowiki> +1 I think Firefox is the best browser at the moment for this project. Surveys I held for U-lite showed people preferred Firefox to Opera, Midori, and Kazehakase.
* Definatly too resource hungry for something aimed at legacy machines.
* +1 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh | Luther]]</nowiki> Firefox with extensions beats the rest hands down IMHO.
===== Kazehakase =====
<nowiki>[[http://kazehakase.sourceforge.jp/ | Kazehakase project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh | Luther]]</nowiki>: I added this as it is lighter than firefox. It is for people who want a lighter browser.
* Used this and I can safely say it is a worthy replacement to Firefox and much snappier on my test rig.
===== Midori =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.twotoasts.de/index.php?/pages/midori_summary.html | Midori project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfgoh | Luther]]</nowiki>: I added this as it is lighter than firefox. It is for people who want a lighter browser. This is quite new.
* IMHO, Midori can be good in the future. However it's not yet ready for real production use since it's too unstable.
* I have tried the ver 0.1.2, it can't even login to facebook, I didn't try the newer version I'm not used to compiling
===== Arora =====
<nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/arora/ | Arora project]]</nowiki>
* Arora still has few bugs, but it is stable, fast and user-friendly.
* I have tried the ver 0.6, yes its fast and user-friendy and less bug than midori 0.1.2
* A very nice browser, but requires the qt toolkit and still has a few bugs
===== Opera =====
* If proprietary software is acceptable, this one is absolutely most suitable. (PCMan)
* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~payne-loh | Payne Samad Loh]]</nowiki> In my experience opera 9.64 sometimes crashes, i'm not sure about other versions.
* I think proprietary is no choice here. Alternatives are widely adapted and I favour the concept of Open Source. It is also in line with the Ubuntu community. (Mario Behling)
===== CHM Viewer =====
<nowiki>[[http://xchm.sourceforge.net/download.html |xCHM project]]</nowiki>
* IMHO this is not needed by default (PCMan)
** +1 (Mario Behling)
* Will people switching from windows expect to open CHM files by default?
