{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction to the Lubuntu Desktop project ===

Welcome to the Lubuntu-Page. The objective of the Lubuntu project is to create a variant of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com | Ubuntu]]</nowiki> that uses <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/ | LXDE]]</nowiki>, The Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment, as its default <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GUI | GUI]]</nowiki>. The ultimate goal of the Lubuntu project is to earn official endorsement from Canonical.

Members of the Lubuntu team take care of LXDE and other packages that are part of the planned Lubuntu install. Please join us and contribute to creating a lighter, less resource-hungry and more energy-efficient flavour of Ubuntu.

We look forward to working together with you on a truly international and inspiring Free and Open Source Software project! More info also on http://lubuntu.net

=== Intended Audience ===

Lubuntu is targeted at "normal" PC users running on low-spec hardware. Such users may not know how to use command line tools, and in most cases they just don't have enough resources for all the bells and whistles of the "full-featured" mainstream distributions.

A Pentium II or Celeron system with 128 Mb RAM is probably a bottom-line configuration that may yield slow yet usable system with Lubuntu. It should be possible to install and run Lubuntu with less memory, but the result will likely not be suitable for practical use.

=== Get Lubuntu ===
==== Download Lubuntu ====
Lubuntu Lucid Lynx Beta 3 : http://lubuntu.net/node/41

Lubuntu Karmic Koala Beta : http://blog.lxde.org/?p=514

==== Install Lubuntu ====
Installation on Ubuntu 9.10 : http://gilir.wordpress.com/2009/10/29/lubuntu-9-10-and-plan-for-lucid/

=== Get Involved ===
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-ReportingBugs |Reporting bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Translations-Lubuntu |Translations]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-SubTeams-TestingSubTeam |Tests]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Developers | Code & patches]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Artwork |Artwork]]</nowiki>

=== See Also ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-desktop | Lubuntu on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lxde | LXDE on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LXDE | LXDE on Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Specs-UbuntuLxdeDesktop | Ubuntu LXDE Desktop]]</nowiki>

=== Links ===
* <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org | lxde.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.net | lubuntu.net]]</nowiki>
