{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

== Facebook Mods ==

=== Dealing with spammers ===

We have zero tolerance for such things. 

Please ensure that you are logged on for updates from the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs/ModsOnFacebook#Groups|3 Facebook groups]]</nowiki> so you get notification of spammy stuff. 

Here's the procedure:

# Delete the the post and Permanently ban the user from the group.
# On occasions that you receive notification of the spam from a member, make sure to thank the members in general, they are anonymous reports.
# Post on <nowiki>[[http://pastebin.com/00gp03tX | this thread]]</nowiki> so that both our users know, and those who join under false pretenses know that this group has an active and vigorous set of mods. 

=== Adding people ===

We do try to have one add session per 24 hours, which stops the group areas becoming flooded with welcome messages. For QA, it is not so intrusive to add more often as the traffic is lower.

There is a bug in Facebook. In order to make the 'welcome message' with all the names on, you need to open the group up as a second tab and then list members by add date. The bug is that you must manually copy and paste them one by one onto the welcome screen tab. It's less scary than it seems once you get used to it! If you need help, ask one of the existing mods and we will got through it with you.

==== Ignoring ====

Please do have a quick read of the profiles. As a matter of course, applications from users with 100+ group memberships are to be ignored. For those with 0 time and 0 groups, use your gut feelings. 

=== Groups ===
* <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/lubuntu.official/ | Lubuntu Official ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/lubuntu.offtopic/ | Lubuntu Offtopic ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/LubuntuQA/ | Lubuntu QA ]]</nowiki>
