{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:other-lubuntu-o-integrate-ubuntu-ecosystem
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': jmarsden, gilir
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

The goal is to use Ubuntu facilities for Lubuntu :
* Building the ISO with Ubuntu architecture
* Using the ISO tracker
* Using existing server network for ISO distribution
* Using a slideshow for ubiquity
* Use testing facilities (Mago, checkbox ?)
* ...

=== Release Note ===

There are many benefits, for end-users or developers :
* Better ISO quality
* Better testing facilities
* More Ubuntu-ish
* Worldwide network of servers available to distribute ISOs
* Being fully "official" helps Lubuntu to be taken seriously by other developers

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

* Lubuntu has a solid track record
* Lubuntu fills a need (low-hardware-requirements general usage) other Ubuntu flavours do not meet and do not intend to meet
* Many apparent requirements for Lubuntu becoming ''official'' are already met
* sabdfl has indicated he would like this to happen

=== User stories ===

* John was given an old desktop PC with an 800MHz Pentium III and 384MB RAM.  He wants to run Ubuntu on this machine, but it runs too slowly to be useful.
* Sandra has an original eeepc netbook and would like to run Ubuntu on it and sync files and contacts to her Ubuntu desktop PCs at home and at her office.
* Jim's community association has been given 10 old PCs for a 'computer lab' 
   but has no funds to buy software.  These PCs are too old to run Ubuntu or Kubuntu.

=== Assumptions ===

* Lubuntu will continue to be developed on the Ubuntu schedule.
* All Lubuntu packages will be added to official Ubuntu repositories.
* The Ubuntu developer community is willing to be mindful of another ''new'' flavour of Ubuntu and to avoid changes that will make it impractical to run Lubuntu on its intended (lower spec) hardware base.
   
=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== ISO building ====
Several packages need to be updated. Some initial work was previously started :

lp:~gilir/+junk/livecd-rootfs-lubuntu-support 
lp:~gilir/+junk/tasksel-lubuntu-support
lp:~gilir/+junk/debian-cd-lubuntu-support

We need to identify others branches / packages to update.

There is also infrastructure changes (server-side ?).

There is also changes made to our script (language packs ...) that need to be merged in our seed, in the "live" file.

==== ISO tracker ====
ISO tracker should be activate only when the ISO will be made like other flavor ISO, so others tests may apply to Lubuntu ISO.

Also, we need to prepare which test cases we want to run. The most importants are the tests specific to Lubuntu, such as installation n limited hardware (disk size, RAM etc ...).
List of test cases :
* Installation on 4 Gb disk (for old eeePC,  < 3Gb installation + SWAP 512 Mb)
* Installation on 256 Mb of RAM
* ...

==== Ubuntu One integration ====
Several items could be done to add different supports of Ubuntu One :
* File synchronization
** Need plugin infrastructure in pcmanfm
** Write the plugin for pcmanfm
* Contacts synchronization
** Need plugin infrastructure in sylpheed
** Need to write the plugin for sylpheed
** Evaluate if it's possible to add support in Osmo
* Bookmarks synchronization
** Chromium synchro available ? Useful ? (already build-in synchro)
* Notes synchronization
** Evaluate if it's possible to add support in Xpad
* Music Synchronization
** Write a plugin for Audacious   

==== Others ====
* Adding apport hooks in lxde packages, for reporting more information (such as configuration files, packages installed, environnement variables ...). See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Developers/TODO 
* Support for global menu in lxpanel, need to be isolated from the indicator applet (crash when it's all together)
* Evaluate possibility to integrate Software-center (CPU, RAM and I/O impact on Lubuntu targets).

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

pad : http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-o/meeting/other-lubuntu-o-integrate-ubuntu-ecosystem/

Goal : Determine all improvements we can do to use Ubuntu utilities, and how we can be more integrated in Ubuntu world.

Topics:
* ISO building
* ISO tracker
* Ubuntu One (get in touch w/ Ubuntu One team)
* Global menu (get in touch w/ Unity team)
* Apport hook
* Evaluate Software-Center
* other ?

What resources are required?
 - ISO building and hosting
   - persia & cjwatson gathered details for how to support
     - first images need cleaing up
     - cdimage. hardware limitations (drive space, but is being expanded)
     - extra daily build is not a problem
     - create package set
     - tasksel needs updating for lubuntu
     - Iso test contact and update iso tracker 
         - Plenty of volunteers to test, perhaps one would be honored to take that role
     - Review packages with Recommends which may be problematic
 - devel-announce post (presumably by gilir)

Actions
[gilir] Write announcement

----
CategorySpec
