{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''LXLE 12.04.4 Beta'''<<BR>>
|}

== Upcoming LXLE 12.04.04: Pre-beta 1 Ready for Testing. ==

Published date: November 19, 2013.

In this beta release, a few areas receive polish, memory usage lowers even further than its recent predecessor, and streamlining begins in preparing for the 12.04.4 release. This is the first beta version of three scheduled before official release in late January 2014.

== Contact Information ==
<nowiki>[[lxle|The LXLE Community]]</nowiki>

== Download ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.lxle.net/download|lxle downloads]]</nowiki>

The LXLE website uses <nowiki>[[http://libreante.org/|LibreAnte]]</nowiki> to conduct its downloads. This is not a tracking device, but rather a way to monetize downloads, without inflicting cost on the user.  <nowiki>[[http://libreante.org/|LibreAnte]]</nowiki> is a smart solution, developed by https://wiki.ubuntu.com/lxle/firefoxthe LXLE team, to help balance out the problem of users who download FOSS without making donations nor contribution to the Linux community.

== Changes from 12.04.03.3: ==

=== Updates ===
 .Bleachbit
 .PCManFM
 .lxapperance
 .lxappearance-obconf
 .lxpanel
 .lxrandr
 .lxshortcut
 .lxtask
 .libfm
 .menu-cache
 .gpicview
 .OpenBox
 .Icon Set
 .Minitube
 .OSX paradigm dock is more like Apple's thanks to an update to lxpanel.

=== New Items: ===
 .Firefox gets a fully featured and populated bookmarks toolbar. 
 <nowiki>[[lxle-firefox-lxle|Firefox Configuration]]</nowiki>

 .Enabled the new LXLE PPA
 .Added Steam for gaming.
 .Added desktop recording program.
 .Added https everywhere, html5 only, liveclick, spellcheck and translator to Firefox.
 .Added https everywhere, lubuntu scrollbars and live bookmarks feature to chrome.
 .Additional 50 gorgeous wallpapers totaling 100. (image quality kept but small files)
 .Wallpaper rotation every hour. (user can define)
 .Gnome Schedule cron app added.

=== Replacements: ===
 .Replaced power management, which squashed bugs and lowered memory usage.
 .Replaced fast forecast with easier, nicer, clone of stormcloud.
 .Replaced startup screen with more a .elegant LXLE splash.
 .Enhanced login screen with language selection sporting a matching neutral background.
 .Replaced menu logo with a simple space saving menu carrot symbol.
 .Replaced Liferea with LiveClick firefox extension.
 .Replaced Gnome-Commander with Sunflower.

=== Removals: ===
 .Two relatively large games: ''Blob Wars'' and ''Pingus''.
 .Extra logo's, splash screens and unneeded themeing.

=== Stays the Same: ===
 .Anything not mentioned above.
 .The ISO size, even with the many additions, remains slightly smaller than the original ISO.

----
<nowiki>[[lxle|LXLE Home]]</nowiki>
