{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Elizabeth Krumbach Joseph / pleia2 / lyz ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

Elizabeth has been dabbling in Ubuntu since Warty, but has used and worked with Debian since 2002. Since becoming an Ubuntu Member on May 29th 2007 she has worked on a variety of projects, including <nowiki>[[USTeams|US Teams]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam|Pennsylvania LoCo]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam|California LoCo]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Classroom|Ubuntu Classroom]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter|Ubuntu News]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-women.org|Women]]</nowiki>. She was a member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/Americas|Ubuntu Americas Membership Board]]</nowiki> from May 2008 through 2012. In October 2009 was elected to the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/council|Community Council]]</nowiki> and remained on this council until the end of her term third in 2015. As of November 2011 she is the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu]]</nowiki> Marketing and has also served as the Website lead for that project.

Now residing in San Francisco, she works full time as an Automation and Tools Engineer at HPE with a focus on the Open``Stack project infrastructure. She is also the former coordinator for <nowiki>[[http://phillylinux.org|Philadelphia area Linux Users Group (PLUG)]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact ===

* IRC: pleia2 on irc.freenode.net & irc.oftc.net and <nowiki>[[http://www.twitter.com/pleia2|pleia2]]</nowiki> on Twitter
* Email: lyz@ubuntu.com
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lyz]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=10746|elizabeth]]</nowiki> on ubuntuforums.org
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://www.princessleia.com|princessleia.com]]</nowiki> & Blog: <nowiki>[[http://www.princessleia.com/journal/|princessleia.com/journal/]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu News Team ===

* Primary editor for the UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter
* Fridge editor since March 2010
* Worked with Amber Graner and Nathan Handler in Oneiric cycle to relaunch the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter with an emphasis on making releases easier for contributors while continuing the high quality which the community expects

=== Ubuntu California LoCo Team ===

* Involved with planning and attended many events since moving to California in 2010
* Hosting monthly Ubuntu Hours in San Francisco
* Has served as one of three elected leaders of team
* One of the two individuals responsible for G+/twitter/facebook updates for the team
* Writes monthly team reports
* Manages team website (and the server it runs on)

=== Xubuntu ===

* Marketing Lead
* Runs the <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org/news/tag/xubuntu-at/|Xubuntu at...]]</nowiki> series where organizations are interviewed about how they use Xubuntu
* Manages team social media accounts for G+, Twitter and Facebook
* Assists with ISO and packaging testing, sometimes running Ubuntu Global Jam events in San Francisco focused on Quality Assurance (QA)

=== Ubuntu Community Council ===

* First elected in October of 2009, 3rd term ended in 2015
* Have taken a leadership role within the Council to push along nominations and appointments to boards and councils
* Worked with dholbach on the Council to collect and make sure tasks aren't missed
* Worked to maintain Team Reports for the Council and get meeting logs posted
* Helped Ubuntu projects and members resolve desputes
* Worked with teams to make sure they had the resources they need to effectively do their work

=== Ubuntu Pennsylvania LoCo Team ===

(have since moved to California)

* Designed and worked with AlexLauni to develop team website: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntupennsylvania.org|UbuntuPennsylvania.org]]</nowiki>, remains an admin of the site.
* Spearheaded creation of team <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntupennsylvania.org/|Planet]]</nowiki> and worked with AlexLauni to launch, remains perso * Marketing initiatives liken to contact for additions
* Primary Sysadmin for Ubuntu Pennsylvania Linode server
* Op in #ubuntu-us-pa channel
* Administrator in launchpad team
* Provided fliers and (and now name tags) for events
* Volunteered at multiple events at <nowiki>[[http://pacsnet.org/|PACS]]</nowiki> where she handed out CDs and other freebies and fielded questions from folks browsing our materials. Helping to organize the <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillySFD2009|Software Freedom Day Event at PACS]]</nowiki> in 2009
* Helped organize and attended <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillyGutsyRelease|several]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillyIntrepidRelease|release]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillyJauntyRelease|parties]]</nowiki>
* Guest on WCOJ's AM Radio Computer Corner show to introduce Ubuntu in 2007 <nowiki>[[http://geekosophical.net/misc/pleia_on_the_radio.ogg|podcast here]]</nowiki>, and a follow up show in 2008 to discuss Ubuntu Hardy, <nowiki>[[http://www.chinnodog.com/files/cc061408.mp3|podcast here]]</nowiki> 
* A primary organizer of many Philadephia-based events, including: 
** <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-Philly-PhillyBBQ|Ubuntu Summer BBQ, 2007]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-Philly-MythTVSeminar|Mythbuntu Seminar, 2007]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-Philly-MythTVSeminar2008|Mythbuntu Seminar, 2008]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhiladelphiaFeb2009BugJam|Global BugJam, 2009]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillyGeeknic2009|Geeknic, 2009]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillyMythJam2009|Mythbuntu Jam, 2009]]</nowiki> for UbuntuGlobalJam
** <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-CommunityOutreachTeam-FreeGeekPenn|Partnership with FreeGeekPenn]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Americas Membership Board ===

Member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/Americas|Ubuntu Americas Membership Board]]</nowiki> from 2008 to 2012.

=== Ubuntu-Women ===

* Involved from 2006 - 2014, served multiple terms as one of three elected leaders
* Also served as:
** contact for official #ubuntu-women channel on chat.freenode.net
** Administrator on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-women.org|Ubuntu-Women.org]]</nowiki>
** Administrator in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-women|launchpad team]]</nowiki>
** Contact for <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu-women.org/|Ubuntu-Women Planet]]</nowiki> additions
** Contact for <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/FullCircleMagazine|Full Circle Magazine]]</nowiki> monthly column on Ubuntu Women and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Interviews|Women In Ubuntu interview series]]</nowiki>
* Organization and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/RecentChanges|development]]</nowiki> of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/|Ubuntu-Women Wiki]]</nowiki> (also a <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/AdminGroup|Wiki Admin]]</nowiki>)
* Developed parntership with <nowiki>[[Classroom|Classroom]]</nowiki> project to replace our <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Courses|Courses]]</nowiki>
* Actively worked on organization and summarization of regular meetings

=== Ubuntu US ===

Team now largely inactive.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/|Board Member and Mentor on the team]]</nowiki>
** Help out folks who come into #ubuntu-us looking for LoCo resources
** Worked with Ubuntu-US-TN team
** Worked with the Ubuntu-US-NH team
** Worked with Ubuntu-US-NY team (now approved!)
* Redeployment of <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu-us.org/|USTeams Planet]]</nowiki> in 2009, primary contact for additions
* Worked with JohnCrawford to launch new <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-us.org/|USTeams Website]]</nowiki> in 2009
* Launched articles series on Ubuntu-us.org in 2009

=== Classroom ===

Project faded away in 2014, but while it was active:

* One of the primary administrators of the project
* Worked closely with RyanKavanagh to revitalize the project in 2007
* Worked with BeginnersTeam for partnership in 2009
* Worked to integrate into Ubuntu Learning project in mid 2009
* Help with reorganization, defined volunteer roles for project so people know how to help
* Keep <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom|wiki]]</nowiki> and #ubuntu-classroom topic updated
* Works with groups hosting classes and Week events to avoid conflicts
* Testing and testing hosting of a ClassBot
* Worked with Lernid developer to do testing to get working Lernid release back into Ubuntu
* Coordinated Ubuntu UserDays each cycle

=== Other Major F/OSS Contributions ===

* Former maintainer for <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/dglog|dglog]]</nowiki> and  <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/webcalendar|webcalendar]]</nowiki> in Debian
* Former primary package maintainer on <nowiki>[[http://pkg-sql-ledger.alioth.debian.org/ledgersmb/|Debian LedgerSMB Team]]</nowiki>
* Written documentation for <nowiki>[[http://bitlbee.org|Bitlbee Project]]</nowiki>
* Helped with early days of <nowiki>[[http://women.debian.org/|Debian Women]]</nowiki> project
* Active member of <nowiki>[[http://linuxchix.org|LinuxChix]]</nowiki>
* IRC support for Ubuntu, Bitlbee and irssi
* Published <nowiki>[[http://princessleia.com/menu/computer.php|several popular How-To documents on PrincessLeia.com]]</nowiki>. As well as articles on <nowiki>[[http://www.debian-administration.org/users/ElizabethBevilacqua|Debian-Administration.org]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/au/2657|O'Reilly Linux DevCenter Blog]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://opensource.com/users/pleia2|opensource.com]]</nowiki> and more.
* Has worked as a full time systems administrator on the Open``Stack Infrastructure team since 2013

=== Local Involvement ===

* Former coordinator for <nowiki>[[http://phillychix.org/|Philadelphia Area LinuxChix Chapter]]</nowiki>
* Former coordinator for <nowiki>[[http://phillylinux.org|Philadelphia area Linux Users Group (PLUG)]]</nowiki>
* Administrator of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PennsylvaniaTeam|Pennsylvania Ubuntu LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
* Speaker Coordinator for Bay Area Linux Users Group

=== Testimonials for UW Leadership ===
{*}  I'm so glad Lyz has put her name up for this role.  Lyz has been an outstanding Ubuntu member and I can't more enthusiastically endorse her as one of the leaders for the UW group.  Her accomplishments and involvement in all things Ubuntu and Floss speak for themselves and the UW group will continue to benefit from her leadership.  Good luck!  --  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelindaLopez|Dinda]]</nowiki>

{*} I strongly support Liz for one of the leadership roles in the Ubuntu-Women project. I really think people like her who have a long standing commitment and a profound knowledge of the project are the most capable to lead the group. Glad to see she is running for the job :) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki> 
=== CaliforniaLeadership ===

County: San Francisco

While I have only lived in California since February 2010, I have been involved with planning numerous Ubuntu California events since moving here. I was heavily involved with running the PennsylvaniaTeam before my move and currently am on the leadership team of the <nowiki>[[USTeams]]</nowiki> project where we help struggling US !LoCos find the resources they need to become successful teams.

I have greatly enjoyed my past term as a leader in the team and would like the opportunity to continue in this role.

Beyond my involvement in !LoCos, I have extensive leadership experience from the <nowiki>[[http://phillylinux.org|Philadelphia Linux Users Group]]</nowiki> to the CommunityCouncil which I feel will benefit in helping the team move forward.

=== #xubuntu and #xubuntu-offtopic Ops ===

I have been a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-team|Xubuntu Team]]</nowiki> since July 2011 and in November 2011 took over as Marketing and Website Lead of the Xubuntu project.

I have been an active user in #xubuntu on and off over the past several years and constantly since joining the core team. In this past cycle we revived traffic in the #xubuntu-offtopic channel, which is now quite active.

Currently I am the founder of the #ubuntu-women channel where I have held ops since 2006, have taught multiple classes about IRC for Ubuntu Women, including 2 about being an Op in the channel (<nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Courses|links here]]</nowiki>). I have worked with the IRC Council over the years, and now continue to do so in my capacity as a Community Council member for some time.

I am typically on IRC from 16:00 UTC through 00:00 UTC on weekdays, and then frequently later in the evening from 00:00 through 05:00 UTC. Weekends the times are similarly within this range, but vary based on weekend event plans :)

=== Other Testimonials ===

{*}  Lyz has always been super nice to me, when ever we have chatted on IRC and in Person, She has helped me set up a a couple of classes on Ubuntu Classroom, and also given me great advice for many things. I can say that it has been a great honor to even get to talk with her. Her community effort speaks for its-self And I am so glad that there are people like her in are community. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:josephjamesmills]]</nowiki>
