{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

DVI output with ATI RV280 series graphics cards is broken in xorg. This is caused by a <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2859|bug in the xorg ati/radeon driver]]</nowiki>. A solution to the problem is provided by this instruction (requires recompiling the driver).

=== Prerequisites ===

'''This HOWTO was written for Edgy.  The problem still exists in Feisty, however the name of the package has changed.  Please change every instance of "xserver-xorg-''driver''-ati" with "xserver-xorg-''video''-ati" for this to work on Feisty.'''

To recompile the driver we need some packages installed on our system.
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install build-essential fakeroot
$ sudo apt-get build-dep xserver-xorg-driver-ati
</pre>
=== Instruction ===
In a new empty directory (our build directory) run:
<pre>
$ apt-get source xserver-xorg-driver-ati
</pre>

This downloads three files and unpacks the sources into the directory xserver-xorg-driver-ati-version. In this directory is the file src/radeon_bios.c, that we need to edit. Towards the end of this file is a comment saying:
<pre>
        /* revision 4 has some problem as it appears in RV280,
           comment it off for now, use default instead */
</pre>

And after this comment follows a code block that has been commented out. We need to re-enable this code by removing the commenting-out. In my case deleting lines 574 and 561 did the job.

Now we can build the driver by running:
<pre>
$ dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -uc -b
</pre>
from within the directory that was created for the package after downloading.

To install it run:
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i xserver-xorg-driver-ati_6.5.7.3-0ubuntu7_i386.deb
</pre>
from within our build directory.
