{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''This content is quite old and may not be applicable to current versions of Ubuntu.'''  (please remove this note if the page is updated)
|}

=== How to get your Razer Copperhead's extra buttons working ===
The recently released program RazerTool can be used to configure the Razer Copperhead from Linux!
RazerTool can be downloaded from http://sourceforge.net/projects/razertool/.

What's very nice about this mouse is that all settings are stored in the mouse's onboard memory!  This means that your settings are preserved when you switch between operating systems!

First, though, you have to configure your mouse. Press Alt-F2, type in the following, then click Run:
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>

=== Edit your xorg.conf ===

To get your extra buttons working correctly, and set up the higher polling rate and dpi settings, find the "Core Pointer's InputDevice" section, and change it to look like this:
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
    Driver      "mouse"
    Option      "Name"          "Razer Copperhead"
    Option      "Vendor"        "Razer"
    Option      "CorePointer"
    Option      "Protocol"      "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option      "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
    Option      "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
    Option      "Buttons"       "7"
    Option      "ZAxisMapping"  "6 7"
    Option      "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
    Option      "Resolution"    "2000" #other valid values: 400, 800, 1800
    Option      "SampleRate"    "1000" #other valid values: 125, 500
    Option      "Emulate3Buttons" "false" #set to true if you want leftclick+rightclick to act like middleclick 
EndSection
</pre>

There may be some stuff that is commented out after the inital 'Option' settings, so if you wish you may leave this as is, and just add the new changed lines anywhere in the body of the "InputDevice" section.
Because this mouse supports a resolution of 2000dpi and a polling rate of 1000Hz, I have set the "Resolution" and "SampleRate" options to their maximum values.  I'm assuming that if you wish to use any other supported polling rate for this mouse, you can modify them accordingly.

Now your mouse buttons should work as expected, mouse4 and mouse5 can be used as forward/back in Firefox :)

This is tested to work on Edgy, Feisty and Gutsy.
----
CategoryHardware
