{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== The Recommended Hardware List ==

=== The concept ===
'''Recommended hardware''' is hardware that Ubuntu users have had no problems with whatsoever. Click here for <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/certification/|Ubuntu certified hardware]]</nowiki>. For '''Recommended hardware''' users don't need extra tweaking or special drivers or configuration file editing. They just work with Ubuntu out-of-the-box. The recommended hardware list is different from <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport|the Hardware Support list]]</nowiki>, because the Hardware Support list contains ''any'' hardware and how well it works. The recommended hardware list contains only hardware that works well with Ubuntu.

=== Target audience ===
This list is primarily targeted at those looking to purchase new hardware with Ubuntu in mind instead of those who already have hardware they want to install Ubuntu on or use Ubuntu with.

=== Warning ===

This list is inclusive of hardware which may stop working with Ubuntu after an upgrade. Due to the nature of proprietary drivers and firmware much of the hardware listed here may only be temporarily compatible. In order to ensure forward compatibility you need to purchase hardware which is freedom compatible. That is it does not depend on proprietary drivers or firmware. This ensures that GNU/Linux and free software developers can continue to support your hardware in the mainline kernel and other mainstream free driver projects after the manufacturers have discontinued support. Manufacturers do not usually support hardware for very long and with more freequent updates being available to Ubuntu users non-free hardware can quickly become unsupported. Some hardware with non-free software dependencies may not even work on Ubuntu.

Current companies/and or projects which sell such hardware are:

<nowiki>[[http://www.thinkpenguin.com/| ThinkPenguin.com]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.open-pc.org/| Open-PC.org]]</nowiki>

=== Guidelines for posting ===
The only rule for posting here is that you must list only hardware that will work '''immediately''' with Ubuntu. The hardware cannot require the user to compile anything, install extra software, edit files, or do any further tweaking. It must work without any extra effort.

Please keep everything on this one page. The idea is that it is supposed to be a small, digestible list of ''recommended hardware'' instead of a large, comprehensive list of ''all hardware''.

== Laptops and Pre-Configured Systems ==

=== Laptops ===
==== ThinkPenguin ====
Penguin Air

Penguin Air Pro

Penguin Peral

Penguin Value

==== Acer ====
Aspire 3610

==== Dell ====
C610 - Pentium III 1 Gig 384 MB

Dell Latitude D610

C610 - Pentium III 1 Gig   384 MB 

C500

C600

D820 - core duo

600m - pentium m

Inspiron b130 - Intel Pentium M 1.7 1 gig 

Inspiron 500m

Inspiron 1420N - Intel Core Duo x2 2.2GHz 4GB RAM (With webcam built in)

Inspiron 1505N/6400 - Intel Core Duo x2 1.86GHz 2GB RAM

Inspiron 1526 - AMD Turion x2 ~2.0 Ghz, 3 GB RAM, ATI Radeon Express 1270

Inspiron 2500

Inspiron 4150 - Mobile Intel Pentium 4 1.70 GHz 640 MB RAM

Inspiron 9300

Inspiron 8200 - Pentium 4 M 1.4GHz768 MB RAM

Inspiron 6000 - 1.73GHz Pentium M 1GB RAM

Inspiron 6000 - Pentium M 1.6 GHz768MB DDR2

Inspiron 700m - Pentium M 1.6 Ghz, 2MiB cache 1 GiB (No Firewire functionality)

Latitude D520

Latitude C600 - Intel 650MHz 256 MB

Latitude C610

Latitude D600

XPS M1210 - 2.16 ghz 2gb ram

XPS M1710 - 3Ghz 2GB ram

==== IBM ====
R32 model 2658-BQU

==== Toshiba ====
Satellite L45-SP2046

Satellite L45-S4687

Satellite A135-S2246

==== Sony ====
Vaio VGN-FS980

=== Desktops ===

==== ThinkPenguin ====

Penguin Wee

Penguin Pro

==== HP ====
Pavilion dv9502au [dv9500 entertainment notebook][turion tl-56,1gb-ram,7150m-nvidia gfx]

Pavilion XE813 - Pentium 3 768MHz 386MB RAM 

Pavilion 734n - AMD Athlon XP 2400, 512MB RAM

==== Dell ====

Inspiron 530 - Intel Core 2 Quad CPU Q6600

=== Servers ===

=== 'Barebones' PCs ===

== Peripherals ==

=== Bluetooth ===

Broadcom Corp BCM2045

ThinkPenguin Bluetooth Mini USB Adapter /w GNU Linux Support

ThinkPenguin Bluetooth Wifi Mini PCI Combo Card

=== Cameras ===

Canon PowerShot A60

=== Modems ===

=== Motherboards ===

Abit AN8-SLi

Gigabyte GA-P35-DS3L

Gigabyte GA-G31M-S2L 

Gigabyte GA-G31MX-S2

Gigabyte GA-73VM-S2

Intel D101GGC

Gigabyte P35-DS4

=== Mouse ===

ThinkPenguin Optical USB Mouse

ThinkPenguin Wireless Bluetooth Mouse

Logitech G5 Laser Mouse

Microsoft Wireless Notebook Optical Mouse 3000

=== Multimedia and digital TV ===

=== Portable devices, including mobile phones, smart phones, and audio and video players ===

Motorola W375

=== Printer - Scanner - Copiers ===

HP Photosmart C4180

HP Photosmart C4150

HP Photosmart C4480

HP Photosmart C5280

=== Printers ===

HP DeskJet 6940

HP OfficeJet Pro L7500

Canon BJC-3000 (gutenprint)

HP Photosmart C3180

HP Deskjet F340

=== Scanners ===

Canon CanoScan LiDE30

UMAX Astra 1220P

HP Photosmart C3180

=== Serial ATA Controllers ===

=== Serial Ports ===

=== Sound Cards ===

ThinkPenguin USB 2.0 Audio Adapter

Realtek ALC888 (integrated)

=== Uninterruptible Power Supply ===

=== Video Cards ===

Nvidia Geforce FX 5200 (PCI)

Nvidia Geforce 6800 Ultra (PCIe x16)

Nvidia Geforce 7600 GT (PCIe x16)

Nvidia Geforce 7400 (integrated into motherboard for laptop)

Nvidia Geforce 8800GT (XFX - 1GB DDR3)

Nvidia Geforce 9800GTX+ (eVGA - 512MB GDDR3)

Nvidia Geforce GT 130M (integrated into motherboard for laptop)

=== Webcams ===

Logitech Quickcam Pro for Notebooks

Logitech Integrated Quickcam

Logitech Quickcam Pro 9000

=== Wired Network Cards ===

Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8039 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller

=== Wireless Network Cards ===

ThinkPenguin 802.11N Mini PCI Wifi Card

Netgear WG511T (PCMCIA Card)

Intel Pro Wireless 2200

Edimax EW-7128g (PCI Card)

MSI P60G wireless G PCI adapter 

=== Wireless Network Adapters ===

ThinkPenguin 802.11N USB Wifi Adapter

ThinkPenguin 802.11G USB Wifi Adapter

BlueStork 802.11g Wireless USB 2.0 Adapter Model#BS-WG-USB <nowiki>[[http://www.bluestork.eu/|BlueStork Industries]]</nowiki>

Linksys WUSB54GR

=== Bluetooth Network Adapters ===

Belkin Mini adaptateur Bluetooth 2.0

=== Joysticks ===

Logitech Dual Action Game Pad PC (see link <nowiki>[[http://www.walmart.com/catalog/product.do?product_id=3504720|http://www.walmart.com/catalog/product.do?product_id=3504720]]</nowiki>

----

''So how is this "recommended hardware list" different from <nowiki>[[http://webapps.ubuntu.com/certification/ | the Ubuntu validated hardware database]]</nowiki>?''

----
CategoryWireless
