{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Redshift Configuration and use ==

=== Redshift ===

It is a program which adjusts the color temperature of your screen with GTK+ integration. Think about daylight and night light difference.
From the developer's page: http://jonls.dk/redshift/

“Redshift adjusts the color temperature of your screen according to your surroundings.”

It has been in the repositories since Precise Pangolin 12.04, and you can install redshift-gtk along with it.

=== Redshift-gtk ===

==== Description ====
Redshift-gtk is a simple user interface. Once installed you will find it in the accessories menus. It is not installed as a dependency and isn't even a recommended package, for the time being.

==== What it does ====

It is used to start redshift, and once started, it sits in the tray to allow enabling and disabling redshift, suspend it for a while, or quit. This is all it does, and it does not provide a configuration of any kind. The man and help commands are not very helpful either, especially on the syntax needed for the latitude and longitude.

=== Configuration File ===
So here is an example of a working configuration, which you can adapt to your needs. Name it redshift.conf and place it in your $HOME/.config directory, then ajust it to your needs.

<pre>
[redshift]
; Set the day and night screen temperatures
temp-day=5800
temp-night=4800

; Enable/Disable a smooth transition between day and night
; 0 will cause a direct change from day to night screen temperature.
; 1 will gradually increase or decrease the screen temperature
transition=1

; Set the screen brightness. Default is 1.0
;brightness=0.9
; It is also possible to use different settings for day and night since version 1.8.
;brightness-day=0.7
;brightness-night=0.4
; Set the screen gamma (for all colors, or each color channel individually)
gamma=0.9

;gamma=0.8:0.7:0.8
; Set the location-provider: 'geoclue', 'gnome-clock', 'manual'
; type 'redshift -l list' to see possible values
; The location provider settings are in a different section.
location-provider=manual

; Set the adjustment-method: 'randr', 'vidmode'
; type 'redshift -m list' to see all possible values
; 'randr' is the preferred method, 'vidmode' is an older API
; but works in some cases when 'randr' does not.
; The adjustment method settings are in a different section.
adjustment-method=randr

; Configuration of the location-provider:
; type 'redshift -l PROVIDER:help' to see the settings
; e.g. 'redshift -l manual:help'
[manual]
lat=43
lon=1

; Configuration of the adjustment-method
; type 'redshift -m METHOD:help' to see the settings
; ex: 'redshift -m randr:help'
; In this example, randr is configured to adjust screen 1.
; Note that the numbering starts from 0, so this is actually the second screen.
[randr]
screen=0
</pre>

Of course, you can play with the temp-day and temp-night values the gamma, and you will have to provide the correct values for "lat" and "lon" according to your geographical position.

Enjoy!
