{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

Remmina is the default remote desktop client in Ubuntu. Written in GTK+, Remmina is useful for system administrators who need to work with lots of remote computers across all monitor sizes. Remmina supports multiple network protocols in an integrated and consistent user interface, including RDP, VNC, NX, XDMCP and SSH. Remmina is free and open-source software, released under GNU GPL license.

== Reporting bugs ==

=== Non-crash ===

If Remmina is not crashing, but has some other issue, please ensure that you file a report via a terminal: <pre>
ubuntu-bug remmina </pre>

Please ensure you include the following information on all reports as applicable:
* The operating system, version, and architecture you are remoting to.
* The exact Remote Desktop Preferences details for every checkbox and text field.
* If VNC, the exact software used to provide the VNC connection to the client. For example, vino, k3rb, built-in OSX Sharing, etc.
* Click-for-click steps on how to reproduce this issue.

=== Crash ===

If Remmina is crashing, please report this through apport, the automatic reporting system utilized by Ubuntu. For more on filing a crash report, please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReportingBugs|here]]</nowiki>.

== External links ==

* Homepage <nowiki>[[https://github.com/FreeRDP/Remmina]]</nowiki>
