{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Note:  This guide is broken, sorry... Ubuntu chose to make IDE support a kernel module rather than builtin, so using the existing kernel will not work.  I'm not presently aware of a workaround that doesn't involve recompiling the kernel.  If you know of a way to use initrd to overcome this limitation (and stay under 1.44MB), please edit.

=== Creating an Ubuntu boot disk ===
Making a boot disk is a good precautionary tool.  
If you can't boot up, it becomes essential (bad kernel install, another OS wipes out grub, etc...) 
This is NOT a full recovery disk.  For that, google for `tomsrtbt`.

=== Required items ===
You will need:

* A blank or unused floppy disk 

=== Finding the kernel ===
1) Open a terminal (Applications > System Tools > Terminal).

2) Type:

<pre>
ls /lib/modules
</pre>

3) This will list several kernel possibilities.
   Make note of the one you want, for example: `2.6.8.1-3-386`

4) Insert the floppy.

5) Type (edit after `vmlinuz-` to match the kernel you chose):

<pre>
mkboot /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.8.1-3-386
</pre>

6) Reboot and test the boot floppy.

=== Troubleshooting ===
Make sure the floppy is unmounted before attempting to make the boot disk (or between attempts if it fails).  
Running mkboot as root (or sudo) will attempt to make a lilo boot disk, however on my system this existed with a fatal error. 

=== See also ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/software/ddrescue/ddrescue.html|ddrescue]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryRescueAndCloning
