{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
By default, Nautilus displays the pathbar, a series of buttons with directory names, to display the current location.  Some users prefer to use a location bar, with the full path displayed.  This page will show how to configure Nautilus to display locations using a location bar.

== Configuration ==
Nautilus can be configured to display the location bar for only a specific window, or for all windows.

=== Session Configuration ===
To display the location bar for only the current session, simply push `Ctrl+L`.  Other open windows will not be affected, and newly opened windows will continue to use the pathbar.
You can switch back to the pathbar by pressing ESC while the cursor is on the location bar.

=== Permanent Configuration ===
To always display the location bar, a setting must be changed in GConf (but see below for Ubuntu 11.10 and later).  Get to a <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal#Starting%20a%20Terminal | command-line]]</nowiki> and enter 
<pre>
gconf-editor
</pre>
Alternatively, the gconf-editor may be available in your menu through 
 Applications -> System Tools -> Configuration Editor

Once GConf Editor is open, double-click the '''apps''' folder.  Scroll down and find the '''nautilus''' folder, double-click it, and then choose the '''preferences''' folder.  On the right side, check the box beside the '''always_use_location_entry''' option.  This will immediately change all open Nautilus windows, as well as any newly opened Nautilus windows, to always use the location bar.  If you want to undo this change, simply un-check the box you previously checked.

Note that as from '''Ubuntu 11.10''' the setting is no longer in gconf but has moved to dconf.  It is necessary to install dconf-tools then run dconf-editor and the setting will be found in org ➜ gnome ➜ nautilus ➜ preferences ➜ always-use-location-entry

== External Links ==
* http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=77346 - The Ubuntu Forums thread from which this page was created.
----
