{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
Ubuntu strives to make all of the most important software available to its users automatically. However patent and copyright restrictions (see <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/licensing|Ubuntu License Policy]]</nowiki>) complicate distribution of software to support non-free formats.

However, you can install the ability to play popular non-free media formats, including DVD, MP3, Quicktime, and Windows Media formats, by following the instructions below.

Ubuntu’s commitment to only include completely free software by default means that proprietary media formats are not configured “out of the box”. See Ubuntu’s <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/philosophy|Free Software Philosophy]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[FreeFormats|Free Formats]]</nowiki> page for a more comprehensive discussion of these issues.

 '''Legal Notice'''
 ''Patent and copyright laws operate differently depending on which country you are in. Please obtain legal advice if you are unsure whether a particular patent or restriction applies to a media format you wish to use in your country.''

== Playing Restricted Formats ==

=== Easy Install ===

If you are using regular, stock Ubuntu:
'''<nowiki>[[apt:ubuntu-restricted-extras?section=universe?section=multiverse|Click here to install the ubuntu-restricted-extras package]]</nowiki>'''

If you are using Kubuntu:
<nowiki>[[apt:kubuntu-restricted-extras?section=universe?section=multiverse|kubuntu-restricted-extras]]</nowiki>

If you are using Xubuntu:
<nowiki>[[apt:xubuntu-restricted-extras?section=universe?section=multiverse|xubuntu-restricted-extras]]</nowiki>

If you are using Lubuntu:
<nowiki>[[apt:lubuntu-restricted-extras?section=universe?section=multiverse|lubuntu-restricted-extras]]</nowiki>

'''If you find the above link for your system does not work, please use the Manual Install section.''' 

=== Manual Install ===

If you are using regular, stock Ubuntu:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
</pre>

If you are using Kubuntu:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install kubuntu-restricted-extras
</pre>
If you are using Xubuntu:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-restricted-extras
</pre>
If you are using Lubuntu:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install lubuntu-restricted-extras
</pre>
=== Add libdvdccs ===
In addition, in order to play DVDs, you need to install libdvdcss by entering the following in a terminal:

<pre>
 sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install-css.sh
</pre>

== Detailed Instructions and Troubleshooting ==

=== Audio ===
* <nowiki>[[CDRipping| Ripping CDs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-ConvertingToOpen| Converting your audio files and video to open formats]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-iTunesMusicStore| Using the iTunes Music Store]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-MP3| MP3]]</nowiki>
=== DVD ===
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-PlayingDVDs| Playing DVDs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-RippingDVDs| Ripping DVDs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-BluRayAndHDDVD| Playing Blu Ray and HD DVD]]</nowiki>

=== Web ===
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-Flash| Playing Flash ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Shockwave| Adobe Shockwave]]</nowiki> No native version.

=== Video ===
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-StreamingVideo| Streaming Video]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RealPlayerInstallationMethods|Realplayer]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-Smil| Smil]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Medibuntu| Apple Quicktime and RealVideo]]</nowiki>

=== Other ===
* <nowiki>[[Java]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-Microsoft_Fonts| Installing popular fonts from Microsoft]]</nowiki>

== See also ==

* <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[MultimediaApplications]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683|Multimedia How To from the Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[MPlayer]]</nowiki>

* The <nowiki>[[FreeFormats|free formats]]</nowiki> page

* Ubuntu’s <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/our-philosophy|Free Software Philosophy]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_format|Wikipedia article on Open Formats]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_Scramble_System|Wikipedia article on Content Scramble System (CSS)]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.debian-multimedia.org/|Debian-Marillat Repositories]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/software/gnash/|GNU Gnash]]</nowiki>, a GNU flash player (alpha)

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=159|Ubuntu Customization Guide]]</nowiki> resembles Easy Ubuntu and Ubuntu Guide. But it has another focus as it tries to teach and link to existing documentation.

----
