{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


==== Retrieving and setting the Firewire GUID (FirewireGuid) ====

When you issue iphone-mount or ipod-touch-mount for the first time, the program silently attempts to generate this value using a USB connection. If you have never connected your device via USB before and try to mount it via WiFi for the first time, this step is missed and you end up with a database that your device refuses to read. This is (in nearly all cases) because the Firewire GUID (FirewireGuid) that the iPhone/iPod Touch specifically use to hash their database is either missing or invalid.

To fix this manually:
* Plug your iPhone/iPod device into your Ubuntu machine via USB
* In Ubuntu, run '''Applications''' → '''Accessories''' → '''Terminal'''
* Issue iphone-mount or ipod-touch-mount (depending on your device) in the terminal
* Path to /media/ipod/iPod_Control/Device ("cd /media/ipod/iPod_Control/Device", assuming you used /media/ipod for the mount location)
* Run "sudo lsusb -v -d 05ac: | grep iSerial | awk '{print $3}' | cut -b1-16  | xargs printf "FirewireGuid: 0x%s\n" > SysInfo" (Found <nowiki>[[http://www.fredemmott.co.uk/blog_121|here]]</nowiki>).
* In your media application of choice, transfer a new song and/or sync your iPod. Depending on what media application you use, you might have to re-transfer all songs.
* Reboot your device

You may also get the GUID directly from the device by executing: 
<pre>
 /usr/sbin/ioreg  -n IOIpodUSBDevice  -w 0 | grep DeviceConfiguration | cut -d '"' -f 44 | cut -c 1-16
</pre>

If all goes well, your music should now be recognized on the device!
 
 
 
==== Alternative solution with MNPlight ====

* Add the http://iphone.lefessant.net/iphone link to your Ipod Touch or Iphone installer.
* Install MNPlight.
* For Ipod Touch you need to set the "FirewareGuid" of device (see previous section).
* Set the Fireware GUID in '''MNPlight'''→'''Preferences'''.
'''Warning:''' Without this step MNPlight will corrupt your music database!
* Copy your music in to '''/var/root/Media/MNPlight/Music''' folder of your Iphone/Ipod Touch and import it by '''MNPlight'''→'''Playlists'''→'''Import songs from directory'''
