{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

By default sudo remembers your password for 15 minutes. If you want to change that you can do so by
<pre>
sudo visudo
</pre>
This opens an editor and points it to the sudoers file -- Ubuntu defaults to nano, other systems use Vi. You're now a super user editing one of the most important files on your system. No stress!

(Vi specific instructions noted with (vi!). Ignore these if you're using nano)

* Use the arrow keys to move to the end of the Defaults line. 
* (vi!) press the '''A''' (capital "a") key to move at the end of the current line and enter editing mode (append after the last character on the line).
* Now type
<pre>
,timestamp_timeout=X
</pre>
 where X is the timeout expiration '''in minutes'''. If you specify 0 you will always be asked the password. If you specify a negative value, the timeout will never expire. E.g.

 Defaults	env_reset,timestamp_timeout=5

* (vi!) hit '''Escape''' to return to command mode. Now, if you're happy with your editing, type in ''':w''' <'''ENTER'''> to write the file and ''':q''' <'''ENTER'''> to exit vi. If you made a mistake, perhaps the easiest way is to redo from start, to exit without saving (hit '''Escape''' to enter the command mode) and then type ''':q!''' <'''ENTER'''>.
* hit '''CTRL + X''', then '''Y''', then <'''ENTER'''> to save your file and exit nano.

You might want to read the sudoers and vi manual pages for additional information.
<pre>
man sudoers
</pre>
<pre>
man vi
</pre>
