{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



~+''This guide is only applicable for '''server''' installations of Ubuntu. If you are running a '''desktop''' installation of Ubuntu, try <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-Driver-Madwifi]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/wiki/|MadWifi wiki]]</nowiki> for more information.''+~

== Checking For Atheros Chipsets ==

First, verify that your wireless network adapter requires the madwifi device drivers.

Issue the following command:
<pre>
sudo lspci | grep Atheros
</pre>
If there is any output similar to that below, you should definitely install madwifi.
<pre>
00:0e.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications, Inc. AR5212 802.11abg NIC (rev 01)
</pre>
If there is no output, try looking through <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/wiki/Compatibility]]</nowiki> to see if your network adapter is supported.

== Installation ==
==== Ubuntu 8.04 ====
The drivers are in the restricted modules package; also see the `madwifi-tools` package.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules madwifi-tools 
</pre>
==== Ubuntu 7.10 ====
Navigate to <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/]]</nowiki> and download and extract the latest version of the madwifi drivers (0.9.4 at the time of this writing)
<pre>
wget http://internap.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/madwifi/madwifi-0.9.4.tar.gz
tar -xvzf madwifi-0.9.4.tar.gz
cd madwifi-0.9.4
</pre>

Download the necessary tools, compile and install the module
<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-server
make
sudo make install
</pre>
=== Setting Master Mode ===
 __'''NOTE'''__: If you are plan on using this wireless network adapter in "master" mode (i. e. for the purposes of setting up a wireless router), create the file `/etc/modprobe.d/madwifi` and add the following to it:
<pre>
options ath_pci autocreate=ap
</pre>
 This will tell madwifi to set your wireless device (ath0) to master mode.

Finally, load the module
<pre>
sudo modprobe ath_pci
</pre>

== Sources ==
# <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/FirstTimeHowTo|MadWifi 'First Time User' HOWTO]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/Distro/Ubuntu|MadWifi Ubuntu Notes]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/autocreate|VAP Autocreation Upon modprobe ath_pci]]</nowiki>
