{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Alien converts an RPM package file into a Debian package file or Alien can install an RPM file directly. This is not the recommended way to install software packages in Ubuntu. If at all possible, install packages from Ubuntu's repositories using Add/Remove, apt-get, or the Synaptic Package Manager. Package dependency conflicts may occur when attempting to install RPM packages.  The Synaptic Package Manager may be able to fix or remove any broken packages.

=== Install Alien ===
Add the Universe repository to the sources list from the '''''System''''' menu '''''System > Administration > Software Sources'''''.

Open a Terminal from the '''''Applications''''' menu '''''Applications > Accessories > Terminal'''''.

In a terminal, enter:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install alien
</pre>

=== Installing an RPM file directly ===
In a terminal, enter:

<pre>
sudo alien -i package_file.rpm
</pre>

=== Converting the RPM file to a Debian package ===
In a terminal, enter:

<pre>
sudo alien package_file.rpm
</pre>

=== Installing the converted Debian package ===
Either use <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=gdebi|gdebi]]</nowiki>, or in a terminal, enter:

<pre>
sudo dpkg -i package_file.deb
</pre>

=== Additional Help ===
In a terminal, enter:

<pre>
alien -h
</pre>
