{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Really Slick Screensavers (GLX Port) ==

=== Introduction ===

rss-glx is a GLX port of the Really Slick Screensavers collection by Terry Welsh (http://www.reallyslick.com/). Also included are several other OpenGL screensavers ported from other platforms. The screensavers can either be run as stand-alone applications or get integrated into XScreen''''''Saver's list of active screensavers. More information about using these with xscreensaver can be found in /usr/share/doc/rss-glx. Screensavers included in this package are: Biof, Busy Spheres, Colorfire, Cyclone, Euphoria, Fieldlines, Flocks, Flux, Helios, Hufo's Smoke, Hufo's Tunnel, Lattice, Matrix''''''View, Plasma, Skyrocket, Solarwinds, SpirographX, and Sundancer2. More information about this project can be found at http://rss-glx.sourceforge.net.

=== Installation ===

In order to get the screensavers to work, GLX must first be installed and running correctly on your system. The following are the directions in order to get the screensaver to work correctly:

# Install the package <code>rss-glx</code> from the Main repository (see InstallingSoftware).
# Open up a terminal window and type the following commands in order, just the way you see them:<pre>
killall xscreensaver
/usr/bin/rss-glx_install
xscreensaver -nosplash &</pre>

'''NOTE:''' The rss-glx package in the repository doesn't run the rss-glx_install program after downloading and installing the files, which is the reason for step 2.

----
