{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[Games]]</nowiki>

Rushing Bender is a single and multiplayer racing game. You are the robot '''Bender''' from the TV series '''Futurama''', and must reach the finish on a futuristic hoover as fast as possible.

== Download ==
* <nowiki>[[http://www.swiix.ch/rb]]</nowiki>

== Installation ==
Open a Terminal ('''Applications''' -> '''Accessories''' -> '''Terminal''') and type the following commands, pressing the return key at the end of each line:

<pre>
mkdir rushing_bender
mv rushing_bender_1.01.zip /path/rushing_bender/
cd /path/rushing_bender/
unzip rushing_bender_1.01.zip
chmod +x /path/rushing_bender/rushing_bender*
</pre>

Replace ''/path'' with the path of the location you want to install the game into.

'''Note:''' These instructions do not appear to work on Ubuntu Edgy (6.10). An extra dependency (libavifile-0.7c2) must be installed, but even then the program crashes with error <code>ERROR:  FmodPLayer: error loading Stream from fileresources/sound/menu.mp3</code> on startup.

== Start ==
You can start the game with the following command (replace ''/path'' with the path you installed the game to):

<pre>
/path/rushing_bender/rushing_bender.sh
</pre>

----
CategoryGames
