{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Return to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OBI]]</nowiki>
-----

== Lubuntu 14.04 LTS EndUser-nonPAE, the OBI tarball ==

=== Background information ===

This tarball contains two kernels, a non-pae kernels for old CPUs, and a generic pae kernel. It is uploaded as an alternative for users with old computers, where a generic pae kernel will not work. But it can used in any Intel/AMD computer where standard 32-bit kernels work, and can be a good alternative for a portable 'installed system' on a USB pendrive.

OBI tarballs are installed from mass storage devices, usually USB pendrives. If you cannot boot from USB, try the <nowiki>[[http://www.plop.at/en/bootmanagers.html|Plop boot manager]]</nowiki>. If it still does not boot, try the '''9w installer''' which can boot from a CD drive. [The wiki page about 9w is not ready yet, instead you can start at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2209683&page=8&p=13003225#post13003225|this link]]</nowiki>.

=== This tarball ===

'''Lubuntu_14.04_eu-npae.tar.xz'''

is uploaded to make it convenient to manage Lubuntu 14.04 LTS now. There is one '''major tweak''' or work-around to start nm-applet, '''which puts a network indicator onto the panel''' (the 'two monitors' symbol when not connected, the 'arrow up arrow down' symbol when connected via Ethernet (wired) and a 'staircase' when connected via wifi). It is done using a terminal window (lxterminal).

The work-around does not work with the guest user but if the main user stays logged in (and connected via wifi), it should work also for the guest user.

==== Update and dist-upgrade ====

The packages are updated and dist-upgraded to the file date shown at

<nowiki>[[http://phillw.net/isos/one-button-installer/tarballs]]</nowiki>

==== Grub menu visible for easy choice of kernel ====

==== Two kernels ====

The boot option '''forcepae''' was used during the installation and is active, which makes it possible to update and upgrade the non-pae kernel as well as the generic (PAE) kernel.
<pre>
linux-3.13.0-non-pae '124'
linux-3.13.0-24-generic
</pre>
The non-pae kernel files dated 04-May-2014 21:36 were downloaded from

<nowiki>[[http://phillw.net/isos/non-pae]]</nowiki>
<pre>
ls -l
-rw-r--r--    899846 May  4 21:36 linux-firmware-image-3.13.0-non-pae_124_i386.deb
-rw-r--r--   6340890 May  4 21:36 linux-headers-3.13.0-non-pae_124_i386.deb
-rw-r--r--  39868542 May  4 21:36 linux-image-3.13.0-non-pae_124_i386.deb
-rw-r--r--    739474 May  4 21:36 linux-libc-dev_124_i386.deb
</pre>
<pre>
md5sum linux-*
fc8ed56bec7407d331f4045053a81802  linux-firmware-image-3.13.0-non-pae_124_i386.deb
ffbc1956eae396447e1803f13022c9f8  linux-headers-3.13.0-non-pae_124_i386.deb
b0a72589a6f412226b3ad272e0825750  linux-image-3.13.0-non-pae_124_i386.deb
0ecdfbdd2bb221dbc90cd676a6f7b825  linux-libc-dev_124_i386.deb
</pre>

The non-pae kernel works for old processors without PAE capability. The generic kernel works for
processors with PAE capability (even if there is no PAE flag). The generic kernel is better when
there is more than 2 GB RAM; this is the task of PAE (physical address extension).

==== Tweak for the network indicator ====

The following code is appended to '''/etc/bash.bashrc'''
<pre>
ps -A|grep nm-applet $HOME/.config/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart > /dev/null 
if [  $? -ne 0 ]
then
 if [ "${USER:0:5}" != "guest" ]
 then
  nm-applet  &
  echo 'nm-applet' >> $HOME/.config/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart
 fi
fi
</pre>

=== The system is made via an OEM installation ===

When the system is installed, reboot, and the computer will start a wizard to create the end user account.

=== Login as End User ===

==== Initiate the network indicator applet ====

The network indicator will appear after you have started a '''terminal window''' from the menu or with the hotkey combination

'''ctrl +alt + t'''

This will be automatic after this first instance.

==== Install a new language ====

There is an opportunity to select language, but it will not be installed properly at
the installation via the OEM dialogue (at least not Swedish, that I tested). But when you select (from the main menu in Lubuntu)

'''Preferences--Language Support'''

and install the relevant language, it will work after the next reboot.

'''Preferences--Keyboard Input Methods'''

The 14.04 LTS 'Trusty' version needs the keyboard layout to be set separately: select the tab 'Input Method', then 'Select an input method' (and select your language), then click the '+ Add' button

Then you can select keyboard with the applet on the panel, and it will survive at reboot.

=== When the bug is fixed ===

When the bug is fixed for the network indicator, the special version of this tarball will be deprecated, so remove the tweak for the network indicator from '''/etc/bash.bashrc''' and '''$HOME/.config/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart'''.
-----
Return to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OBI]]</nowiki>
