{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[http://www.octave.org/|GNU Octave]]</nowiki> is a high-level language, primarily intended for numerical computations. It is free software, and it is similar to the commercial product <nowiki>[[MATLAB]]</nowiki>. It gives you an command line environment where you can do calculation, solve equations, manipulate matrices and plot graphs. A list of commands can be put into a file and executed as an interpreted scripting language.

A simple example of a Octave session
<pre>
octave:1> a = 2 * 3
a = 6
octave:2> b = [ 1 2 3 4]
b =

  1  2  3  4

octave:3> c = a * b
c =

   6  12  18  24

octave:4> exit
</pre>

=== Installation ===

Octave is in the Ubuntu universe and can be installed with synaptic or apt-get. The package name is "octave"

=== Running octave ===

To run octave open a terminal and type
<pre>
octave
</pre>

=== Zooming in GNUPlot ===

The latest GNUPlot from CVS (2008-10-09 is what I used) can zoom with the mouse.  For certain tasks, this is obviously a huge improvement over using <code>xlim()</code> and <code>ylim()</code>.  These instructions are for 8.04; hopefully it will make it into the 8.10 or 9.04 repos.

Build GNUPlot with the instructions at http://www.gnuplot.info/development/index.html.  You will need at least these packages ''(please add to this list if you see the need for more)'':
<pre>
sudo aptitude install build-essential cvs autoconf automake libgd2-xpm-dev checkinstall xorg-dev
</pre>

Run the cvs commands from gnuplot.info's instructions:
<pre>
 cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@gnuplot.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/gnuplot login
 cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@gnuplot.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/gnuplot co -P gnuplot
</pre>

Configure:
<pre>
 cd gnuplot
 ./prepare
 ./configure --prefix=/usr/local/
</pre>

The output of configure will tell you if you have the correct things enabled in gnuplot.  Look for the following lines:
<pre>
 X Window System terminal: yes
 jpeg terminal: yes
 gif terminal: yes
 png terminal: yes
 Mouse support in interactive terminals: yes
 Zooming or refresh of volatile data: yes
</pre>

Build:
<pre>
 make
</pre>

Install.  <code>checkinstall</code> is a program to automatically make a debian package, so it is easy to uninstall or install on similar systems.  <code>checkinstall</code> will complain loudly about a bad version number.  Make the version something like 4.3-cvs.  Debian package versions must have numbers in them.
<pre>
 sudo checkinstall
</pre>
''Example:''
<pre>
Package: gnuplot
Status: install ok installed
Priority: extra
Section: checkinstall
Installed-Size: 7036
Maintainer: root@localhost
Architecture: amd64
Version: 4.3-cvs-1
Description: Gnuplot
</pre>
Alternatively, you can just <code>sudo make install</code>. 

=== Resources ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.octave.org/|GNU Octave website]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://octave.sourceforge.net/|GNU Octave Repository]]</nowiki> Add ons.

* <nowiki>[[http://linuxgazette.net/authors/odonovan.html|Articles by Barry O'Donovan]]</nowiki> Some introductory articles.

* <nowiki>[[http://octave-gtk.sourceforge.net/|octave-gtk]]</nowiki> a GTK+ binding for GNU/Octave.

* <nowiki>[[http://pkg-octave.alioth.debian.org/|Debian Octave Group]]</nowiki>

CategoryProgramming CategoryScience CategorySoftware
