{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Octoshape is a closed-source streaming media server and client which uses peer-to-peer grid technology.  This page will help you install the Octoshape client for Linux.

== Install Required Packages ==
<nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware| Install]]</nowiki> the '''sun-java6-bin''' and '''mplayer''' packages.

<!> amd64 users should install '''ia32-sun-java6-bin'''

<!> In Kubuntu 8.04 "Hardy Heron", the Java package installed with the metapackage '''kubuntu-restricted-extras''' is '''openjdk-6-jre''', so there isn't need to install sun-java's packages.

== Install Octoshape ==
The corresponding <nowiki>[[UsingTheTerminal| Terminal]]</nowiki> commands are provided for each step, but you may use whatever tools you wish to accomplish what is required.

* Download the Octoshape plugin for Linux to your Desktop from http://www.octoshape.com/plugin/linux.asp. <pre>
wget -P ~/Desktop http://www.octoshape.com/files/octosetup-linux_i386.bin
</pre> <!> The <code>/Desktop</code> referenced folder can be change for any other of your preference. <code>/Desktop</code> is the default desktop folder of an Ubuntu English system. Other option could be use a <code>/Programs</code> folder.
* Give <code>octosetup-linux_i386.bin</code> executable FilePermissions. <pre>
chmod +x ~/Desktop/octosetup-linux_i386.bin
</pre>
* Execute <code>octosetup-linux_i386.bin</code> using the <nowiki>[[UsingTheTerminal| Terminal]]</nowiki>. <pre>
cd ~/Desktop
./octosetup-linux_i386.bin
</pre>
* You will then be presented with a license agreement.  You may scroll down by pressing the space bar.  If you agree to the terms, type "yes" when prompted and press enter.  An <code>octoshape</code> directory will be extracted to your Desktop.
* In the <code>octoshape</code> directory, edit the file named <code>setup.xml</code> which contains the path to your libjvm.so with the following syntax: <code><e JavaExec="/path/to/libjvm.so" /></code>.

 A nice shortcut for this is to execute the following command in your <nowiki>[[UsingTheTerminal| Terminal]]</nowiki>: <pre>
echo '<e JavaExec="'$(dpkg -L sun-java6-bin | grep client/libjvm.so)'" />' > ~/Desktop/octoshape/setup.xml
</pre>

 <!> amd64 users should use: <pre>
echo '<e JavaExec="'$(dpkg -L ia32-sun-java6-bin | grep client/libjvm.so)'" />' > ~/Desktop/octoshape/setup.xml
</pre>

 <!> Kubuntu 8.04 users with a Java install from '''kubuntu-restricted-extras''' metapackage, should use: <pre>
echo '<e JavaExec="'$(dpkg -L openjdk-6-jre-headless | grep client/libjvm.so)'" />' > ~/Desktop/octoshape/setup.xml
</pre>

== Use Octoshape ==

Launch your player by executing <pre>
cd ~/Desktop/octoshape
./OctoshapeClient -url:XYZ.xyz
</pre>
 
where "XYZ.xyz" corresponds to the string in the Play column at <nowiki>[[http://www.octoshape.com/play/play.asp?os=linux|Octoshape's Linux Play Page]]</nowiki> for the channel you wish to watch.

== See also ==
* <nowiki>[[http://www.octoshape.com/plugin/linux.asp|Octoshape's Installation Instructions for Linux]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.octoshape.com/faq/faq.asp?faqtype=Linux|Octoshape's Linux FAQ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[WikiPedia:Octoshape|Wikipedia Entry on Octoshape]]</nowiki>
----
