{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

Webmail is software which allows you to view email from any computer, anywhere in the world, through your web browser. OpenWebMail is a simple, fast and popular webmail package. The website is <nowiki>[[http://openwebmail.org/|here]]</nowiki>. This guide will enable you to setup webmail on your own server, for use either within your home network, or outside.

== Preparation ==

In order to run, you need to first set up a number of things:
* A working Mail Transfer Engine, see MailServer

== Installation ==

OpenWebMail depended on Perl module. If you did not install Perl, install Perl first:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install perl
</pre>

Additional packages that are required after the above is installed, can be found in the Synaptic Package Manager.
Search for and install the following if not previously installed:
<pre>
libauthen-pam-perl (0.16-1.1)
libconvert-asn1-perl (0.22-1)
libmd5-perl (2.03-1)
libnet-ldap-perl (1:0.39-lubuntul)
perl-suid (5.10.0-19ubuntu1.1)
wwwconfig-common (0.2.1)
libpg-perl (1:2.1.1-4)
</pre>
The OpenWebmail package is dependent on these packages and they must be installed or will result in a broken package.

OpenWebMail is not currently in the <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu|Ubuntu repositories]]</nowiki>. You can get the latest deb package at http://openwebmail.org/openwebmail/download/debian/. 

Install it with:
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i <package_name>
</pre>

For example, at the time of this writing, the latest version is 2.53-2:
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i owm2.53-2.deb
</pre>

== Configuration ==

OpenWebMail is ready to be used!  Every user account on the server has an email account with the same username/password.  To add more email users, simply create more users on the system.

make default link for openwebmail

<pre>
sudo rm /var/www/openwebmail/index.html
sudo ln -s /var/www/openwebmail/redirect.html /var/www/openwebmail/index.html
</pre>

== Check it works! ==

Open a webbrowser, and go to the address <code>http://localhost/openwebmail</code>. Change <code>localhost</code> for the address of your server.  You should see the OpenWebMail login box!
