{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''The following is no longer true''' at least for Feisty, 2.X version is in the universe repository. Also, for configuring client side, network-manager-openvpn can become very handy. I leave the original page underneath in case anyne needed it.

OpenVPN version 1.x is available in the universe reposiroty. <code>apt-get install openvpn</code> will do the necessary.

Although OpenVPN version 2 is still at beta stage at the time of writing, it is already in use quite widely (my employers have been using it for a while on both windows and linux clients).

If you want (or need, as release 2 has some functionality not in version 1) to go for version 2. You can download the source code from here: http://sourceforge.net/projects/openvpn/

You'll need to install a couple of packages that the confiure script looks for:
<pre>
apt-get install libssl-dev liblzo-dev
</pre>

Unzip the source file and change directory into the newly created openvpn-2.0_rcXX directory (where XX is the current release number), then it's just a case of 
<pre>
./configure
make
sudo make install
</pre>

That's about it, now you just need to set up your config file and certs somewhere convenient
<pre>
sudo mkdir /etc/openvpn
</pre>
and then specify your config file as a command line argument
<pre>
openvpn --with-config=
</pre>

== Notes ==
for it to work properly you need the tun module in your kernel
* make sure the firewall allows vpn
* instructions for creating a tap

If you just want to connect to a microsoft based VPN, you probably don't want to use OpenVPN.  See https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VPNClient

----
CategoryVPN
