{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

This page describes how to utilize your Option GT Max 3.6 express wireless card in Ubuntu Hardy 8.04. This guide may or may not work for variants of this card or for other Ubuntu versions (ie, original Option GT Max, USB versions, Gutsy, etc). The driver for this card (name: option) is provided by default with Hardy's kernel.

== Prerequisites ==

To begin, there are two prerequisite packages that need installed:

wvdial and gnome-ppp (kppp for Kubuntu). Packages can either be installed via the command line with apt-get or via Synaptic:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install wvdial gnome-ppp
</pre>
== Configuration ==

Once installed, wvdial needs to be configured. Open /etc/wvdial.conf with your favorite text editor and add the following (Note that the username, password, and isp init string settings need changed depending on your carrier. Settings below reflect AT&T/Cingular wireless):
<pre>
[Dialer Defaults]
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
Baud = 115200
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2
Init3 = AT+CFUN=1;+CGDCONT=1,"IP","isp.cingular"
Area Code =
Phone = *99#
Username = ISP@CINGULARGPRS.COM
Password = isp.cingular
Ask Password = 0
Dial Command = ATD
FlowControl=NOFLOW
Stupid Mode = 1
Compuserve = 0
Force Address =
Idle Seconds = 3000
DialMessage1 =
DialMessage2 =
ISDN = 0
Auto DNS = 1
</pre>
== Connecting ==

You may connect either with wvdial itself or with gnome-ppp/kppp. To connect with wvdial simply issue from a terminal:
<pre>
wvdial
</pre>

To connect with gnome-ppp/kppp, simply input the username, password and phone number, all of which are found in the wvdial configuration above.

== Troubleshooting ==

If you have problems with your connection "hanging" (when downloading a file, for instance), try setting your modem's mode to 3g only or gprs only depending on your signal. This can be accomplished in Windows with Option Wireless's connection manager. Additionally, you can issue an AT command in Linux (with minicom, among others) to the card to change its mode. Both of these options are outside the scope of this article.

If your card is not being recognized at all, ensure that the option driver is installed and loaded. To check if its installed, issue the command:
<pre>
modinfo option
</pre>

To see if its loaded:

<pre>
lsmod | grep option
</pre>

If its installed but not loaded, load it with:

<pre>
sudo modprobe option
</pre>

----
CategoryWireless
