{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Oracle Instant Client is a free <nowiki>[[Oracle]]</nowiki> database client. The current version is 12.1.0.2.0, and several versions back to 10.1.0.5 are available.

== Install RPMs ==

* Download the Oracle Instantclient RPM files from <nowiki>[[http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/features/instant-client/index-097480.html]]</nowiki>. Everyone needs either "Basic" or "Basic lite", and most users will want "SQL*Plus" and the "SDK".
* Convert these .rpm files into .deb packages and install using "<nowiki>[[alien]]</nowiki>" ("sudo apt-get install alien" if you don't have it).
* For example, for version 12.1.0.2.0-1 for Linux x86_64 (64-bit):
<pre>
alien -i oracle-instantclient12.1-basic-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
alien -i oracle-instantclient12.1-sqlplus-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
alien -i oracle-instantclient12.1-devel-12.1.0.2.0-1.x86_64.rpm
</pre>
* Test your Instantclient install by using "sqlplus" or "sqlplus64" to connect to your database:
<pre>
sqlplus username/password@//dbhost:1521/SID
</pre>

If you execute sqlplus and get "sqlplus: command not found", see the section below about adding the ORACLE_HOME variable.

If sqlplus complains of a missing libsqlplus.so file, follow the steps in the section "Integrate Oracle Libraries" below.

If sqlplus complains of a missing libaio.so.1 file, run 
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libaio1
</pre>
or, if you're installing the 32 bit instant client on 64 bit,
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libaio1:i386
</pre>

== Integrate Oracle Libraries ==
If oracle applications, such as sqlplus, are complaining about missing libraries, you can add the Oracle libraries to the LD_LIBRARY_PATH each time it is used:
<pre>
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/<version>/client(64)/lib/${LD_LIBRARY_PATH:+:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH}
</pre>
For example, 12.1 version for Linux x86_64:
<pre>
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib/${LD_LIBRARY_PATH:+:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH}
</pre>
or to add it to the system library list create a new file as follows:
<pre>
sudo vi /etc/ld.so.conf.d/oracle.conf && sudo chmod o+r /etc/ld.so.conf.d/oracle.conf
</pre>
 and add the oracle library path as the first line.  For example,
<pre>
/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib/
</pre>
 or
<pre>
/usr/lib/oracle/11.2/client/lib/
</pre>

 Then run ldconfig:
<pre>
sudo ldconfig
</pre>

== ORACLE_HOME ==
Many Oracle database applications look for Oracle software in the location specified in the environment variable 'ORACLE_HOME'.

Typical workstations will only have one Oracle install, and will want to define this variable in a system-wide location.

<pre>
sudo sudo vi /etc/profile.d/oracle.sh && sudo chmod o+r /etc/profile.d/oracle.sh 
</pre>

Add the following:
<pre>
export ORACLE_HOME=/usr/lib/oracle/<version>/client(64)
</pre>
For example
<pre>
export ORACLE_HOME=/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64
</pre>

Alternatively, each user can define this in their ~/.bash_profile

Note: From Ubuntu 11.04 (confirmed in 11.04 and 14.04) sqlplus was not recognized as a command unless the following line was also included in the oracle.sh file:
<pre>
export PATH=$PATH:$ORACLE_HOME/bin
</pre>

== SDK fix ==
Some packages may look for 'oci.h' in $ORACLE_HOME/include, or in $ORACLE_HOME/rdbms/public

The instant client sometimes places the include files, such as oci.h, in /usr/include/oracle/<version>/client.

Inspect your system by running the following commands
<pre>
ls $ORACLE_HOME
ls -d /usr/include/oracle/*/client*/*
</pre>

If there is no 'include' directory under ORACLE_HOME, and it is located over in /usr/include/oracle/ , create a symbolic link to assist packages looking for these header files.  For example,

<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/include/oracle/11.2/client $ORACLE_HOME/include
</pre>
or:
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/include/oracle/12.1/client64 $ORACLE_HOME/include
</pre>

And then check it is correct
<pre>
ls $ORACLE_HOME
</pre>
