{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
Oracle is an organisation, best known for their database.

== Package list ==
Oracle provides a debian repository at http://oss.oracle.com/debian, containing only Oracle 10g Express Edition (XE) packages.  To see these packages, add this line to /etc/apt/sources.list file:
<pre>
deb http://oss.oracle.com/debian unstable main non-free
</pre>

Next, you will need to add the GPG key.
<pre>
wget http://oss.oracle.com/el4/RPM-GPG-KEY-oracle  -O- | sudo apt-key add -
</pre>

As root, type:
<pre>
apt-get update
</pre>

To install the XE database server, apt-get 'oracle-xe-universal' or 'oracle-xe' (Western European support only).
<pre>
apt-get install oracle-xe-universal
</pre>

If you only need the XE client, type
<pre>
apt-get install oracle-xe-client
</pre>

More information about the Express Edition is available at http://www.oracle.com/technology/products/database/xe/index.html

<nowiki>[[Oracle Instant Client]]</nowiki> is another option for installing an Oracle client, with more recent versions available.

== Oracle software ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.makina-corpus.org/blog/howto-install-oracle-11g-ubuntu-linux-1204-precise-pangolin-64bits|Oracle11g]]</nowiki>, feel free to include this howto in this wiki. 

== Integration ==
* <nowiki>[[HowToBuildToraWithOracle]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PHPOracle]]</nowiki>
