{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

I'm a Linux user of several years, but I've never been able to fully convert until Ubuntu 5.10 Breezy Badger was released.  Since then I haven't looked back.  I've tried several distributions - Red Hat Workstation, Fedora Core (1, 2, 3, 4), Mandriva and Mandrake, Debian, and Gentoo to name a few.  Gentoo was by far my favorite.  It didn't require a reinstall to get to the next version, and all the software was bleeding edge.

Gentoo however became a pain when it came to having to go through all of the etc-updates after each system update.  I also found I didn't need to be quite '''that''' bleeding edge.

Ubuntu gave me the middle ground between all the distro's I had previously tried.  It was fairly up to date (although the PHP version was a little farther behind than I would have liked), was easy to keep updated, and provided an easy upgrade path between versions.

I'm now running Ubuntu 6.10 Edgy Eft.  I've setup an Ubuntu server (now running 6.04), and have several documents in draft that I want to get posted on the wiki.

Since I have a general love of Ubuntu now I have joined the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[UtahTeam]]</nowiki> and hope to help spread the word there.

=== Contact ===
Email: thesnowrider {at} gmail {dot} com <<BR>>
Homepage:  umm... yeah.  I'm working on that.

...

----
CategoryHomepage
