{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Contact Me ==

{*} These are my preferred methods of contact.  You will find me online almost always, so there shouldn't be any difficulty reaching me.

=== Security ===

{*} I use GnuPG encryption for all my communication.  If you would like to have a secure conversation with me, either via email or IM, please generate or use your GnuPG key.  You can find my most updated key here:

'''GPG''': <nowiki>[[http://www.aarontoponce.org/aaron.asc|0x8086060F]]</nowiki>

If for any reason, you sign my key with yours, please upload the key to the Ubuntu keyserver, and send me a copy to my email below.

=== Email ===

{*} When using email, I '''always''' digitally sign my email with my public GnuPG key.  If an email comes through to you from one of my email addresses and it is not signed with my key, or if the verification of the digital signature fails, please question the integrity of the message.  I recommend using <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.com/thunderbird|Thunderbird]]</nowiki> with the <nowiki>[[http://enigmail.mozdev.org|Enigmail]]</nowiki> plugin for verifying digitally signed mail.  It is the setup I use to encrypt, decrypt, sign and verify all my mail.

At any event, here are my email addresses:

'''Ubuntu''': &#97;&#116;&#111;&#112;&#111;&#110;&#99;&#101;&#64;&#117;&#98;&#117;&#110;&#116;&#117;&#46;&#99;&#111;&#109;<<BR>>
'''Personal''': &#97;&#97;&#114;&#111;&#110;&#46;&#116;&#111;&#112;&#111;&#110;&#99;&#101;&#64;&#103;&#109;&#97;&#105;&#108;&#46;&#99;&#111;&#109;

=== Instant Messaging ===

{*} I use <nowiki>[[http://www.bitlbee.org|bitlbee]]</nowiki> for all my instant messaging coupled with the irssi-plugin-otr plugin for client-to-client encryption.  If you are using an OTR capable client, you can completely secure your conversation with me as it will never reach any server in plaintext.  I also use Gajim, which supports public GnuPG keys (not a 3rd party encryption plugin) for client-to-client encryption.  My GPG key is listed on this page.  My JID is listed below.

'''Jabber''': &#97;&#97;&#114;&#111;&#110;&#46;&#116;&#111;&#112;&#111;&#110;&#99;&#101;&#64;&#103;&#109;&#97;&#105;&#108;&#46;&#99;&#111;&#109;

=== IRC ===

{*} I am always connected to IRC.  You will only find me connected to the Freenode servers.  I use irssi as my IRC client of choice bundled with screen.  Please see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Irssi|this tutorial]]</nowiki> that I wrote to set that up, if you're interested.

If I don't respond to a public or private message, I may be away.  Please send me a memo via Memoserv.  You will need to have your nick registered with Nickserv before you can send the memo.  Use the syntax below to send me a memo.

<pre>
/msg memoserv send atoponce your message here
</pre>

My nick is listed below, as well as the channels that I most frequent.

'''Nick''': atoponce or encryptz or eightyeight<<BR>>
'''Channels''': #ubuntu-utah, #utah, #ubuntu-us, ##dvorak
