{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Find me on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aaron-whitehouse|Launchpad]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/u/aaron-whitehouse/summary|Ubuntu Discourse]]</nowiki>

I have been an Ubuntu fan and contributor since 2005 and, since 2018, work at Canonical. I now lead the team that drives Canonical’s joint initiatives with the major public clouds (Public Cloud Enablement). My team works with Canonical's CPC team to ensure Ubuntu users have the best possible experience on the public clouds.

=== Contributions ===
* 2005-2010 - Ran the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Old/DellInspiron510m|LaptopTesting page for my laptop]]</nowiki>, testing betas, RCs and releases of Breezy, Dapper, Edgy, Feisty, Gutsy, Hardy, Intrepid, Jaunty and Karmic, noting regressions and filing bugs accordingly. 
* 2005-2010 - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Old/DellInspiron510m#Benchmarks|Benchmarking]]</nowiki> of each release against each other and the pre-installed Windows XP (Grub -> Login; Shutdown -> Power-off; Suspend to RAM (sleep); Resume from RAM (wake); Suspend to HD (hibernate); and Resume from HD), identifying bugs e.g. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/reiserfsprogs/+bug/67301|Bug #67301]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/61407|Bug #61407]]</nowiki>
* 2006 - Created <nowiki>[[GnomePowerManagerInhibitSpec]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[InhibitingGnomeScreensaver]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[GnomePowerManagerInactiveSleep]]</nowiki> and advocated (identifying relevant projects and filing bugs etc) that more Ubuntu projects used these to prevent the screensaver coming on/the machine suspending when they should not. 
* 2008? - Part of the <nowiki>[[PDATeam]]</nowiki>, testing Ubuntu with Palm Pilots!
* 2005-Today: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~aaron-whitehouse/+reportedbugs|Filed]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~aaron-whitehouse/+commentedbugs|commented on]]</nowiki> a reasonable number of Launchpad (and upstream) bugs, receiving credit for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseNotes/Credits/BugReporters?highlight=(Aaron%20Whitehouse)|Raring]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseNotes/Credits/BugReporters?highlight=(Aaron%20Whitehouse)|Saucy]]</nowiki>.
* 2015-Today: Member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~duplicity-team/+members|development team]]</nowiki> for <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/duplicity/duplicity|duplicity]]</nowiki>, Ubuntu's default "Backups" application. Work items particularly related to Ubuntu were work on: 
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/duplicity/+spec/python3|converting Duplicity to Python 3]]</nowiki> as part of removing Python 2 from the Ubuntu desktop images
** creating GitLab CI testing against <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/duplicity/duplicity/-/merge_requests/7|16.04]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/duplicity/duplicity/-/merge_requests/3|Ubuntu 18.04]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/duplicity/duplicity/-/commit/2f4a152769a9b06a25a3b9b42956c308ee0c0aad|created the original]]</nowiki> duplicity snap and our original <nowiki>[[https://snapcraft.io/duplicity|Snap Store page]]</nowiki> (now part of our CI/CD).
* 2021 - onwards:
** As part of my role at Canonical, worked to improve Ubuntu across the board on Public Clouds, with a particular interest in ensuring Public Cloud systems management tooling and similar work as well as possible on Ubuntu instances. 
** Created <nowiki>[[https://github.com/Hooloovoo/list-universe|list-universe]]</nowiki>, a simple script to list and count the packages that were installed from Ubuntu's Universe repository.
** Created <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/purchasing-and-applying-16-04-esm-from-the-azure-marketplace|Ubuntu tutorial for Azure users to apply ESM to their 16.04 VMs]]</nowiki>
** Created <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/using-azure-ad-to-manage-ssh-logins-to-ubuntu|Ubuntu tutorial on using Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) to manage SSH logins for Ubuntu virtual machines on Azure]]</nowiki>
** Created <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/create-a-hardened-ubuntu-pro-18-04-lts-shared-image-with-azure-image-builder#1-overview|tutorial on creating a hardened "golden" image of Ubuntu using Azure Image Builder]]</nowiki>
** Created <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/testing-the-self-healing-of-zfs-on-ubuntu#1-overview|tutorial on the self-healing of ZFS on Ubuntu 20.04]]</nowiki>
** Regular calls with significant users of Ubuntu on Public Clouds (normally users of free Ubuntu offerings), advising how they can use Ubuntu more effectively.
** Presented <nowiki>[[https://www.brighttalk.com/webcast/6793/538507|a webinar giving practical tips on Ubuntu and open-source supply chain security for Azure users]]</nowiki> as part of Microsoft Germany's OSS series.
** Co-presented <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/engage/cloud-cost-optimisation-best-practices|Cloud cost optimisation best practices]]</nowiki>, giving practical tips on how Ubuntu users on Public Clouds could reduce their costs.
** Added Prometheus metric exporters to <nowiki>[[https://github.com/jimsalterjrs/sanoid/pull/761|Sanoid]]</nowiki> now that Ubuntu has chosen Prometheus as part of the Charmed Observability Stack.
** <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nnvsletLWNk|Presented a Lightboard presentation]]</nowiki> and wrote <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/blog/securing-open-source-software-dependencies-in-the-public-cloud|a blog]]</nowiki> on securing open source software dependencies in the public cloud.
** Co-wrote a three-part blog series with John Chittum on how to ensure security and stability in cloud instances: <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/blog/ubuntu-updates-releases-and-repositories-explained|part 1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/blog/ubuntu-updates-best-practices-for-updating-your-instance|part 2]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/blog/securing-multiple-ubuntu-instances-while-maximising-uptime|part 3]]</nowiki>.

=== Future Goals/Ongoing Work ===

* Assistance, tutorials and guidance to Ubuntu users, particularly those on Public Clouds.
* Contribution to technical specifications of Ubuntu tools that make it easier to integrate external systems management tooling with Ubuntu instances.
* Continued contribution to duplicity that helps Ubuntu users, particularly on backwards compatibility testing for Ubuntu releases.
* I have been running a duplicity-based backup setup across multiple machines for many years and have recently converted this to a ZFS/snapshots/Sanoid/offsite Raspberry Pi/Nebula solution, all based on Ubuntu. I would like to document this as guidance for others with the same objectives.

=== Testimonials ===
If anybody happens to come across this page and feels like saying something nice about me, please add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces). The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes". It may help if I ever get around to seeking Ubuntu Membership.

==== Christian Ehrhardt ====

I've worked with Aaron on various occasions, mostly driven by him giving me and my team challenges to make the live of Ubuntu users better. He really puts the users first, which is a great character trait. He thinks of what they might want and then uses his energy to convince everyone needed to get it done. It is great that Ubuntu has such an advocate for the good. Furthermore he is always open minded to alternatives and discussions, friendly and helpful. TBH I'm puzzled he isn't already an Ubuntu member and has my full support to become one.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:paelzer]]</nowiki> 
==== John Chittum ====

I've had the pleasure to work with Aaron in all sorts of situations throughout my time as an Ubuntu member and Canonical employee. Aaron's day to day work representing Ubuntu to cloud partners is invaluable to the community. Aaron focuses on community and users, thinking of how to make our collective lives easier. He's also always up for testing and prototyping new ideas. When I found out all the years he's spent working on Ubuntu, from laptop testing and benchmarks, to duplicity, I (like Christian) was amazed to hear he wasn't  already a member. He has my full support in becoming an Ubuntu member!

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jchittum]]</nowiki> 
==== Phil Roche ====

I have worked with Aaron as a Canonical employee when collaborating with cloud partners on multiple occasions. Aaron has excellent technical knowledge of Ubuntu in the various clouds and is very focused on making Ubuntu the best it can be in those environments. As you can see from the above contributions, Aaron also spends a great deal of effort on improving the educational material around Ubuntu in public cloud. These contributions are of great benefit to all Ubuntu users.

I +1 Aaron's application to become Ubuntu member.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:philroche]]</nowiki> 
==== Dimitri John Ledkov ====

Aaron has a very deep and niche understanding of various Ubuntu facets. He tries to achieve for such knowledge to become self-service / easy to discover by the users.

I +1 Aaron's application to become Ubuntu member.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:xnox]]</nowiki> 
==== Michael Vogt ====

I got valuable feedback from Aaron about improvements we could do in Ubuntu or for snaps. He has a deep technical understanding and is easy to work with.

I +1 Aaron's application to become Ubuntu member.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mvo]]</nowiki> 