{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

===== நான் யார் :| இன்னும் அதைத்தான் நானும் அறிய ஆவலாய் தேடுகிறேன்  :'(, தெரிந்தவர்கள் சொல்லித்தாருங்கள் =====

'''எம்மைப் பற்றி சிறிதாக/ Brief About Me,'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Contact Via'''
| '''Contact Details'''
|-
| '''Email''':
| gnukulam@gmail.com
|-
| '''Mobile''':
| +94 71 491 16 92
|}

I am '''Abdul Haleem''' Sulaima Lebbe, was born at '''Kalmunai''', '''Sri Lanka'''. I did Specialization in Computer Science , at '''South Eastern University of Sri Lanka(SEUSL)''', With the '''University Colombo School of Computing''' (UCSC) and Jayapura Univesrity's visitting staff''s teaching  assistance.

=== In academic site experiances ===
o  I am currently working as the Assistant Lecturer in Computer Science, at the '''Department of Mathematics and Computer Science''', in '''Faculty of Applied Sciences'''(FAS),  SEUSL.

o  I worked as the Demonstrator/Instructure of the Computer Science, at the '''Department of Mathematics and Computer Science''', in '''Faculty of Applied Sciences'''(FAS),  SEUSL.

o  I served on the many volunteer activities on promoting the ICT in our Kalmunai region since 1999, with many kind of organizational key roles.

      Lecturer of ICT/ Computer science at the ICC ('''“Iqbal Community Centre'''”- Kalmunai) from 2006

      Lecturer of Computer science, of '''‘ISSA youth Club’''' Computer unit, started from 1999 to now

o  I presided the '''Computer Science Society''' of South Eastern University of Sri Lanka,2007-2009.

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.net/blog/?p=140|FOSS (Workshop)பயிற்சிப்பட்டரை,கனணி விஞ்ஞான சங்கம், இலங்கை தென்கிழக்குப்பல்கலைக்கழகம்]]</nowiki> 

'''Future activities on the FOSS and ICT Promotion : '''

This will innitaites the idea to make the pedagogical approach to motivate and promote the ICT education in the Tamil Medium peoples, part of this we have meet the gnukulam Virtual Learning Campus as follows,( We are welcome   all of the FOSS experianced volunteer to make the dream to success)

  <nowiki>[[http://gnukulam.anbu.in/|குனுகுலம், கட்டற்ற மென்பொருள் கற்றல், கற்பித்தல் தளம், ஆரம்ப நிலையில்]]</nowiki>

o  Tamil Ubuntu Loco Team Leads (Sri Lankan Unit)

o  Member of the National E-Learning Centre, UCSC (University of Colombo School of Computing) Sri Lanka’s Tamil Localization team.

o  Conducts the workshop at the '''C'''enter for '''S'''oil & '''W'''ater '''R'''esearch (South Eastern University of Sri Lanka) for health related and community mobilization activity.

o  Education Development project Coordinator of '''Needs Sri Lanka''' NGO 

=== Extra Curricular Activities ===

o   Winner (Innovative Ideator) and Team leader of the <nowiki>[[http://http://www.britishcouncil.org/srilanka-projects-and-networking-pmi2-new08-review.htm|National Enterpreunership Competion 2008]]</nowiki>

o   President of the Computer Science Society, South Eastern University of Sri Lanka.

o   Former President of the Kalmunai Undergraduates’ Association Kalmunai.

o   President of the Kalmunai ISSA youth Club Kalmunai.

o   President of Rural Samurdhi Task Force Kalmunai.

o   Former Secretary of Km/Al-Zuhara Vidyalaya Old Boys Association.

o   Former Secretary of Km/Al-Bahriya Maha Vidyalaya Old Boys Association.

o   Former president of Kalmunai Youth Club Federation, Divisional Secretariat Kalmunai.

o   High command member of the Kalmunai Tsunami Disaster management Center.

o   Former Education Development Coordinator of Kalmunai Undergraduates Association.

o   Education Development & Research secretary of AL-ASHFA Social Research and development Association.

o   Education Development project Coordinator of Needs Sri Lanka NGO

o   Coordinator for “Information Communication Technology Program Unit” of , Iqbal Community Center, Kalmunai.

இம்.... 

இவைதான் இந்த சிறியவனின் சின்னம் சிறிய காரியம்கள். இப்போது இது போதும் :)

எனது Blogger : <nowiki>[[http://ahaleemsl.blogspot.com]]</nowiki>
