{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===
Hi, my name is Abhinav Hardikar. I live in Pune, India. 

=== My Qualifications ===
I have just passed out from the 12th grade and trying to get admission in a good university. I am keenly interested in Computer Science and Engineering and FOSS. 
I started programming at the age of 11. I learnt quite a lot in QBasic and had studied basic Unix C language. Now I have learnt Java on my own. 

=== Ubuntu and Me ===
I have been working with ubuntu for the last four years. I started my journey with ubuntu 7.04 and experienced linux for the first time. I  was kind of fond with it. That moment I decided that I will develop something for the Ubuntu Community. But due to lack of programming knowledge I have still not contributed anything. Soon I will learn Unix C++ and make programs and participate in bug reporting and solving. I have tested each and every Ubuntu version till date and currently testing Ubuntu 11.04 Beta 2.
 
I have Ubuntu 10.10 as my primary OS. Even my family uses Ubuntu in their daily routines. I have also made derivatives of Ubuntu specifically to work on my PC. 

I tried implementing Ubuntu in my school but failed since Turbo C++ didn't work on it. 

=== My PC Specifications ===
* Brand: Dell
* Model: Precision 360 Workstation
* Processor: Intel Pentium 4 HT @ 3.0Ghz
* RAM: 1GB DDR
* HDD1: Maxtor 80GB PATA
* HDD2: Seagate Baracuda 250GB SATA
* Graphics Processor: Nvidia GeForce FX 5500 AGP 256MB

=== My Websites ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.puneites.in|Puneites' Network]]</nowiki> is my first attempt to make a social network for the local people of Pune. I started developing it on the 28th of March 2010. But due to personal difficulties I couldn't continue with it. I also had my all India exams coming up so it was a set back for Puneites' Network. If anyone is good at PHP and is keenly interested in helping me, please do contact me.

<nowiki>[[http://envionmentsociety.in|The Environment Society]]</nowiki> is a blog designed by me to spread environment awareness all across the internet. Its is currently inactive. My team and I are going to integrate with Puneites' Network.
