{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/feisty-speakup
* '''Packages affected''': <code>speakup, espeak</code>

=== Summary ===

As of Edgy we have the speakup kernel module included in the main distribution and it is being used by experienced speakup users. However, we should make it easier for less experienced blind computer users to start using it on the console and extend it's use area to other areas such as the alternate CD installer and server edition.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

* Server edition -- Currently has the speakup module, but not simple way to install or run live
* The debian installer -- currently used on the alternate and server CDs
* spoken boot -- have all the boot messages read out as you boot
* Standard CLI, simple launch -- For those who prefer gnome it may be difficult to recover when X fails. It should be trivial to launch speakup in such cases: 'start-speakup'. An introduction with basic operating instructions should be read out.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
