{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Dec 7th, 2005 ====

 0. Designing use cases testing procedures
** Some work done at AccessibilityTesting
** Coordinating the building of a testing derivative
 0. Possible documentation project: Ubuntufying the <nowiki>[[http://www.abilitynet.org.uk/content/factsheets/Skillsheets.htm|Abilitynet skill-sheets]]</nowiki>?
** LukeYelavich has some documentation from Jason Grieves he would like to put forward for examination as some further material for accessibility documentation.
 0. Bounty Ideas -- we should put  some ideas forward and advertise them
** High visibility theme
** X-10 support 
** Improved software speech synthesis support. See: SpeechSynthesisProposal
** Package <nowiki>[[http://blogs.sun.com/roller/page/wwalker|Orca]]</nowiki> -- this is the future of screen reading right? Does it run at all ATM?
 0. Setting up access.ubuntu.com 
** Do we want/need this? 
** Some work has been done on accessibility themes 
 0. Do we want to participate in the Massachusetts ODF campaign? 
** Producing and distributing the AT-by-default derivative
 0. New wiki structure (''DanielHolbach'')
** I added some AccessibilityTeam/* pages, which are linked from <nowiki>[[AccessibilityTeam]]</nowiki>.
** I think we need more centralized resources to get us as a team more focused on goals.
