{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Barriers to accessible Linux ==

This document aims to identify the main barriers to an accessible desktop for the visually impaired on Linux. As a reference point for functionality we will consider the International Computer Driving License. -- This document is initially intended as a guide for the Karlsruhe team working on an accessible German desktop but should also be useful to others.  

''In no particular order:''

=== Desktop framework ===

The Gnome AT-SPI framework is rich and reasonably mature. A few extensions could arguably be made, but mainly it needs tightening up and wider use and testing. Performance and stability should be improved. It is also advisable to improve integration access-wise to other desktop environments, first of all KDE and XFCE, but also Windows. This will make it possible to use applications from a different Linux DE and will ease the access aspects of porting Windows applications. 

=== Web browsing ===

This is probably the biggest weakness on the free desktop at the moment. The application widgets and menus can be used via AT-SPI, but the web content itself is very complex and can take many forms from plain HTML to AJAX and Flash. Konqueror currently has a self-voicing feature and Firefox 2 has basic support with Orca. Firefox 3 promises a re-engineering of the accessibility framework from the ground up, and is done in close collaboration with the Orca team.

=== Office documents ===

Support for Open Office writer is improving. More work is needed on spreadsheet, presenter and other components. Emerging browser plug-ins for these formats also need attention.

=== Screen reading ===

The Orca screen reader with it's scriptability is modern and flexible and has gotten a good reception. However, much work is till needed in getting it to work smoothly with a larger number of applications. Some of this can be done with Orca scripts, but much of it should be done by improving Orca itself. Better cross platform support is also desirable (Orca running in KDE).

=== Native Free TTS ===

Speech engines are needed in many languages. Only a free TTS will be widely distributable (see Availability).

=== Magnification ===

Comparing to other desktop features and commercial software Magnification on Linux is slow and poor on features. With the emergence of XGL and Compiz there is a great opportunity to take a leap forward here.

=== Configuration / Desktop integration ===

Locating and activating access features is not as easy as it should be. Desktop integration is made more complicated by the need to take the  needs of ''all'' desktop users into account, both those who need access tools and the general desktop user.

=== Logging in ===

GDM needs more work to become universally accessible and we may soon see other login managers where access may not yet be on the developers radar.

=== Documentation ===

Access-related documentation is fairly dated in some cases. We need better technical documentation and step-by-step guides from the user's perspective.

=== LTSP access ===

Many large organisations may deploy Linux on thin clients using LTSP. Unfortunately there is poor access support over LTSP ATM.

=== Availability ===

Key tools installed by default. More distros should do this. The flip side is in removing tools you don't need.

=== New technologies ===

There is little point in working for 3 years to improve access to the current desktop if the rest of the world switches to a new desktop metaphor in 3 years, using new technology on which no accessibility work has been done. We must educate and collaborate the champions of this new technology today so that they will add accessibility to their frameworks from the start.

== Comments ==
