{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''This page exists to list the arguments for (and against?) dynamically loading the AT-SPI framework when an AT application needs it and chart the issues involved in implementing dynamic loading. It is a discussion page, not a spec.''

=== Resons for ===

* Users expect it to work this way: If you need an assistive technology tool you want to locate it in the system, activate it and start using it. The user will not appreciate the technical reasons why you have to log out to make it work. On Windows and OS X you don't have to log out.
* Gestures: A long-term goal in Gnome AT is to introduce a set of standard gestures that will activate the assistive technology features on-demand. (will first be implemented at the GDM). This will eliminate the need for special Live CD boot options and will help groups who currently find it difficult or impossible to activate the assistive tools via the normal menu system. Gestures on the desktop only really make sense if the accessibility infrastructure is immediately available as well.
* Live CD or Kiosk use cases: In some cases logging out may not be a practical option.
* An alternative to 'always on': There are a range of reasons why many users and distributions would not want to have AT-SPI turned on by default. Valid reasons. Linux/UNIX has traditionally been a modular and potentially light-weight system where you can install and activate just the components you need. The cleanest way to do this is to start out with a clean default system and just add the bits you need (removing bits is often more tricky). Even if we could halve the memory and CPU usage of AT-SPI and make it rock solid (see testing spec), this would still be a valid reason.
* Distro inclusion: Related to the point above -- If AT-SPI can be shipped without being enabled by default distributions will be more likely to include it. Installing it by default but not loading it makes less sense because it will be seen as less valuable. Ubuntu has worked around this by making it easier to load AT-SPI and various ATs when booting the Live CD (and carry forward those settings to an installed system), but it would be better to avoid this step.

=== Reasons against ===

* Encouraging distros to have AT-SPI always loaded by default will expose it to more testing
* The ATs will start faster if AT-SPI is already loaded

=== Technical problems ===

* please help expand this section

=== Solutions ===

* ditto

=== Discussion points ===

* Dynamic loading could be the distro default while an individual user could choose to have it loaded constantly to reduce delays in loading AT's.

=== Implementation plan ===
