{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This page collects the links to interesting reads, that will help our team to gain more focus on solving problems.

=== General Articles ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.murrayc.com/blog/permalink/2005/12/06/gnome-for-bad-eyesight/|Murray's complaints]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.themuso.com/ubuntu/accessibility/GNOME_Accessibility_Overview_For_Ubuntu.txt|GNOME accessibility support (Jason Grieves)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ncam.wgbh.org/|CPB/WGBH National Center for Accesible Media (NCAM)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxha.sourceforge.net/index.php|Linux Home Automation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://larswiki.atrc.utoronto.ca/wiki/Software|Roundup of Linux Accessibility Software]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl | Speech Control]]</nowiki>

=== Freely available software speech synthesis ===
* <nowiki>[[http://espeak.sourceforge.net/|eSpeak speech synthesizer]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.festvox.org/festival/|The Festival Speech System]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/flite/|Flite software speech synthesizer]]</nowiki>

=== Adaptive Hardware ===
* <nowiki>[[http://orin.com/index.htm|Head-Mouse]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.utoronto.ca/atrc/reference/tech/refbraille.html|Refreshable Braille Display]]</nowiki>

=== Accessible applications ===
* <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/Orca/AccessibleApps|Wiki page of Gnome applications that work with the Orca screen reader]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://emacspeak.sourceforge.net/|Emacspeak]]</nowiki> turns Emacs into a complete audio desktop including text editing, emailing, and web browsing.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.eklhad.net/linux/app/|Edbrowse]]</nowiki> is a "combination editor + browser + mail client that is command-line interactive". The most recent version, not yet packaged for the Ubuntu repositories, uses the <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.org/js/spidermonkey/|Mozilla SpiderMonkey library]]</nowiki> to add !JavaScript support.

=== Other Resources ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/Accessibility-HOWTO/|Accessibility HowTo at The Linux Documentation Project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://accessibility.freestandards.org/|Free Standards Group Accessibility Workgroup]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gap/|GNOME Accessibility Project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://mail.gnome.org/archives/gnome-accessibility-list/|gnome-accessibility-list Archives]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://accessibility.kde.org/|KDE Accessibility Project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/devel/debian-accessibility/|Debian Accessibility]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/devel/debian-accessibility/software|Debian Accessibility Software]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.w3.org/WAI/|Web Accessibility Initiative]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/accessx/overview.html|AccessX]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gok.ca/|Gnome Onscreen Keyboard]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.baum.ro/gnopernicus.html|Gnopernicus]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux-speakup.org|The Speakup Project]]</nowiki> - Linux Console Screen Reader
* <nowiki>[[http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/dasher/|dasher]]</nowiki> - Fast text input
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GnomeDo/Use/|GnomeDo]]</nowiki> - Press enter and the selected application will launch. Be aware that GNOME Do will start matching as you type, so you shouldn't need to type the entire name.

=== External Links ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux-foundation.org/en/Accessibility|The Linux Foundation Accessibility Workgroup]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://debian.org/devel/debian-accessibility/|Debian Accessibility Project]]</nowiki>
* a11y projects for desktop environments:
** <nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/accessibility/|GNOME Accessibility Project]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://accessibility.kde.org/|KDE Accessibility Project]]</nowiki>
* a11y projects for software:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.org/access/|Access Mozilla]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ui.openoffice.org/accessibility/|OpenOffice.org Accessibility Project]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.mono-project.com/Accessibility|Mono Accessibility]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://leb.net/blinux/|BLINUX]]</nowiki> - Project who's aim is to improve the usability of the GNU/Linux operating system for users who are blind.
* <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/Orca|Orca screen reader]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://vinux.org.uk/|Vinux - Linux for the Visually Impaired]]</nowiki>
