{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page tries to document the various ways of getting speech recognition to work under Ubuntu. Feel free to extend it!

== What is speech recognition? ==

== Speech recognition under Ubuntu ==

=== Open source solutions ===

There is no fully functional open source solution yet, but you can train one of the following packages to your voice. Moreover, you can help the development of open source speech recognition softwares by recording your voice in the <nowiki>[[http://voxforge.org|Voxforge project]]</nowiki>.

==== HTK and Julius/Julian ====

This tutorial is based on the <nowiki>[[http://voxforge.org/home/dev/acousticmodels/linux/create/htkjulius|extensive HTK+Julius tutorial]]</nowiki> on the Voxforge site, and highlights only the necessary changes to make it working.

'''Download and install the programs'''
 The versions linked from the tutorial are outdated, and HTK won't compile. Please use a recent version.
 To compile HTK you will need probably the following header packages: libx11-dev, libxtst-dev. Install them using your favourite package manager.
 Install audacity using your favourite package manager.

'''Step 2 - Pronunciation Dictionary'''
 The perl scripts look for the perl interpreter under <code>/usr/local/bin</code> instead of <code>/usr/bin</code>. Change the scripts' first line to {{{
}}}

=== Proprietary solutions ===

==== Dragon Naturally Speaking ====

Dragon Naturally Speaking is probably the most widely used speech recongition software, especially under Windows. Unfortunately the recent version (Dragon Naturally Speaking 9) does not <nowiki>[[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=5402&iTestingId=16290|have a Linux version]]</nowiki>. Previous version are available for Linux as well.

===== Howto =====

==== IBM ViaVoice ====
It a speech recognition software intended for embedded devices, not for desktops.

===== Howto =====
----
CategoryNeedsExpansion
