{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Braindump of access ideas for Edgy+1 ====

==== Better Braille support ====

Achieve the same level of bootstrapping ease in testing a live CD and optionally installing with pure braille as you can currently do with speech (given a few more bug fixes)

==== Improve multilingual speech support ====

Allow non-English speakers to use the Ubuntu on the Live CD. The most likely solution is to use the <nowiki>[[http://espeak.sourceforge.net/|eSpeak]]</nowiki> synthesiser, which has more (though simpler) voices than Festival. This would also reduce the disc space requirement and should improve performance. It should be easy to switch to Festival after install.

==== mbrola synthesiser in multiverse ====

<nowiki>[[http://tcts.fpms.ac.be/synthesis/mbrola.html|mbrola]]</nowiki> is a non-Free speech synthesiser with high quality voices in many languages (zero-cost for non-commercial use). It's a good option for those who do not have Festival voices in their language, and many may prefer the sound. We cannot include it in main, but we can hopefully make it work with speech dispatcher and therefore Speakup and Orca.

==== More cross-desktop collaboration ====

We should generally support work to remove gnome dependencies from key tools to allow them to work better on KDE and XFCE (without installing all of gnome). This might include using speech dispatcher, removing gconf dependencies, etc. There is a limit to how much we in Ibuntu can achieve in this area, as we are dependent on upstream work.

==== Streamlined configuration ====

Combine several access related configuration panels. Reduce the number of of custom themes, but make the options configurable elsewhere.

==== HW accelerated magnification ====

xmcm? a compiz/beryl solution? Ideally something that integrates well with the stock Xorg [Deferred from Edgy]

==== Speakup user space scripts ====

Speakup is now in the kernel, but we should make it easier to load and unload the module from gnome or the command line [Deferred from Edgy]

==== Spoken Boot ====

One specification that was drafted and approved at the previous developer's summit, was to allow users to get spoken feedback on system boot. This was deferred, due to big changes in the system init process. Now that this has settled down, we can discuss with the core devs just how this could be implemented in a sane manner. It should also be extended to provide braille feedback as well. (Deferred from Edgy)

==== Enhance spell checking ====

Dyslexia is one of the most common problems, making it harder for people to get involved. 
<pre>
 [quote]According to the latest dyslexia research from the National Institutes of Health, dyslexia affects 20 percent of Americans (and about the same percentage of people in other countries.) (source http://www.bartonreading.com/dys.html )[quote] 
</pre>
Troubled by this myself I'm grateful that spell checkers are more and more available and integrated. (open office and Firefox...). Spell checking should be further implemented and standardized where possible and it should be easy to switch between languages.  
We have a locale, but many people use other languages, like English to engage on line. (I'm thinking of programs like Xchat/gaim/"tomboy notes" that only check the local system language.)
