{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Make the login prompt accessible without using the standard gnome-based AT-SPI framework. This spec should apply to GDM, KDM and FaceBrowser.

=== Rationale ===

The login screen should be accessible. Achieving this with the traditional gnome accessibility tools including AT-SPI, Orca and GOK is non-trivial, heavyweight and may have security implications. 

=== Use cases ===

Same as AccessGDM.

=== Scope ===

Extend the login applications with built-in accessibility support.

=== Design ===

With built-in provision for accessibility, each user group must be considered separately and a suitable solution found for each.

''Feature activation:'' Add a menu item for 'Accessibility' to the Options menu in GDM. Activating this option brings up a selection window with Radio button options for the different accessibility cases:

* None
* High contrast
* Magnification
* Speech synthesis
* Sticky keys
* On-screen keyboard

[Cancel] [Activate]

This dialog can also be reached directly via the F5 key and the individual choices can be activated with a number key [0-5] and Enter. This extra route of activation is important for two reasons:

* Ease of activation: An individual who requires one of these features will often find the interface very difficult to use before the relevant feature is active and may need to do so from memory. F5+3+Enter is easier to remember than F10+Alt-A+3xDownArrow+Enter. It also makes it easier to document the features for use in different languages where the hot key or the order of menu items may have changed.
* Consistency: This is how the access features are activated at the gfxboot screen in Ubuntu as well.

A description of each assistive feature follows.

==== High contrast ====

A set of high contrast GDM themes with larger font has been created. Screenshots and tarballs <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~henrik/gdm/|here]]</nowiki>. 

==== Magnification ====

This case is also solved with a special theme, though the zoom factor will be much higher. In both cases it should be possible to adjust the 'zoom level' (=font size) with keybindings. It should also be possible to invert the colours.

==== Speech synthesis ====

Direct speech output: At the login prompt a blind user really only needs to know when is the right time to type in the user name and password. This info could be piped directly to a software synth such as eSpeak from GDM/FaceBrowser. 

When GDM is ready you would hear "Welcome to Ubuntu. Please type your user name."
A few more outputs would also be needed, prompting for password and listing other options found in the F10 menu.

==== Sticky keys ====

Use standard X functionality to allow for modified key behaviour such as sticky keys and slow keys. Suitable defaults can be found that will work well for most cases.

==== On-screen keyboard ====

onBoard does not use AT-SPI but simply pipes keystrokes to X. It's been tested to work with GDM. A custom GDM theme and a custom keyboard layout may be required to ensure that the keyboard does not cover the login prompt or menus. Both are easy to make.

=== Unresolved issues ===

----
CategorySpec
