{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is to outline what has been done, and what still needs to be done with the Hoary Accessible Live CD derivitive. Note that this is only adding extra accessibility features, and not any other features for the CD.

=== Completed ===

* Gnopernicus loads at GNOME startup.
* Speech and Braille enabled in Gnopernicus configuration.
* Festival configured as default Gnopernicus speech synthesizer via GNOME speech.
* The initial speech rate is a little faster.
* Sound is slightly louder as Festival was not loud enough for some users.
* Brltty is included on the CD, but no work has yet been done to 
configure it properly with GNopernicus.
* CD now boots after approximately 3 seconds.
* Enabled the serial ports to be writable by all for the moment. This helps with Braille displays.

=== To Do ===

* Spoken language and keyboard selection lists.
* Console screen reading support.
* Braille display support from boot-up, helpful for language selection, etc.
* A start page of documentation loaded in Firefox giving a quick rundown of how to use Gnopernicus.
* FireFox carrot browsing mode turned on by default.
* Enable the serial ports read-write by the Ubuntu user on the CD. Useful for non-BrlTTY devices a bit easier.
* Make it easier to set options such as sticky keys, mouse keys, etc.
* Include at-poke and test-speech for further testing and troubleshooting.
* Include the Sun Mozilla 1.7 accessibility branch instead of, or alongside the existing Firefox package. This branch has a lot more accessibility bugs fixed that have not yet made their way into the main Mozilla tree.
* Ensure all packages are at their latest stable releases. Gnopernicus and gnome-speech particularly.

=== Current release ===

You can download the latest test release torrent file from here: http://www.themuso.com/ubuntu/accessibility

The ISO is also mirrored at: http://www.omma.org.uk/mirror/

If you have trouble downloading or burning the CD but would like to try it, please email henrik AT ubuntu.com and I'll drop you a copy in the post.

=== Discuss ===

Discuss this page at <nowiki>[[AccessibleHoaryLiveCDDerivative/talk]]</nowiki>
