{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Documentation Tests ===

Most of the content on this page was taken from <nowiki>[[http://library.gnome.org/devel/accessibility-devel-guide/nightly/id2599504.html.en | Gnome Testing]]</nowiki>.

* Test ASCII text documentation with a screen-reader to confirm that it is clear and precise and can be read by assistive technologies.
* Test HTML applications using a web browser and screen-reader to confirm that the documentation is accessible to assistive technologies.
* If using a preset color combination, confirm it passes <nowiki>[[Accessibility-Testing-ColorAndContrast | Color and Contrast Tests]]</nowiki>.
* Confirm the fonts adjustable using Ctrl+(-) and Ctrl+(+) when using the web-browser.
* Confirm the text resizes and remains fully readable if the font size is increased to 16pt and 24pt.

'''Note''': There are web accessibility guidelines available at http://www.w3.org/TR/WAI-WEBCONTENT/.

Confirm the following information is included in the documentation:
* State if the application does not support the standard keyboard access used by the OS.
* Identify if there are unique keyboard commands.
** Are standard shortcuts usable?
* Identify any unique accessibility features.
* If an action is documented for the mouse, make sure there is an alternative for using the keyboard. 

----
CategoryAccessibility
