{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Accessibility Certification for Applications ===

 ''The following is a proposal for an accessibility certification system for desktop applications. It's aim is to provide a better overview of which applications provide good a11y support and which need more work, and also to provide an infrastructure for the application and desktop to share metadata about the level of a11y support in an application.''

 ''The scheme itself should probably be implemented as a freedesktop.org project and should aim to be useful for all desktop environments.'' -- HenrikOmma

=== Criteria and rating system ===

We should aim for a simple rating system that gives a general impression of the level of accessibility provided by a given application. This could be a 0-3 star rating for example. We don't want the system to be so detailed that it collapses under its own complexity.

==== Criteria ====

The evaluation criteria should include the following elements:

* '''AT-SPI friendly''' - The app needs to work well with AT-SPI so that the assistive technology applications like Gnopernicus and GOK can read out screen elements and events to communicate them in a way suitable for the individual user.
* '''Complete keyboard navigation''' - Most applications provide keyboard alternatives for its various elements so it it can be used without a mouse, but there are often gaps and discoverability could often be better.
* '''Desktop theme integration''' - The app should play nicely with assistive themes available on the relevant platforms. High and low contrast theme settings should cause the application to use suitable icons and font size and still blend in well with the overall desktop. Gedit is an example of an application that does this well, while OpenOffice works less well.

==== Rating system ====

* '''No rating''' - When the application has not yet been rated.
* '''0 stars''' - The application is completely useless from an accessibility perspective. It simply cannot be used by several user groups. We expect (and hope) this rating to be rare.
* '''1 star - Reasonable accessibility support.''' May have some flaws and may cause problems for some user groups, but should be OK for most.
* '''2 stars - Good accessibility support.''' Works reasonably well for all user groups and superbly well for some. 
* '''3 stars - Outstanding accessibility support.''' Fundamentally good support from the ground up. This rating will also be quite rare at first.

The ranking system should provide room for growth. The whole point of this exercise it to raise the level of accessibility support in applications on the Free Desktop. As a result the scale will initially be quite steep so that we expect most apps to land on one star, a few on two and most likely no apps on three stars just yet. In addition we should leave open the option of extending the scale later by adding one or two stars as the general level of access improves on the free desktop and we add more criteria.

=== Certification authority ===

At some point we may have a formal certification panel that can give authoritative ratings for applications. But in the beginning it is most important to get as many applications looked at as possible. Anyone should be able to give an application a rating, including the original author or distro maintainer. The honour system should work well, though we can add a panel for evaluating disputed cases later. Basically, we should add complexity and barriers only when and if we need to.

We may eventually set up a web-based system for posting evaluations with build-in voting like art.ubuntu.com has, but we should not let the lack of such a system slow down the rolling start of the certification program. It may eventually become a feature of Launchpad.

=== Technical use ===

In order to make technical use of this evaluation scheme we need to add a few meta tags beyond the basic rating, specifically how suitable an app is for different user groups.

* '''Package management''' - Synaptic and other package management systems could contain some info about how usable an application is for users with visual impairments, mobility impairments, etc.
* '''Gconf flags''' - The degree of accessibility for different user groups should also be tagged in Gconf (or some equivalent KDE register) so that the desktop knows how suitable an application is. So when you are working with GOK in core pointer mode you will know whether the app is likely to grab the pointer or in the case of using a screen reader, how likely an app is to interfere with the sound daemon and/or provide useful output. This could be implemented as a warning screen when trying to launch an application that may leave the user stranded. Or, more passively, set a list of preferred apps for different mime-types that work well for certain user groups. While testing we will of course find accessibility/usability bugs that can be reported.

=== Examples ===

The idea is to keep it really simple to start with, just to get a basic idea of the accessibility of a range of applications. More thurough analysis can be added for each application with time. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Gedit'''
| A simple editor for gnome
|-
| :) :)
| uses high viz icons everywhere, navigates well with the keyboard
|-
| 
| Improve: Ubuntu specific icons in 'Help' are not high-viz
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Mines'''
| The classic mines game
|-
| :(
| Cannot be played with the keyboard
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''gThumb'''
| Gnome image viewer
|-
| :) :)
| Generally navigatable with the keyboard
|-
| 
| Improve: Key navigation for 'Previous Image' is 'B' not 'P' and is not very discoverable
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Tomboy
| Wiki-like notepad
|-
| :(
| Only partially navigateable by keyboard.
|-
| 
| Improve: Provide keyboard access to search and note-delete
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Dictionary'''
| 
|-
| :) :)
| Keyboard navigation works well.
|-
| 
| Question: How accessible is the applet version?
|}
