{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/atspi-testing-by-default
* '''Packages affected''': <code>at-spi</code>

=== Summary ===

Enable the Gnome AT-SPI accessibility framework by default during the Feisty development cycle.

=== Rationale ===

''All kinds of things could be included during the development phase to give them more exposure and testing. Why is AT-SPI a special case that warrants this? ''

* AT-SPI is arguably the most comprehensive desktop accessibility framework on any platform but it would benefit from more stress testing. Because of its intrusive nature AT-SPI can provoke crasher or other serious bugs in other applications that would otherwise not be revealed (e.g. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/openoffice.org/+bug/35313|bug #35313]]</nowiki>).
* Having AT-SPI enabled would also be useful for automated desktop testing tools such as dogtail.
* The final target user group, the disability community, is small and has limited capacity to test what is basically the entire desktop against bugs triggered by AT-SPI during the development cycle.

==== Reasons for turning it off again ====

* AT-SPI is used by a very small user group (though for this group it is essential). During Dapper and Edgy we have made several innovations that make it much easier to start this framework for those who need it, from installing it by default to providing Live CD boot options. 
* It uses its share of memory and CPU resources, which most users will not benefit from.
* Even though the aim of this bug is to flush out bugs and tighten performance we can still expect there to be potential issues at the end of this devel cycle that we should not expose all users to.
* The ultimate goal should be to have a <nowiki>[[Accessibility-Projects-DynamicallyLoadingATSPI|dynamically loaded AT-SPI]]</nowiki>. 

=== Use cases ===

* Matthias push in hundreds of hours testing Open``Office during a release cycle. Having AT-SPI switched on could help bring deep bugs to the surface during that process.
* Linda uses the Orca screen reader with AT-SPI for her daily work. She would benefit from better integration and testing of AT-SPI with the general desktop.

=== Scope ===

Enable AT-SPI for a limited time during the Feisty development cycle (on new installations and Live CDs, not upgrades). All the required libraries are already shipped on default Ubuntu system. 

=== Design ===

* It is already <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=362457|implemented]]</nowiki> in test builds of Gnome, which should mean that we get it automatically.

=== Implementation ===

* Set the <code>/desktop/gnome/interface/accessibility</code> gconf key to 'true' on all newly installed and Live Feisty systems.
* Remove default loading again a week or so before beta.

==== Data preservation and migration ====
Don't change anything on upgraded systems, just fresh installs.

=== Comments ===

I'm not happy with a setting that's turned on for people who install milestone releases of Feisty but not for those who install the beta; we have a lot of people who install milestone releases and then upgrade, and expect this largely to work smoothly (it doesn't always, and we are willing to break these users to some extent in the name of expediency or of fixing upgrades from the previous full release, but the less that happens the better). I would be slightly happier with it being turned on only in live sessions and not after installation, although I worry that that would be surprising for those who need the accessibility features. --ColinWatson

----
CategorySpec
