{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== The Accessibility Team ==

=== Mission ===

Our goal is to make Ubuntu and its derivatives usable by as many people as possible across ages, language and physical abilities. To do that we must provide wide access to the platform, the included software and ultimately to the information we all use and exchange. For some groups of users, platform access requires specialised assistive technology (AT) tools, and those tools must be proven to work well with the remaining desktop software and information on the web or in other formats. Ubuntu is about computing for everyone.

=== About ===

The Ubuntu Accessibility Team includes two branches. Accessibility Development concerns itself with improving the packages used for accessibility and adding new applications as needed. This group works very closely with the Ubuntu developers to improve accessibility on the Ubuntu platform.

Accessibility Outreach works with the community to identify a11y issues (both in terms of software and documentation) and provide solutions and spread awareness of the issues. They update the documentation as needed, and work with community users and leaders to insure awareness of accessibility needs are in the forefront.

We communicate on IRC, via mailing lists and in the Ubuntu forum. 

=== More Information ===

There is much more information available for those interested. Please check out our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Links | additional information]]</nowiki>. 

----
CategoryAccessibility
