{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== On-screen Keyboard - Next Generation ==

''This is a collaboration page where we can share ideas about on-screen keyboards, about what we have today and what we should develop. We are planning to organise some discussions by voice on the topic.''

''We also  have a mail list <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/osk-ng|OSK-ng Google Group]]</nowiki>. You need to join before you can post.''

'''OSK-ng Aims:''' Creating innovate new ways of making IT easy to use and transparent for users who cannot (or choose not to) use mouse and keyboard. This includes Alternative and Augmentative Communication devices (AAC). 
 
'''About on-screen keyboards:''' In it's simplest form an on-screen keyboard allows a user to input text into the computer using a pointer or switching device. Switches require additional 'scanning' logic to move between the 'keys' and to selected one. More sophisticated features also facilitate wider control of the operating system and applications. Alternative and Augmentative Communication devices (AAC) uses this technology to enable communication by selecting symbols that represent words and more complex concepts, often providing synthetic speech as well.

==== Existing FOSS OSKs: ====

=== GOK ===

'''Website:''' http://www.gok.ca/ <<BR>>
'''Language:''' C <<BR>>
'''Platforms:''' Linux/Unix, Gnome <<BR>>
'''Switch support:''' extensive <<BR>>
'''Operating system interaction:''' via AT-SPI in gnome <<BR>>
'''Plug-in and layout support:''' supports alternative layouts <<BR>>
'''Other features:''' Word prediction <<BR>>
'''Future developments:''' <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/Gok|zeroConf]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

=== onBoard ===

'''Website:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Projects/onBoard <<BR>>
'''Language:''' Python <<BR>>
'''Platforms:''' Linux/Unix, Gnome (runs in KDE and XFCE) <<BR>>
'''Switch support:''' proof of concept only <<BR>>
'''Operating system interaction:''' only via keyboard navigation (Alt-F1, etc.) <<BR>>
'''Plug-in and layout support:''' Can create custom layouts as SVG files <<BR>>
'''Other features:''' Lightweight, works well on tablet PCs <<BR>>
'''Future developments:''' Add better switching support and OS interaction <<BR>>

=== SAW ===

'''Website:''' <nowiki>[[http://ace-centre.hostinguk.com/index.cfm?pageid=83216478-D613-62F1-C85EEB3021CA6B57|link]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Language:''' C <<BR>>
'''Platforms:''' Windows (runs in Wine) <<BR>>
'''Switch support:''' extensive <<BR>>
'''Operating system interaction:''' good support on Windows <<BR>>
'''Plug-in and layout support:''' advanced 'Selection Sets' feature <<BR>>
'''Other features:''' Selection Set development edition <<BR>>
'''Future developments:''' Porting to Linux? <<BR>>

=== Other related projects ===

* Dasher - radical text input (and control on Linux)
* Hawking Keyboard - switch access to Firefox
* LSR - AT framework features including a11y API abstraction and scripting  
* Mozilla - XUL platform is portable GUI environment
* WWAAC - a EU project for an accessible browser

=== Possible cross-application projects ===

''Looking at ways we can share ideas, code, features and workload.''
* Stand-alone word prediction. Perhaps word prediction can be implemented as a separate library that can be called by applications in the way a spell checker does.
** There is not yet a stand alone prediction system, even though the base code exists in other places (e.g. in Open Office).  Supported by recent conversation on RESNA email list.

* Login support that Just Works
* Scripting (ala Orca)
* Open Standard for 'keyboard' data definitions

=== Cross Platform Framework ===

The big vision is to ''provided transparent access to computers and internet for users with mobility impairments by creating innovative alternative input mechanisms.''

'''We need'''

* Basic OSK display and operation with declarative layout definitions
* Direct in application highlighting and selection/operation
** We can extend this outside the application to the desktop.
* Various scanning modes and other innovative input schemes
* Dynamic OSK creation based on application context.
* Innovations such as dynamic sizing of buttons and saving user favourites
* Other output such as speech
* Event handling from a range of devices on all platforms
* Interaction with target applications via a11y APIs, OS/Desktop APIs or synthetic events
* End user or 3rd party customisation via documents (appearance) and script (behaviour)
* Cross platform/desktop (Linux, Window, Mac, possibly embedded).
* A flexible architectural structure (a platform for alt input solutions)
* General services from OS/Desktop and connectivity.

'''Q: how can we best use the existing experience and code bases to move forward to our goal?'''

Good solutions to much of this puzzle already exist in the various OSK projects (GOK, SAW, OnBoard, Hawking Tool Bar). LSR provides important infrastructure (check the webcast). We have the start of an audit of current solutions above. I'll get some architectural UML diagrams sorted.

'''What We have'''

OnBoard provides a clean and lean basic OSK that uses SVG via Cairo. Perhaps a good starting point

GOK & SAW both have many advanced switch scanning features and GOK includes word completion and dynamic keyboard generation based on application context.

Python is language of choice for portability, efficiency and 'batteries'. Modules can wrap existing C functionality from GOK and SAW before eventual port to Python.

Java is now a politically viable option for Linux. Could be combined with declarative langauge(s).

LSR offers a flexible and general AT framework with a good domain specific class hierarchy and API from within Perks scripts. Plus good support for various input devices and a flexible approach to UI.

Mozilla platform offers great interactive UI (XUL/XBL) and connectivity. XULRunner gives standalone operation and Python (via xpPython). XPCOM gives component oriented architecture.

'''Way to Go'''

Using the Mozilla platform for XUL with SVG extensions or perhaps onBoard's UI. XPCOM can package existing code.

An alternative approach is to start with LSR and use either onBoard's SVG, XUL or another for UI.

Or we create a new framework featuring the best of every thing else.

Perhaps blend both LSR and Mozilla to get the best of both worlds.

==== Model ====

<nowiki>[[Accessibility/Projects/OSK-ng/Abstractions]]</nowiki> defines the basics concepts for modelling the problem domain.

==== Possible features ====

* UI - declarative definition of scan sets. Plus might want to add additional user scripting capabilities. 

* Scan Engine - encapsulate various standard scanning schemes rather than using individual cell properties to form mesh. 

* UI Access Abstraction Layer - interface to the various A11y APIs for control and perhaps low tech solutions like keyboard simulation. This could possibly be spun off as a separate project for A11y API independence. 

* Input Device Abstraction Layer - events and possibly config 

* 'keyboard' designer/editor 

* Online respository of scan sets and community. 

==== Support ====
* Creating an OSK is one thing. Providing guaranteed support and maintenance is required for our users to make the jump to a new product.

=== Notes ===

=== Discussion meeting ===
''Please add your name here if you are interested in participating in a round-table discussion about OSKs:''

* David Bolter (GOK)
* Henrik Omma (Ubuntu)
* Steve Lee (Oatsoft.org)
* Simon Judge (oatsoft.org)
* Bill Haneman (AT-SPI, GOK)
* Mats Lundälv (DART/SIT, oatsoft.org, SAW)
* Chris Jones (Onboard)
* Brett Clippingdale (LSR)
* Peter Parente (LSR)
