{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'll write a more polished howto in the future.  Look at test.sok in the tarball <nowiki>[[attachment:sok13.tar.gz]]</nowiki> for an example.  

A keyboard has:
* one `.sok` file, and
* multiple `.svg`

The general format is thus:
* Keyboard
** pane
*** key
*** key
** pane
** pane
*** key
*** key
*** key

In other words there is one keyboard.  Within that keyboard is multiple keys and panes and each pane can have multiple keys.  

Scope should be preserved, keys defined within a pane should only effect that pane.

An example of a pane is:<pre>
<pane   id="second pane"
	filename="testp2.svg"
	backgroundRed = "0"
        backgroundBlue = "0"
	backgroundGreen = "1"
	backgroundAlpha = "0.8">
		<key 
			id="left_square_bracket"
			sticky = "false"
			label = '['
			shift_label = '{'
			char='['>
		</key>
		
		<key 
			id="right_square_bracket"
			sticky = "false"
			label = ']'
			shift_label = '}'
			char="]">
		</key>

</pane>
</pre>
* Filename is the name of the associated layout file.  These can be made in inkscape.

* The first pane defined is the base pane.  The following ones can be accessed using the tab bar on the right hand side.

When making a layout file in inkscape:
** Currently you can only use rectangles.
** You may set the colour of a key by right clicking on the rectangle and changing the fill properties.
** Change the object id by right clicking on the rectangle and clicking object properties.  Ensure that you click set.  The object id corresponds to the respective id set out in the .sok file.
** Currently all panes must be the same size and the pane size must be set in pixels.  Change this in file->document properties.

A key definition follows the format:
** id - the name that corresponds to the object in the .svg files you want it to be associated with.
** sticky - whether you want the key to stick.  Useful for modifiers.
** label - normal label for the key.
either or neither:
** shift_label - the label for when shift or capslock is pressed.
** cap_label - the label for when caps lock is pressed.
one of:
** char - the character press emulated when key is pressed.
** keysym - Use this for non character keypresses such as delete.  Defined in /usr/include/X11/keysymdef.h.            
  I plan on making this more friendly in the future.
** modifier - one of "shift","caps", "control", "mod1", "mod2", "mod3", "mod4", "mod5"
