{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/onboard-switching
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Provide enhanced switch support for onBoard. This allows you to enter text and navigate the Gnome desktop using a single (or more) switch input device.

=== Rationale ===

Some users cannot use a normal mouse or keyboard but only a single switch operated by light touch, air pressure, etc. onBoard currently has very basic support for entering text via switch operation, but the potential is much greater. 

=== Use cases ===

* Simon uses a single switch to operate his computer. When properly configured he can surf the web, write emails and send commands to his X-10-based environmental control system, to turn on lights, open doors and windows.

=== Scope ===

* Desktop navigation using AT-SPI
** GOK reads widget information from an application and displays it on-screen within GOK, which can me controlled by switch input. An alternative approach is to perform operations directly on the host application the way at-poke does.
* Enhanced switch input methods including configurable scanning sequences and multiple switches.
** Investigate what the 2-3 most efficient input methods are for 1 and two switches and implement those.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

* Get suitable switch hardware for testing.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
