{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Reviving the Accessibility Team ====
Questions:  What is status of accessibility?
TheMuso only one working on accessibility for the past few years, in terms of the actual team itself.

Goals: get accessibility community active
* where are we now?
* what are we doing?

Organization:
* Teams specialized by disability or by type of software?
* Maybe initially split by documentation, outreach, and development
* Regular meetings - use combination of Gobby & IRC

Action Items:
* Updating and creating wiki documentation for Team pages - Nigel & Charlie
* Documentation starts at  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/
* Mission statement, outreach - 
* Development recommendations - Luke
* Raise awareness of accessibility
* Scheduled blogging [everyone who has a blog]
* Design personas for accessibility - add to the gallery of personas used by the design team - Penelope to talk to Ivanka
* TheMuso to set up gobby server for use during meetings. Gobby and IRC will be used for meetings.

Luke to head development & Penelope to head community/documentation/outreach.

Links to things relating to the Ubuntu Accessibility team:
Bugs: ubuntu-accessibility-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com
Development: ubuntu-accessibility-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
Discussion/Team: ubuntu-accessibility@lists.ubuntu.com
Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~accessibility
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-m-accessibility-reorg
