{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Edgy Accessibility ==

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/edgy-access-apps
* '''Created''': 2006-06-06 by HenrikOmma
* '''Contributors''': HenrikOmma, LukeYelavich
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Implement the latest cutting edge assistive technology features in the Eft.

=== Rationale ===

In the spirit of the Edgy release we should try out some new assistive technologies. There are several new components to be tested in the screen reader stack, including Orca, Speech Dispatcher and speech engines like Espeak and Festival 2. There will also likely be a new keyboard and magnifier. These must all be packaged for Ubuntu, tested and ideally moved into main so they can be used in our default offerings.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

* Integrate the new assistive technologies appearing in dapper, which may include: Orca, SOK, compiz-mag, speech dispatcher, speakup and kttsd
* Multi-lingual speech sythesis
 
=== Design ===

===== multilingual speech-synthesis support =====

* Option 1: Festival (large) in English on the live CD and the other supported languages (~10?) on the live DVD.
* Option 2: use a lighter speech engine like Espeak on the Live CD.

We are considering using Espeak for the Live CD, as this is likely to be the synthesizer of choice for the SpokenBoot specification. However, it does need more testing.

=== Implementation ===

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

=== References ===
