{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== eSpeak new voices project ===

For Ubuntu Feisty Fawn we plan to migrate to eSpeak as our primary Text To Speech (TTS) engine. This will help us implement our plans for a multilingual Live CD and default install. eSpeak already has voices available in several languages, with varying degree of completeness. The aim of the eSpeak Voices project is to extend the existing voices (languages) and add new ones.

==== Available voices ====

A list of currently available voices. ''(Incomplete)'' There is an attempt to indicate the maturity of the voice with ''Preliminary, Fair, Good, etc.'' Many voices could benefit from tweaking by native speakers.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc"> '''Language'''
| '''Lang code'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Contributors'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| Afrikaans
| af
| Fair
| 
| 
|-
| Dutch
| nl
| Preliminary
| 
| 
|-
| Esperanto
| eo
| Good
| 
| 
|-
| Finnish
| fi
| Good
| 
| 
|-
| French
| fr
| WIP
| 
| 
|-
| German
| de
| Preliminary/Fair
| 
| 
|-
| Greek
| el
| Preliminary/Fair
| 
| 
|-
| Hindi
| ??
| Preliminary
| 
| 
|-
| Italian
| it
| Fair
| 
| 
|-
| Norwegian
| no
| Preliminary
| Henrik
| Consider having a separate nb and nn version
|-
| Polish
| pl
| Preliminary
| 
| 
|-
| Portuguese
| pt
| Good
| 
| 
|-
| Russian
| ru
| Preliminary
| 
| 
|-
| Spanish
| es
| Preliminary
| 
| 
|-
| Swedish
| sv
| Preliminary
| 
| 
|-
| Vietnamese
| ??
| Preliminary
| 
| 
|-
| Welsh
| cy
| Preliminary
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

Source: http://espeak.sourceforge.net/languages.html

==== New Voices ====

An opportunity to request and volunteer to create new ones!

* '''Language:''' Norwegian (bokmål)
* '''Requested by:''' HenrikOmma
* '''Volunteers:''' HenrikOmma
* '''Status:''' Not started
* '''Notes:''' 
----
* '''Language:''' ...
* '''Requested by:''' 
* '''Volunteers:''' 
* '''Status:''' [Not started, Under development, Complete]
* '''Notes:'''
----

=== Documentation ===

==== Getting started ====

If your language is available as an eSpeak voice you should test it out as a first step. Start by installing eSpeak (from universe):

<code>apt-get install espeak</code>

Then feed it some sample text strings:

<code>espeak -v xx "<native language text string>"</code>

where <code>xx</code> is a language code like <code>de</code> or <code>pl</code>. You'll soon discover whether the quality is already good or could use some work.

 TODO: How to get and install new voices.

==== Creating eSpeak voices ====

* http://espeak.sourceforge.net/languages.html
* http://espeak.sourceforge.net/voices.html

=== Project TODO list ===

* Streamline and document the procedure for improving or modifying voices
* Develop standard test cases for each language
 