{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Get Involved ==

The Ubuntu Accomplishments project is a true collaborative Open Source project. For us to build an awesome accomplishments system we need a variety of skills and contributors who can bring them. This section of the our wiki homepage explains how you can get involved.

We also run regular video tutorial sessions. See <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-Classroom|this page]]</nowiki> for more details.

If you know what you want to do to participate, you can click the different sections above for how to get involved. If you are not quite sure how to help, read on...

=== How Can I Help? ===

If you are not sure how to help, use our handy guide below:

==== If you are a fairly technical person ====

You might want to contribute to <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-GetInvolved-Hacking|Hacking]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-GetInvolved-Testing|Testing]]</nowiki> (while Testing doesn't have to be technical, a deeper-dive of testing is really helpful).

We also would love more and more people to <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-Creating|Creating Accomplishments]]</nowiki> for the system.

==== If you like writing ====

You might want to help with <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-GetInvolved-Documentation|Documentation]]</nowiki> - this includes not only documentation for the software, but we would love documentation of the accomplishments in your language!

==== If you like using software and knowing the details of how it works ====

You might want to help with <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-GetInvolved-Support|Support]]</nowiki>.

==== If you know a second language ====

We would love your help with <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-GetInvolved-Translations|Translations]]</nowiki>.

== Where Do I Begin? ==

=== Get a Development Environment Set Up ===

You should first install the different parts of the project so you can contribute.

To read out to do this, see <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-GetInvolved-DevelopmentSetup|these instructions]]</nowiki>.

=== Choose a Place to Help ===

Now you have an idea of how to help, click the sections above to find out more. You should also join our communication channels:

* '''Mailing List''' - our mailing list is where we have email discussions. Everyone is welcome to join, just go to https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-accomplishments-contributors, join the team and then join the mailing list. When you have joined the mailing you can post to it by sending an email to `ubuntu-accomplishments-contributors AT lists DOT launchpad DOT net`.
* '''IRC''' - we also have a live chat IRC channel in `#ubuntu-accomplishments` on the freenode IRC network.
