{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Forums - Ubuntu Accomplishment Spec ==

=== Proposed Data In ===

We would need to use ''username'' as the identification for a user. This may require behind the scenes that we can look up their ''userID'' from their username.

=== Queries Desired ===

{*} Is $userName registered on the ubuntu forums?

{*} Has the member with $userID posted on the ubuntu forums?

{*} Has the member with $userID reported any forum posts? (reports are created in forumID 150) and that that the report has been tagged with "done!"

{*} Has the member with $userID set a custom avatar?

{*} Has the member with $userID set a custom user title?

{*} Has the member with $userID set a custom signature?

{*} Has the member with $userID made any friends?

=== Server Data To Be Exposed ===

To gather the above data we would need to be able query the following data based upon someone's ''username'':

* Whether email account exists (RETURN: true/false)
* If account settings have been configured:
** Avatar (RETURN: true/false)
** Signature (RETURN: true/false)
** Title (RETURN: true/false)
* Friend count (RETURN: int with number of friends) '''OR''' Friends (RETURN: true/false)
* Post count (RETURN: int with number of posts) '''OR''' Posted (RETURN: true/false)
