{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Testing Your Accomplishment ==

With your accomplishment now complete, it is time to test that it works. Doing this is easy and we have a tool called `accomplishments-battery` that makes testing testing simple.

You should ensure your accomplishment passes this test before you submit it.

'''Please Note''': you only need to test accomplishments that have `needs-information` (accomplishments that need verifying). Currently, we don't have a means of testing local accomplishments.

=== Getting Battery ===

`accomplishments-battery` is available in both the `daily` and `releases` PPA. To find out how to install one of these PPAs (`releases` is strongly recommended), see <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-Installing|this page]]</nowiki> for more details.

Get it with:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install accomplishments-battery
</pre>

You will want to ensure that your `~/.config/accomplishments/.accomplishments` file has the location of your accomplishments branch included (e.g. accompath = `/path/to/branch:/usr/share/accomplishments`) so that battery can see it.

=== Testing Your Accomplishment ===

Before you can test your accomplishment, you must ensure you have a test included. If you don't see <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-Creating-Guide-Tests|this page]]</nowiki> for how to create one.

Let's imagine your accomplishment id is `ubuntu-community/my-accom`.

To test it just run the following command:

<pre>
accomplishments-battery -s ubuntu-community/my-accom
</pre>

You should now see battery test your accomplishment for success and failure. Both tests should pass. If they do, congratulations, your accomplishment works!

You can also use battery to test if you are missing schema items from your `.accomplishment` file. Just use the `-c` switch:

<pre>
accomplishments-battery -c -s ubuntu-community/my-accom
</pre>

You can also see attractive HTML output of the tests by running:

<pre>
accomplishments-battery -c -s ubuntu-community/my-accom -o ~/Desktop/report.html
</pre>

Now just load the report.html file from your Desktop in Firefox.
