{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Installing Ubuntu Accomplishments ==

So you want to try out the Ubuntu Accomplishments? Luckily, this is very simple.

=== Requirements ===

* Ubuntu Accomplishments System works only on Ubuntu 12.04 Precise Pangolin and Ubuntu 12.10 Quantal Quetzal.
* Ubuntu Accomplishments Daily PPA System also works on Ubuntu 13.04 Raring Ringtail. (also includes 12.04 and 12.10)
=== Installing latest stable version (0.3) from releases PPA ===

All users are recommended to install from the `releases` PPA; this contains the most current and stable release of Ubuntu Accomplishments.

To install, simply run following commands in terminal:

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-accomplishments/releases
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install accomplishments-daemon accomplishments-viewer ubuntu-community-accomplishments ubuntu-desktop-accomplishments
</pre>

The accomplishments system should be now installed on your system.

To begin, run the '''Accomplishments Viewer''' app which is now available in the Dash (or run `accomplishments-viewer` from a terminal).

* '''Have a question?''' - go and ask it <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/ask?tags=accomplishments|here]]</nowiki>.
* '''Found a bug?''' - go and report it <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-accomplishments-system/+filebug|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Installing from a daily-builds PPA ===

'''IT IS NOT RECOMMENDED TO USE THIS PPA UNLESS YOUR ARE A DEVELOPER. IF YOU ARE A USER, USE THE 'RELEASES` PPA ABOVE.'''

There is also a daily builds PPA available: '''ppa:ubuntu-accomplishments-admins/daily'''.

It usually has all newest not-yet-released features, and is up-to-date with trunk, but also contains more bugs, and from time to time may be not working at all. Use at your own risk!

'''Warning:''' Daily builds and releases PPAs have conflicting version numbers. You should never have ''both'' of them installed, such setups will not work correctly.

=== Uninstalling ===

You can uninstall using the following commands:

<pre>
sudo apt-get remove accomplishments-daemon accomplishments-viewer ubuntu-community-accomplishments ubuntu-desktop-accomplishments
</pre>

You can remove all the accomplishments configuration files with:

<pre>
rm -rf ~/.config/accomplishments/ && rm -rf ~/.cache/accomplishments/ && rm -rf ~/.local/share/accomplishments/
</pre>

== FAQ ==

=== Installation ===

==== Does this work on other distos? ====

It should! We did our best to ensure Accomplishments are distro-independent. Also, we would love if other distros packaged and shipped Ubuntu Accomplishments!

==== Do I need to have an Ubuntu One account? ====

You do if you want to make use of the community accomplishments; the Ubuntu One account is used to sync the trophies to the validation server to verify that the trophies are valid. You can sign up for an Ubuntu One account within the app...it is simple! :-)

==== How do I remove everything so I can get a fresh install? ====

Just enter these commands:

<pre>
accomplishments-daemon --stop
rm -rf ~/.config/accomplishments/ && rm -rf ~/.cache/accomplishments/ && rm -rf ~/.local/share/accomplishments
sudo apt-get install --reinstall accomplishments-daemon accomplishments-viewer ubuntu-community-accomplishments ubuntu-desktop-accomplishments accomplishments-lens
</pre>

You can now load the Accomplishments Viewer and start fresh.

=== Usage ===

==== My Trophies Lens doesn't show anything. How do I make it work? ====

If you just started Ubuntu Accomplishments for the first time, log out and then log back in again.

Also, ensure that you have the background service option enabled in ''Edit -> Preferences''.

==== How can I force a re-verification of my trophies? ====

Click File -> Check Accomplishments.

==== The application does not give me trophy for something I have accomplished! ====

Keep in mind that when Ubuntu One happens to lag a bit, the validation server may take some longer time to send you validated trophies.

Also try re-verification your trophies. And double-check if your credentials are correct.
If the application still misbehaves, report a bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-accomplishments-system/+filebug

=== Community ===

==== Can I contribute an accomplishment? ====

Absolutely! See <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-Creating|this guide]]</nowiki> for how to get started!

==== Where do the developers hang out? ====

We hang out in `#ubuntu-accomplishments` on freenode and on our mailing list at https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-accomplishments-contributors
