{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Glossary ==

This page outlines the different terminology in the Ubuntu Accomplishments project.

* '''Accomplishment''' - an ''accomplishment'' is a single activity that can be accomplished in the system. Accomplishments live inside ''sets'' - an example is the 'Registered On Launchpad' accomplishment inside the 'general' set inside the 'ubuntu-community-accomplishments' collection.
* '''Opportunity''' - an opportunity is a currently unaccomplished accomplishment.
* '''Trophy''' - a trophy is what the user is awarded when they successfully complete an opportunity.
* '''Collection''' - a collection is a group of different accomplishments sets that are grouped together in the same branch/package. An example of this is 'ubuntu-community-accomplishments'.
* '''Set''' - a set is a sub-directory inside of a collection that contains a group of similarly themed accomplishments. An example of this is the 'development' set inside the 'ubuntu-community-accomplishment' collection.
* '''Accomplishment ID''' - a scheme of unique names for accomplishments. An ID is always in form of `<collection>/<set>/<accomplishment_name>`. An example might be `ubuntu-community-accomplishments/general/register-on-launchpad`.
