{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi. My name is Arkar Min tun. I'm 18 years old now. I live in Yangon, Myanmar.
 "One for All, All for One."
=== About Me ===
I was born on December 18, 1994. From my childhood, I was interested in Computer & Science. Due to my condition, I didn't have much opportunities to follow my passion. Now, I have got a way to do what I've ever wanted.

=== Behaviours ===
==== Learning ====
I'm now attending Myanmar Maritime University.
==== Use ====

==== Sharing ====
==== Adoption ====

=== Why using Ubuntu? ===
I had started using Ubuntu last year but I stopped using it due to some of my difficulties. Moreover, I didn't get necessary help because I didn't know how to take help. But now, I have contact with our country's LoCo team and they explained what I want to know, what I need to know. After that, I decided to use Ubuntu.
=== Why a challenge? ===
I had been using Windows System from the time when I had first contact with computers. So, start using Ubuntu is a challenge for me. I had a great impression about Ubuntu when I heard about it for the first time. I wanted to use it but for some reasons I didn't.
=== Life Goals ===
My life goad is to become a professional in computer, and to live in a peaceful life.
=== Experience Goals ===
I got five distinctions in our local matriculation examination. 
=== Social networking profile ===
Facebook: Arkar Min Tun
=== Suggestions ===
==== Web ====
==== Desktop ====
