{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Building Ubuntu Accomplishments ==

This guide explains how to build the accomplishments system from newest source. If you just want to play around with the application, please use the guide concerning <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-Installing|Installing]]</nowiki>.

To build Ubuntu Accomplishments from source, you need to:
* be running Ubuntu 12.04 Precise Pangolin
* have Ubuntu One set up on your system
* have some additional packages installed:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install quickly quickly-ubuntu-template python-gpgme
</pre>

==== Getting the code ====
Run the following to check out the latest code for both components:

<pre>
bzr branch lp:ubuntu-accomplishments-daemon
bzr branch lp:ubuntu-accomplishments-viewer
</pre>

==== Building the Daemon ====

At first, use the quickly's packaging command to create a .deb package from daemon's source.

<pre>
cd ubuntu-accomplishments-daemon
quickly package
</pre>

Afterwards, '''install''' the resulting .deb package:

<pre>
cd ../
sudo dpkg -i accomplishments-daemon_*.deb
</pre>

==== Building the Viewer ====
Building the viewer is very similar

<pre>
cd ubuntu-accomplishments-viewer
quickly package
</pre>

''(Quickly may fail to create package or create it improperly if the daemon hasn't been installed before packaging the viewer.)''

Then you can install viewer on your system using:

<pre>
cd ../
sudo dpkg -i accomplishments-viewer_*.deb
</pre>

The Ubuntu Accomplishments System has been successfully build and installed on your system.
Remember that the appplication will not work without any accomplishments set.

==== Manually installing Ubuntu Community Accomplisments ====

Grab the source by running:

<pre>
bzr branch lp:ubuntu-community-accomplishments
</pre>

Use the provided script to install the accomplishments (you can use another directory, but as for now the daemon will use only the accomplishments that are installed in /usr/share/accomplishments.

<pre>
cd ubuntu-community-accomplishments
sudo ./install.sh /usr/share/accomplishments
</pre>

=== Running The Application ===

To '''manually''' run the daemon exclusively use:

<pre>
twistd -noy /usr/bin/accomplishments-daemon &
</pre>

The command to run the viewer is: (note that this will also start the daemon, if it is not running)

<pre>
accomplishments-viewer
</pre>

Note: In case you need to stop the daemon, use <code>killall -9 twistd</code>.
