{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Documentation ==

=== Documenting the Ubuntu Accomplishments ===

Every accomplishment you see in the app provides information and guidance for how to get started and achieve the accomplishment. The goal of this documentation is to provide detailed guidance of what the trophy is, how to get started, what you need to do to accomplish it, and where you can find help.

Fortunately providing this documentation is simple; it just means editing text files.

==== Getting The Accomplishments ====

Grab the accomplishments by running:

<pre>
bzr branch lp:ubuntu-community-accomplishments
</pre>

In there you can see an `accomplishments` directory with an `ubuntu-community` accomplishments directory. To improve the documentation, just open up each `.accomplishment` file and edit the content in there.

For more information on what the different sections mean, see <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-Creating#Create_an_.accomplishment_file|this page]]</nowiki>.

==== Submitting Your Contribution ====

From inside your `ubuntu-community-accomplishments` branch.

If you added new documentation files, first add them:

<pre>
bzr add
</pre>

Now commit your changes:

<pre>
bzr commit
</pre>

Now push them to Launchpad:

<pre>
bzr push lp:~yourlaunchpadusername/ubuntu-community-accomplishments/give-your-branch-a-cool-name-here
</pre>

Now go to Launchpad and propose it for merging into `lp:ubuntu-community-accomplishments`.

=== Documenting the App Itself ===

Included with the GUI app is documentation for how it works. The system is designed for all users (beginner upwards), so it is important we have simple, effective documentation. This is a great place to help!

The documentation is written using Mallard (http://projectmallard.org/).

Make sure you have the system installed and running. Installation instructions are <nowiki>[[Accomplishments-Installing|here]]</nowiki>

Inside the `ubuntu-accomplishments-viewer` branch is a `help` directory. This is where you can find the different Mallard files. Please edit the documentation, improve it, expand it, and make it better for our users.

==== Submitting Your Contribution ====

From inside your `ubuntu-accomplishments-viewer` branch.

If you added new documentation files, first add them:

<pre>
bzr add
</pre>

Now commit your changes:

<pre>
bzr commit
</pre>

Now push them to Launchpad:

<pre>
bzr push lp:~yourlaunchpadusername/ubuntu-accomplishments-viewer/give-your-branch-a-cool-name-here
</pre>

Now go to Launchpad and propose it for merging into `lp:ubuntu-accomplishments-viewer`.
