{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 0.4 Release Plan ==

This page outlines the goals for the next release of Ubuntu Accomplishments, the 0.4 release. Below you can find the feature goals as well as the content that will be discussed at the forthcoming UDS in Copenhagen.

=== Feature Goals ===

* '''TARGET RELEASE''': 15th February 2012

==== Daemon ====

* No new feature work.
* Complete documentation of the API.
* Bug fixing.
** --(Looking for proper shutdown of twistd process)-- - This is not needed, as we won't need to care about pidfile once the daemons becomes a DBus service.
* Make the daemon a DBus service.
* --(Fix any outstanding Lintian issues (mfisch))--
  - --(<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-accomplishments-daemon/+bug/1069263|Daemon needs a manpage]]</nowiki>)--
* --(Support for keywords in .accomplishment files. (rafalcieslak256))--
* Support for accomplishment's level/diffitulty/time (will be not enabled for community-accomplishments)

==== Client ====

* High - Write unit tests.
* High - Ensure the trophies lens works (inc. previews).
* --Medium - Fix PEP-8 issues--
* Medium - Explore new designs for a ''summarized trophy view''.
  - Reach out to the community to gather designs.
  - Finalize the agreed design into an implementation plan.
* --(Medium - Fix any outstanding Lintian issues (mfisch))--
  - --(<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-accomplishments-viewer/+bug/1069264|Viewer needs a manpage]]</nowiki>)--
* Medium - Implement reacting on daemon's reaload signals
* --(Low - Improve filtering and add a search bar (rafalcieslak256))--
* Low - Displaying trophy level/difficulty/time if appropriate.
* Low - Apply wooden cabinet view in the GTK client.

==== Server ====

* High - Deploy validation server to Canonical IS (mhall119).
  - Take the validation server codebase and deploy a production service running in the Canonical data center.
* High - Ensure that updates to the validation service can be deployed by us (mhall119).
* High - Deploy web gallery service (mhall119).
* High - Point trophies.ubuntu.com (mhall119).

==== Accomplishments Collections ====

 <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-r-accomplishments-collection-cleanup]]</nowiki>

* Encouraging contributors to make desktop accomplishments for whatever application they are familiar with.

=== UDS Plans ===

==== Blueprints ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Topic
| Owner
| Blueprint
|-
| Webservices
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-r-accomplishments-service|community-r-accomplishments-service]]</nowiki>
|-
| Desktop Clients
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-r-accomplishments-clients|community-r-accomplishments-clients]]</nowiki>
|-
| Web Gallery
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-r-accomplishments-webgallery|community-r-accomplishments-webgallery]]</nowiki>
|-
| Accomplishment Collections
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-r-accomplishments-collection-cleanup|community-r-accomplishments-collection-cleanup]]</nowiki>
|-
| Viewer Updates
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-r-accomplishments-viewer|community-r-accomplishments-viewer]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| 
|}

==== Sessions ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Session
| Leader
| Description
| Date/Time
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-r/meeting/21060/community-r-accomplishments-service/|Ubuntu Accomplishments Production Webservices]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>
| 
| 2012-10-31 11:00-11:55
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-r/meeting/21058/community-r-accomplishments-clients/|Preparing Ubuntu Accomplishments client applications for release]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>
| 
| 2012-10-30 16:15-17:00
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-r/meeting/21062/community-r-accomplishments-webgallery/|Accomplishments Web Gallery updates]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 2012-10-31 17:05-18:00
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-r/meeting/21059/community-r-accomplishments-collection-cleanup/|Accomplishments Collections Cleanup]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 2012-10-31 09:00-09:55
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-r/meeting/21061/community-r-accomplishments-viewer/|Accomplishments Viewer Visual updates]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 2012-10-31 15:00-16:00
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-r/meeting/21161/accomplishments-writing-workshop/|Accomplishments Workshop]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 2012-11-01 12:00-13:00
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}
