{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Achim Bohnet ==

Email: 
IRC on Freenode: allee,  you can find me in #kubuntu-devel

https://launchpad.net/~allee

== Kubuntu Activities ==

Short story:

** I'm a sysadmin running Kubuntu on Laptops and Desktops since Hoary. With dapper, server and cluster will follow. For the curious, a bit of background can be found at http://www.kde.nl/people/debian.html

* I'm a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/kubuntu-team|Kubuntu Team]]</nowiki>.   Helping others in creating/maintain packages,  maintaining packages myself or helping whereever I can help.

* Future Plans:  Working more on enhancement and integration of pkgs. e.g. media support, usability, and consistency.  Easier setup of networks, in general, everything that makes using Kubuntu on laptop easier. At least keeping an eye on MOTU/Teams/Science, getting involved if time permits.

The long story below ...

=== IRC ===

I'm actively involved in  #kubuntu-devel, helping with pkging question, commenting pkgs in REVU, discussing usability enhancements or whatever comes up.

Due to time constraints I only look into other #*ubuntu* channels  when my regular expression ping me.

=== Packages ===

Since first Kubuntu release, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/allee/+packages|all the packages I'm involved with]]</nowiki> are developed and tested on Kubuntu.  Due to my Debian roots and the fact that there were many complains that Ubuntu does not give back enough, I decided to go the indirect way:  Final test on Sid, sponsored upload (debianLove++) and let Kubuntu get the new version via autosync (aka MOTUpoint--).  

* libkexif
* libkipi
* digikam
* digikamimageplugins
* kipi-plugins
* rsibreak
* codeine
* knemo

As long as dapper backports is not active you may find updated
version of the above listed software im my repository:

   http://www.mpe.mpg.de/~ach/kubuntu/dapper/Pkgs.php

In preparation (available in debian or my own repository):

* kisdnwatch  -- build system borked

Packages are developed in the frame work of the 'Debian KDE Extra Team'.  The repository

 http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/pkg-kde/kde-extras/

contain all my changes.  This ensures that the Kubuntu and Debian pkgs stay in sync.
 
=== Wiki ===

Little fixes here and there when I stumble over something that needs fixing.  I indirecly contributed
quite a bit to the KubuntuPackagingGuide via long discussions on #kubuntu-devel.

=== Lauchpad ===

I try to keep an eye on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/allee/+packagebugs|all packages I'm interested in]]</nowiki>.  Ditto for  Debian BTS and upstream BTS and/or mailing lists of those packages too.   So some bugs are fixed in the pkgs before they hit or are noticed in Kubuntu.

----
----

== Hardcoding a fixed DPI ==

It's wrong!  The right way was, is and will be (until all Xorg driver detect it automaticly)

* Edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
* Take a ruler and add  DisplaySize  to ' Section "Monitor" ' like
  <pre>
  Section "Monitor"
        ... <other settings> ...
##### DisplaySize  x-in-mm  y-in-mm
        DisplaySize     286 214
  EndSection
   }}}
 and restart your Xserver  (alternatively open a new session on display :1)
* Is the font size different than before?
** Then file a bug for your X11 driver  "Driver incapable to detect DDC screen size"
** If you don't like the size of the font, open the control center and change the size of the font.

Now the size of the same fonts, take a ruler again, will be the same on all monitors, that have a correct DisplaySize setting.

Congratulaton! Now it's maybe the first time that you're able to talk about small/big fonts because you see them the first time displayed in the right size.

Of course some people prefer bigger and some smaller fonts.  There will never be a perfect default font size.  But if you prefer a different font size, change the font size, not the dpi.

<rant>

Monitors here range from  75 dpi to 144 dpi.  That's ~ factor of two.   With ''identical  fonts size'' setting, the
size of the same 'H' displayed on screen will be:

{{{
   
  |_|
  | |           <-- 144 dpi monitor

  |  |
  |__|
  |  |            <--  75 dpi monitor
  |  |
                            
</pre>

The same  'U' , displayed on 100 dpi monitor is '''U''', but looks like '''u''' on 144 dpi monitor.   Imagine how readable lowercase letters are.

</rant>

PrinterConfig
----
CategoryHomepage
