{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''About me'''

* '''Name''': Alexandre Croteau

* '''Username''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~acrilex|acrilex]]</nowiki> (acrilex on '''Freenode''')

* '''Description''': I am a student who love free software philosophy, and I love to contribute to Ubuntu. I am actually contributing to Ubuntu during my free time, and I love to do it. I would like to contribute more and more, and during summer time, as I have more and more free time, I can contribute up to few hours per day. In my personal life, I am involved in FIRST robotics project, and I am part-time lifeguard. My native language is French, and I live in Quebec.

'''My contributions to Ubuntu'''

I contribute on ubuntu since December 2013, and I am an Ubuntu user since 2010 (lucid 10.04). I am mostly active in translating Ubuntu main packages in French, and reporting errors for English original strings. Before actively contributing to Ubuntu, I helped many users to make the switch to Ubuntu. In the near future, I hope I will be able to contribute by patching bugs and contributing to blueprints.

''' My vision of ubuntu in Quebec:'''

I think that, in the near future, Ubuntu will be more and more considered by private school and internet cafés to replace Windows on older computers that would be, without this change, in end of life (thinking about computers with Microsoft Windows XP). I also think that Ubuntu made a considerable hop in Quebec since two or three years, considering that asking to people what is Ubuntu five years ago led to no answers, and that, now, more and more people are aware of what ubuntu is, and I think it will eventually be a biggest number, to even one day overpass Apple OS X, considering that new devices using Linux are getting out (Google Chromebook and Android), which makes people curious on knowing what is Linux, leading them to knowing Ubuntu, the leading OS for PC, tablet, phone and cloud!

'''Member of team:'''

* '''''Communauté des traducteurs francophones sur Launchpad'''''

* '''''Launchpad Translators'''''

* '''''Launchpad Users'''''

'''Contact Me:'''

 {*} Email: alextyhero123@live.ca

 {*} IRC: acrilex on '''Freenode'''

'''Testimonials'''

Note: If you have anything nice to say about me, please do add it below along with "@ SIG @" (no spaces and no quotes). The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
