{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-ad-integration
* '''Created''':  by PeteSavage
* '''Contributors''': PeteSavage
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
To create an easy to use package for integrating edubuntu with active directory.  With educational establishments being as they are, it is vital to implement a transitional migration from windows to linux.  It is not something that can happen overnight.  Not only would staff have to be re-trained in linux, but the fact that children take 5 years to go through secondary school would mean that the transition would take 5 years to complete.  Whilst it is true that children at that age are highly adaptable, it is also unfair to remove an OS that they are used, especially if those children are slow learners, or have learning difficulties.  

The main goals would be:
* Authenticate via AD
* Connect users home dir 
* Possibly read netlogon scripts to determine printers/shares

=== Rationale ===
The edubuntu LTSP clients would be much more usable in educational establishments if they could integrate with the current system.  In effect users will be unaware of the background processes, and will be able to login and use their home directories as they normally would.  The integration would enable the migration to take place over a longer period of time.  This is required as people working as technical support/IT managers often are over stretched and do not have the time to dedicate to an instant switch on a project.  However using the edubuntu LTSP server, coupled with the steps out lined in <nowiki>[[UbuntuLTSP-LTSPWindowsDHCP]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[UbuntuLTSP-LTSPMultiboot]]</nowiki>, it is possible for them to create multiboot LTSP clients without affecting their systems at all.

=== Use cases ===
A school already uses a MS system for all computers but is interested in trying out linux on several machines.  Setting up the machines is no issue at all as discussed above.  However, it is necessary for the children to be able to access their work as normal.  At the moment, this isn't possible without some effort researching LDAP/Winbind or kerberos.  With a simple click and go GUI they could have users logging in via an AD server and up and running in minutes.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
----
CategorySpec
CategoryEdubuntuSpec
