{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am currently a programmer at http://www.sendoutcards.com.  Here we use opensource as a part of every day.  Some of the applications we use that we could not do our job without are:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.apache.org|Apache Webserver]]</nowiki> - Being a web based company, we couldn't do without this gem
* <nowiki>[[http://www.mysql.com|MySQL]]</nowiki> - We are currently storing 11GB of data in our database
* <nowiki>[[http://www.vim.org|Vim]]</nowiki> - 4 out of the 5 of our programmers use this to code
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - All 5 programmers use Ubuntu at work
* <nowiki>[[http://www.jabber.org|Jabber]]</nowiki> - We use this to communicate when we're out of the office

=== Contact ===

* Name: Adam Olsen
* Email:  * Launchpad: <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~arolsen|synic]]</nowiki>
* Jabber: synic AT jbother DOT org
* Blog: <nowiki>[[http://www.vimtips.org]]</nowiki>
* IRC: 
** Nick: synic
** Channel: #ubuntu-us-ut
** Server: irc.freenode.net

== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ==

* Worked the Ubuntu booth at the <nowiki>[[http://www.utos.org|Utah Open Source Conference]]</nowiki> in 2008 and 2009.
* I have presented at Utah Ubuntu Users Group LUG meetings on multiple occasions.
* I occasionally write Ubuntu specific blog entries on my website, <nowiki>[[http://www.vimtips.org]]</nowiki>

I am the author and lead developer on two opensource applications:

=== Exaile ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.exaile.org|Exaile]]</nowiki>

Exaile has an extensively long thread on the Ubuntu Forums: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159879|http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159879]]</nowiki>  55 pages, last time I looked.

Exaile is a media player aiming to be similar to KDE's AmaroK, but for GTK+. It incorporates many of the cool things from AmaroK (and other media players) like automatic fetching of album art, handling of large libraries, lyrics fetching, artist/album information via the wikipedia, last.fm support, optional iPod support (assuming you have python-gpod installed).

In addition, Exaile also includes a built in shoutcast directory browser, tabbed playlists (so you can have more than one playlist open at a time), blacklisting of tracks (so they don't get scanned into your library), downloading of guitar tablature from fretplay.com, and submitting played tracks on your iPod to last.fm. 

The Exaile team has done packaging for Exaile using the Launchpad PPA system, for our downloads page, and as a candidate for the Xubuntu default media player. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Specifications/Karmic/DefaultMusicPlayer]]</nowiki>

=== JBother ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.jbother.org|JBother]]</nowiki>

JBother is a Jabber client written in pure Java (1.4.x). It supports groupchat in a tabbed window, multiple resources, transport registration (so you can get on AIM, MSN, Yahoo!, and ICQ through JBother), sounds for different events, has several different skins, and should run on any platform that has the JRE installed (I have personally seen it working on Windows, Linux, FreeBSD, Solaris, and OS X).

== Future Plans ==

I'm not happy unless I'm coding, so I'll probably keep doing that.  I like to help in IRC when I'm bored.
