{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

----
On launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~adambbutler|adam@lp]]</nowiki>
----

~--~

Okay, pardon my obvious (Stupidi/wiki)-ty ...  I created <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdamBButler|/AdamBButler]]</nowiki> initially, but when I later selected "My pages" from the drop-down menu, I was sent to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/adambbutler|/adambbutler]]</nowiki> instead.

So it appears that I've duplicated myself!  Ack!  

~-(Rather than merely pointing out that I'm an idiot, the primary reason I'm explaining this is simple: if an Admin happens by this page, kindly delete whichever page is inappropriate and perhaps  to let me know what I did wrong...with my thanks!)  

Oh, and I suppose there is an obvious selfish component to all of this -- wouldn't want to be accused of spamming or something (not that announcing that I'm a moron is that much better!).  Just trying to figure out where I'm supposed to create the "user page" that the LaptopTestingTeam (and other Ubuntu communities on the Wiki) seem to want me to "link to" when submitting, making major changes, etc.  

I've worked with Wikis, just never wikified myself!  Doh.  -~

~--- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:adambbutler]]</nowiki> -~

----
CategoryHomepage
