{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I heard about Ubuntu from a friend of my youngest brother. They are both web developers. My brother uses LAMP with his dearly beloved Mac, and his friend uses LAMP with Ubuntu.

My own introduction to Ubuntu is with LAMP CMS such as osCommerce, which I learned to use while working with my other brother at his telecommunications equipment company. 

LAMP CMS is an incredibly powerful tool. The average person now has easy access to enterprise level information management tools. 

http://www.opensourcecms.com/

LAMP CMS is part of another powerful trend, where even manufacturing will become a process available to anyone on any scale that suits them. 

BBC In Business - Tools For Change

http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/news/inbusiness/inbusiness_20060622.shtml

My futher interest is to use Ubuntu to study optics. I am learning to use TeXmacs with Maxima to solve formulas and visualize data.

http://arxiv.org/html/cs.SC/0504039

I am always learning a new foreign language. I've recently designed a simple LAMP flashcard program to drill vocabulary.

I will contribute to the Ubuntu community in LAMP installation and development and in physics visualization and problem solving.
