{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Adam Stokes, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Adam Stokes
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~adam-stokes
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdamStokes
|}

== Who I am ==
''Currently work for solutions engineering under Daniel Westervelt at Canonical, Ltd.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''I started with Ubuntu roughly 3 years ago coming from a Red Hat/Fedora distribution I was drawn to the freshness and community of this project. At first I was developing cloud technologies such as qpid and their packages to be distributed through a PPA. Shortly thereafter I joined Canonical and was able to focus my attention full time on package creation, bug fixes, and other contributions.''

=== My involvement ===

Previously I worked full time for Canonical as a sustaining engineer where our focus is bug fixing and upholding a standard of quality for all involved customers.

Recently I've changed jobs within Canonical and now do research and development for our cloud technologies such as MaaS and Juju.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

My greatest accomplishment so far has been bringing sosreport into Debian and as a result Ubuntu. As of Trusty sosreport is included in the main archive and on cd media. This is a great added feature to companies that require the use of sosreport in their support organizations such as Dell.

https://github.com/sosreport

Another project I am proud of is Ubuntu cloud installer. This aims to ease the installation of MAAS, Juju, and Openstack into a more turnkey solution.

https://github.com/Ubuntu-Solutions-Engineering/cloud-installer

I constantly blog about my interactions and contributions to Ubuntu:

http://astokes.org/category/ubuntu/

=== Areas of work ===

My future area of work will be on the Cloud installer along with MAAS and Juju contributions/bug fixes.

=== Things I could do better ===

Increase my productivity by stream lining my work items for the different projects I am involved in.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

To continue to be apart of the evolution of cloud computing and maintaining a strict level of quality in projects I am involved with.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I wouldnt say I like this the least and it is changing for the better but the initial QA/CI testing was alarming when sending these products out into the wild. But, like I said it has changed and I feel is on the right track.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
I have endorsements listed on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdamStokes
