{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

There are a number of people who want to create add on CDs to the official Ubuntu CDs.  The reasons for doing this vary from making Ubuntu an option for those with slow or no internet access, to convenience.  This page is for those who want to make some tools to easily create CDs.  

=== Requirements ===

Debian provides the debian-cd package, full of scripts for building CDs from archive mirrors.  Currently, we want to make a script to make a package CD, not necessarily from an archive mirror, but from a set of packages.

We want a tool to easily take a set of packages or .debs, find dependencies, and exclude packages.  Packages for exclusion should be 

=== Tools ===

A preliminary version of the script will be up shortly.  It is in Bash, though there is talk of a Python version.

=== Other Resources ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=867563|Forum thread]]</nowiki> for this project.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=136955|Forum thread]]</nowiki> for a related project, making an Un official addon CD.
* <nowiki>[[UnofficialUbuntu510AddOnCD]]</nowiki> - wiki page for the related "unofficial add on CD project".
