{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In order to make your application appear in the Applications→Add/Remove tool... (gnome-app-install), there are two steps to make:

* add a "X-App``Install-Package" line to your .desktop
* when package is being installed:
** place the .desktop into /usr/share/app-install/desktop
** place the png (svgs render poorly) into /usr/share/app-install/icons
** and run "sudo update-app-install" to update the database

=== Setting up the .desktop ===

The exact syntax for using the X-App``Install-Package line is documented <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/gnome-app-install/main/annotate/head:?file_id=x_Arch_Librarian_%3Carch%40canonical.com%3E_Thu_Jun_30_17%3A12%3A01_2005_10510.0|here]]</nowiki>, but in short form, you simply add the ''X-App``Install-Package=<package name>'' line to your .desktop. Add/Remove will automatically use the description, name, and icon in it's display.

For bonus points - to make Add/Remove display the usage stats (stars), add the "X-App``Install-Popcon=<number>" field, where <number> is the amount of installs (available here: http://popcon.ubuntu.com/by_vote)

=== Updating the database ===

To update Add/Remove's database, you need to run "sudo update-app-install". After that, your .desktop will appear in it's index as a regular program!

=== For Repositories ===

If you have a repository with the proper .desktop files and you'd like those programs be listed in gnome-app-install, such that the user can use Add/Remove to install the programs, this <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~mvo/archive-crawler/mvo/files|crawler script]]</nowiki> will help you with setting that up.

=== Didn't work? ===

This can be rather tricky for new people, so feel free to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~vperetokin|contact me]]</nowiki>.
