{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Well, basically I've switched to full Ubuntu around Oct 2009 and I've never been happier ever since :)

I'm a CS undergraduate with a keen interest in Open-Source development. I'm still a newbie, but beware: I'm a fast learner.

Besides computers, I play classical guitar and (very little nowadays) piano :)

If you have questions, feel free to contact me.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~adiratiu00
|-
| Timezone
| Bucharest (UTC+2/UTC+3)
|-
| Yahoo
| adi.rat90
|-
| GTalk
| adiratiu00
|-
| Email
| adiratiu00@gmail.com
|}

=== Availability ===

Usually, I can be found online between 15:00-22:00 '''UTC''' . My schedule can vary quite a lot, some days I could be online 14 hours and others 1 hour. The safest way to contact me is by e-mail where I usually reply within 24 hours.

=== Contributions ===

Mainly spreading the word and helping others migrate to Ubuntu (or Open-Source in general).

=== Future Goals ===

I've done my share of PR up until now - I wish to contribute to Ubuntu and learn more while doing it. Perhaps the best place to start would be helping the Bug Squad.

I'm interested in software development, so I'll try to contribute with code when/if I can.
