{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Who am I? ==
I'm just a normal(my friends say im not normal.) 18 year old student from Mumbai, India. I've been using computers for more than a decade(through Windows); I've been using Linux since January 2007 and I've never looked back nor regretted it. My distro of choice(and indeed the introductory one) is Ubuntu and I really do like it, not only because of it's features or freedom, but mostly because of the excellent community it has. Another thing I like about Ubuntu is that it is(in my mind) a lot more customisable-friendly than other distros like Fedora or OpenSUSE.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| My contact details:-
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~adityagada|Aditya Gada]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''adityag''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| adityagada at gmail com
|}

=== How am I contributing to the Ubuntu Community? ===
I convince new people to switch to ubuntu. I spread the word!
I burn ubuntu CDs and distribute it the folks at my college.

==== Support ====

{*} Launchpad(<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~adityagada|Aditya Gada]]</nowiki>) ~ By:- 
1. Answering support requests.
2. Bug-reporting.
3. IRC help.
