{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Adolfo González Blázquez ===
This is Adolfo González from spain, infinito at irc and forums.
I try to help at forums, report bugs, and those freesoft things...

==== Contact ====
* Email: code@infinicode.org
* Website: http://www.infinicode.org/
* Nickname on IRC: infinito
* Nickname on Slsk: infinito
* GPG Key: <nowiki>[[http://pgp.surfnet.nl:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x3F8220A1|3F8220A1]]</nowiki>

==== My Projects ====
* <nowiki>[[http://computertemp.berlios.de/|Computer Temperature Monitor]]</nowiki>
   Computer Temperature Monitor is a little applet for the GNOME desktop that shows the temperatures of your laptop on screen. You can log temperatures to a file as well, and you can set alarms that raise when a temperature is reached.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.infinicode.org/code/cameramonitor/|Camera Monitor]]</nowiki>
   Camera Monitor is a simple system tray icon that appears when your webcam is on.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.infinicode.org/code/pyrenamer/|pyRenamer]]</nowiki>
   Mass file renamer written in PyGTK.

* <nowiki>[[http://home.gna.org/gcfilms/|GCfilms]]</nowiki>
  GCfilms is an application for managing your movie collection. Detailed information on each movie can be automatically retrieved from the internet and you can store additional data, such as the location, format and even who you've lent them to. You may also search and filter your collection by criteria such as director, genre, rating and much more.

* <nowiki>[[http://hisparadio.sourceforge.net/|Hisparadio]]</nowiki>
   Listen to spanish radio stations online.

=== Documentation I usually read ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.pygtk.org/pygtk2reference/index.html|PyGTK 2.0 Reference]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.pygtk.org/pygtk2tutorial/index.html|PyGTK 2.0 Tutorial]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.async.com.br/faq/pygtk/index.py?req=index|PyGTK FAQ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.pygtk.org/articles.html|PyGTK Articles]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pygstdocs.berlios.de/|Python Gstreamer]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://docs.python.org/ref/|Python Reference]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://docs.python.org/tut/tut.html|Python Tutorial]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
