{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Adrien J. Howard aka adorablepuppy

* '''IRC:''' adorablepuppy on irc.freenode.net

== Introduction ==

Quite some time ago when tinkering with computers, I installed my first GNU/Linux distribution, Debian. Eventually I broke the system and the Debian disc got scratched on the top, so I downloaded Slackware and installed it. Since the Slackware system didn't start X, I was stuck in shell until I got it fixed. From my command line work on Windows 98, I knew how to change directories and luckily for me, the dir command existed. I searched the system for the place where the cd and dir commands were stored. I found /bin and jedit and went on my way to edit the system's config files until X worked. After Slackware dropped support of GNOME in favor of KDE(Slackware 10.1 I believe), I decided to try other distributions. 

The entire order went something like:
* Debian
* Slackware
* Red Hat
* Slackware
* SUSE
* Slackware
* FreeBSD
* Slackware
* Puppy
* DSL
* MonoLive Disc (based on Ubuntu I believe)
* Foresight
* Gentoo
* Foresight
* Ubuntu

Through Slackware, I learned the internals of Linux, how to compile source, how to configure things. It was my favorite until Foresight, where I learned that manually managing your dependencies as I'd done in the past was a waste of time.
----
== Software Development Career ==
I'm a software developer and have wanted to be since the age of 12. I took classes at a local community college on VB, but before the beginning programming in VB course, I'd already surpassed the advanced programming class. I was driven to create an skinnable interface editor similar to notepad, but with a "cool skin". I almost got the editor finished when I decided the project was stupid in the first place. After I'd taken all the programming and networking courses in college, I was left with general education classes. After a while of unemployment that stemmed from a dispute in a local grocery store, I got a job in software development, where my skills in programming elevated me to the position of Chief Software Architect. But, it wasn't hard. I was the only programmer and got to choose my title. To this very day, I remain there.
----
== Programming Languages Known ==
* Python (my favorite)
* Various .NET languages
** C#
** VB.NET
** J#
** Boo
** IronPython
* VB6
* Java
* Javascript
* Ruby
* PHP
* Lisp and Scheme
* Various SQL implementations
** Microsoft SQL
** MySQL
** PostgreSQL (favorite platform!)
== Markup and Markup Related ==
* HTML
* CSS
* XML
* XSL(T)
