{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Adrien Cunin, aka Adri2000.

* '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~adri2000|adri2000]]</nowiki>
* '''Email:''' adri2000@ubuntu.com
* '''Jabber:''' adri2000@adrishost.net
* '''IRC:''' Adri2000 on Freenode/OFTC
* '''Web:''' http://www.adriencunin.fr/

== Introduction ==

I am living in France and have been using Ubuntu since hoary, when I really began to use Linux on my desktop.

My first contribution to Ubuntu was translation at the end of the dapper cycle. For edgy, I started packaging (thanks <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gauvain|Gloubiboulga]]</nowiki>'s sessions in #ubuntu-fr-classroom :-]) and bug triaging.

I'm a MOTU since January 2007.

The rest of this page is not really up to date and was mostly written at the time of my MOTU application. :-)

== Packaging ==

I package some new programs, try to fix bugs, help with merges/syncs, make sure that the programs in universe and multiverse are not out of date.

* https://launchpad.net/~adri2000/+packages
* https://launchpad.net/~adri2000/+assignedbugs

Some points about universe/multiverse and MOTU I feel important:
* Collaboration with Debian: report as much bugs as possible in Debian to avoid useless merge workload (and also to improve Debian in the meantime :) )
* QA: I mean look for important bug fixes available in Debian, fix unmet deps or other easy-to-fix bugs (such as rebuilds) that makes a package unusable, etc. *before* the release :) Of course the problem is the huge number of packages we have to take care of.
* Help those who are not (yet) MOTU, enthusiasts and hopefuls, to contribute to universe and multiverse. It includes REVU and uploads sponsoring.

=== New packages ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/djplay/|DJPlay]]</nowiki> (edgy) [now maintained in Debian]
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/giplet/|Giplet]]</nowiki> (edgy)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/homebank/|HomeBank]]</nowiki> (feisty) [now maintained by someone else in Debian]
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libdjconsole/|libdjconsole]]</nowiki> (feisty) [now maintained in Debian]

See http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=adri2000@ubuntu.com for the packages I maintain in Debian.
