{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Adresse électronique : 
== About me ==
* I am a 27 years French engineering student;
* I completely erased Windows from my hard in April 2001 to shift to GNU/Linux I had never used before. It has been my only operating system until 2007 when I had to start using Windows again because of work.
* I spent some time to help the French "Racketware" workgroup ("Racketiciel", formely "Détaxe") - and eventually got a refund from Dell after refusing Windows EULA.

== Links ==
The French Racketware workgroup is somehow similar to any Windows Refund Action. The main difference is it tries to have consumption laws applied on computer market as several French laws forbid explicitely to link the sale of hardware and software (but strangely enough, the government does not act) : http://www.racketware.info/

== Kubuntu Review ==

I shifted from Mandriva to Kubuntu in June 2005. Mid September I tested Breezy. What I first enjoyed in Hoary was that it is nicely designed: cool default style and only great and usefull programs. The bad point was configuration, completely broken for network settings and not properly working for a lot of other things. This was mostly fixed in Breezy though the graphical interface had been less polished. Since then, both configuration and graphics have improved a lot. And I am waiting for a fully working release of KDE 4!

----
CategoryHomepage
