{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Born''' September 4, 1987
* Email: 
=== Personal Linux Story ===
Back in the summer of 2003 I began contemplating intalling linux on a new computer I was about to assemble, since I was running short of cash for a new copy of Windows.  I started searching around for a distro. I tried:
* Redhat
* A version of Windows I legally obtained from a school website, but i couldnt stand it
* Knoppix
* Ubuntu 5.05

When I installed Ubuntu for the first time, I was connected to my home network via wireless, and was having some major problems with it not connecting, so i fell back to Windows >_< for a couple months. I then decided to move my router and DSL modem up to my room.  Again I installed Ubuntu (5.10 Hoary Hedgehog) which i had just ordered from ShipIt, and VOILA it was a success.  I've reinstalled a few times, with different setups and GUI's.  At one point i remember having KDE, XFCE and GNOME installed, and would frequently logout of Gnome and play around in KDE, which I quickly grew to hate.  I thinks its due to the excessive amounts of customization that I was obsessed with and never actually was productive.  I currently use Gnome, with ''Ubuntu 6.10 '''Edgy Eft''''' and am very happpy with it.     

=== Interests ===
* Linux
* Drinking
* Reading
* The Internet

=== Skills ===
* C++ Programming (4 years experience)
* Nunchuck skills (pretty much my whole life)
* HTML (3 years)
* Sweet Computer Hacking Skills (chicks dig guys with skills)

=== Learning ===
* Linux (FedoraCore5, Ubuntu, Knoppix)
* Microsoft Windows 2k Server
* PHP
* JavaScript
* Programming in General (C++, Java, Assembly Language)

=== Current Books ===
* Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy : Mostly Harmless
* Digital Fortress - Dan Brown
----
CategoryHomepage
