{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This document describes the policy for updating the ADSys package in a stable, supported distro, including LTS. 

Adsys is a tool for managing and applying GPOs from Active Directory on Linux. It comprises a set of services and commands which enable administrators to manage policy updates and ensure compliance with business rules.

Since Adsys interacts directly with Active Directory and must meet new business requirements on LTS releases, the package must stay up-to-date with the latest changes. Therefore, in addition to bug fixes, implementations of new GPO are allowed as long as the conditions outlined below are met.

In case of new features need to be added, distinct from the implementation of new GPO, then SRU team approval will need to be obtained.

=== QA Process ===
Adsys follows a robust continuous integration and testing process. It is covered by a <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ubuntu/adsys/actions/workflows/qa.yaml|comprehensive automated tests suite]]</nowiki>. All changes are thoroughly reviewed and approved by at least two core team members before integration. The requirements for an SRU to be considered include:

* Each change must be thoroughly tested at the unit, integration and system levels. All the tests must pass in all supported architectures.
* All bugs fixed in this release must have a link to the pull request that fixes them.
* An engineer must review any bug fix or new feature that affects the release. They will verify it in a system with the proposed package installed by executing an automated or manual test. Most of these tests are automated and executed in the autopkgtest suite. Tests that are not automated are executed manually.
* New and existing features will be tested in a real Active Directory environment.
* There should be no unfixed bugs tagged "blocker" on the milestone.

=== Packaging QA ===
When preparing the package for upload, the following procedures must be completed to ensure quality:

* All autopkgtests must pass.
* The package must not break when upgrading.
* The binary should be identical to the CI build, with only Debian packaging changes.
* The copyrights and changelog have been updated accordingly.
* An upgrade test from the previous package version must be performed using apt install/upgrade.

=== Requesting the SRU ===
The SRU should be requested as usual (StableReleaseUpdates) with the bug description containing links to automatic testing results so that anyone can verify the testing occurred and its results. Additionally, the SRU bug should be verbose in documenting any manual testing. The SRU should be done with a single process bug for this stable release exception instead of individual bug reports for individual bug fixes.

==== Template ====

[SRU Information]

ADSys has a stable release exception, including for major version updates, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdsysUpdates.

[Impact]

State the impact of the change, including a summary of changes from the archive version.

Provide a link to the bugs targeted.

[QA/Testing]

Provide a link to the successful CI test run.

Provide affirmation of manual testing of the proposed package.
