{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Marked for deletion.''' Please contact PhilWyett to discuss page.

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Created''':  by Iandefor
* '''Contributors''': Iandefor
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Offer advanced services and package configuration options in the Espresso installer.
=== Rationale ===
While Ubuntu comes with multiple services and packages like laptop-utils, bluez, etc., to ensure maximum compatibility, what winds up happening is that these utilities become a drain on system resources for users who aren't using them, and it's often not apparent that these services can be turned off or even uninstalled.
=== Use cases ===
* Joe buys a desktop, but doesn't want any services he's not using, like laptop-utils, bluez, or pcmcia running.
* Alice has a laptop that doesn't have bluetooth, nor does it have access to a printer- she wants to not have to deal with bluez or cups after installation.
=== Scope ===
This specification covers the Espresso installer, and any services running by default.
=== Design ===
=== Implementation ===
Prior to beginning the copying of files to the chosen partition, the user could be asked if they wished to configure services
and packages to install. There could be default profiles (ie, a basic desktop profile, which would omit things like laptop-utils and
pcmcia), and then just a simple list of services/packages to choose from.
=== Unresolved issues ===
=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
