{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



* When: 26 August 2015
* Where: #ubuntu-africa on Freenode.
* Website: http://ubuntu-africa.info/
* Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-africa
* IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chair: '''inetpro'''
* Welcoming and Introduction
* Review <nowiki>[[AfricanTeams-Meetings-20150729#Summary|minutes of previous meeting]]</nowiki>
* Awareness and action
** Get more Africa Linux users to join us
** Get more Ubuntu users to apply for official membership 
** Help to find the missing/tired LoCo's https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AfricanTeams
** Encourage existing members to be more active and give ideas
** Encourage dead LoCo's to rebuild
** Get more people to get launchpad ID's and join us at https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-africa
* raise awareness of not so official mirrors but widely used in some areas ('''ongolaBoy'''). 
** e.g: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/miroir.cm.auf.org-archive | This ]]</nowiki> mirror is in review since september 2014 :(
* '''More items to be added here'''
* Events
** Plan events in your area and give feedback at next meeting
* Miscellaneous
** All other matters of interest
* Elect chairperson for next meeting
* Next meeting: 23 September 2015

=== Summary ===

{{{ 

Minutes
=======  ==

[18:30:58] STARTED (inetpro)
[18:31:19] TOPIC: Welcoming and Introduction (inetpro)
[18:39:14] TOPIC: Review minutes of previous meeting (inetpro)
[18:45:24] TOPIC: Meeting time (inetpro)
[18:51:42] AGREED: pieter2627 to start the conversation around monthly meeting times (inetpro)
[18:53:34] TOPIC: Awareness and actions (inetpro)
[19:01:54] AGREED: encourage existing members to be more active (inetpro)
[19:02:20] AGREED: encourage more people to get launchpad ID's and join us at https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-africa (inetpro)
[19:02:35] TOPIC: raise awareness of not so official mirrors but widely used in some areas (ongolaBoy) (inetpro)
[19:04:45] TOPIC: Events (inetpro)
[19:15:35] AGREED: 2015 Software Freedom Day is approaching and will be celebrated on 19th September (Saturday) this year, let's tell people about it (inetpro)
[19:16:57] TOPIC: Miscellaneous (inetpro)
[19:30:44] TOPIC: Elect chairperson for next meeting (inetpro)
[19:32:19] AGREED: inetpro to chair the next meeting (inetpro)
[19:32:31] TOPIC: Next meeting (inetpro)
[19:33:31] AGREED: next meeting scheduled for 23 September 2015 until further notice (inetpro)
[19:34:48] ENDED (inetpro)

Present
=======  ==

* Raoul Snyman (superfly)
* Pieter Engelbrecht from South Africa (pieter2627)
* ubuntiste-msakni
* Miles Sharpe (Kilos)
* Gustav H Meyer - South Africa (inetpro)
* craigbrash
* El Acheche Anis - Tunisia (elacheche_anis)
* xene
* ariabbaS
* philipballew (philipballew)

}}}

=== Log ===

<pre>

Raw Log
=======  ==

[18:30:58] <inetpro> QA: start meeting about Ubuntu Africa Monthly Meeting - August 2015
[18:30:58] * QA gets out the memo-pad and cracks her knuckles
[18:31:19] <inetpro> QA: topic Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:19] <QA> Current Topic: Welcoming and Introduction
[18:31:34] <inetpro> Thanks everyone for joining once again
[18:31:35] <Kilos> QA  I am Miles Sharpe
[18:31:35] <QA> Kilos: Okay
[18:31:48] <inetpro> please introduce yourself to our bot as follows: QA: I am <FirstName LastName - Country>
[18:31:55] <pieter2627> QA: I am Pieter Engelbrecht from South Africa
[18:31:55] <QA> pieter2627: Alrighty
[18:32:05] <inetpro> QA: I am Gustav H Meyer - South Africa
[18:32:05] <QA> inetpro: Alrighty
[18:33:47] <inetpro> the Agenda for this evening can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AfricanTeams/Meetings/20150826
[18:33:59] <Kilos> ariabbaS  cyrilb daker philipballew kenju254 eebrah Dro__ r0ckwilda{-_-} R0ok_ ping
[18:34:02] <inetpro> on;y the three of us?
[18:34:08] <Kilos> sigh
[18:34:13] <ariabbaS> .
[18:34:14] <philipballew> im here!
[18:34:16] <philipballew> :)
[18:34:34] <Kilos> please login with the bot guys
[18:34:50] * pieter2627 was almost worried
[18:34:54] <superfly> QA: I am Raoul Snyman
[18:34:54] <QA> superfly: Done
[18:34:55] <Kilos> hehe
[18:34:58] <philipballew> QA I am philipballew
[18:34:58] <QA> philipballew: Okay
[18:35:23] <ariabbaS> I'm Ari Ado - Cameroon ;-)
[18:35:25] <Kilos> i apologize for being late with the list reminder guys
[18:35:36] <inetpro> I'll give you a minute to look at the agenda
[18:35:36] <inetpro> please suggest any last minute topics you might want to add
[18:35:44] <inetpro> Kilos: don't stress about it
[18:35:45] <pieter2627> np Kilos
[18:36:05] <pieter2627> inetpro: should we still discuss the meeting time?
[18:36:43] <inetpro> pieter2627: good idea, I'll add it as a topic in a minute
[18:37:21] <ubuntiste-msakni> Hey guys!
[18:37:24] <ubuntiste-msakni> When is the meeting?
[18:37:34] <pieter2627> ubuntiste-msakni: just started
[18:37:39] <Kilos> you late ubuntiste-msakni
[18:37:54] <Kilos> i battle with thew tunisians
[18:37:58] <Kilos> the
[18:38:21] * elacheche_anis will remain silence and stay quiet :) o:)
[18:38:24] <inetpro> anything else for the Agenda?
[18:38:57] <Kilos> nonono elacheche_anis you need to take not and take over chairing even in the future
[18:39:01] <inetpro> right... moving ahead
[18:39:13] <pieter2627> elacheche_anis: QA takes minutes for us. Please intro yourself to him using 'QA: I am <firstname lastname> - <country>'
[18:39:14] <inetpro> QA: topic Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:39:14] <QA> Current Topic: Review minutes of previous meeting
[18:39:35] <inetpro> the minutes of our first meeting can be seen at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AfricanTeams/Meetings/20150729#Summary
[18:40:02] <elacheche_anis> QA, I am El Acheche Anis - Tunisia
[18:40:02] <QA> elacheche_anis: Okay
[18:40:34] <inetpro> anything we need to highlight from the summary perhaps?
[18:40:57] <pieter2627> ty elacheche_anis, glad to see you again... or to be here :)
[18:41:55] <pieter2627> inetpro: that we did few of the ideas?
[18:42:18] <elacheche_anis> pieter2627, am 24/5 here :) â†’ elacheche == elacheche_anis == ubuntiste-msakni :)
[18:42:33] <Kilos> hehe
[18:42:42] <inetpro> pieter2627: what did we do sir?
[18:42:49] <pieter2627> yea realised that i'm quite, hence the last part
[18:43:10] <Kilos> there were some ideas but those guys arent here tonight
[18:43:41] <inetpro> ok looks like things have been rather quiet this month... we have work to do
[18:43:45] <pieter2627> inetpro: i personally did nothing (sorry) maybe others have
[18:44:39] <inetpro> hmm...
[18:45:02] <pieter2627> so nothing to review
[18:45:14] <inetpro> ok, maybe time to discuss meeting time
[18:45:24] <inetpro> QA: topic Meeting time
[18:45:24] <QA> Current Topic: Meeting time
[18:45:46] <elacheche_anis> Sorry guys, wasn't able to think this month, I already have plenty of work and my LoCo Re-Approval + the organization of the Software Freedom Day..
[18:46:01] <Kilos> np elacheche_anis
[18:46:33] <Kilos> we understand, re- approval is rather stressful
[18:46:35] - craigbrash online
[18:46:44] <Kilos> wb craigbrash
[18:46:47] <inetpro> I guess with so few people around we might need to discuss this topic in a next meeting?
[18:46:47] <elacheche_anis> very x'(
[18:47:04] <Kilos> inetpro  agreed
[18:47:05] <inetpro> those who are here are you happy with the date at least?
[18:47:16] <pieter2627> maybe we should take it to the mailing list
[18:47:39] <inetpro> as in every 4th Wednesday of each month?
[18:47:46] <pieter2627> seeing that it will affect next attendance
[18:48:03] <inetpro> pieter2627: I'll add it on the next agenda
[18:48:24] <pieter2627> didn't some say that it was a bit late/early?
[18:48:31] <inetpro> but I agree, discussing on the mailing list might be a good idea
[18:48:43] <Kilos> maybe we should all push the list for a whileand see ifwe can improve next meetings attendance
[18:49:17] <Kilos> the list is very quiet
[18:49:55] <Kilos> oh philipballew
[18:49:56] <superfly> meh. using Launchpad's lists is a bit of a pain
[18:50:01] <inetpro> who takes on the task of raising the point on the mailing list?
[18:50:10] <superfly> they don't change the reply-to, which is incredibly frustrating
[18:50:23] <Kilos> can you maybe do reminders for next meeting on f/book please
[18:50:29] <inetpro> superfly: good point, but that is another topic
[18:50:59] <pieter2627> inetpro: i will mail the list tomorrow
[18:51:06] <inetpro> pieter2627: thanks
[18:51:42] <inetpro> QA: agreed pieter2627 to start the conversation around monthly meeting times
[18:51:42] <QA> Agreed: pieter2627 to start the conversation around monthly meeting times
[18:52:20] <Kilos> maybe we must do the time thing by a vote
[18:52:48] <Kilos> no good changing the time to suit only one person
[18:53:06] <pieter2627> i will ask if any have a major issue
[18:53:11] <Kilos> maybe an hour later is a starting point
[18:53:27] <Kilos> many are an hour behind us
[18:53:30] <inetpro> Kilos: raise that as a response on the ML... next point
[18:53:34] <inetpro> QA: topic Awareness and actions
[18:53:34] <QA> Current Topic: Awareness and actions
[18:53:45] <Kilos> stickyboy  where are you man
[18:53:59] <inetpro> do we have any new users here who joined us since our last meeting
[18:54:00] <inetpro> ?
[18:54:11] <pieter2627> if results are varied then we could have vote one day on the channel?
[18:54:15] <Kilos> not here atm
[18:54:42] <Kilos> pieter2627  agreed
[18:54:45] * pieter2627 checking
[18:55:26] <inetpro> so how do we get more Ubuntu users to join and ultimately to apply for official membership?
[18:55:41] <pieter2627> none on the lp group
[18:56:00] <Kilos> inetpro  with difficulty
[18:56:18] <craigbrash> first need to find ubuntu users in our own countries
[18:56:40] <pieter2627> with the last meeting we discussed a lot of avenues...
[18:56:52] <Kilos> dont forget guys, we welcome all lugs to join us as well hey
[18:57:00] <inetpro> I guess that is somewhat of a retorical question
[18:57:11] <inetpro> Kilos: What is the status with missing/tired LoCo's?
[18:57:22] <pieter2627> personally, i think that each should focus on the media that they use
[18:57:22] <inetpro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AfricanTeams
[18:57:36] <pieter2627> and work with others that use it too.
[18:57:46] <Kilos> inetpro  i have done anything about them this month
[18:58:03] <Kilos> had one in mind last month
[18:58:21] <Kilos> was a lug in a country with no loco
[18:58:22] <inetpro> last update was on 2015-08-13
[18:58:54] <Kilos> ya a new guy was here recently
[18:59:06] <inetpro> Tunisian GNU/Linux User Group (TGLUG)
[18:59:20] <inetpro> nice
[18:59:55] <inetpro> added by Na3iL?
[19:00:10] <Kilos> im sure what we need to do is make irc more attractive in some way
[19:00:30] <Kilos> other social media is whats holdin irc down
[19:00:46] <inetpro> anyone else have feedback about dead LoCo's for now?
[19:00:56] <Kilos> he is in tunisia and applying for membership soon
[19:01:02] <pieter2627> the web irc client kiwi is quite attractive
[19:01:36] <inetpro> ok, so we keep going and encourage guys to be more active?
[19:01:43] <Kilos> yes
[19:01:54] <inetpro> QA: agreed encourage existing members to be more active
[19:01:54] <QA> Agreed: encourage existing members to be more active
[19:01:58] <pieter2627> seem so
[19:02:01] <Kilos> thats all we can do, keep inspiring peeps
[19:02:10] <inetpro> and obviously
[19:02:20] <inetpro> QA: agreed encourage more people to get launchpad ID's and join us at https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-africa
[19:02:20] <QA> Agreed: encourage more people to get launchpad ID's and join us at https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-africa
[19:02:35] <inetpro> next
[19:02:35] <inetpro> QA: topic raise awareness of not so official mirrors but widely used in some areas (ongolaBoy)
[19:02:35] <QA> Current Topic: raise awareness of not so official mirrors but widely used in some areas (ongolaBoy)
[19:02:47] <inetpro> Is ongolaBoy here this evening?
[19:02:53] <Kilos> pieter2627  do you have time to play around?
[19:03:02] <Kilos> nope inetpro
[19:03:07] <Kilos> strange
[19:03:08] <inetpro> hmm...
[19:03:23] <pieter2627> Kilos: some at times
[19:03:29] <inetpro> Kilos: do you know whether he got his mirror sorted?
[19:04:08] <Kilos> yes inetpro he has his mirror as an unofficial one for now
[19:04:28] <inetpro> ah, so we can remove it from the next agenda?
[19:04:28] <Kilos> needs more drive space to become official
[19:04:33] <Kilos> yes
[19:04:38] <inetpro> nice!
[19:04:45] <inetpro> QA: topic Events
[19:04:45] <QA> Current Topic: Events
[19:05:04] <Kilos> pieter2627  when you bored can you please search and contact all lugs in africa
[19:05:22] <inetpro> haha :-)
[19:05:41] <Kilos> i have one lug but i think the reminder mail was too late
[19:06:14] <craigbrash> i will look too for lugs
[19:06:21] <pieter2627> Kilos: i can try, but lugs are not really in my sphere
[19:06:33] <Kilos> lugs are absorbing ubuntu users, not the way we are doing it
[19:06:35] <inetpro> craigbrash: thanks for volunteering
[19:06:37] <pieter2627> that meetup.com thing might help
[19:06:47] <Kilos> ty craigbrash
[19:06:49] <pieter2627> to find them
[19:07:07] <pieter2627> thanks, craigbrash
[19:07:24] <Kilos> big job, you have to join them then their list and then only invite them
[19:07:48] <inetpro> so on to events, anything newsworthy that happend in the last month?
[19:08:03] <inetpro> or am I moving too fast?
[19:08:13] <Kilos> thats why i think we must push strongly the idea that this is an all linux user channel
[19:08:17] <pieter2627> no inetpro
[19:08:24] <Kilos> no inetpro
[19:09:28] <inetpro> no nothing newsworthy happened or no, I am not moving too fast?
[19:09:38] <pieter2627> last one
[19:09:38] <Kilos> both
[19:09:43] <Kilos> hehe
[19:09:43] <inetpro> haha :-)
[19:09:55] * inetpro should learn to stick to one question at a time
[19:10:02] <Kilos> lol
[19:10:21] <inetpro> ok, upcoming events
[19:10:21] <pieter2627> or we should answer better :)
[19:10:39] <inetpro> so we know about SFD, anything else?
[19:11:00] <Kilos> main one is to support elacheche_anis at their re approval
[19:11:25] <pieter2627> not that i know of, which countries are planning for SFD?
[19:11:29] <Kilos> elacheche_anis  call on guys here for support hey
[19:11:33] <ariabbaS> .
[19:11:58] <Kilos> ariabbaS  say something
[19:12:15] <Kilos> you guys must all get involved here
[19:12:27] <ariabbaS> ok for me
[19:12:28] <inetpro> for those who may not know know about SFD
[19:12:28] <inetpro> SFD or Software Freedom Day is a worldwide celebration of Free and Open Source Software
[19:12:29] <Kilos> ideas are welcome from all
[19:12:56] <Kilos> tunisia is having an event there afaik
[19:13:02] <inetpro> 2015 Software Freedom Day is approaching and will be celebrated on 19th September (Saturday) this year, let's tell people about it!
[19:13:09] <inetpro> See: http://softwarefreedomday.org/
[19:13:20] <Kilos> craigbrash  what are you guys doing
[19:13:35] <Kilos> im sure cyrilb has some plans as well
[19:14:03] <craigbrash> We had an event 2 years ago ,not sure if anything happening this side
[19:14:16] <inetpro> at #ubuntu-za we have some peeps involved to help arrange the event in Pretoria (more info: http://www.sfd.org.za/)
[19:14:23] <craigbrash> will try find out
[19:14:33] <Kilos> craigbrash  can you ask around and let us know please
[19:15:35] <inetpro> QA: agreed 2015 Software Freedom Day is approaching and will be celebrated on 19th September (Saturday) this year, let's tell people about it!
[19:15:35] <QA> Agreed: 2015 Software Freedom Day is approaching and will be celebrated on 19th September (Saturday) this year, let's tell people about it
[19:15:57] <inetpro> anything else?
[19:16:12] <Kilos> not from me sir
[19:16:26] <craigbrash> Kilos will do
[19:16:44] <inetpro> so we move on to Miscellaneous?
[19:16:55] <pieter2627> yes
[19:16:55] <Kilos> still think we need a greeter bot here, at least till im fully active again
[19:16:57] <inetpro> QA: topic Miscellaneous
[19:16:57] <QA> Current Topic: Miscellaneous
[19:17:29] <inetpro> superfly: I guess you now have a chance to rant some more about the mailing list
[19:17:39] <inetpro> or come up with a better solution :-)
[19:17:51] * elacheche_anis was AFK x(
[19:18:01] <inetpro> elacheche_anis: wb
[19:18:05] <Kilos> hehe
[19:18:38] <elacheche_anis> http://softwarefreedomday.org/map/
[19:18:41] <Kilos> elacheche_anis  you must keep us informed about you SFD event
[19:18:58] <Kilos> inform the list as well please
[19:19:41] <elacheche_anis> Kilos, we organize the SFD almost every year since 2006 (just skipped 1 or 2 years as I know).. We just organize it on October not in September
[19:19:56] <Kilos> ah
[19:20:18] <inetpro> elacheche_anis: SFD Douala Team, that your team?
[19:20:33] <elacheche_anis> We just started the organization of this year.. As soon as there is information that I can share publicly I'll do that :)
[19:20:40] <Kilos> anyway keep the list alive with info, it might help inspire others
[19:21:11] <elacheche_anis> Nope inetpro chekc for Tunisia â†’ Clibre Association
[19:21:29] <elacheche_anis> Ok sir :)
[19:21:34] <Kilos> ty
[19:21:56] <Kilos> ill even smile :D
[19:22:06] <elacheche_anis> http://sfd.tn/
[19:22:39] <elacheche_anis> The website is a little bit buggy, but we're already working on fixing that.. We have some infrastructure issues that we need to solve before :)
[19:22:54] <elacheche_anis> But you can find the history of all our past SFDs :)
[19:23:15] <inetpro> oh great!
[19:23:40] * inetpro only noticed two registered events in Africa on the map
[19:23:58] * pieter2627 too
[19:23:59] <Kilos> oh yeah elacheche_anis hehe
[19:24:02] <elacheche_anis> inetpro, loool.. Tunisia still in Africa not in Europe :p :D
[19:24:06] <superfly> inetpro: just the problem wit the reply-to
[19:24:10] <elacheche_anis> Shame on you guys :p
[19:24:13] <Kilos> you still have the map to sort as well
[19:24:49] <elacheche_anis> Kilos, never forgot about the map.. Am even planning to do the same for my loco and #ubuntu-africa :D
[19:25:01] <Kilos> good man
[19:25:03] <elacheche_anis> Just need to get urgent things done :)
[19:25:05] <Kilos> :D
[19:25:13] <Kilos> we understand
[19:25:39] <inetpro> elacheche_anis: sorry! I missed the flag up north
[19:26:22] <pieter2627> oh, that is so close to euro...
[19:26:34] <elacheche_anis> hahahah :D
[19:26:36] * pieter2627 mistook it
[19:26:44] <Kilos> most northern point of africa
[19:26:44] <inetpro> so http://clibre.tn/ and http://sfd.tn/ is the same team?
[19:28:01] <elacheche_anis> clibre is an association that promotes the Free & Open Culture ( FOSS, OpenData, OpenGov, etc..)
[19:28:12] <inetpro> ah
[19:28:14] <elacheche_anis> Clibre organizes the event..
[19:28:32] <elacheche_anis> The founder of clibre is the spiritual father of Ubuntu Tunisia :) :D
[19:29:09] <elacheche_anis> So many current and previous Ubuntu-tn members are members in Clibre and involved in the SFD..
[19:29:12] * pieter2627 thinks that clibre might stand for Culture libre
[19:29:30] * inetpro should one day make an attempt to learn another forreign language
[19:29:34] <elacheche_anis> Clibre organized WikiArabia too.. They have Wimedians in the association as well..
[19:29:42] <inetpro> problem is their are way too many of them :-)
[19:29:47] <elacheche_anis> pieter2627, you're right :)
[19:29:55] <inetpro> there*
[19:30:08] <elacheche_anis> :D
[19:30:26] <inetpro> ok, time has caught up with us
[19:30:32] <inetpro> time to wrap up
[19:30:44] <inetpro> QA: topic Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:30:44] <QA> Current Topic: Elect chairperson for next meeting
[19:30:51] <Kilos> ty for chairing again inetpro
[19:31:05] * Kilos votes inetpro +1
[19:31:10] <elacheche_anis> I vote for inetpro
[19:31:14] <elacheche_anis> :D
[19:31:17] <craigbrash> +1
[19:31:19] * pieter2627 +1 inetpro 
[19:31:22] <inetpro> yikes!
[19:31:30] <inetpro> thanks for the votes of confidence
[19:31:31] <Kilos> motion carried
[19:31:31] <craigbrash> we loves you
[19:31:33] <Kilos> hehe
[19:31:39] <elacheche_anis> inetpro, I'll help you on that once I finish what I have in mind :D
[19:31:42] <pieter2627> lol
[19:31:52] <inetpro> at least we now have one day a month that we have to talk to each other :-)
[19:31:59] <Kilos> hahaha
[19:32:02] <elacheche_anis> :D
[19:32:19] <inetpro> QA: agreed inetpro to chair the next meeting
[19:32:19] <QA> Agreed: inetpro to chair the next meeting
[19:32:20] * elacheche_anis got to go â†’ I'll install Ubuntu on my sister's new laptop..
[19:32:31] <inetpro> QA: topic Next meeting
[19:32:31] <QA> Current Topic: Next meeting
[19:32:36] <Kilos> nice elacheche_anis
[19:32:49] <inetpro> so for now we stick to 23 September 2015 ?
[19:32:53] <pieter2627> see again elacheche_anis
[19:33:01] <inetpro> until further notice pieter2627?
[19:33:02] <pieter2627> guess so
[19:33:02] <Kilos> yip
[19:33:09] <elacheche_anis> I didn't have malwares @home :D since 2010 :)
[19:33:10] <Kilos> ill be in lockup
[19:33:26] <pieter2627> yes
[19:33:31] <inetpro> QA: agreed next meeting scheduled for 23 September 2015 until further notice
[19:33:31] <QA> Agreed: next meeting scheduled for 23 September 2015 until further notice
[19:33:47] <Kilos> elacheche_anis  mark your calender
[19:33:52] <inetpro> thanks for attending guys!
[19:34:24] <inetpro> and enjoy the rest of the evening
[19:34:30] <Kilos> yes thanks all of you
[19:34:35] <pieter2627> yip thanks all
[19:34:42] - xene online
[19:34:43] <inetpro> at least we can now celebrate the victory against NZ
[19:34:48] <inetpro> QA: end meeting

</pre>
