{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu Africa Teams ==

Ubuntu Africa Teams gathers all active Ubuntu Local Community Teams in Africa. The main objective of Ubuntu Africa Teams is to bring all the teams together to help each other and cooperate on different issues and activities.

=== Getting Involved ===

Please join us on <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#ubuntu-africa|#ubuntu-africa]]</nowiki> at irc.freenode.net

We are currently seeking official contacts and any active members from African LoCo Teams.

If you can get in contact with any active members or if you are a member from the missing teams in the following list please get in touch with us.

=== Meetings ===

First brain storming meeting will be held in the next weeks, as soon as we get the maximum contacts of African LoCo teams.

=== LoCo Teams List ===

"*" : Official LoCo Contact for the team.

Status : Approved, Active, Missing

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 100%" rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> Team
| Status
| Contact
|-
| Ubuntu Moroccan Team
| Approved
| Daker*, Waver*
|-
| Ubuntu Tunisian LoCo Team
| Approved
| <nowiki>[[elacheche]]</nowiki>*, <nowiki>[[Neo31]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu South African team
| Approved
| superfly*, Kilos
|-
| Ubuntu Algerian
| Active
| Oix
|-
| Ubuntu Cameroonian LoCo Team
| Active
| OngolaBoy
|-
| Ubuntu Egypt LoCo
| Active
| TheLinuxer1
|-
| Ubuntu Mauritius
| Active
| Cyrilb, ishwon
|-
| Ubuntu Ethiopia
| Active
| tsega
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bj-ctn|Ubuntu-benin]]</nowiki>
| Approved
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bokothomas|bokothomas]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu Burkina faso
| Missing
| --
|-
| Ubuntu CI
| Missing
| --
|-
| Ubuntu DR Congo Team
| Active
| René Manassé GALEKWA
|-
| Ubuntu Mali
| Active
| Waraba
|-
| Ubuntu Namibia LoCo
| Missing
| --
|-
| Ubuntu Niger LoCo Team
| Missing
| --
|-
| Ubuntu Senegal Team
| Missing
| --
|-
| Ubuntu Uganda Team
| Missing
| --
|-
| Ubuntu Zimbabwe
| Missing
| --
|}

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----

=== All Sub-pages ===

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

Meetings

20150729

Meeting Info
Meetings are held every 4th wednesday of each month at 20:30 SAST (UTC+2) and are pretty informal. Anyone is free to join in and give comments and suggestions, its even encouraged. Please introduce yourself to the bot at the start of the meeting so he can take note of all members present as follows:

QA: I am NAME SURNAME Country

When: 2015-07-29
Where: #ubuntu-africa on Freenode.
Website: http://ubuntu-africa.info/
Meeting link: irc://freenode.net/ubuntu-africa
IRC Introduction: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat
Agenda
Meeting chair: inetpro
Welcoming and Introduction
Review minutes of previous meeting
Plans for 2015
Search for the missing locos and get them involved here
Encourage existing members to be more active and give ideas
Encourage dead LoCo's to rebuild
Get more people to sign the Ubuntu Code of Conduct
Get more people to apply for Ubuntu Membership
Get more people to get launchpad ID's
Get more people to join ubuntu-africa

Events
past month?

To be arranged: Ubuntu Hour, Installfests or other events
Upcoming: Software Freedom Day 2015 

Miscellaneous

Elect chairperson for next meeting
Next meeting:  August 2015
Summary

Minutes
=======  ==

PASTE SUMMARY OF MINUTES HERE AFTER THE MEETING

Present
=======  ==

PASTE LIST OF ATTENDANTS HERE AFTER THE MEETING
Log

PASTE RAW LOGS HERE AFTER THE MEETING 
AfricaTeam/Meetings/20150728 (last edited 2015-06-23 21:48:22 by inetpro)
