{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===
Hi, I'm afujihara. I live in Hyogo, JAPAN.

I'm a ubuntu lover and using jaunty on my desktop and laptops now.

My main contribution up to now was translating ubuntu documents 
into Japanese, reporting bugs of ubuntu development releases,
and distributing Ubuntu official CDs I ordered to my neighbors.

I'm thinking I want to be a MOTU in the future.

To this end, I start triaging bugs first, while reading documents relating MOTU little by little.

Email: 

=== My recent To-Dos ===
1. Read documents to understand how to triage bugs.

2. Attend to hugday events to triage bugs.

3. Translation (Japanese)

I think that the translations of 

Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter(https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter) and 

Full Circle Magazine (http://fullcirclemagazine.org/) 

are interesting tasks. But it is hard for me to do alone 
because it needs a vast amount of texts to translate in every week or month...

However, I recently get started the translation of UWN with the members of UWN Japanese Translators Team (https://launchpad.net/~uwn-jp). The backnumbers are listed in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/JP/Archive . 

We need your help! Join the team and start translation together!

-> https://launchpad.net/~uwn-jp

=== Useful links ===

==== ubuntu general ====
===== English =====
http://www.ubuntu.com

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu

http://ubuntuguide.org

http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/

===== Japanese(日本語) =====
http://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu

==== Packaging ====
Packaging Guide 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Complete

Debian ポリシーマニュアル 
http://www.debian.or.jp/community/devel/debian-policy-ja/policy.ja.html/

Debian 開発者のコーナー 
http://www.debian.or.jp/community/devel/

==== MOTU ====
http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToTriage

==== ubuntu news and blogs ====
===== English =====
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Current

http://fullcirclemagazine.org/

===== Japanese(日本語) =====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Current/JP

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/JP/Archive

http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics

http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe

==== other ====

本格派インド料理店 ディパック・ヒマラヤ 
http://www.rawat.biz/

----
CategoryHomepage
