{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Andrei Gherzan, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Andrei Gherzan
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~agherzan
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/agherzan
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is Andrei Gherzan, and I have been a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team since January 2023.

I hold a master's degree in Software Development and Technology (Advanced Computing) from the IT University of Copenhagen.

I was fortunate to live in the open-source world for over a decade while always being involved in Linux-based projects. During this journey, I played various roles in big (e.g., Windriver)  and small (e.g., Balena) companies, from contributor to software lead and architect.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I started my Linux-based distro "daily driver" journey back in 2006 with Ubuntu Dapper Drake. I have only lingered a few years on it as Fedora, ArchLinux, CentOS, openSUSE, and other derivatives tempted me on the way. I thought my journey had finally become boring while sticking to Arch Linux for around seven years, but 2023 was when I went full circle with Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish. Not only that, but I've done it while also joining the Ubuntu Kernel Team.

I admit it is a mixed bag because I like a Jammy doughnut, but I'm not keen on seeing a Jellyfish swimming next to me [J].

=== My involvement ===

I have been involved in the SRU (StableReleaseUpdates) process of releasing various Ubuntu kernel packages for a while, driving the release of kernels of different types—for example, Snapdragon, KVM, AWS, HWE, etc. These activities included debugging and fixing various regression tests during the release process. While doing so, I contributed upstream fixes to the Linux kernel and other non-kernel packages - for example, LXC, DKMS packages, uvtool, etc. Some of these included being part of their respective SRU process.

=== Sponsoring ===
Here is a list of sponsored packages:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Sponsor
| Count
|-
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| 27
|-
| Stefan Bader
| 9
|-
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| 6
|-
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| 4
|-
| Tim Gardner
| 4
|-
| Dimitri John Ledkov
| 3
|-
| Total
| 53
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Sponsor
| Sponsoree
| Package
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| 2023-02-09 13:22
| Stefan Bader
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 5.19.0-1019.20
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-02-09 13:30
| Stefan Bader
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.19.0.1019.16
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-02-09 13:32
| Stefan Bader
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.19.0-1019.20
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-02-09 15:36
| Stefan Bader
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-snapdragon
| 4.15.0-1146.156
| bionic
|-
| 2023-02-09 15:56
| Stefan Bader
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-snapdragon
| 4.15.0.1146.145
| bionic
|-
| 2023-02-09 16:33
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-hwe-5.4
| 5.4.0-144.161~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2023-02-09 17:38
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-restricted-modules-hwe-5.4
| 5.4.0-144.161~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2023-02-09 17:39
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-hwe-5.4
| 5.4.0.144.161~18.04.115
| bionic
|-
| 2023-02-09 17:40
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-hwe-5.4
| 5.4.0-144.161~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2023-02-13 14:39
| Dimitri John Ledkov
| Andrei Gherzan
| backport-iwlwifi-dkms
| 9904-0ubuntu3.3
| lunar
|-
| 2023-02-27 09:26
| Dimitri John Ledkov
| Andrei Gherzan
| rtl8812au
| 4.3.8.12175.20140902+dfsg-0ubuntu18
| lunar
|-
| 2023-03-03 12:58
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 4.15.0-1137.142
| bionic
|-
| 2023-03-03 14:06
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 4.15.0.1137.128
| bionic
|-
| 2023-03-06 11:15
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 5.19.0-1020.21
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-03-06 12:26
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.19.0.1020.17
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-03-06 12:27
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.19.0-1020.21
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-03-31 11:49
| Stefan Bader
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0.70.77~20.04.31
| focal
|-
| 2023-03-31 11:49
| Stefan Bader
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0-70.77~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-03-31 12:44
| Stefan Bader
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0-70.77~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-03-31 12:53
| Stefan Bader
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-restricted-modules-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0-70.77~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-04-03 15:13
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-hwe-5.4
| 5.4.0-147.164~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2023-04-03 15:46
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-hwe-5.4
| 5.4.0.147.164~18.04.118
| bionic
|-
| 2023-04-03 15:48
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-hwe-5.4
| 5.4.0-147.164~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2023-04-21 13:03
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 5.15.0-1033.38
| jammy
|-
| 2023-04-21 13:41
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.15.0.1033.29
| jammy
|-
| 2023-04-21 13:44
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.15.0-1033.38
| jammy
|-
| 2023-04-25 20:31
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1091.97
| focal
|-
| 2023-04-25 20:52
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1091.85
| focal
|-
| 2023-04-25 20:53
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1091.97
| focal
|-
| 2023-04-26 09:16
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 4.15.0-1140.145
| bionic
|-
| 2023-04-26 09:36
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 4.15.0.1140.131
| bionic
|-
| 2023-05-18 11:46
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1092.98
| focal
|-
| 2023-05-18 13:00
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1092.87
| focal
|-
| 2023-05-18 13:00
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1092.98
| focal
|-
| 2023-05-22 08:41
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 5.15.0-1034.39
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-22 09:04
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.15.0.1034.30
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-22 09:05
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.15.0-1034.39
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-22 09:32
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 5.19.0-1024.25
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-05-22 10:50
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.19.0.1024.21
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-05-22 10:51
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.19.0-1024.25
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-05-23 12:12
| Tim Gardner
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-aws
| 5.19.0-1027.28
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-05-24 13:00
| Tim Gardner
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-restricted-modules-aws
| 5.19.0-1027.28
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-05-24 13:01
| Tim Gardner
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-aws
| 5.19.0.1027.24
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-05-24 13:02
| Tim Gardner
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-aws
| 5.19.0-1027.28
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-05-25 09:22
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 4.15.0-1141.146
| bionic
|-
| 2023-05-25 09:37
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 4.15.0.1141.132
| bionic
|-
| 2023-05-25 11:34
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1093.99
| focal
|-
| 2023-05-25 12:54
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1093.99
| focal
|-
| 2023-05-25 14:54
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.15.0.1035.31
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-25 14:54
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.15.0-1035.40
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-25 15:43
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-kvm
| 5.15.0-1035.40
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-30 08:59
| Dimitri John Ledkov
| Andrei Gherzan
| lxc
| 3.0.3-0ubuntu1~18.04.3
| bionic
|-
| 2023-06-01 09:29
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Andrei Gherzan
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1093.88
| focal
|}

=== Upload Rights ===
I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Kleber Souza ===

==== General feedback ====
I have reviewed some of the kernels cranked by Andrei and found no major issues with them. Andrei is attentive to details, reacts quickly when feedback is given and has a great technical background. He has also been proactive and solved several issues on other packages that gravitate around the kernels. I'm completely confident that Andrei will continue to prepare kernels with care and will look for help when in doubt. Therefore I'm +1 for granting Andrei upload rights for all kernel packages.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have been working closely with Andrei since he joined the Canonical Kernel Team and he has demonstrated to be a quick learner and always takes initiative to solve problems.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Nothing to mention so far.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=+oZ2
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader (smb) ===

==== General Feedback ====

I did some of the reviews for Andrei and do not remember having
any bigger complaint. From other tasks observed (hinting for
ADT or RT or fixing tests) it also looks like those are done with
a good deal of care and keeping an eye on details. And if something
is not clear Andrei is not hesitating to reach out to other people.
All in all I trust Andrei to use his PPU rights carefully and thus
am recommeding to approve his application.

==== Suggestions for Improvement ====

I have not specific suggestion, just my favourite thing of pointing
out that preparing an upload, always look at the new changelog and
think about how much sense this would make to oneself as a user.
This is particularly for the main kernel package but also any other
package where the users will have an option to look at the changes
contained in the *_source.changes file. And we all hate to see
"fixes and improvements" in there.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=oI2u
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Luke Nowakowski-Krijger ===

==== General feedback ====

I have reviewed a lot of Andrei's kernels and they are always prepared with care and consideration. Whenever there have been times where something needed to be fixed he always fixed them in a timely manner and in my experience didn't repeat the same mistakes twice. Like others have mentioned Andrei is a very detailed oriented, careful person and has always reached out when in need of any help. I am confident that he will prepare packages with care and fully trust him with upload rights and my +1. 

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have worked a good amount with Andrei and know and appreciate his work ethic and willingness to bring (and fix!) problems. I have a handful of specific experiences working to solve some packaging problems and things like the changelog not looking quite right somewhere, and he always is quick to figure out and fix anything that has comeup.. something we all need to do quite often ;) 

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Honestly not much. 

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----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=CC1g
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together and cases that could have been handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
