{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

DRAFT

== UbuntUniv. ==

* '''Launchpad Entry''': TBD
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': 
* '''See also''': N/A

=== Ideas/Suggestions that guide the way ===
* Offer courses that resemble major certification(or even degree) programs, so graduates can take exams directly.
* Courses should vary to all audience levels.
* Courses may include outsources, students go take, finish assignments then come back to continue.
* Find some way to offer official, accredited certification for courses/programs bu some famous univs/open-source orgs.
* Dynamic curriculum: is to set a curriculum for each student according to his/her needs.
** Define suitable curriculum building on each case through one, unified exam.
* Use Startpoint/Endpoint as a studying method.
** Start point is which track a student should start with.
** Endpoint is what is the target set of skills a student wants to eventually gain.

=== Time Table ===
  : Start drafting.
  : Call for base team.
  : Think of target curriculums/endpoints.
  : Start building site.

=== Summary ===
 An Online, open, Free content organization that teach people open source technologies to be able to contribute. Academy members make new curriculumss, each has tarcks to achieve objectives, to be taught by different poeple for each curriculum track.

=== Rationale ===
 Open Source always needs fresh blood. Many people look forward to contribute but they lack knowledge.
 
=== Use Cases ===

** Self-Learners who seek more knowledge but they can't find guidence to what to learn first(track/curriculum).

=== Scope ===

This specification covers feature specifications for Ubuntu and Launchpad. It is not meant as a more general specification format.

=== Design ===
1. Instuctors Team: Dynamic and Virtual presence as one person can present one track and go forever.
2. Academic Coordination Team: Find New Curriculums and Define Objectives and Tracks for Curriculums.
3. Organization Team: Organize Educational Events.
4. Web Presence Team: Take care of academy website and make use of social networking.
5. Council: Make decisions, Keep the hub.

=== Implementation Plan ===
===== Beta =====
1. Find Creators Team.
2. Make session to identify each team to public, assign creation leaders to each design peice and announce the start date of creation.
3. Announce Initial Curriculums.
4. Call for instructors.

===== Alpha =====
1. 
2.
3.

=== Outstanding Issues ===
1. No enough instructors.
2. creation team incommitment/not-enough-dedication.
3. 

----
CategoryAcademy
