{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This draft is dedicated to collect points that should be included in the new team policy project. Please don't modify unless you're an Ubuntu-EG member '''''and''''' after taking other team members opinion by communication on the team's mailing list.

Pad for team policy project:

* Comunication Guidlines:

* Communication of Ubuntu-EG inside itself and/or outside, is governed by the naturality of where, why and with who factors as explained in the following:

** Communication from inside the Team to inside the team (In<>In):
** A: ''Why?'' :(That is the purpose of communication)
*** Support Request:
*** In Topic?: Mailing list, Forums and IRC.
*** Off Topic?: Forums and IRC.
*** Event Organizing:(Please follow the Event organizing guidlines below)
*** Please start a new thread at the LoCo's Mailing List.
*** You can hold an IRC meeting.
*** Please do not use forums to organize meetings/events until there's no to use any other means of the listed above.

** B: ''Where?'' :(That's where you're communicating)
*** On ''Mailing List?'': Please follow, CoC/LCoC, Mailing Lists Etiquette and Virtual Communication Etiquette.
*** on ''IRC?'': Please follow, CoC/LCoC, IRC Guidlines and Virtual Communication Etiquette.
*** On ''Forums?'': Please Follow, CoC/LCoC, Mailing list Etiquette and Virtual Communication Etiquette.
*** ''Face-to-Face?'': Please Follow, CoC/LCoC and Cross-Social Communication Etiquette.

** Communication from inside the Team to outside the team (In<>Out):

* Team Jobs Description:
** Marketing:
** Social Media (fb, twitter, identica, ...)
** Support:
** IRC, mailing list, face-to-face
** Job#3
** Job#4
** Job#5
** Job#6

* Event Organization procedures:
** What
** How
** Who
** Where
** When

* Meeting/Gathering steps:
** Decide the What, How, Who, Where and When
** Make sure to be prepared with Agenda/List of things to dic/List of things to dicuss.
** Collect Objectives.
** Assign Objectives to willing persons.
** Create a status page and let ppl give their feedback in it.

* Activity Guidlines:
** CoC
** LCoC
** Role of Catalyst
** Medium-specific manners:
** Mailing list: CoC + LCoC + Mailing-lists Etiquette
** IRC: CoC + LCoC + IRC(Virtual Communication) Etiquette

** Outside communications guidlines:
** Partenership:
** With other team(s)
** With NGOs
** With Companies/incorporates.

* Event Stable frequency plan:
** Stable date-range per event(ie, release party, install feast, .....)
** Stable date-range per location(ex. Cairo Univ, Shorouk Academy, .....)
<<BR>>
