{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About me ==
My name is Ahmed Abdalla, and it looks originally like this "أحمد عبد الله". I'm a computer passionate, lover, addict, name it, from Egypt "and as AhmedKamal mentioned, No, I don't go to work on a camel :P". My first computer was a Sakhr MSX AX170 and I learned Basic on that wonderful machine "ofc I never really understood the use of such a thing :)" and I believe that machine ignited my computer addiction.

I've found my sought after prophecy in open source software, it's my way of contribution to this world. I'm a linux passionate, and no, I don't have a Mac :P. 

Ok, back to the technical boring talk :P, So here's a little bit about me technically.
* I'm a developer who loves to flirt with systems, and I love developing on Linux.
* I've been a Linux user for quite some time now and I've tried quite a handful of distros.
* Mainly I develop my applications using Python, Java, C or C++ .
* I love coding, whether it's hacking some low level code or designing some high level distributed system solution.
* Over the past couple of years I've been involved in the cloud computing "yes, the famous shiny word" industry. I participated in the development of Nephos, a cloud computing platform by Q-Layer for building public and private cloud.
* I love agile development, and SCRUM has been my methodology for some time now.
* I'm a strong open source believer, I participate in local events and seminars to increase the technology awareness and promote the open source culture.
* If you wanna know more about me, why don't you just ask me for my resume :P
* And Yes, I don't do any windows development.

== Contributions ==
=== Firekit ===
Firekit provides a programmatic way to control the Linux kernel's firewall and allows applications "desktop ones specially" to request some modifications to the current firewall policy and rules.

Homepage: <nowiki>[[https://fedorahosted.org/firekit/|FireKit]]</nowiki>
=== CPPThreads ===
C++ threading/thread management/locking library which provides an API to easily write multithreading applications in a flexible and clean way, it models the very efficient Java threading model.

Homepage: <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/cppthreads/|CPPThreads]]</nowiki>
== Contact Me ==
* Email is abd4lla(at)ahmedabdalla.net
* On IRC my nickname is Abd4llA on FreeNode
* Blog: http://www.abd4lla.com
