{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
Hi all,

This is a (very) brief introduction as to who I am and what I hope to achieve by joining the Ubuntu GNOME project (specifically the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntugnome-qa|QA subteam]]</nowiki>).

I am a 19 year old student currently studying <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_engineering|Software Engineering]]</nowiki> in the <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom|United Kingdom]]</nowiki>.

=== Goals ===
==== Test Ubuntu GNOME ====
* I want to learn more about testing both manual and automated testing.
* I want to break things!
* I want to figure out what's broken and '''why'''.
==== Learn more about the development of Ubuntu GNOME ====
As a student studying software engineering I have aspirations to one day be a developer myself. Even though I do not have much experience I feel as if there's a lot I can learn from the development of Ubuntu GNOME.

In regards to development I would like to do the following:

* Learn about the various different components that make up Ubuntu GNOME - What component does what, what programming language(s) are used, etc.
* Learn the steps necessary to build these components from source - How can I get the source code? How do I set up the build environment? How do I compile the source code? etc...
* ...
* Contribute to development?

=== Links ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aidanharris|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.aidanharris.io|My Website]]</nowiki> - There's nothing much here right now but when I stop <nowiki>[[https://www.aidanharris.io/learning-by-doing-or-how-i-need-to-stop-procrastinating/|procrastinating]]</nowiki> I'll probably write some more things.
* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/aidanharris|GitHub]]</nowiki> - There's not a lot here right now, but I've contributed to some Open Source projects in the past and plan on developing some more in the future.
