{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 03 Jan at 03:59 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-01-03-03.59.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-touch-ota-21-arrives-on-january-5th-2022-with-redesigned-greeter-more-fixes   (MajB, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://thishosting.rocks/ubuntu-22-04-release-date-whats-new/   (MajB, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/basic-useful-firewall-cmd-commands-in-linux/   (MajB, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/how-to-determine-the-file-system-type-in-linux-ext2-ext3-or-ext4/   (MajB, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/install-and-secure-ssh-server-in-linux/   (MajB, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/12/enlightenment-0-25/   (MajB, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/biggest-linux-stories-2021/   (MajB, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/web/d/phoenix-junior-full-stack-developer/7393947065.html   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/ups-hat-for-raspberry-pi-offers-real-time-monitoring/   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cactuscon.com/   (MajB, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/19X   (MajB, 04:16)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (50)
* MajB (49)
* meetingology (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started at 03:59:39 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> meetoo +1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 99604.99

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:03 <MajB> Ubuntu Touch OTA-21 Arrives on January 5th, 2022, with Redesigned Greeter, More Fixes

 04:03 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-touch-ota-21-arrives-on-january-5th-2022-with-redesigned-greeter-more-fixes

 04:03 <MajB> Ubuntu 22.04 – Release Date, What’s New, and More

 04:03 <MajB> https://thishosting.rocks/ubuntu-22-04-release-date-whats-new/

 04:03 <MajB> Linux firewall-cmd Commands: 15 Useful Ones

 04:03 <MajB> https://www.linuxteck.com/basic-useful-firewall-cmd-commands-in-linux/

 04:04 <MajB> How to Determine the File System Type in Linux (Ext2, Ext3, or Ext4)?

 04:04 <MajB> https://trendoceans.com/how-to-determine-the-file-system-type-in-linux-ext2-ext3-or-ext4/

 04:04 <MajB> Install and Secure an SSH Server in Linux: 10 steps

 04:04 <MajB> https://www.linuxteck.com/install-and-secure-ssh-server-in-linux/

 04:05 <MajB> Enlightenment 0.25 Release Brings Flat Looks + More

 04:05 <MajB> https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/12/enlightenment-0-25/

 04:05 <MajB> 12 Biggest Linux Stories of the Year 2021

 04:05 <MajB> https://news.itsfoss.com/biggest-linux-stories-2021/

 04:05 <toddc> Great job MajB Thank You

 04:05 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:05 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <markthomas> +1

 04:06 <toddc> hi markthomas

 04:06 <MajB> No cancels

 04:06 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:06 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:06 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:06 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:06 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <MajB> Hi markthomas

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <toddc> % cat "food in cans"

 04:07 <toddc> cat: can't open food in cans

 04:07 <toddc> % got a light?

 04:08 <toddc> No match.

 04:08 <toddc> Ive been using Vim for about 2 years now,

 04:08 <toddc> mostly because I can???t figure out how to exit it.

 04:08 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:09 <toddc> Junior Full Stack Developer (Phoenix AZ)

 04:09 <toddc> https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/web/d/phoenix-junior-full-stack-developer/7393947065.html

 04:09 <toddc> Canonical has 144 open positions

 04:09 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:09 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:09 <toddc> UPS HAT For Raspberry Pi offers real-time monitoring

 04:09 <toddc> https://linuxgizmos.com/ups-hat-for-raspberry-pi-offers-real-time-monitoring/

 04:10 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:10 <toddc> Training info

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:10 <MajB> 06 January, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 13 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour - 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. Take an hour out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 13 January, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour – https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000, Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 15 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal proje

 04:11 <MajB> cts, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 15 January, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:12 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 16 January, AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az,  2100-2130.

 04:12 <MajB> 27 January, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:13 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:13 <toddc> we need some???   0????

 04:13 <toddc> LuftHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:14 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:14 <MajB> Most events are being held on line.

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:14 <MajB> 13 January PLUG Meeting

 04:14 <MajB> 18 January Security Meeting

 04:14 <MajB> 20 January Stammtisch

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:14 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month, 1800-1930, Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 22 January, 1300-1500,  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:15 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:15 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:15 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:15 <MajB> CactusCon 4-5 February

 04:15 <MajB> Mesa Convention Center, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:16 <MajB> SCALE 19X 3-6 March

 04:16 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center, CA

 04:16 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/19X

 04:16 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
