{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 17 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-01-17-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/1/python-roundup   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techradar.com/news/it-might-be-time-to-consider-running-ubuntu-on-your-smartphone   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/new-privacy-protection-for-firefox-focus-on-android/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tomshardware.com/news/raspberry-pi-powered-fish-tank-driven-by-fish   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-cisco-webex/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.itsfoss.net/the-best-games-of-2021/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/internet-culture/why-are-hyperlinks-blue-revisited/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/most-simple-linux-commands-with-10-examples   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/programming-languages/rust-programming-language-security-efficiency-driving-growth   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/best-free-hard-disk-imaging-software/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/how-to-install-qprompt-as-an-alternative-to-teleprompter/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/create-containers-podman-quickly   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/container-information-podman   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/1/run-containers-without-sudo-podman   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/snowflake-data-warehouse/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/basic-echo-command-in-linux-with-examples/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/legacy-linux-commands-alternatives/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2022/01/kde-connect-guide/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/linux-hard-disk-encryption-using-luks/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-use-wireshark-for-capturing-and-analysing-packets/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/troubleshoot-network-dhcp-configuration   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/df-command-in-linux-with-examples/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxwizardry.com/how-to-make-iptables-persistent-after-reboot-on-ubuntu-and-centos-system/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxbuzz.com/create-xfs-file-system-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/11/open-source-12-factor-app-methodology   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/mysql-database-commands-cheat-sheet-for-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/download-linux-distributions-from-a-terminal-using-the-osget-utility/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cactuscon.com/   (MajB, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/19X   (MajB, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (63)
* stephenm (61)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc1 (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:15 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc1> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki pagxe is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <markthomas> +1

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> sorry for the month of not being here, but I have news now.

 04:02 <stephenm> 8 surprising things I learned about Python in 2021

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/1/python-roundup

 04:03 <stephenm> same old stuff, nothing news, but then again I hardly program.

 04:03 <stephenm> It might be time to consider running Ubuntu on your smartphone

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.techradar.com/news/it-might-be-time-to-consider-running-ubuntu-on-your-smartphone

 04:03 <stephenm> Anyone thought about this, kinda steep prices.

 04:03 <stephenm> New Year, New Privacy Protection for Firefox Focus on Android

 04:03 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/new-privacy-protection-for-firefox-focus-on-android/

 04:03 <stephenm> Fish Discover How To Drive Raspberry Pi Powered Tank

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.tomshardware.com/news/raspberry-pi-powered-fish-tank-driven-by-fish

 04:04 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Cisco Webex

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-cisco-webex/

 04:04 <stephenm> The Best Linux Games of 2021

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.itsfoss.net/the-best-games-of-2021/

 04:04 <stephenm> Revisiting why hyperlinks are blue

 04:04 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/internet-culture/why-are-hyperlinks-blue-revisited/

 04:04 <stephenm> This was kinda interesting, thought red would had been better

 04:04 <stephenm> Most Simple Linux Commands With 10 Examples

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/most-simple-linux-commands-with-10-examples

 04:04 <stephenm> Rust Programming Language: Security, Efficiency Driving Growth

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/programming-languages/rust-programming-language-security-efficiency-driving-growth

 04:05 <stephenm> 3 Best Free Hard Disk Imaging Software

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/best-free-hard-disk-imaging-software/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to install QPrompt as an alternative to Teleprompter

 04:05 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/how-to-install-qprompt-as-an-alternative-to-teleprompter/

 04:05 <stephenm> Create fast, easy, and repeatable containers with Podman and shell scripts

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/create-containers-podman-quickly

 04:05 <stephenm> How to use Podman to get information about your containers

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/container-information-podman

 04:05 <stephenm> Run containers on Linux without sudo in Podman

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/1/run-containers-without-sudo-podman

 04:05 <stephenm> An Introduction To Snowflake Data Warehouse

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/snowflake-data-warehouse/

 04:06 <stephenm> An Overview of the echo Command in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxteck.com/basic-echo-command-in-linux-with-examples/

 04:06 <stephenm> Modern Alternatives to Some of the Classic Linux Commands

 04:06 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/legacy-linux-commands-alternatives/

 04:06 <stephenm> What is KDE Connect? How Do You Use It? [Beginner’s Guide]

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2022/01/kde-connect-guide/

 04:06 <stephenm> LUKS: Linux Hard Disk Data Encryption with NTFS Support in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/linux-hard-disk-encryption-using-luks/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to use Wireshark for capturing and analyzing network packets

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-use-wireshark-for-capturing-and-analysing-packets/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to troubleshoot DHCP communication problems on your network

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/troubleshoot-network-dhcp-configuration

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Check Disk Space in Linux Using the df Command

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxteck.com/df-command-in-linux-with-examples/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Make iptables Rules Persistent after Reboot on Ubuntu and CentOS System

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxwizardry.com/how-to-make-iptables-persistent-after-reboot-on-ubuntu-and-centos-system/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Create XFS File System in Linux (Step by Step)

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxbuzz.com/create-xfs-file-system-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> An open source developer's guide to 12-Factor App methodology

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/11/open-source-12-factor-app-methodology

 04:07 <stephenm> MySQL Database Commands Cheat Sheet for Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/mysql-database-commands-cheat-sheet-for-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> Download Linux Distributions from a Terminal Using the OSGET Utility

 04:07 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/download-linux-distributions-from-a-terminal-using-the-osget-utility/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 150 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 97 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 13 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:11 <MajB> 27 January, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 03 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 05 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:11 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 06 February, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 

 04:12 <MajB> 10 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 10 February, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 19 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:12 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 20 February,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 24 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  LuftHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:14 <MajB> 18 January Free Software Stammtisch

 04:14 <MajB> 20 January Linux Security

 04:14 <MajB> 10 February PLUG East Meeting

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:14 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 09 February 1800-1930 at the Sunland Village East computer lab.

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 22 January 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:15 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:15 <MajB> CactusCon 4-5 February

 04:15 <MajB> Mesa Convention Center, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:15 <MajB> SCALE 19X 3-6 March

 04:15 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center, CA

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/19X

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:16 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
