{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 16 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-01-16-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/esp32-compact-board-integrates-walkie-talkie-module/   (stephenm85, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/open-source-caching-tools-for-linux/   (stephenm85, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/microsoft-planner-alternatives/   (stephenm85, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2023/01/system76-previews-new-beefed-up-pangolin-due-in-february/   (stephenm85, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-android-apps-koreader-document-viewer/   (stephenm85, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/github-machine-learning-for-free/   (stephenm85, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/01/12/endless_os_5/   (stephenm85, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-textedit/   (stephenm85, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2023/01/its-time-to-vote-in-the-best-linux-distro-polls-final-round/   (stephenm85, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/linux-mint-lmde-5-the-best-linux-desktop-out-there/   (stephenm85, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/vipw-and-vigr-commands/   (stephenm85, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/change-history-file-location-in-linux/   (stephenm85, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/install-ubuntu-windows-virtualbox/   (stephenm85, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/essential-linux-desktop-applications/   (stephenm85, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/share-folder-between-host-guest-virtualbox/   (stephenm85, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/23/1/open-source-sustainability   (stephenm85, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/convert-hexadecimal-to-decimal-in-linux/   (stephenm85, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/23/1/java-loops   (stephenm85, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/23/1/learn-ada-simple-game   (stephenm85, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/23/1/open-source-contributors   (stephenm85, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/23/1/hpc-containers-scale-using-podman   (stephenm85, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://fasterland.net/converseen-0-9-10-0-with-improved-webp-support.html   (stephenm85, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcareers.com/resources/blog/2022/12/how-to-transition-from-linux-admin-to-linux-devops-role/   (stephenm85, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/cpu-x/   (stephenm85, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-wordpress-with-docker-compose/   (stephenm85, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/inode-linux/   (stephenm85, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/oh-my-zsh-powerlevel10k/   (stephenm85, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/ubuntu-install-deb/   (stephenm85, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm85 (64)
* MajB (53)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:09 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <stephenm85> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at  if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeamhttps://bbb.azloco.net/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm85> Alright I've got mixed news this week cause I'm off my game

 04:02 <stephenm85> ESP32 compact board integrates Walkie-Talkie module

 04:02 <stephenm85> https://linuxgizmos.com/esp32-compact-board-integrates-walkie-talkie-module/

 04:02 <stephenm85> 10 Top Open-Source Caching Tools for Linux in 2023

 04:02 <stephenm85> https://www.tecmint.com/open-source-caching-tools-for-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm85> Free and Open-Source Alternatives to Microsoft Planner

 04:03 <stephenm85> https://itsfoss.com/microsoft-planner-alternatives/

 04:03 <stephenm85> System76 Previews New Beefed-up Pangolin Due in February

 04:03 <stephenm85> https://fossforce.com/2023/01/system76-previews-new-beefed-up-pangolin-due-in-february/

 04:03 <stephenm85> Best Free Android Apps: KOReader Document Viewer

 04:03 <stephenm85> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-android-apps-koreader-document-viewer/

 04:03 <stephenm85> 5 GitHub Repositories to Learn Machine Learning for Free

 04:03 <stephenm85> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/github-machine-learning-for-free/

 04:03 <stephenm85> Version 5 of the Endless OS enters testing

 04:03 <stephenm85> https://www.theregister.com/2023/01/12/endless_os_5/

 04:03 <stephenm85> Looks like an OK OS but I'm not to keen on the read-only root

 04:04 <stephenm85> but it's suppose to be really basic gateway for new Nix users

 04:04 <stephenm85> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple TextEdit

 04:04 <stephenm85> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-textedit/

 04:04 <stephenm85> It’s Time to Vote in the Best Linux Distro Poll’s Final Round

 04:04 <stephenm85> https://fossforce.com/2023/01/its-time-to-vote-in-the-best-linux-distro-polls-final-round/

 04:04 <stephenm85> Mint’s LMDE 5: POC or the Best Linux Desktop Out There?

 04:04 <stephenm85> https://linuxiac.com/linux-mint-lmde-5-the-best-linux-desktop-out-there/

 04:05 <stephenm85> Beginners Guide for vipw and vigr Commands in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm85> https://linuxtldr.com/vipw-and-vigr-commands/

 04:05 <stephenm85> How to Change History File Location in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm85> https://linuxtldr.com/change-history-file-location-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm85> Install Ubuntu on Windows Using VirtualBox [Complete Guide]

 04:05 <stephenm85> https://www.debugpoint.com/install-ubuntu-windows-virtualbox/

 04:05 <stephenm85> Essential Applications on Fresh Linux Desktop Installation

 04:05 <stephenm85> https://www.tecmint.com/essential-linux-desktop-applications/

 04:05 <stephenm85> How to Share Folder Between Host, Guest Systems in VirtualBox

 04:05 <stephenm85> https://www.debugpoint.com/share-folder-between-host-guest-virtualbox/

 04:05 <stephenm85> 7 interesting metrics about open source in sustainability

 04:05 <stephenm85> https://opensource.com/article/23/1/open-source-sustainability

 04:06 <stephenm85> How to Convert Hexadecimal to Decimal Numbers in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm85> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/convert-hexadecimal-to-decimal-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm85> A 4-minute guide to Java loops

 04:06 <stephenm85> https://opensource.com/article/23/1/java-loops

 04:06 <stephenm85> Learn the Ada programming language by writing a simple game

 04:06 <stephenm85> https://opensource.com/article/23/1/learn-ada-simple-game

 04:06 <stephenm85> It was an OK program, but I don't see how one could learn very much from it

 04:06 <stephenm85> Might be because I know a few languages I don't see the benefit

 04:07 <stephenm85> Fork our open source onboarding program

 04:07 <stephenm85> https://opensource.com/article/23/1/open-source-contributors

 04:07 <stephenm85> HPC containers at scale using Podman

 04:07 <stephenm85> https://opensource.com/article/23/1/hpc-containers-scale-using-podman

 04:07 <stephenm85> Converseen 0.9.10.0 with Improved WebP Support

 04:07 <stephenm85> https://fasterland.net/converseen-0-9-10-0-with-improved-webp-support.html

 04:07 <stephenm85> How to Transition From Linux Admin to Linux DevOps Role

 04:07 <stephenm85> https://www.linuxcareers.com/resources/blog/2022/12/how-to-transition-from-linux-admin-to-linux-devops-role/

 04:07 <stephenm85> CPU-X: Find Your Linux Hardware Information in Pinch

 04:07 <stephenm85> https://trendoceans.com/cpu-x/

 04:08 <stephenm85> How to Install WordPress with Docker Compose

 04:08 <stephenm85> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-wordpress-with-docker-compose/

 04:08 <stephenm85> What is inode in Linux?

 04:08 <stephenm85> https://linuxtldr.com/inode-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm85> oh my zsh and powerlevel10k: A Match Made in Heaven

 04:08 <stephenm85> https://www.debugpoint.com/oh-my-zsh-powerlevel10k/

 04:08 <stephenm85> Ubuntu: How to Install .deb Files

 04:08 <stephenm85> https://linuxstans.com/ubuntu-install-deb/

 04:08 <stephenm85> Ok so that's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephenm85

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <stephenm85> welcome

 04:09 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:10 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 200 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 86 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are 23 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:11 <MajB> 21 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:11 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 2 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 04 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:12 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 05 February, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 09 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 09 February, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 18 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:12 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 19 February, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:13 <MajB> 23 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:14 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 17 January, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 09 February, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:14 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly meeting 08 February 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 24 January 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month), Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
