{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi! I'm Akkana Peck, freelance programmer, writer and geek.
I've been using Ubuntu as my primary platform since 2005 (Hoary Hedgehog).

=== Contact information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Akkana Peck
|-
| '''Email'''
| akkana at shallowsky.com
|-
| '''IRC'''
| akk
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~akkzilla/
|-
| '''Blog'''
| http://shallowsky.com/blog/
|}

=== Activities (not all directly related to Ubuntu) ===
* Contributor to Mozilla/Firefox and GIMP, as well as several smaller projects.
* Frequent speaker at conferences and LUGs on Linux, GIMP, and programming topics.
* Conducted a GIMP IRC class for Karmic Open Week; spoke at UbuCon Mountain View, lightning talk at SCALE UbuCon.
* Active in Ubuntu-Women, mostly on the IRC channel (I'm also a coordinator of LinuxChix).
* Member of California LoCo, on the IRC channel and at Silicon Valley meetups.
* Bimonthly articles on http://linuxplanet.com on Linux-related issues, often with Ubuntu-specific suggestions.
* Frequent Linux-related tips on my blog, http://shallowsky.com/blog/
* Filed lots of bugs with diagnostic information, sometimes with patches.
* Author of "Beginning GIMP" (http://gimpbook.com).

=== Future Goals ===
I'd like to see a lightweight version of Ubuntu, something that runs well on low-powered machines and conserves battery power on laptops. I spend a lot of time optimizing my own Ubuntu machines toward that goal, and writing about what I've learned. I'd love to meet up with people or projects working on optimization.

=== Testimonials ===
(None yet, anyone feel free to jump in. :-) )
----
CategoryHomepage
