{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Good If/For: ==
* You enjoy free software (legimately free from the get-go)
* You're sick of Viruses and Malware
* You're sick of computer bugs and issues that never get fixed
* You run Windows
* Slow or Older Computers

== Switching ==
* Got music? Ubuntu plays it!
* Got an iPod? Ubuntu can manage it!
* Do you use Firefox? So does Ubuntu!
* Got videos? Ubuntu supports a wide range of formats!
* Anti-virus/malware? Ubuntu is nearly virus-proof!
* Do you instant message? Pidgin supports many popular chat services, such as AIM, MSN, Yahoo, Jabber, XMPP, Google Talk, and others.
* Have a piece of hardware that doesn't work in Windows Vista? It probably does in Ubuntu! Run a LiveCD to check.
* Still need to collaborate with Microsoft Office users? OpenOffice supports Microsoft formats!
 
== Reasons Why ==
There are so many great reasons to make the switch! 

=== Reliable ===
* Safe & Secure - Ubuntu is based on the robust Linux kernel, and is inherently less susceptible to security threats such as viruses, malware, and intruders
* Stable - Since Ubuntu is open source, security holes and vulnerabilities are identified and repaired much faster

=== Free and Open Source: ===
* 100% Free of cost
* Safe, Secure, and Stable
* Reliable and user-friendly
* Compatibility and interoperability
* Customizable and flexible
* Lots of free community support and online documentation
* Evolves to adapt to the world
* No "security by obscurity"
* No perpetual upgrades and backwards incompatibility
* No mushrooming or bloat
* Innovative!
* More freedom!

=== Environmentally Friendly ===
* Lower hardware requirements means less frequent need for hardware upgrades
* Upgrades don't always force you to upgrade or get a new computer
* Most of the energy used in the life of a computer is before you even use it (manufacturing, shipping, etc.)
* You can expect a Linux machine to stay current at least twice as long as a Windows machine
* More efficient

== Not Sure? ==
* Try Ubuntu out before installing it onto your hard disk using a <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download|LiveCD]]</nowiki>
* Don't worry about it! 
* Come talk to us and ask us for more
* You can look around online for more information

== Concerns? ==
* Hardware support: most hardware is supported and isn't an issue at all for most users!
* Software: Ubuntu comes with almost everything you need: internet browser, IM client, media player, email client, and office software. In addition, Ubuntu comes with a regularly-updated repository of available and supported software packages, containing thousands of software packages. If the software you use currently doesn't run on Linux, you can be sure there's an <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoftwareEquivalents|Ubuntu-compatible alternative]]</nowiki> that does! 

=== Things worth checking out ===
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source_versus_closed_source
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_vs._Linux
* http://www.treehugger.com/files/2007/02/nows_your_chanc.php
* http://badvista.fsf.org/what-s-wrong-with-microsoft-windows-vista
* http://www.ubuntu.com/
