{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Past Events ===

==== Alabama LugFest ====
 The Alabama Lugfest was held at UAB Sept. 22. This was a one day event. The event was a great success. We had some really great and informative presentations and good mix of people. There were people representing just about every distro available. I will post a link to the pics as soon as they are posted.

==== School Computers ====
 We were able to give some monitors and misc. items to one of the local school on June 5.

==== Birmingham Tech Mixer ====
 The Birmingham Tech Mixer was a great success. We were able to give out about 75 CD, Flyers, and Business cards. There was a great turnout and the interest in Linux/Ubuntu was very apparent. We were able to make alot of people understand  that there is and alternate OS available and it is easy to set up and maintain.
 We even did an install on a laptop someone brought which was great for showing off how easy an install can be.
 There are a few pictures that I took. I spent more time talking with people than taking pics. I will be prepared next time and just ask someone to take pis all night!
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Pictures'''  <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/jason_sandlin/sets/72157600194863483/|TechMixer]]</nowiki>
|}

==== School Computers ====
  I was also able to present two refurbished computers to a local School here in Birmingham on Friday May 12. This is a great project with many rewards. The greatest of which is the simple fact that we have helped a local School with needed hardware and introduced them to Linux.
 I am currently working on some type of presentation for to show another School for that shows the benefits of Edubuntu server/client set up. This is really a good way reuse old hardware, help school, and the Children.
 I will keep everyone posted!
