{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

You can find information on regional events involving Ubuntu below.

== Upcoming ==

* ''' <nowiki>[[http://www.southeastlinuxfest.com/wiki/index.php/Main_Page|Southeast Linux Fest]]</nowiki> - Saturday, June 13, 2009 - The Southeast LinuxFest is a community event for anyone who wants to learn more about Linux and Free & Open Source software. It is part educational conference, and part social gathering. Like Linux itself, it is shared with attendees of all skill levels to communicate tips, ideas, and to benefit all who use Linux/Free Open Source Software. LinuxFest is the place to learn, to make new friends, to network with new business partners, and most importantly, to have fun! See http://www.southeastlinuxfest.com/wiki/index.php/Main_Page for further details.

If you know of an upcoming event that remains unlisted, feel free to send an email to <nowiki>[[mailto:info@alabamubuntu.org|info@alabamaubuntu.org]]</nowiki> with event details to have it listed (Or add it to the wiki yourself, please format it accordingly).

== Past ==

=== 2008 ===

* ''' <nowiki>[[http://atlantalinuxfest.org/|Atlanta Linux Fest]]</nowiki>''' - Saturday, September 20, 2008, 11 - 6pm. The Atlanta Linux Fest is the place to come and learn, discuss, and discover your next favorite system! ALF attendence is FREE, unless you want to spend $5 for pizza to be ordered by the event. The Atlanta Linux Fest is being organized by our neighboring Georgia LoCo and hosted at the IBM Hillside Conference Center in Atlanta, GA. See http://atlantalinuxfest.org/ for more details.

* <nowiki>[[http://urltea.com/1w61|TechMixer]]</nowiki> - February - 2008 - <nowiki>[[http://urltea.com/1xub|Cahaba Grand Conference Center]]</nowiki> Birmingham, AL

=== 2007 ===

* <nowiki>[[http://urltea.com/1w61|TechMixer]]</nowiki> - Tuesday November 6, 2007 6:00pm - 8:00pm - <nowiki>[[http://urltea.com/1xmb|Innovation Depot]]</nowiki> Birmingham, AL 

== InstallFests ==
We hold an Ubuntu InstallFest to encourage users to bring computers or themselves to have Ubuntu installed and to learn more about Ubuntu in general and how to use it.

== Release Parties ==
Once a new version of Ubuntu is released, there will be plenty to celebrate, whether you were directly involved the release process or just rejoice because the next iteration of the best Linux distribution is finally out. We hold a release party for each new release.

== Events Calendar Feeds ==
