{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Need help? There are many <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support|Support Resources]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu including <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/|Official]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/|Community]]</nowiki> Documentation, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/|Forums]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC|IRC]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat#Channels|Channels]]</nowiki>, and more... all available online. 

== Why Free & Open Source? ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html|The Free Software Definition]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open_source_software|Wikipedia on Free and open source software]]</nowiki>

== Why Ubuntu? ==
There are so many great reasons to switch to Ubuntu. It's stable, safe, and open source! For more go to <nowiki>[[WhyUbuntu|Why Ubuntu?]]</nowiki>

== Get Ubuntu ==
If you feel capable of installing Ubuntu yourself, you may go to <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> to download it yourself or see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Community|Documentation]]</nowiki> for more guidance. 

If you would like to have one of us help you install Ubuntu on your computer, come to our next <nowiki>[[InstallFest|InstallFest]]</nowiki> or email <nowiki>[[mailto:info@alabamaubuntu.org|info@alabamaubuntu.org]]</nowiki>

=== Where to Buy ===
==== Online ====
If you are purchasing a new computer, these places offer Ubuntu pre-installed:
* ZaReason - http://www.zareason.com/
* R Cubed - http://www.shoprcubed.com/
* System76 - http://www.system76.com/
* Dell - http://snurl.com/3ptnw - [Link goes to www.Dell.com Ubuntu section)

==== Locally ====

== Videos ==
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuclips.org/|Ubuntu Clips]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Screencasts]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntupodcast.net/|Ubuntu Podcast by Georgia LoCo]]</nowiki>

== Activism ==
Take action and get involved with current issues and make a difference.
