{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Cozy is a client-server IRC client ===

There is a core process that runs on an always-on server, it logs on to IRC on your behalf and scoops up messages from your subscribed channels and chucks them into a couchdb database. Cozy clients talk to couchDB, they can read messages and create messages. On seeing a newly created message the Cozy core will say it for you on IRC and update the status to mark it as having been said.

The plan is to have a desktop client written with the quickly framework, a command line client and perhaps a web client.

Should be relatively simple to add twitter protocol support. 

==== Schema ====
Each utterance/message/tweet will have a bunch of fields associated with it
* Protocol
  IRC or Twitter etc.
* Server
  typically irc.freenode.net
* Channel
  e.g. '#ubuntu-uk'
* Message
  the body of the message
* From
  the person who said it
* RelatesTo
  parsed out list of names mentioned in the message
* tags
  parsed out list of #tags
* Status
  For stuff other people say this field won't exist, but for stuff you are saying it will start out 'unsaid' when added to couchdb by the client and change to 'said' when transmitted to the upstream server. If you send a private message to someone who is not online it will be set to 'pending' and will be retried at intervals until the user is online.
* Timestamp
   the time of the clock on the cozy server
* Timesaid
   the time of the clock on the upstream server
