{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Alaska Team will holds several types of meetings, that everyone is free to join in!

=== Next Meeting ===
The first meeting will be announced soon!

=== IRC ===
IRC meetings are chat room meetings held online.  See below for how to join in:

1. Click on '''Applications > Internet > Pidgin''' (for versions older than 7.10, the instant messenger is called Gaim)

2. The first time that it is opened, you will be asked to add accounts to your messenger.

3. Click on the '''Add button > Select IRC from protocol list > Type in your desired screen name'''.

4. The server should already be set for irc.ubuntu.com and you can leave the password & alias blank.

5. Click on save. You will notice now in the accounts window yourscreename@irc.ubuntu.com

6. If it is not checked already, click on enable > a window will appear mentioning it is connecting you to IRC.

7. Once it connects, you will notice a chat box where you can type in anything, with the title freenode-connect.  Minimize this window.

8. From the "Buddy List" window, click on '''Buddies > Join a Chat...'''.  From inside this box, make sure your IRC account is selected, and enter '''#ubuntu-us-ak''' into the "Channel" box.  You do '''not''' need a password.

9. At that time you should immediately be in the official Alaska LoCo Chat room. 

<nowiki>[[AlaskaTeam | Back to the home page]]</nowiki>
