{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Alberto Contreras, apply for upload rights for package(s) cloud-init.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Alberto Contreras
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~aciba
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlbertoContreras
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I am Alberto Contreras. I have a BSc in Mathematics from University of Granada and a MSc in Computer Science from University of Malaga. 

Prior to working at Canonical, I worked as a software/scientific engineer during 5 years in the fields of Monte-Carlo simulations, smart cities, reconciliation in banking and digital marketing using technologies as C/C++, Matlab and Python.

I joined Canonical in 2022 as part of the Canonical Public Cloud (CPC) team as a software engineer with focus on a good integration of Ubuntu in Public Clouds, mainly working on Ubuntu Server projects, as cloud-init, ubuntu-pro.

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first contact with Linux was with a mini laptop provided by my school, which had Debian installed. My first contact with Ubuntu was in 2008, when I downloaded an Ubuntu 8.04 ISO and installed it in my workstation. I was impressed by the performance, cohesiveness and beauty of the OS. I maintained a dual-boot system with Windows (mainly for gaming and windows-only compatible programs for my studies) during some years.

I used Debian / Ubuntu during my university studies and in an internship I did contributing to <nowiki>[[https://www.normaliz.uni-osnabrueck.de/|Normaliz]]</nowiki>. My professional career was full of Ubuntu too, either as a target and/or a development systems.

Since I joined Canonical in 2022, I have improved how Ubuntu behaves, adding features, fixing bugs, improving its perfomance and adding documentation. Working mainly in cloud-init upstream and downstream (Ubuntu), and ubuntu-pro.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* Worked on cloud-init more than 2 years.
* Performed <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commits?author=aciba90&before=e3db1adbb60482eee50c035311f9479740a05e28+35|195 commits]]</nowiki> in cloud-init upstream.
* Reviewed <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Aaciba90+is%3Aclosed+|333 Pull Requests]]</nowiki> in cloud-init upstream.
* Active member in cloud-init's IRC channel.
* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Alberto+Contreras&sponsoree_search=name|25 sponsored cloud-init]]</nowiki> uploads
* Features:
** <nowiki>[[https://warthogs.atlassian.net/browse/SC-1032|Support custom Pro auto-attach]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://warthogs.atlassian.net/browse/SC-608|foundation for lxd hotplug support]]</nowiki>
** [[https://warthogs.atlassian.net/browse/SC-1028|SC-1028 - [RM 22.10] [CPC] Oracle Datasource network config from env and IMDS when not iSCSI]]
** CPC-2351: GCE Activate network config on every boot to allow cold transferring of instances across VPCs.
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/4163|CPC-2578 - gce improve ephemeral fallback NIC selection]]</nowiki>. This enabled A3 instance type on GCE.
** [[https://warthogs.atlassian.net/browse/SC-1642|SC-1642: [RM] Automated Management of Multi-NIC Setups for AWS]]
* Performance:
** [[https://warthogs.atlassian.net/browse/SC-1021|SC-1021 - [RM 22.10] [CPC] schema: boot speed skip inapplicable modules]]
** CPC-2848: Found 5s delay of time to ssh on GCE due to udev rules config in google-compute-engine
* Pycloudlib (library for testing in clouds used by cloud-init, pro and cpc teams):
** [[https://warthogs.atlassian.net/browse/SC-1322|SC-1322 - [RM 23.04] pycloudlib - Add IBM VPC Cloud support]]
** 3fb4664 refactor: migrate to ruff (#374)
** 177c437 feat(PEP561)!: distribute type hints (#370)
** 073c30a, 789549f, 5e9ed90: feat(ec2): add ipv6 support
** 4f4017b pep517 compatible and static pkg definition (#279)
** 87c8195 exceptions: specialize base exceptions (SC-1436) (#282)
** 7562367 lxd: drop simplestreams dependency (SC-1437) (#290)
** dbcff43 Enable mypy type checking and add more type definitions.
** f929364 azure: integrate azure-cli-core new API (#209)
** c423419 Implement OCI network interface methods (#203)
* Cloud Config validation service
** Explore / POC for http service to validate cloud-configs.
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/aciba90/cloud-config-validator|cloud-config-validator]]</nowiki>.
** Present it in cloud-init summit 2023. Didn't get much interest and got cancelled.
** SC-1321 and SC-1485

=== Areas of work ===

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/+bug/2045582|lp2045582]]</nowiki>: example of full upstream + downstream cloud-init release 23.4.
* Triaged and fixed dozens of upstream and downstream bugs.
* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Alberto+Contreras&sponsoree_search=name|25 sponsored cloud-init]]</nowiki> uploads:
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/22.2-115-g6e498773-0ubuntu1~22.10.1|22.2-115-g6e498773-0ubuntu1~22.10.1]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/22.2-139-gb64ba456-0ubuntu1~22.10.1|22.2-139-gb64ba456-0ubuntu1~22.10.1]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/22.4.2-0ubuntu1|22.4.2-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1997559|1997559]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.1-0ubuntu1|23.1-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1815990|1815990]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1931174|1931174]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1990513|1990513]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1999164|1999164]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.1.1-0ubuntu0~20.04.1|23.1.1-0ubuntu0~20.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2008230|2008230]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.1.1-0ubuntu0~18.04.1|23.1.1-0ubuntu0~18.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2008230|2008230]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.1.1-0ubuntu0~22.04.1|23.1.1-0ubuntu0~22.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2008230|2008230]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.2-0ubuntu1|23.2-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1854594|1854594]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1881925|1881925]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2008888|2008888]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2011291|2011291]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2011783|2011783]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2013967|2013967]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2016350|2016350]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.3~2gcf474da7-0ubuntu1|23.3~2gcf474da7-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2013403|2013403]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.3~3gebd7b2b6-0ubuntu1|23.3~3gebd7b2b6-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.2.2-0ubuntu0~23.04.1|23.2.2-0ubuntu0~23.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2028562|2028562]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2028784|2028784]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.2.2-0ubuntu0~22.04.1|23.2.2-0ubuntu0~22.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2028562|2028562]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2028784|2028784]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.2.2-0ubuntu0~20.04.1|23.2.2-0ubuntu0~20.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2028562|2028562]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2028784|2028784]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.4-0ubuntu1|23.4-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.4-0ubuntu1~23.04.1|23.4-0ubuntu1~23.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2045582|2045582]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.4-0ubuntu1~22.04.1|23.4-0ubuntu1~22.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2045582|2045582]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.4-0ubuntu1~20.04.1|23.4-0ubuntu1~20.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2045582|2045582]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.4-0ubuntu1~23.10.1|23.4-0ubuntu1~23.10.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2045582|2045582]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/24.1~1g1003d438-0ubuntu1|24.1~1g1003d438-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2040325|2040325]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/24.1~2gb6a1c635-0ubuntu1|24.1~2gb6a1c635-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1951639|1951639]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2045086|2045086]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/24.1~4gd9677655-0ubuntu1|24.1~4gd9677655-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2051147|2051147]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.4.2-0ubuntu0~23.10.1|23.4.2-0ubuntu0~23.10.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2045582|2045582]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2048522|2048522]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2051147|2051147]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.4.2-0ubuntu0~22.04.1|23.4.2-0ubuntu0~22.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2045582|2045582]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2048522|2048522]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2051147|2051147]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/23.4.2-0ubuntu0~20.04.1|23.4.2-0ubuntu0~20.04.1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2045582|2045582]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2048522|2048522]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2051147|2051147]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/24.3~1g6e4153b3-0ubuntu1|24.3~1g6e4153b3-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/2065787|2065787]]</nowiki>
* I have worked doing releases, adding / refreshing / maintaining quilt patches, adding/maintaining/removing dependencies, fixing lintian issues, extending the maintainer scripts. All this work has had the intention to either improve cloud-init or maintain backward and forward compatibility across stable releases. 
* Examples of non-releasing work:
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/57bb32388|57bb32388 d/cloud-init.postinst: change priority of hotplug rules]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/f66adafc9|f66adafc9 debian/cloud-init.templates: enable Akamai by default]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/739ec7381|739ec7381 d/cloud-init.preinst: Oracle to remove network disabling config file]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/93f96d613|93f96d613 d/control: drop python3-httpretty from Build-Depends]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/13af96873|13af96873 d/source/lintian-overrides: lintian fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/5508b40c1|5508b40c1 d/cloud-init.postinst: lintian fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/e52c72f91|e52c72f91 d/cloud-init.lintian-overrides: lintian fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/000bf9bd5|000bf9bd5 d/control: lintian fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/c7650bde2|c7650bde2 d/control: Depends: add python3-debconf]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/7bb3e841f|7bb3e841f d/control: add Suggests: ssh-import-id]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/22f7e457c|22f7e457c d/cloud-init.postinst: change priority of hotplug rules]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/bd6507a22|bd6507a22 d/p/retain-ec2-default-net-update-events.patch:]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/9c7fd8e01|9c7fd8e01 d/p/status-retain-recoverable-error-exit-code.patch:]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/db8e692d2|db8e692d2 d/p/retain-apt-pre-deb822.patch:    - Disable apt source list generation with DEB822 style]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/c1f691615|c1f691615 d/p/series: bring back retain-old-groups.patch]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/73561bfd0|73561bfd0 debian/cloud-init.templates: enable Akamai by default]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/900d0ecb8|900d0ecb8 d/cloud-init.preinst: clean up vestigial config]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/3854e62fa|3854e62fa d/cloud-init.preinst: Oracle to remove network disabling config file]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/cf766bb53|cf766bb53 d/source/lintian-overrides: lintian fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/cdc9100dc|cdc9100dc d/cloud-init.postinst: lintian fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/0d72c9cc3|0d72c9cc3 d/cloud-init.lintian-overrides: lintian fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/9dfb4960a|9dfb4960a d/control: add Suggests: ssh-import-id]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/743b59fa9|743b59fa9 d/cloud-init.lintian-overrides: lintian fixes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/76f3853dd|76f3853dd d/patches/netplan99-cannot-use-default.patch:]]</nowiki>
* Distro work on other packages:
** Migrate python-boto to python-boto3 in simplestreams: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/simplestreams/+bug/2052437|#2052437]]</nowiki>
** This led to me performing 3 MIRs for their dependencies:
*** [[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-boto3/+bug/2061217|[MIR] python-boto3 as a dependency of simplestreams]]
*** [[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-s3transfer/+bug/2061750|[MIR] python-s3transfer as indirect dependency of simplestreams (simplestreams -> python-boto3 -> python-s3transfer)]]
*** [[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-botocore/+bug/2061751|[MIR] python-botocore as indirect dependency of simplestreams (simplestreams -> python-boto3 -> python-s3transfer -> python-botocore)]]
** [[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-ami-tools/+bug/2070537| [FFe] Update ec2-ami-tools to 1.5.19 for Oracular ]]. For this upgrade I did:
*** Request a FFe
*** Add <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-ami-tools/+bug/1677842| Missing dep8 tests ]]</nowiki>
*** Migrate from cdbs to dh and update debian packaging tooling and standards
*** Discover and fix: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-ami-tools/+bug/2078051|missing required dependencies]]</nowiki>
*** Discover and fix: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-ami-tools/+bug/2078046|undefined method `exists?' for File:Class]]</nowiki>

Upgrade ec2-ami-tools to the latest version: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-ami-tools/+bug/2078046

=== Things I could do better ===

Sometimes, while focused on planned features / bug fixes, is hard to find time to work more on code quality / refactorings for cloud-init.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

* Improve boot performance.
* Implement cloud-specific ubuntu cloud-init packages to reduce images size.
* Close gaps in AWS multi-NIC auto-configuration.
* Improve cloud-init's code quality, typing, documentation, release process, testing, etc.
* Help more new contributors, either from the community or Canonical, to cloud-init.
* Squash more old bugs.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

(Specific to cloud-init) While we have improved and are working on boot performance, I still think it is probably the thing that I most dislike about cloud-init. We will continue working on it in future cycles.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== James Falcon ===
==== General feedback ====
Alberto has been a solid contributor to cloud-init for over two years. He came up to speed quickly and has taken on many tasks that have improved cloud-init and that require deep knowledge of the cloud-init codebase. Even though Alberto works on the CPC team, I consider him one of cloud-init's core contributors. He always contributes resilient, well designed, and well tested code.

Alberto's knowledge of and work with EC2 has proven to be especially helpful in understanding the best ways to approach cloud-init's hotplug feature on EC2. He has also been a strong contributor to our testing and quality efforts, including help maintaining the testing library pycloudlib. He has spearheaded new efforts for the project, such as the cloud config validation service.

Alberto is also regularly involved in releases and has prepared our releases for upload many times. This includes upstream snapshots as well as many separate packaging changes.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have reviewed <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pulls?q=author%3Aaciba90+assignee%3ATheRealFalcon+|dozens of his PRs]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pulls?q=author%3ATheRealFalcon++assignee%3Aaciba90|vice versa]]</nowiki> (not all are represented here).

His PRs are always top quality and the feedback on my PRs is always valuable. This includes packaging PRs for changes in cloud-init packaging.

Alberto also regularly attends the cloud-init meetings, including standups. He contributes valuable technical expertise and ideas when discussing architecture and thorny bugs.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I could see value in having Alberto mentor other CPC members. Others from CPC are involved in cloud-init, and I think Alberto could provide a unique and more relatable perspective to help others come up to speed on the project.

=== Chad Smith ===
==== General feedback ====
Alberto has been a key asset in this upstream cloud-init project with his ability to development of simple, efficient and defensive solutions, thorough reviews for peers and community and investment in automation, tooling and documentation to improve the quality of our project.

I've sponsored 9 cloud-init package uploads from Alberto. In each upload, he shows vigilance in verification of expected versioning for releases across multiple series, the ability to clearly represent changed content succinctly in debian/changelog and run through full set suites to verify the quality of the package build. He has kept end-users needs front-of-mind by providing quilt patches (<nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/0c6585e7fb67b967546e98350df6ecae67167c02|retain ec2 net events]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/88ecf9e32a1680d45e127860fd6be791d9e2c4eb|retain status exit 0 on warnings]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/commit/f36f2df1c1f8457a2759e7965650ef8b8d90fdcf| disable APT deb822 formatted sources ]]</nowiki> to retain original behavior on stable releases. 

The cloud-init project uses a set of tools, documentation and processes to create and validate our package uploads.  In the event of packaging-related questions or inconsistencies in cloud-init's packaging tools, documentation or process, Alberto has typically provided pull requests or process improvements to our docs to resolve those issues or raises awareness with peers so we can collectively refine our processes.

He has touched most aspects of our package development, tooling and publication life-cycle:
* Authored downstream quilt patches for stable releases to retain original behavior by setting feature flags in our product
* He has maintained elements of our postinst/preinst scripts with defensive shell programming practices to avoid pitfalls of upgrade errors
* integration with apport for better data collection during bug filing
* managed introduction of depends/suggests in debian/control as our product evolves
* fixed lintian warnings across our release support boundary
* spent time extending our <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/uss-tableflip/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+author%3Aaciba90|packaging tooling, release process and documentation]]</nowiki> to ensure our process is easy to follow and less prone to errors
* consistently evaluated each upload he proposes with significant package build testing and verification of quilt patches
* Has alternated as the upstream release manager for cloud-init which involves assessing and fixing integration test suite across all target platform prior to release, cutting that release, communicating, organizing and verifying all testing and verification prior to upload to meet our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CloudinitUpdates|SRU exception]]</nowiki>
* coordinated with SRU reviewers the review, resolution and acceptance of cloud-init uploads.

Alberto also has experience resolving regression-proposed conditions in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/+bug/2045582|LP: 20445582]]</nowiki> . In this instance, he communicated clearly and succinctly the regression conditions, informed necessary parties, organized the fixes and the plan for resolution and the fix publication with engaged external customers to unblock our release.

In all of his involvement with the cloud-init project he shows:
* a willingness to own very complex feature development and deliver simple, modular and well-tested solutions
* the ability efficiently and correctly determine solutions to complex problems with appropriate error handling
* as a reviewer of pull requests he provides thoughtful consideration in support of corner cases, avoidance of regressions and introduction of adequate automated testing.
* clear communication and responsiveness, setting expectations, improving documentation and driving best practices to ensure we retain a supportable product.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''

Alberto's work on <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/1583|UA auto-attach integration]]</nowiki> shows the ability communicate clearly to reach resolution, breakdown complex solutions into reviewable separate pull requests, communicate outstanding bugs and followup to resolve them. He prioritizes customer stability and thinks through corner-cases for users in his use of feature flags for <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/4699|APT deb822 format support]]</nowiki>. He invests in quality of community pull requests by <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/5496|providing test coverage in community PRs where lacking]]</nowiki>. 

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Alberto historically has introduced additional tooling, test and CI automation to the cloud-init project and our test library pycloudlib such as mypy, static analysis tools, hypothesis testing  I would like to see him continue to propose and drive project level changes/improvements to aid in automation to improve the maintainability of our projects.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''

==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
