{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Alberto Contreras (aciba{,90}) ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ''' Location'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[ https:--www.google.com-maps-place-M%C3%A1laga-@36.7182149,-4.4904663,13z-data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0xd7259c44fdb212d:0x6025dc92c9ca32cf!8m2!3d36.7178196!4d-4.425557!16s%2Fg%2F11b7c714d1?entry=ttu | Malaga, Spain ]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Time Zone'''
| 
| CET (UTC+0100) or CEST (UTC+0200) Time
|-
| ''' Launchpad Page'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aciba|~aciba]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Email Address'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:alberto.contreras@canonical.com|alberto dot contreras at canonical dot com]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' IRC Nick'''
| 
| aciba on freenode & OFTC
|-
| ''' !GitHub '''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/aciba90/|aciba90]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===

==== Who I am ====
I am Alberto Contreras. I have a BSc in Mathematics from University of Granada and a MSc in Computer Science from University of Malaga. 

Prior to working at Canonical, I worked as a software/scientific engineer during 5 years in the fields of Monte-Carlo simulations, smart cities, reconciliation in banking and digital marketing using technologies as C/C++, Matlab and Python.

I joined Canonical in 2022 as part of the Canonical Public Cloud (CPC) team as a software engineer with focus on a good integration of Ubuntu in Public Clouds, mainly working on Ubuntu Server projects, as cloud-init, ubuntu-pro.

==== My Ubuntu story ====
My first contact with Linux was with a mini laptop provided by my school, which had Debian installed. My first contact with Ubuntu was in 2008, when I downloaded an Ubuntu 8.04 ISO and installed it in my workstation. I was impressed by the performance, cohesiveness and beauty of the OS. I maintained a dual-boot system with Windows (mainly for gaming and windows-only compatible programs for my studies) during some years.

I used Debian / Ubuntu during my university studies and in an internship I did contributing to <nowiki>[[https://www.normaliz.uni-osnabrueck.de/|Normaliz]]</nowiki>. My professional career was full of Ubuntu too, either as a target and/or a development systems.

Since I joined Canonical in 2022, I have improved how Ubuntu behaves, adding features, fixing bugs, improving its perfomance and adding documentation. Working mainly in cloud-init upstream and downstream (Ubuntu), and ubuntu-pro.

=== Links ===
* <nowiki>[[ AlbertoContreras-DeveloperPerPackageUploadApplication]]</nowiki>
