{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===
My name is Alberto, live in Puglia and i'm a student in computer science.
I joined in Ubuntu on January 2007 and I became a supporter of Ubuntu. 

I'm '''Ubuntu-it Member''' and I'm a member of '''Ubuntu Italian Testing Team''' and the '''Ubuntu Italian Marketing Team''' as Administrator of '''Italian Newsletter''' and '''Italian !SpreadUbuntu Project'''.

=== Contacts ===
* '''E-Mail''': valix '''AT''' ubuntu-it.org
* Key '''GPG''': <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x1465B1E4&op=vindex | 1465B1E4]]</nowiki>
* Account '''Jabber''': valix@jabber.linux.it
* Account '''IRC''': Valix on irc.freenode.net
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~valix | Valix]]</nowiki>
* Microblog: http://identi.ca/valix
* Blog: http://albertorusso.blogspot.com

=== Ubuntu Stuff ===
* Joined Ubuntu on January 2007
* Admin of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-testing  | Ubuntu Italian Testing Team]]</nowiki>
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-promozione  | Ubuntu Italian Marketing Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-members | Ubuntu-it Member]]</nowiki> from March  30, 2010 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers | Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki> from May 03, 2011

=== Testing Team ===
* Mythbuntu amd64 and Xubuntu i386 tester from the cycle of development of Lucid Lynx. 

=== Marketing Team ===
* Administrator of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/NewsletterItaliana | Italian Newsletter]]</nowiki>
* Administrator of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoPromozione/DiffondiUbuntu | Italian SpreadUbuntu Project]]</nowiki>

=== Activity in Doc Team ===
==== Page created ====
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Hardware/Webcam/DriverGspcaV4L2 | Driver Gspca V4L2]]</nowiki> 

==== Page reviewed ====
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/AmbienteGrafico/Xfce/CambiareTema | CambiareTema(XFCE)]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Gnome/CairoDock | CairoDock]]</nowiki> 

=== Plans and ideas for Ubuntu ===
* Improving my contribution in Ubuntu Italian Testing Team
* Improving my contribution in the international community  
* Help people who want to collaborate with us
* Improve my English

=== Testimonials ===

PalmaSalvatore: Alberto is very active in the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoPromozione|Ubuntu Italian Marketing]]</nowiki>, particularly in the projects <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoPromozione/DiffondiUbuntu|Diffondi Ubuntu]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/NewsletterItaliana|Newsletter Italiana]]</nowiki>; further, he actively contributes in the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTest|Gruppo Test]]</nowiki>. Therefore  he really deserves the membership, in my opinion! :)

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:palma-salvatore]]</nowiki> 
PaoloSammicheli: Alberto has been a very valuable contributor to the Italian team for a long time now, he is an excellent candidate for membership.
 
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:xdatap1]]</nowiki> 
SergioZanchetta: Alberto is extremely active and efficient in the Italian Testing Team, doing a very precise and continuous work. He is very keen and puts a lot of effort into everything he does, also being supportive and patient. I highly recommend him for the membership. +1

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:primes2h]]</nowiki> 
ClaudioArseni: Alberto is a passionate Ubuntu contributor. I can attest that his contribution has always been highly appreciated. His work within the Testing and Marketing Teams is very knowledgeable and it's a pleasure to work with him in the Italian Newsletter Staff. I strongly support his application to become an Ubuntu Member.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claudio.arseni]]</nowiki> 
AndreaColangelo: Isn't Alberto an Ubuntu Member already? Oh, what a shame! His extensive contribution within the Italian !LocoTeam is highly appreciated and valuable. Alberto and me work together particularly in the Italian Newsletter and he is a very careful and precise admin. I warmly support his application to Ubuntu Membership.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:warp10]]</nowiki> 
CategoryHomepage
