{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Alejandro Riveira Fernández ===

==== 1. A summary of my contributions to Ubuntu ====
* Helper in #ubuntu

* Operator in #ubuntu-es, #ubuntu-es-ops, #ubuntu-es-offtopic

* Some bugs reported :)

* Also subscribed (via gmane) to the Spanish mailing list for helping out.

==== 2. A link to my Launchpad Profile ====

       <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ariveira|Here]]</nowiki> it is.

==== 3 .A complete description of your contributions to Ubuntu ====

My contributions to the ubuntu community are mainly in the irc channels I linger on. I'm imho a good helper in the main ubuntu channel (#ubuntu) since (if my memory does not fail me[1]) the begining. 

Also I'm operator in the Spanish official ubuntu  channel (#ubuntu-es) since 2007-01-12 trying to maintain it afloat.

I do not know if ubotu/ubottu factoids count as contributions but some are mine ;)

==== 4. My plans and ideas for Ubuntu in the near and far future ====
     
       -ENOIMAGINATION

==== Testimonials ====
 When I first heard that erusul past away, I immediately felt a sense of loss. I knew right away the Ubuntu Community lost a great friend and I will miss seeing his nick helping in #ubuntu. I would have +1 his application for membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:idleone]]</nowiki>

----
[1] My first ubuntu install was a warty beta
