{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== About Me ==
My name is Alejandro Alvarez, I'm 24 years old and I'm a mathematician, graduated from the University of Zulia (Venezuela-Zulia-Maracaibo). I am currently doing a postgraduate degree in mathematics at the Venezuelan Institute for Scientific Research (IVIC).

I'm using Linux for many years. Started around 2000 with SuSe, before, i was trying other distributions as: red hat, mandrake, slackware until I came to ubuntu, with whom I felt comfortable until this day.

I'm a enthusiast of ubuntu installation I've done events at my university, and courses I have taught and promoted, along with members of  <nowiki>[[http://www.proyectociencia.org|Fundación Proyecto Ciencia]]</nowiki>. 

----

== My Ubuntu Collaboration ==

- Teaching Ubuntu: I had the opportunity to make several basic courses in Ubuntu.

- Chats: I delivered some lectures on philosophy, installation and configuration of Ubuntu.

- Reporting Ubuntu: I reported in my classes, courses and conferences. I am currently trying to start a user group within the IVIC Ubuntu.

- Translation: I started on the computer for translation into Spanish.

- Distributing: computers of all my friends and students (approximately 400 computers), always leaving a CD to everyone, so then those distributed Ubuntu on other computers. I've put about 200 stickers in strategic places in my university, which has caused an echo in the university community.

- Other: We are organizing a course on-line Ubuntu / Debian - Linux, together with the science project team. This will be posted on moodle and be launched in March or April 2010.

----
 
== My Short term Goals ==
- Finish my master in mathematics.

- Develop scientific applications in Python and Ruby.

- Work with application development and maintenance of desktops, Gnome and KDE.

- Continue to spread the free software worldwide.

----

== My Long term Goals ==
- Make a doctorate in mathematics or physics.

- Become a MOTU, and work hard on the MOTU-Science team.

- Give lectures around the world on Ubuntu.
