{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== General ===

* '''Name''': Alessio Treglia
* '''Contact details''':
** '''E-mail''': quadrispro@ubuntu.com
** '''Launchpad ID''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~quadrispro|quadrispro]]</nowiki>

==== Key Achievements ====

I'm a Debian Developer, and an Ubuntu core-dev. As developer of both Debian and Ubuntu, I maintain a <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=Alessio+Treglia|number of packages]]</nowiki>, plus I work as upstream of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/laditools|LADI Tools]]</nowiki> project.

My background is mostly in C/C++, Python and shell scripting, so usually I feel comfortable in reviewing code in multiple languages.

=== Vision ===

I am passionate about pushing people to develop applications for Debian and Ubuntu, in fact in addition to work as primary uploader for many multimedia packages, I am an enthusiastic mentor for anyone who'd like to push their applications through the review process of Debian.

And Ubuntu, especially over the past months, has grown a lot as platform for building applications and I'd be very happy to help app developers through their journey of making their apps available to the Ubuntu users.

=== Testimonials ===
* Alessio is an Ubuntu and Debian developer and has been part of our community for quite a long while already. He does a great job, is interested to help the Open Source community and loves to teach you Italian swear words. Big +1 from me. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki> 
* Having seen Alessio personally, I think of him many times as a superhuman who has done a lot all around the ubuntu and debian community. Big +1 from me too for having him on board -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bhavi]]</nowiki> 

* Alessio has put a lot of efforts in selecting the best multimedia packages and bring new life to Debian Multimedia, I think he will be a great addition for ARB. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dktrkranz]]</nowiki> 
* I'm happy to attest Alessio profound knowledge and expertise with packaging software for both Debian and Ubuntu. I'm working with him for many years now in the pkg-multimedia team, which serves as a maintenance umbreally for hundreds of multimedia related packages in Ubuntu and Debian. I think his experience will serve the ARB well. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:siretart]]</nowiki> 
* I have known Alessio in the Ubuntu community for many years; his activity in Ubuntu and Debian is amazing! He has profound packaging skills, so getting his experience into the ARB would be a great asset. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pitti]]</nowiki> 
* ... (please don't forget to sign with your `@``SIG``@`)

=== Comments ===

* ... (please don't forget to sign with your `@``SIG``@`)
