{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~layn|Alessandro Aragione]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|1(> '''IRC''':
| '''layn''' (''freenode'')
|-
| <|3(> '''Email''':
| alessandro.aragione@gmail.com
|-
| ...
|-
| ...
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italy|Italy]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://layn.tk/
|}

=== About Me ===
Hello! I work with Oracle Database. I am an Oracle DBA. My Areas of responsibility includes managing the Oracle Database and the contracting of the database itself, protect data and transactions and other tasks concerning the management, administration and maintenance.
Currently a member of Launchpad Beta Testers, Users Launchpad, Ubuntu and Ubuntu Users BugSquad,
I have always admired and respected since the first Ubuntu release.
Member of  Launchpad Translators,Launchpad Community Development Team.
=== Contributions ===
* I have contributed in Silva CMS, SilvaMailing is to translate that to the Bug Management.

* I have contributed and continue to contribute to Ubuntu, Ubuntu Tweak SuperTuxKart and  Translations.
* Launchpad Translators
* Launchpad Community Development Team
* Ubuntu BugSquad
* Launchpad Beta Testers
* Launchpad Users 
 

* For more details about my contributions in Ubuntu and launchpad, 
 see my launchpad link: https://launchpad.net/~layn 
=== Project ===
* Oraconfig is a script .sh configures itself to ensure that the prerequisites needed for the installation 
 of Oracle Database on Ubuntu.
 From here you can download the tar.gz package:
 
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/oraconfig/doc|Oraconfig/doc]]</nowiki>
   
=== Future Goals ===
Currently my future goal is to continue to contribute to the development of Ubuntu and Launchpad, trying to be helpful to the community doing my best.

----
CategoryHomepage
