{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Alessandro Ghersi
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~alessandro-ghersi
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/alessandro-ghersi
|}

== Who I am ==
I live in <nowiki>[[http://tiny.cc/2wq0f|Loano]]</nowiki>, a small town in Italy. I've been a regular Kubuntu user since Gutsy. I like to contribute to Kubuntu as much as my time allows.
I'm a fanatic of <nowiki>[[http://abc.go.com/shows/lost|Lost]]</nowiki>

== My Ubuntu story ==
Kubuntu was my first Linux distribution I've installed in my computer and I never left it.
After installing it, I started to study how it worked and to give support in the italian forum, I'm still doing this but in a different way, now I keep update users about what we are doing in the Kubuntu development.
I wrote also some wiki pages in italian wiki about how Kubuntu and KDE applications work, there was none about KDE/Kubuntu before that.
I started to partecipate with Italian Marketing Team to ship CDs to people without broadband and ship stickers made by System76.
Then, I started to work in the Kubuntu development and I became Kubuntu Ninjas and Kubuntu member.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

There is no specific work I am proud of it. I am proud to partecipate in the development of Kubuntu. Anyway:

* KDE package maintenance in general.
* KDE merges with Debian:
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu/KarmicKDEMerges|Karmic]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu/LucidKDEMerges|Lucid]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu/MaverickKDEMerges|Maverick]]</nowiki>
* All of the KDE/Qt applications I've been able to package
* Fix for these 3 bugs at the end of Lucid cycle:
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kubuntu-default-settings/+bug/551290
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal/+bug/528907
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdeedu/+bug/554865

=== Areas of work ===

I'm involved with the maintenance of our core KDE packages, I like to work in packaging release of KDE and in its build dependends, I started with KDE 4.2.3
I work very hard also in backporting KDE release. I am active with other non-core KDE packages that are in main like Qt libs, phonon, digikam, QtCurve, K3b, Ktorrent, etc, and all KDE build-depends.
When every development cycle starts I do many merges with Debian. I like also keeping update the KDE/Qt packages in the Universe repository.
I can do library transitions, upgrades, merges, and I can make package with cdbs and debhelper.

=== Things I could do better ===

I would like to do more bug triage like I did in the end of the cycle of Lucid, but spare time is not enough sometimes.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I plan to keep on maintaining the core KDE packages as well as non-core KDE applications in both main and universe. I will do what I can do, like I did in the other cycles

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

There is no specific things I don't like. Maybe I would like to see more branding in Kubuntu.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
=== Jonathan Thomas ===
==== General feedback ====
I've worked with Lex for over a year, and it has been my pleasure to help mentor him into becoming a top-performing ninja. He is somebody I can completely trust to do a bang-up job working with any KDE package he touches. He has a deep understanding of the subtleties of KDE packaging, and always asks for advice when it is appropriate. (And it's always appropriate for anybody to ask questions, as long as we don't know the answer. ;)

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
We've done innumerable KDE releases together, and I've sponsored two of his merges of the core of the KDE packaging system: https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pkg-kde-tools/0.9.1ubuntu1 https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pkg-kde-tools/0.9.2ubuntu1

He's also had a lot of experience doing merges in both main and in universe, which I have sponsored.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
None, except what experience can give.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
