{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Alessandro Ghersi
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~alessandro-ghersi
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/alessandro-ghersi
|}

== Who I am ==
I live in <nowiki>[[http://tiny.cc/2wq0f|Loano]]</nowiki>, a small town in Italy. I've been a regular Kubuntu user since Gutsy. I like to contribute to Kubuntu as much as my time allows.
I'm a fanatic of <nowiki>[[http://abc.go.com/shows/lost|Lost]]</nowiki>

== My Ubuntu story ==
Kubuntu was my first Linux distribution I've installed in my computer and I never left it.
After installing it, I started to study how it worked and giving support in the italian forum, I'm still doing this but in a different way, I keep now update users about what we are doing in the Kubuntu development.
I writed also some wiki page in italian wiki about how Kubuntu and KDE applications works, there was none one about KDE/Kubuntu before that.
I started to partecipate with Italian Marketing Team to ship CDs to people without broadband and ship stickers made by System76.
Then, I started to work in the Kubuntu development and I became Kubuntu Ninjas and Kubuntu member.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

There is no specific work for which I am proud of it. I am proud to partecipate in the development of Kubuntu. Anyway:

* KDE package maintenance in general.
* KDE merges with Debian: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu/KarmicKDEMerges|Karmic]]</nowiki> (only 1 package) - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu/LucidKDEMerges|Lucid]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu/MaverickKDEMerges|Maverick]]</nowiki>
* All of the KDE/Qt applications I've been able to package
* Fix for these two bugs at the end of Lucid cycle:
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kubuntu-default-settings/+bug/551290
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal/+bug/528907

=== Areas of work ===

I'm involved with the maintenance of our core KDE packages, I like to work in packaging release of KDE and in its build dependends, I started with KDE 4.2.3
I work very hard also in backporting KDE release. I am active with other non-core KDE packages that are in main like Qt libs, phonon, digikam, QtCurve, K3b, Ktorrent, etc, and all KDE build-depends.
Every development cycle starts I do many merges with Debian. I like also keeping update the KDE/Qt packages in the Universe repository.
I can do library transitions, upgrades, merges, and I can make package with cdbs and debhelper.

=== Things I could do better ===

I would like to do more bug triage like I did in the end of the cycle of Lucid, but spare time is not enough sometimes.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I plan to keep on maintaining the core KDE packages as well as non-core KDE applications in both main and universe. I will do what I can do, like I did in the other cycles

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
