{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Alessio Treglia, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Alessio Treglia
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~quadrispro
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[AlessioTreglia]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==

I am Alessio, I live in Aprilia, a small city near Rome and I study Computer Engineering at the University of !RomaTre.

== My Ubuntu story ==

My experience with Ubuntu began with Dapper Drake and, since the first time, I was fascinated by the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. Few weeks later, I started to contribute to Italian Community growth in different ways, at first giving support in technical boards of the italian forums and in IRC channels, then reporting bugs and writing and reviewing howtos for the Italian wiki. My work was appreciated by wiki administrators so I was appointed as wiki ''editor'' on May 2007. In the same period I started to contribute to Italian translations (software and documentation) and one month later I became an Ubuntu Italian LoCo team official member.

I started to contribute to Ubuntu development during the Intrepid cycle, without any precise goal but I tried to get experience in most of the development processes, through merges, syncs, fixes and SRUs, without focusing on a specific area of development.

Now I am an Ubuntu Developer and a Debian Developer.

=== My involvement ===

I am involved in Ubuntu as Ubuntu MOTU Developer and I also contribute to the Debian Multimedia Maintainers team as admin and co-maintainer for a number of audio&video production packages, in particular I focus my attention on sound synthesis and processing tools like synthesizers (bristol, alsa modular, ams, ...), filters, samplers, editors (snd, lives, etc) and more.
Obviously, I try to properly maintain those packages for both Debian and Ubuntu by uploading new upstreams' stable releases, triaging and fixing bugs.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* Giving my help to extend LV2 support (<nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-TaskLV2Inclusion]]</nowiki>) for Maverick.
* More than 1000 uploads since Intrepid.
* I touched the following ''main'' packages:
** moin
** diffstat
** git
** simple-scan
** ncurses
** rrdtool
** create-resources
** flac
** wvdial
** libmtp (which I maintain for Debian, too)
** libgpod
** pessulus
** openbabel
** fontforge
** upx-ucl
** jinja2
** cracklib2
** joystick
** imlib2
** sphinx
** libexif
** libieee1284
** gpm

=== Areas of work ===

I maintain a number of packages in both Debian and Ubuntu (here is my <nowiki>[[http://ddportfolio.debian.net/result?email=alessio%40debian.org&showall=1&name=Alessio+Treglia&gpgfp=0FEC59A5E18EE04F6D40593B45D48C7CDCFC3FD0&username=alessio&nonddemail=quadrispro%40ubuntu.com&aliothusername=alessio&wikihomepage=AlessioTreglia&forumsid=33444&mode=html&submit=Build+DD+Portfolio+URLs|DD portfolio]]</nowiki>).
I am a MOTU developer and member of the Sponsors and Ubuntu Review teams.

As Ubuntu Developer I maintain the following packages which are available only in Ubuntu, too:

## aften
## avidemux
## bombono-dvd
## divxenc
## dvd95
## dvdrip
## dvdrip-queue
## dvdwizard
## event-execflow
## h264enc
## installation-report-generator
## mandvd
## mp3fs
## tablet-encode
## uck
## videoporama
## xcfa
## xvidenc

On the Debian side, I am an admin of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pkg-multimedia-maintainers|Debian Multimedia Maintainers team]]</nowiki> and member of Python {<nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/PythonAppsPackagingTeam|Applications Packaging]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/PythonModulesTeam|Modules]]</nowiki>} and <nowiki>[[https://alioth.debian.org/projects/pkg-gstreamer/|GStreamer Packages]]</nowiki> teams.

I try everyday to properly maintain those packages for both Debian and Ubuntu by uploading new upstreams' stable releases, triaging and fixing bugs. Of course I work to minimize the delta between Debian and Ubuntu wherever and whenever possible.

=== Things I could do better ===

Nothing in particular in my mind now, but I am always open to get advices, suggestions and criticism.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

# Do my best on the sponsors-queue to keep it clean by reviewing and sponsoring patches.
# Work hard to see Ubuntu becoming the most used GNU/Linux distribution for audio&video production purposes.
# Take a more closer look from an Ubuntu-specific view at the packages that I already maintain for Debian, paying a particular care for all those related to audio&video tasks/layers.
# Do my best to make Ubuntu more stable, reliable and secure everyday, by touching core items when needed.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

# There are still many reports, contributions and patches in the sponsors queue to review and apply.
# More collaboration with our mommy, Debian :) Debian is always rich of high-quality contributions, and we should poke our developers and contributors into doing good stuff for both Debian and Ubuntu.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

=== Andrea Colangelo (warp10) ===
Please, let me endorse Alessio's application. I know him since months, we are member of the same LocoTeam and had many situations to work together. Alessio is a nice person with a strong commitment and a great team's spirit. Although we hadn't any experience of working together in main, I am sure Alessio will prove to be a skilled core-developer and will give a strong support to the Ubuntu Developers Community.
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:warp10]]</nowiki> 
=== Artur Rona ===
I have worked with Alessio in some cases. Our cooperate always was a benefit. He is a Debian Developer and he has got awesome expierence and knowledge in forwarding changes to Debian. Alessio is very helpful and active in Ubuntu development. I would like his involvement in reducing delta between Ubuntu main and Debian, sponsoring for main and cleaning up sponsors queue.
Thank you for your contribution!
I look forward to continue our cooperate in future. :)

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Benjamin Drung ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored at least seven sync and merge requests from Alessio. I had nothing to complain about. He has enough experience to become core-dev. I am looking forward to see him sponsoring main packages.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/simple-scan/+bug/628773
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flac/+bug/615784
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/diffstat/+bug/607333
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/diffstat/+bug/606701
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wvdial/+bug/603045
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/simple-scan/+bug/580170
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libmtp/+bug/564242

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Nothing.

=== Martin Pitt ===
==== General feedback ====
It's been a while since I sponsored things for Alessio, and I do not have that
much personal experience with him. The sponsorings that I did for him were
mostly okay, though, and he's doing a fine job with getting changes into
Debian.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Simple syncs/rebuilds, which all were okay:
* Bug:340985
* Bug:342383 
* Bug:342761 
* Bug:340985
* Bug:477015

Bug fixes with package changes:
* Bug:163518 (ok)
* Bug:294224 (ok with a few nitpicks)
* Bug:338556 (ok)
* Bug:399625 (ok)
* Bug:506791 (upgrade wasn't tested, needed fix)
* Bug:537386 (ok)

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Great work AFAICS. Syncs, merges, rebuilds all were without problems.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* Bug:605993
* Bug:512420 (forgot `LP: #...`)
* Bug:496284
* Bug:585802
* Bug:415411
* Bug:379576
* Bug:378966
* Bug:374630 (forgot `LP: #...`, other small nitpick)
* Bug:369556 (forgot `LP: #...`)
* Bug:353422
* Bug:346264
* Bug:322890
* Bug:315767
* Bug:317053
* Bug:316026
* Bug:312019

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===
==== General feedback ====
We work together on gnome-commander (we maintain it together in Debian) and Alessio is doing a great job there. He modernized the packaging and did a good job with bugreports. From my experience working together I can recommend him for core-dev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* gnome-commaner maintenance
* bug #378259

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====
==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====
----
</pre>

----
