{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Loves free beer, free speech, and apt analogies. Lucky enough to get paid to work on his hobby, namely hacking on the grotty plumbing bits of the Linux software stack.

Originally from New Jersey, but several years in the midwest and deep south have taken the edge off. Was a Coloradoan for a long time. Currently wandering the world, working wherever there's wifi.

If I could have a mundane superpower, I would never have to sleep.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~achiang
|-
| IRC
| achiang
|-
| Website
| http://chizang.net/alex/blog/
|}

=== Contributions ===

==== Personal ====

* Packaged python-messaging for debian (<nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=638536 | #638536]]</nowiki>), a package we shipped for the Webbook project. Not packaged at the request of Canonical. Debian first! since that is the recommended MOTU process.
* Packaged wader-core for debian (<nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=492875| ITP: #492875]]</nowiki>), This package should help everyone who has a Vodafone 3G USB stick that doesn't work so great with ModemManager.
* Member of debian's PAPT and DPMT teams
* Fixing FTBFS in Universe as personal time allowed (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~achiang/+related-software | sponsored patches]]</nowiki>). Not required as a Canonical OEM engineer.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-applet/0.9.4.1-0ubuntu2.1 | network-manager-applet 0.9.4.1-0ubuntu2.1]]</nowiki> does not appear in +related-packages
* Contributed to Ask Ubuntu as personal time allowed (<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/1372/achiang | profile]]</nowiki>).

==== Professional ====
* Led team who shipped <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Nexus7 | Ubuntu on the Nexus 7]]</nowiki> for UDS-R (October 2012)
* Managed team who wrote initial implementation of Ubuntu's Remote Desktop feature (<nowiki>[[http://www.chizang.net/alex/blog/2012/09/27/ubuntu-12-10-remote-greeter/ | blog entry]]</nowiki>) (June 2012)
* Lead developer on the Vodafone Webbook project, an ARM netbook running Unity-2D, designed to bring Ubuntu and other free software to developing markets such as South Africa and other sub-Saharan nations. This work was obviously done under the aegis of the Canonical OEM team, but I feel it is a substantial contribution to spreading Ubuntu. (May 2011)

=== Future Goals ===

* Continue caring for the Universe archive, contributing patches whenever I can.
* Continue answering questions on Ask Ubuntu.
* One day, become smart enough for core-dev.
* Native English speaker, but currently taking Chinese lessons. Would love to help improve Chinese translations some day.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

* Working with Alex is lots of fun. He's good-natured, has a great sense of humour and knows how to get things done. Alex and his team have helped ship thousands of units on Ubuntu on all kinds of machines together with many OEMs. This cycle I've been working with him on the <nowiki>[[Nexus7]]</nowiki> project, which has been great so far and I'm glad we're working on this together. Highly recommended for membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki> 