{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== AlexeyMolchanov ==

My name is Alexey Molchanov (Алексей Молчанов in Russian). I'm 20 years old computer enthusiast and programmer. I live in Chernigov, Ukraine (about 150 km from our capital - Kiev). I am a student of <nowiki>[[http://www.stu.cn.ua/|Chernigov State Technological University]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://cs.stu.cn.ua/|cs department]]</nowiki>). My native language is Russian and I know Ukrainian very well too.

I am very interested in Open Source and most interested in <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/|GNOME]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://python.org/|Python]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://wxwidgets.org/|wxWidgets]]</nowiki> projects. My favorite linux distributions are <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/|Debian GNU/Linux]]</nowiki> and Ubuntu of course. I have been a Linux user for 4+ years.

My favorite programming language is Python (but I'm not very experienced in it yet). Also I have a strong knowlegde of C and shell scripting, little C++ and x86 assembler (tasm). I don't mention old Pascal/Delphi and BASIC.

=== My current Ubuntu activities ===

* Now I'm discussing creation of Russian Ubuntu Language Team.
* I've created Russian Local Community Team and I'm leader of this team. As part of my activity as a leader I set up Russian Community's <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-ru.org/|forum]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ru.org/Wiki|web site]]</nowiki> (currently only wiki available). Thanks for MatthiasUrlichs for hosting and help.
* I'm founder and administrator of <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ru|ubuntu-ru]]</nowiki> mailing list and ''#ubuntu-ru'' irc channel.
* I'm planning to create ubuntu-ua mailing list and already created ''#ubuntu-ua'' irc channel for Ukrainian Ubuntu users.
* I'm looking for people in Ukraine to host a local Ubuntu mirror. Also I helped a little to create full Russian Ubuntu archive mirror at <nowiki>[[http://citkit.ru/|citkit]]</nowiki>.

=== My previous Ubuntu activities ===
* I translated into Russian:
** AboutUbuntuRussian;
** HowToGetHelpRussian (only partlial);
* I wrote one HOWTO for Russian Ubuntu users:
** UbuntuRussianLocalizationHowTo

=== My Ubuntu interests ===

* Translation some of Ubuntu documentation into Russian.
* Helping on bug squashing and testing.
* Advocating Ubuntu among Russian-speaking community and organizing this community.
* Maybe little packaging work in the future.

=== Contacts ===

You can reach me in a number of ways but preferred are e-mail for offline, Jabber and IRC for online. I'm usually online 15:00-01:00 EET (GMT+2).

E-mail: alexey.molchanov <at> gmail.com

IRC: ''skyrider'' on <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|freenode network]]</nowiki> (I'm usually present at least on #ubuntu-ru and #debian-russian channels)

Jabber ID: skyrider@jabber.ru

Yahoo! IM: alexeymolchanov

ICQ: 103195540

LiveJournal: http://www.livejournal.com/users/alexey_m/ (in Russian)

Website: http://kid.stu.cn.ua/~skyrider/ (some random stuff, nothing useful yet)

GPG key id: 0x45479C5E (you can get it <nowiki>[[http://kid.stu.cn.ua/~skyrider/skyrider.asc|here]]</nowiki> or download from one of public keyservers)
----
CategoryHomepage
