{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Alexandre Erwin Ittner, apply for upload rights for these packages:'''

** libica
** openssl3-pkcs11-sign-provider 
** qclib
** libzpc

== Sponsored upload works (per package) ==

** libica <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libica/4.3.0-0ubuntu1|(release info)]]</nowiki>
** openssl-pkcs11-sign-provider <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssl-pkcs11-sign-provider/1.0.0-0ubuntu1|(release info)]]</nowiki>
** qclib <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qclib/2.4.1-0ubuntu1|(release info)]]</nowiki>
** libzpc <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libzpc/1.2.0-0ubuntu1|(release info)]]</nowiki>

== Sponsor miner ==

Complete list of packages in the live-updated <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=alexandre.ittner%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|sponsorship miner page]]</nowiki>.

== Contact ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Alexandre Erwin Ittner
|-
| '''Personal website'''
| https://www.ittner.com.br
|-
| '''LP page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~aittner
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==

Linux user since 1999 and had my first contact with Ubuntu on 5.04 (when we still had ShipIt CDs!). I started programming by learning QBasic by myself before before I had Internet, when the times were stranger. My non-computing interests ''should'' have been literature, photography, and amateur radio but keeping it in the "non-computing" realm has been a failure to now: I'm the maintainer of the <nowiki>[[https://www.valinor.com.br/forum/|Portuguese-language Tolkien website]]</nowiki>, worked on <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_photography|computational photography]]</nowiki> and imaging processing in the past, and play with digital radio modes and <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software-defined_radio|software-defined radio]]</nowiki>.  Not an Unix greybeard because I refuse to let it grow. 

== My Ubuntu story ==

I am running Ubuntu since the first releases, starting from 5.04, at first it was just in "let's follow the development and see what is going on"-mode as my main work-drivers were a RPM-based distro and Debian. On that time, collecting distros in a single machine was not ''that'' unusual. After a while, Ubuntu just became my "first level" distro to get the work done, but I can't thing of a strict cut-off date. I'm using LP since 2005, but mostly for PPAs and bug reports and discussion, way before I joined Canonical in 2019.

=== My involvement ===

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

'''openssl-pkcs11-sign-provider''' as a first example! It was the first time that I had a ''new'' package uploaded to the archives and was not an easy one: it was a plugin library, after all.

In a non-packaging related note, the first footprint I left on Ubuntu was with a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lua-iconv/|Lua library]]</nowiki> that I created in mid 2000s. and arrived in Ubuntu from Debian. I was not involved in the packaging, but it was very nice to see it ''here''.

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

While the openssl-pkcs11-sign-provider was a great learning experience on getting a new package in the archives with the non-trivial properties, I am very confident hat I will get a similar effort done quicker the next time!

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
