{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

I am 21 (1987.11.28) years old and a student at Temple University in Philadelphia, PA USA. I am a double major Mathematics and Computer Science. I enjoy collecting vinyl, and am an avid cyclist and member of Philly's bike community. You can almost always find me at <nowiki>[[http://www.philamass.org|Philly Critical Mass]]</nowiki>. Your city probably has one too, look it up. If not, start one! I like to surf, bike, skateboard, play music, and compute. I play guitar, trombone, and cello. I play guitar in a band, <nowiki>[[http://www.myspace.com/whatisamind|f(x)]]</nowiki> (E-mail me to book us! We'll play anywhere!). I started using Ubuntu in October of '06 shortly after edgy was released. I started going to the <nowiki>[[http://www.phillylinux.org|Philly Linux User Group]]</nowiki> and began to get more involved. I frequented the forums giving support to people who needed it. I joined the Ubuntu Pennsylvania LoCo Team and became active in that. Free software is something I'm very passionate about and I love spreading Ubuntu and free software to people all over the world.

=== Contact ===

 {*} '''E-Mail:''' alex.launi@gmail.com

 {*} '''Jabber:''' alex.launi@gmail.com

 {*} '''IRC (freenode/GIMPNet):''' lamalex

 {*} '''Website:''' http://www.lamalex.net/ 

 {*} '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:alexlauni]]</nowiki>

 {*} '''Forums:''' http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=224599

 {*} '''Facebook:''' hhttp://www.facebook.com/cooldude666

 {*} '''Twitter:''' http://www.twitter.com/lamalex_

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

==== Ubuntu Pennsylvania LoCo Team ====

 {*} Website admin

  {*} Set up original www.meetlinux.com domain, remain one of the admins of www.ubuntupennsylvania.org

 {*} Manage team <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntupennsylvania.org/calendar/|Calendar]]</nowiki>

 {*} Team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pennsylvania/+members|Launchpad admin]]</nowiki>

 {*} Team <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-pa|Mailing list]]</nowiki> admin

 {*} Helped organize first PA team <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=462693|install fest]]</nowiki>

 {*} Worked with PA Team, and Ubuntu Women/Linux Chix on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=465276|Girls inc. project]]</nowiki>

 {*} Helped plan <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillyGutsyRelease|Gutsy]]</nowiki>, Hardy, and <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillyJauntyRelease|Jaunty release parties]]</nowiki>

 {*} Worked on <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2008-November/000702.html|NTR dual boot imaging project]]</nowiki>

 {*} Distribute Ubuntu CDs to Temple University students

 {*} Worked the Ubuntu table and helped organize <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/northamerica/PA/Phila_Area_Computer_Society|Free Software day 2007]]</nowiki>

 {*} Appeared with <nowiki>[[lyz|Lyz Krumbach]]</nowiki> on WCOJ's Computer Corner radio show twice to promote and discuss Ubuntu

 {*} Liaison between Philadelphia Universities, and PA team

==== General Ubuntu Ecosystem ====
 
 {*} Bug reporter

 {*} Provide forum support

 {*} Provide local irc support in #ubuntu-us-pa when needed

 {*} Early release adopter

  {*} Uses alpha releases on production machines to make sure releases perform (speed, usability, etc.) under a normal load

 {*} Will be attending UDS Barcelona (thank you Canonical :D)

 {*} Ubuntu Cyclists member

 {*} Participating in Project Ayatana

 {*} Ubuntu-devel ML lurker/poster when I have something valuable to contribute

 {*} Attended the first Ubuntu Live! Conference in Portland, OR.

==== Upstream ====

 {*} GNOME Foundation member

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://do.davebsd.com|GNOME Do]]</nowiki> core developer

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/do-plugins|GNOME Do plugin]]</nowiki> coordinator

 {*} Tasque <nowiki>[[http://svn.gnome.org/viewvc/tasque/?view=query&dir=&file=&file_match=exact&who=&who_match=exact&comment=**Alex+Launi**&comment_match=glob&querysort=date&hours=2&date=all&mindate=&maxdate=&limit_changes=100|Contributer]]</nowiki>

 {*} Banshee <nowiki>[[http://svn.gnome.org/viewvc/banshee/?view=query&dir=&file=&file_match=exact&who=&who_match=exact&comment=**Alex+Launi**&comment_match=glob&querysort=date&hours=2&date=all&mindate=&maxdate=&limit_changes=100|Contributer]]</nowiki>

==== Future ====

I plan to continue to be involved in Ubuntu and F/OSS. I have attended GNOME Developer Summit. I feel that Ubuntu is the distro best poised to revolutionise the desktop experience. As an upstream developer, I have made fixes to GNOME Do to make it work better with Ubuntu technology, such as the new notification system in Jaunty. I will be attending UDS later this spring in hopes of talking to other developers and Ubuntuers to open their applications up over d-bus so that we can provide an innovative, and highly integrated desktop experience. In the Ubuntu community I will continue to advocate F/OSS and specifically Ubuntu. I have given out many Ubuntu CDs to classmates, and supported them through their transition. I plan to continue this and help keep fresh minds coming into F/OSS and Ubuntu.

==== Testimonials ====
Alex has been very involved with the Philly Area of the PA LoCo since <nowiki>[[http://gallery.ubuntupennsylvania.org/main.php?g2_itemId=30 | our first meeting.]]</nowiki> Some of his appearances at events have even become <nowiki>[[http://gallery.ubuntupennsylvania.org/main.php?g2_itemId=202 | infamous]]</nowiki>, as this photo from the Girls, Inc computer give-away event will confirm. As an older member (mid 40's) of the community, I am impressed with Alex's willingness to help and share his experiences with everyone at events, in the forums, and in our irc channel. I like to think of him as our 'Video Specialist' at events. As a member of the LoCo, I am very proud of his work with the Gnome-Do project; it's great having a developer in the LoCo. I think that Alex has fulfilled all requirements necessary and would be a fine Ubuntu Member!

-<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jedijf | jim fisher ]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jedijf | (jedijf) ]]</nowiki>
