{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

in Ubuntu, I've been working mainly on bug triage and translations in malone. I have access to a lot of different hardware on my work, and this provides me means for testing Ubuntu on a wide range of equipment.

Profile at launchpad: https://launchpad.net/people/surak

I maintain a Ubuntu blog at http://surak.wordpress.com (pt_BR only, it is a registered feed for Brazilian Ubuntu Planet, a blog aggregator) - this blog focus on hardware questions, altough it is not mandatory that things relate to hardware on it.

I've written a nice tutorial on how developers can change source code in Ubuntu/Debian way - https://surak.wordpress.com/2006/03/24/alterando-e-recompilando-pacotes-no-ubuntu - Which lead to a exclusive video driver for breezy amd64 - a functional Via Unichrome (breezy-amd64 used vesa): http://www.surak.eti.br/linux/ubuntu/deb/xserver-xorg-driver-via-preview-amd64-6.8.2.deb 

actually working on a custom distro (ubuntu-based) for a Brazilian hw manufacturer. We currently patch Ubuntu Live for
* Raid modules
* pt_BR support out-of-box
* Modem modules
* A Windows-like gnome theme
* Custom applications
* A Live installation script, some sort of UbuntuExpress

projects which I collaborate or collaborated in the past, either by submitting bugs, suggestions, corrections, translations (to/from pt_BR) and patches include

* netscape navigator - bug squashing
* http://freeradius.org/ - Bug squashing and some code to the php admin interface, dialup-admin
* http://openoffice.org.br - translation to pt_BR and the collaborative system of Q&A: http://www.rau-tu.unicamp.br/openoffice/ (1st place as collaborator in 2004 - something like the launchpad's karma)
* http://www.mozilla.org thunderbird/firefox - pt_BR translation
* http://www.fedora.org - pt_BR translations
* prism54, dri, gnomeicu, gaim, ndiswrapper - help on mailing list, testing, bugsquash
* gnome's projects (specially evolution): bug reporting

among others.

I maintain the pt_BR version of the Linux NIS-HOWTO at http://www.linux-nis.org/nis-howto/

Rafael Espindola ported the gpl driver for conexant modems to kernel 2.6 (thus avoiding buying the conexant one), and I've packaged it for Breezy: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/forum/hardware/Conexant

I like motorcycles, sailing, japanese food and star trek.

Can be found as surak at irc.freenode.net everyday in #ubuntu-br, #ubuntu-br-tradutores and #ubuntu-bugs daily.

----
CategoryHomepage
