{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Alex Launi's Wiki Page ====
This page is about me, Alex Launi

* '''email:''' socialrevolutionary@comcast.net
* '''AIM:''' n0sc1ssorsinbed
* '''MSN:''' lazertross@hotmail.com
* '''ICQ:''' 250461496
* '''irc:''' lamalex
* '''Website:''' http://lamalex.wordpress.com
* '''MySpace:''' http://www.myspace.com/whatisamind
* '''Facebook:''' http://temple.facebook.com/profile.php?id=665890102

==== About Me ====

I am 19 (1987.11.28) years old and a student at Temple University in Philadelphia, PA USA. I am a double major Mathematics and Computer Science. I am an avid cyclist and member of Philly's bike community. You can almost always find me at Philly Critical Mass (http://www.philamass.org). Your city probably has one too, look it up. If not, start one! I like to surf, bike, skateboard, play music, and compute. I play guitar, trombone, and cello. I play guitar in a band, Shootin' Blanks/f(x)/Prague Rokk <nowiki>[[http://www.myspace.com/whatisamind]]</nowiki> (hahah email me to book us! We'll play anywhere!). My family consists of my girlfriend, my dad, my mom, and my younger brother. I also have a dog and a cat.

==== Ubuntu ====

I started using Ubuntu in October of '06 shortly after edgy was released. I was chatting with a friend online and he told me I should check out Ubuntu. I did, installed it, and never looked back. I dual booted for a few months until I realized there was nothing I needed windows for and I was just ruining my free-software karma. I started going to the Philly Linux User Group (http://www.phillylinux.org) and began to get more involved. I frequented the forums giving support to people who needed it. A few months ago I joined the Ubuntu Pennsylvania LoCo Team and became active in that. Free software is something I'm very passionate about and I love spreading Ubuntu and free software to people all over the world.
