{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Short Introduction ====

I am <nowiki>[[http://asac.ws/|Alexander Sack]]</nowiki> (aka <nowiki>[[http://asac.ws/|asac]]</nowiki>) and I recently joined ubuntu in order to work on mozilla package maintenance. I also have engaged in network management and bluetooth as well as various other components of the ubuntu desktop stack. In Q4 2009 I joined the mobile team as the tech lead. You can get contact info on my <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~asac|launchpad page]]</nowiki>.

I also have a <nowiki>[[http://asac.ws|tumblr blog]]</nowiki> as well as a currently abandoned <nowiki>[[http://www.asoftsite.org/s9y/|blog about mozilla, ubuntu and debian]]</nowiki>; further I am microblogging on <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/asac | identi.ca (asac)]]</nowiki>. The contents from there are also mirrored on <nowiki>[[http://www.twitter.com/asacasa | twitter (asacasa)]]</nowiki> if you prefer to use that service.

==== How to contact ====

I usually hang out in #ubuntu-arm, #ubuntu-devel, #ubuntu-desktop, #ubuntu-mozillateam, #nm and other channels  on irc.freenode.net. My nick is asac. Other networks i am usually logged in are listed on my <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~asac|launchpad page]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryHomepage
