{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''This is a draft work, so think of it as such. Don't fix here anything without reason, especially links, as it would probably not be movable.'''

== Welcome to the Ubuntu QA Team! ==

----
TODO: Overview the following<<BR>>
'''The Ubuntu QA team is focused on developing and maintaining documentation, policies and practices for ensuring Ubuntu's quality as a distribution as well as providing general advice, oversight, and leadership of QA community and its activities within the Ubuntu project.'''

=== What kinds of things does the Ubuntu QA team do? ===
* Assesses and communicates Ubuntu's QA needs.
* Works on creating consistent and efficient QA-related policies.
* Helps to build communities around QA work and run them smoothly.
* Leads Ubuntu's testing activities.
* Provides leadership to Ubuntu QA-related projects.

=== Getting Involved ===
Ubuntu QA is mainly a coordination team, so individuals, not other teams, can be members. Additionally, memberships expire annually and can be renewed by members themselves. We heartily encourage people from '''all''' areas of QA to join our team.

If you like to join us, then: <<BR>>
* Please send an introductory email to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-quality|ubuntu-quality]]</nowiki> list introducing yourself, your previous QA work, and your plans for working in the team.
* Consider joining our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-testing|Launchpad QA Team]]</nowiki>.
* Come to talk to us in '''#ubuntu-testing''' or '''#ubuntu-quality''' channels on irc.freenode.net
* Join our team meetings in '''#ubuntu-meeting''' channel on Wednesdays, 17:00 GMT. Click <nowiki>[[Meetings|here]]</nowiki> to read the details and agenda for the next meeting, as well as logs of previous meetings.

=== Current Activities ===

The main list of QA tasks is our <nowiki>[[Testing-Activities|Activities]]</nowiki> page, but if you're eager to start without wasting any moment, talk to the team about doing one of the tasks from the following list:

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/TasksPrecise|QA Community tasks for Precise Pangolin release]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Details ===
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-qa|Launchpad QA Team]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-quality|Ubuntu QA mailing list]]</nowiki>
** '''#ubuntu-quality''' and '''#ubuntu-testing''' channels on irc.freenode.net

=== QA related teams ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Purpose/focus'''
| '''Launchpad'''
| '''Mailing list'''
| '''IRC'''
| '''Primary contact(s)'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[QATeam-PerformingSRUVerification|SRU Verification]]</nowiki>
| SRU testing/validation
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sru-verification|sru-verification]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-quality|ubuntu-quality]]</nowiki>
| '''#ubuntu-quality'''
| Jean-Baptiste Lallement (jibel)
|-
| <nowiki>[[QATeam|Ubuntu QA]]</nowiki>
| Main Ubuntu QA coordination/development
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-qa|ubuntu-qa]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-quality|ubuntu-quality]]</nowiki>
| '''#ubuntu-testing'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[Kubuntu-QA|Kubuntu QA]]</nowiki>
| Kubuntu QA coordination/development
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kubuntu-members|kubuntu-members]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-devel|kubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>
| '''#kubuntu-devel'''
| <nowiki>[[RichardJohnson|Richard Johnson (nixternal)]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.xubuntu.org/contribute/qa_bugs_testing|Xubuntu QA]]</nowiki>
| Xubuntu QA coordination/development
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-team|xubuntu-team]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>
| '''#xubuntu-devel'''
|-
| Lubuntu QA
| Lubuntu QA coordination/development
| lubuntu-members
| .
| '''#lubuntu'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phillw|Phill Whiteside (phillw)]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width: 40px; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px; background-color: #F1F1DD; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; font-size: 0.75em; text-align: left;">~+'''Sub-pages:'''+~
|}
