{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

My name is Alex To. I am Vietnamese, 27 years old currently living in Singapore, a small island country in South East Asia. If you are wondering where it is, here is the map http://maps.google.com/?q=singapore :D :D

English is my second language so pardon me if my writing has mistakes, I do try to write mostly in simple English to avoid confusion though :D.

I have been working as a developer for couple of years, and before that, I did part time jobs as a freelance developers as well during my study. For all these time, I have been a Microsoft developer, developing application mostly on Microsoft platform so no surprise that I earned myself only Microsoft certifications. I have MCPD on both web and windows applications, OCA, some other miscellaneous certification on Java and Bluecoat proxy.

Currently I serve as CTO for JSNP Communications, a local based company in Singapore developing Digital Audio Broadcast equipment. If you feel interested, you might want to find more info about DAB stuff that we are doing at http://jsnpcomms.com/ . Besides programming, if you do digital signal processing or DAB related stuff, I am more than happy to discuss with you so drop me an email anytime.

I come to Ubuntu community hoping this is the place where I could contribute and learn from others.

Thanks for reading this and hopefully I could get to know more folks in this community

Regards

Alex
