{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/avassalotti/|avassalotti]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| &#97;&#118;&#97;&#115;&#115;&#97;&#108;&#111;&#116;&#116;&#105;&#64;&#117;&#98;&#117;&#110;&#116;&#117;&#46;&#99;&#111;&#109;
|-
| '''Home Page'''
| http://peadrop.com
|}

== About Me ==
I'm Alexandre Vassalotti, a computer science student from Quebec, Canada. I am a Ubuntu user since the 5.04 release, the Hoary Hedgehog. It was my first real introduction to a Linux system. Since then, I never stopped to enjoy learning to use it.

== Contributions ==
Here a list of some of my contributions.

=== Documentation ===
* UbuntuPackagingGuide: I worked with JordanMantha for creating this guide. Since I didn't really knew anything about packaging, when I started it, my contributions were mainly geared toward describing the tools packagers uses. I also wrote most of the section called ''Packaging with Debhelper.''

=== Artwork ===
* I did several splashes images for Ubuntu for Breezy Badger, that I posted in this <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=108761&page=3|thread]]</nowiki>. I also distributed the source file for the image 
* I did upstart's <nowiki>[[http://upstart.ubuntu.com|logo]]</nowiki>, with the help of ScottJamesRemnant. I'm quite proud of the result.

=== Bug Report ===

* https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/sbcl/+bug/34257 : My first bug report.
* http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=340422 : This was my first upstream bug I reported. I particularly like this one, because it's one of those bug that can be only triggered after an exact sequence of steps. It's like a secret code for crashing the application.
* https://launchpad.net/products/upstart/+bug/58518 : An upstream bug in upstart.
* https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/libming/+bug/64535 : An UVF exception

''This is just my favorite bug reports. For the complete list, look in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/avassalotti/+reportedbugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Released&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.status_upstream=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=&search=Search|launchpad]]</nowiki>.''

=== Support ===

I try my best to answer support requests on Launchpad. The list can be found here: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/avassalotti/+tickets]]</nowiki> I also started a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-helpteam|new team]]</nowiki> which is goal is to provide free support to Ubuntu users.

I also done a significant amount of support in the IRC channels.

=== Community ===

* I started UbuntuTrivia, which is a themed quiz about anything that can be interesting.
* When I got the time, I try my best to help on UbuntuWeeklyNews.

== Future Plans ==
 
* Debug and improve applications provided by Ubuntu. (ie. gnome-app-install, update-manager, upstart)
* Help to coordinate the efforts between the developers.
* Improve the existing documentation.
* Maintain the packages in Universe and possibly in Main too.

== Related Wikipages ==

<<FullSearch>>
----
CategoryHomepage
