{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Contact ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Alexandre Erwin Ittner
|-
| '''Personal website'''
| https://www.ittner.com.br
|-
| '''LP page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~aittner
|}

== Who I am ==

Linux user since 1998 and had my first contact with Ubuntu on 5.04, when we still had ShipIt CDs. I started programming by learning QBasic by myself before before I had Internet, when the times were stranger. My non-computing interests ''should'' have been literature, photography, and amateur radio but keeping it in the "non-computing" realm has been a failure to now: I'm the maintainer of the <nowiki>[[https://www.valinor.com.br/forum/|Portuguese-language Tolkien website]]</nowiki>, worked on <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_photography|computational photography]]</nowiki> and imaging processing in the past, and play with digital radio modes and <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software-defined_radio|software-defined radio]]</nowiki>.  Not an Unix greybeard because I refuse to let it grow. 

== Ubuntu Involvement ==

I'm probably on the "first batch" of LP users from mid 2005, and have been maintaining a few PPAs and backports since mid 2009; working at Canonical's Partner Engineering team since 2019.

=== PPU Application ===

See <nowiki>[[AlexandreErwinIttner-PPUApplication]]</nowiki>

== External projects ==

* <nowiki>[[http://github.com/ittner/newslinkrss/|newslinkrss]]</nowiki> - Crawler for generating RSS feeds for sites that do not provide them.
* <nowiki>[[http://github.com/ittner/signal-sticker-tool/|signal-sticker-tool]]</nowiki> - Command line packer for Signal stickers.
* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ittner/ioreth|Ioreth]]</nowiki> - APRS client libraries and bot server.
* <nowiki>[[http://ittner.github.io/abelhas/|Abelhas]]</nowiki> - A particle swarm optimization library for Lua.
* <nowiki>[[http://lua-espeak.luaforge.net/|Lua-eSpeak]]</nowiki> - eSpeak bindings for Lua.
* <nowiki>[[http://wikisked.sourceforge.net/|Sked]]</nowiki> - A wiki-like schedule or a desktop wiki with scheduling.
* <nowiki>[[http://ittner.github.io/lua-gd/|Lua-GD]]</nowiki> - LibGD bindings for Lua.
* <nowiki>[[http://ittner.github.io/lua-iconv/|lua-iconv]]</nowiki> - iconv bindings for Lua.

 
