{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I am working to introduce Ubuntu and other FOSS options into the Massachusetts, USA area.
This particular part of the state has a lot of focus on.
* Buy local products to help create a sustainable economy
* Creating/Supporting greener alternatives

In the past year we have created a Collective of Technicians under
River Valley Tech Collective @ http://www.rivervalleytechcollective.org/

There have been successful installs of Ubuntu at a couple of non-profits and other organizations.

Some of our main goals in the next few years.
 1. Drupal installs for non-profits, libraries and advocacy groups in the area
 2. CiviCRM installs and hosting for these groups as well.
 3. A clear desktop solutions using Linux Terminal Services so they can
  1.a reuse old hardware
  1.b spend less on desktops
  1.c average about 20 watts a desktop instead of say 50watts
  1.d easier installation and replacement

With all of these we will be trying to create a clear Training system
 1. online videos
 2. onsite training
 3. web / PDF pages
This is where our greatest focus needs to go and we are really working hard on making this part happen.

Overall I think the Ubuntu and FOSS options is a vital solution for communities. Helping to create a better local economy and a greener solution to many of the other options out there. As well as create a more level playing field for the many groups out there needing technology to stay active.
