{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

My name is Allen. I enjoy golf, chess, and of course Linux. These days I use Ubuntu Server, Xubuntu, and a few other flavours in VMs. Not much use for Windows other than to run a piece of accounting software. In prior years though, starting with Windows 3.0, I was on that train until my conversion to Linux which started in earnest in February 2019 when I joined the Ubuntu Forums.

My first computer was a Kaypro II portable PC computer all clad in metal, 286i running PC Dos 3.0. The keyboard had side-clips like a sewing machine, to attach it to the monitor side which completed the cuboid shape. I thought I was cool toting this thing to my computer science classes in high school, while the other kids sat in front of the school provided apples. You'd never get through security with one of those these days. I started with Basic programming, then Pascal for a few years.

My computer passion throughout life is not well-organized, founded mostly from what I have learned from others, self study, and some classes. I never found myself in the technical trade either. Yet, I am more adept than most in my sphere of influence. I own a business in risk management, and read Ubuntu Forums on my lunch breaks.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Location
| Virginia
|-
| Ubuntu Forums profile
| https://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=2118065
|-
| Launchpad profile
| https://launchpad.net/~aljames
|}

=== Contributions ===

I spend a lot of time on the Ubuntu Forums reading and contributing where I feel sure I am able to give reliable advise. I value the contributions of others who have helped me gain some proficiency on this journey. I plan to be around, gaining knowledge and sharing knowledge. I consider my strengths to be in hardware, documentation creation and maintenance, testing, backups, VMs, & storage management (not RAID - have not needed it).

=== Future Goals ===

My next journey will be to work on building some confidence in using the ZFS filesystem and disk management features and understanding its ideal uses.  Also, grow more in Bash scripting & learn C coding.
