{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi!

You have probably come here because you have a problem with headphones not muting the internal speakers when inserted (or with headphones not unmuting the internal speakers when removed), and someone asked you to provide a codec dump. Here's how to do that:

* Open a terminal, then enter these commands to kill PulseAudio:

<pre>
echo autospawn = no >> ~/.pulse/client.conf
killall pulseaudio
</pre>

* Then enter this command with headphones '''removed''':

<pre>
speaker-test -c2 -l3 -Dplug:front:0
</pre>

* Open a second terminal, and enter this command while the speaker-test in the first terminal continues to run:

<pre>
cat /proc/asound/card*/codec* > ~/codec.no_hp.txt
</pre>

* Wait until the speaker-test has finished.
* Insert headphones into the appropriate jack, and repeat the first step with speaker-test.
* In the second terminal, modify the second step as follows while the speaker-test in the first terminal continues to run:

<pre>
cat /proc/asound/card*/codec* > ~/codec.hp.txt
</pre>

* Open your Launchpad bug and attach the files ~/codec.no_hp.txt and ~/codec.hp.txt (in your home directory) to that message.
* To return your system to a clean state again, edit ~/.pulse/client.conf with your favorite editor and remove the line "autospawn = no". If the file is now empty, you can just as well delete it. Then log out and log in again.

* Last but not least - thanks for helping out!
----
CategoryDebugging
