{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Alternative Desktop projects aims to give a different take on the standard Ubuntu desktop package by offering a different set of packages along with a unique look and feel.

<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== About ===
This project has ''mostly'' been started for personal reasons. Something to give me an easy to set a desktop more how ''I'' envisioned it. I'm also putting it together to give a voice to some of the great progressive folks I've met out there who have great ideas about how the default desktop should look.

The project has 2 aims:
* To provide a different default list of applications.
* To explore what the Ubuntu desktop ''could'' look like with the technology currently in the Ubuntu repos.

What this is '''not''' going to do:
* Create installation disks.
* Become a Ubuntu derivative.

It is '''strictly''' a set of packages to be installed on top of a CLI install. Though this will raise the barrier of entry for some people anything else is outside the current scope the project.

=== Installation ===

1. Download a Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate|Alternative]]</nowiki> disk.<<BR>>
2. Add Alternative Desktop PPA to you sources.list:

* <code>sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list</code>
3. Add code below:
<<BR>>

* <code>deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/alternativedesktop-dev/ppa/ubuntu jaunty main</code>
<<BR>>
4. Install desktop package:

* <code>sudo apt-get install alternative-desktop</code> or, for a non-free desktop (codecs and such) <code>sudo apt-get install alternative-desktop-nonfree</code>

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/alternativedesktop|Launchpad page]]</nowiki>
* Look&Feel discussion is handled on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-art|Ubuntu Artwork]]</nowiki> mailing list.

=== Get Involved ===
Hunt me down on IRC/Freenode. nick: _MMA_
