{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My name is Linda Halligan. I'm a Systems Engineer and for <nowiki>[[http://www.bitpusher.com|BitPusher]]</nowiki> in Seattle, WA. I've been using various flavors of Linux at work and at home since 1998. I've been using Ubuntu server at work since 2008. I have participated in <nowiki>[[http://lfnw.org|LinuxFest Northwest]]</nowiki> for the past four years with my employer, and for the past two years with the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WashingtonTeam|Washington LoCo]]</nowiki>. I'm assisting with getting the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WashingtonTeam|Washington LoCo]]</nowiki> active.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~linda-halligan
|-
| IRC
| althara
|-
| AIM
| althara
|-
| GTalk
| linda.halligan@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| linda.halligan@gmail.com
|-
| Website
| http://redheadgeekgirl.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

Organized live demo of bug triaging process at the February <nowiki>[[http://gslug.org|GSLUG]]</nowiki> meeting with video to be posted at <nowiki>[[http://UbuntuDevelopers.blip.tv]]</nowiki>. 

Helped organize the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WashingtonTeam/Events/LucidParty|Washington Loco Lucid Release Party in Seattle]]</nowiki>.

Helped organize the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WashingtonTeam/Events/LFNW2010|Ubuntu table for LinuxFest NorthWest 2010]]</nowiki>.

Helped organize the Ubuntu table for LinuxFest NorthWest 2011.

=== Future Goals ===

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

Linda is inspiring. Her faithfulness, wonderful organizational abilities, and willingness to bake delicious cakes have gotten us where we are today! She got us going, and with her help, we ''will'' become an approved and effective LoCo. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:valorie-zimmerman]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>

----
CategoryWashingtonTeamProfile
