{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Real name:'''...Alysson Neto

'''Launchpad:'''...https://launchpad.net/~alysson-neto

'''Forum Ubuntu PT:'''........ http://ubuntuforum-pt.org/ (pt_BR)

'''e-mail:'''............ alysson.neto@gmail.com

'''Ubuntu Forum PT ID:'''......<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforum-pt.org/index.php?action=profile;u=524|n3t0]]</nowiki>

'''gtalk ID:'''......alysson.souza AT gmail.com

'''OpenPGP:'''.....<nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0xD0DE6ECD67809267|67809267 ]]</nowiki> 

'''irc nick:'''..........n3t0 on network Freenode in channels #aptoncd and #ubuntu-br

'''where:'''............Jundiai / Brazil

== What I Do ==

My name is Alysson Neto, I'm 27 years old and I live in Brazil. I'm the owner of a small outsourcing company and most of my work is made on Linux. I've been using Linux for five years now on my personal (even my work) desktop, having gone through other distros before that.  Ubuntu got my attention due to its philosophy of mutual help, incorporating the real meaning of the word "community". 

Currently, I am one of the administrators for the Brazilian Ubuntu Forum. I have developed all the activities (backup, design, maintenance and user support) necessary to keep the system running smoothly. Recently, I have joined the Ubuntu-BR Doc Team, and one of my tasks is provide an integration between the Wiki and Forum. Our goal is to improve the support to the user, offering the possibility to consult the documentation via the wiki and search for help on the correspondent topic in the forum. 

== Ubuntu Related Activities ==

* Ubuntu BR Forum Team - Administrator

* Brazilian Documetation Team - Data Miner, on http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org

=== Contributed Forum ===
* Ubuntu BR Forum Team - Administrator
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforum-pt.org/index.php?action=profile;u=524;sa=showPosts|Ubuntu BR Forum posts]]</nowiki>

== Things that I want to do ==
* I want to keep helping the community
* Make the Ubuntu BR Forum grow
* Help to create documentation of good quality for the users
* Bring more and more users to Ubuntu

== Testimonials ==
-- n3t0 is an important piece of brazilian ubuntu community. He's one of the responsibles to maintain the forum and always makes improvements on it.
He's also the channel between the forum and ubuntu-br-doc, helping us to create more documentation according the users needs. -- RafaelSfair <rsfair@gmail.com>

-- Alysson is doing a excelent job in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforum-br.org|Ubuntu-BR forum]]</nowiki>, helping and guiding new users, answering their questions and preventing improductive discussions (forums stuffs :) ). He also works together the Ubuntu-BR Documentation Team improving the support to the users using the available portuguese documentation, and always as possible, migrating the HowTo content of the forum trought the Wiki. I agree and support his membership -- RafaelProenca <cypherbios@ubuntu.com>

-- I met n3t0 in #ubuntu-br IRC channel, since i met him he helped me a lot to use my Ubuntu, he showed me the forum that he is responsible and i got a lot of help there too.
n3t0 does a good job maintaining the forum and helping a lot of new/old users there, i think that the forum is one of the most tool available to help new users to get all help that they needs.
I am so pround to write here a few things that, for sure, would not describe the person and the ubuntu user that n3t0 became and the friendship we built.  -- <laudeci@gmail.com>

-- Tive a oportunidade de compartilhar experiências ao lado de n3t0 durante meu período como Administrador do fórum Ubuntu-PT. Seu papel é de extrema importância para a comunidade brasileira e portuguesa. Graças a seu grande trabalho o forum permanece hoje online com milhares de usuários e centenas de dúvidas sendo postadas por dia. Conheço n3t0 pessoalmente e trata-se de uma excelente pessoa, de bom caráter, e tenho certeza que, se aceito como ubuntu user, fará ainda mais pelo Ubuntu e software livre. -- LedStyle

-- Alysson é um companheiro com quem posso contar, na administração do fórum Ubuntu-PT. Pude contar com sua ajuda em várias madrugadas e fins de semana, fazendo todo possível para tornar o fórum, o melhor possível para a comunidade de língua portuguesa. Sua dedicação ao fórum e à comunidade Ubuntu é uma inspiração e seu papel dentro da comunidade essencial. -- <fabmak@gmail.com>
    
*** Alysson is a friend with who i can count, in the administration of forum Ubuntu-PT . I could count on its help in some dawns and weekends, making everything possible to make the forum better for the community of Portuguese language. His devotion to forum and the Ubuntu community is an inspiration and it's work is essential for the community. -- <fabmak@gmail.com>

-- O Fórum é a ferramenta mais ágil e completa para suporte do Ubuntu em português e AlyssonNeto é o responsável por tudo isso. Eficiente e habil, mostra ser uma pessoa de carater ao resolver situações conflituosas e fomentar projetos. Hoje temos baixo tempo de respostas úteis para as perguntas de iniciantes graças ao seu esforço e dedicação em difundir a utilização do fórum. -- <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-br.org/JoseVitor|JoseVitor]]</nowiki> <josevitor@gmail.com>

** The Forum is the most agile and complete support tool of the Ubuntu in Portuguese and AlyssonNeto one of the reponssibles for this. Efficient and habil, he's a person, of carater when deciding conflict situations and fomenting projects. Today we have low time of useful answers for the beginning questions thanks to his efforts and devotion in spreading out the use of fórum -- <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-br.org/JoseVitor|JoseVitor]]</nowiki> <josevitor@gmail.com>

-- AlyssonNeto has been a major player supporting the Brazilian Support Forum!  For those who don't know, the Brazilian community is one of the biggest and most active Ubuntu and GNU/Linux communities in the world.  Our forums receive literally hundreds of thousands of visitors every month, and AlyssonNeto has been able to create a great team around him to make sure things run as smoothly as possible!Yet another "backstage" hero for the Brazilian community, he has my respect and 100% support for his membership to the Ubuntu Team crew! OgMaciel

-- Ubuntu linux have a fantastic community and Alysson Neto is one of the most important man that help this community. He is the administrator of Ubuntu forum to countries that speak portuguese, a place where all users can learn about Ubuntu. Alysson Neto also helps the community writing documentation with ubuntu-br-doc team and answering questions in #ubuntu-br     channel. -- YuriMalheiros

-- n3t0 is a cool guy, nice job on the forum-pt and #ubuntu-br helper, congratulations for your addiction on the ubuntu official crew's
be well n3t0. -- crimeboy <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarceloSilva]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
