{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact ===

* '''Name:''' Alissa Harrison
* '''Email:''' 
=== About my computer ===
For bug reporting... :-)

'''Toshiba Tecra M2''' with Dapper
* Intel Pentium 855M (1.50 GHz; FSB 400 MHz; L2 cache 1MB)
* 512MB DDR RAM
* Hitachi Travelstar 548040M9A100 (40GB; 5400rpm)
* TEAC DW-224E-A (24xCD-RW / 8xDVD-ROM)
* Nvidia GeForce FX Go5200 (64MB)
* Intel PRO/Wireless 2100
* ALPS PS/2 DualPoint TouchPad
* Intel 82801DB AC'97 Audio

=== About Me ===
I'm a 電車女 who recently graduated from the University of Washington with a double degree in computer science and linguistics.  Now I am a grad student in Hong Kong studying...linguistics.  But all the philosophical debates over language and the mind has driven me to seek out the comfort of computers again.  So I when I want to procrastinate on my thesis, I search the forums for ways to tweak my Ubuntu installation.

I have been using Ubuntu since about April 2005.  It wasn't my first attempt to break free from Windows and do Linux, but it was my first successful attempt!  And I haven't looked back since.  I deleted my Windows partition, threw away all my (pirated) Windows software, and have become a changed person. :-)  I only wish that I had made the switch earlier when I was still in my compsci program.  I think it would been a great supplement to my education.

=== Contributions ===

Honestly, I am still getting my feet wet in the community.  Anyways, it's a starting place, right?
* Bug reporting
* Posting on Dapper Drake, Ubuntu Women forums
* I am open to getting more involved depending on my other life commitments!

----
CategoryHomepage
