{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Software ==

I am currently going through Synaptic and looking for relevant homepages for the listed software.

== Non-Synaptic Software ==
* LinRAD - <nowiki>[[http://www.nitehawk.com/sm5bsz/linuxdsp/linrad.htm]]</nowiki>
 Software for Moon bounce, weak signal or SDR.

* VOACap - <nowiki>[[http://homepage.mac.com/jimwatson/voacapl/]]</nowiki>
 Software for HF propagation.

* Winlink - <nowiki>[[http://www.winlink.org/]]</nowiki>
 There doesn't seem to be a Linux equivalent of this software. Winlink is software that interfaces between the radio and your email client. There seems to be no package available for Linux distros but I had found this link for telpac software. <nowiki>[[http://www.tapr.org/pipermail/linux/2004-October/000074.html]]</nowiki>
 David Wilburn K4DGW sent me a developr's link for Telpac and told me he has it running in Debian 4.0  <nowiki>[[http://db0lj.dyndns.org/pub/dl5di-soft/]]</nowiki>

== Synaptic Software ==
=== Utilities ===
=== Antenna Modeling ===
Modeling or analysis software for various antenna types.
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* antennavis - <nowiki>[[http://n5xu.ece.utexas.edu/antennavis/]]</nowiki>
* nec - []
* nec2c - []
* qantenna - []
* xnec2c - []
* xnecveiw - <nowiki>[[http://wwwhome.cs.utwente.nl/~ptdeboer/ham/xnecview/]]</nowiki>
* yagiuda - []

Available in Synaptic under Science ( Universe ):
* cassbeam - []
* libneccpp0 - []
* libnecpp-dev - []
* necpp - <nowiki>[[http://alioth.debian.org/projects/necpp/]]</nowiki>
* python-necpp - <nowiki>[[http://alioth.debian.org/projects/necpp/]]</nowiki>

=== Beacons ===
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* baken - []
* ibp - []

=== Drivers ===
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* baycomepp - []
* baycomusb - []
* fldigi - []
* z8530-utils2 - []

=== Electronics ===
Available in Synaptic under Electronics (Universe):
* Circuit Simulation - gnucap - []
* Emulator - gpsim - []
* Emulator - gpsim-lcd - []
* Emulator - gpsim-lcd-graphic - []
* Emulator - gpsim-led - []
* Emulator - gpsim-logic - []
* Emulator - simulpic - []
* Flash - eep24c - []
* Flash - flashrom - []
* Flash - gputils - []
* Flash - nitpic - []
* Flash - picprog - []
* PCB Layout - pcb <nowiki>[[http://directory.fsf.org/pcb.html]]</nowiki> (I can't access the related homepage ??)
* RF Line Analysis - atlc (transmission line)
* RF Line Analysis - atlc-data
* Schematics - gEDA <nowiki>[[http://www.geda.seul.org/]]</nowiki>
* Waveform Display - gWave - []
* Waveform Display - gtkWave - []
* kicad - project manager for below - []
* Schematics - eeschematic - []
* PCB Layout - pcbnew - []
* GERBER Veiwer - gerbveiw  - []
* Footprint - cpvb - []

* More information at <nowiki>[[AmateurRadio/Software/Electronics|AmateurRadio/Software/Electronics]]</nowiki>

Available in Synaptic under Electronics (Multiverse):
* Emulator - spim - []
* PCB Layout - eagle - []
* PCB Layout - eagle-data - []

Available in Synaptic under Science (Universe):
* Multimeter - qtdmm - []
* RF Line Analysis - transcalc - []

=== Fax ===
Send or Receive Faxes.
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* acfax - []
* hamfax - []

=== HF Propagation ===
HF Propagation data
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* minimuf - []

=== Logging ===
Contest or Contacts Logging.
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* klog - []
* trustedqsl - <nowiki>[[http://www.arrl.org/lotw/#download]]</nowiki>
* tucnak1 - []
* tucnak1-data - []
* twlog - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=210211]]</nowiki> (Installation HowTo)
* xlog - <nowiki>[[http://www.qsl.net/pg4i/linux/]]</nowiki>

=== Misc. Utilities ===
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* Menus - hamradiomenus - []
* RF Path?? - splat - []
* Software - hamsoft - <nowiki>[[http://radio.linux.org.au/hamsoft/index.html]]</nowiki>
* World Clock - twclock - []
* Voice Keyer - ssbd - []
* Weak Signal - wsjt - []
* WOTA - xwota - <nowiki>[[http://people.fabaris.it/iz0ete/xwota]]</nowiki>

=== Morse (CW) Practice ===
Practice or educational Morse Code software.
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* aldo - []
* cw - []
* cwcp - []
* morse - <nowiki>[[http://www.catb.org/~esr/morse]]</nowiki>
* morse-x - []
* pileup - []
* xcwcp - []

=== Rig Control ===
Controlling Radios via the PC.
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* grig - []
* icom - []
* icomlib1c2 - []
* icomlib-bin - []
* libham-utils - []
* marote - []
* qpcr1k - []
* sgcontrol - []
* tk2 - []
* tk5 - []

Available in Synaptic under Libraries ( Universe ):
* libhamlib2 - []
* libhamlib2++c2 - []

=== Satellite Tracking ===
Tracking satellites.
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* ao40tlmview - []
* gpredict - <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/groundstation]]</nowiki>
* ktrack - <nowiki>[[http://ktrack.sourceforge.net]]</nowiki>
* modemp3d - []
* mtrack - []
* predict - []
* predict-gsat - []

Available in Synaptic under Science ( Universe ):
* seesat5 - []

=== Smith Chart ===
Smith Chart analysis.
Available in Synaptic under Amateur Radio ( Universe ):
* xsmc-calc - <nowiki>[[http://www.qsl.net/ik5nax/]]</nowiki>
Available in Synaptic under the category Electronics (Universe).
* linsmith - <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/linsmith]]</nowiki>
* vipec - <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/vipec]]</nowiki>

=== Other Resources ===

Documentation, Software or Electronics.

* Amateur Radio Research and Development - <nowiki>[[http://www.amrad.org/]]</nowiki>
* Digital Communications - <nowiki>[[http://www.tapr.org]]</nowiki>
* TAPR Software Library -<nowiki>[[http://www.tapr.org/software.html]]</nowiki>

HowTo's:
* fldigi - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=380639]]</nowiki> (Installation)
 This is software for configuring your soundcard for digital modes, also can decode CW (Morse).

=== Site Map ===

* <nowiki>[[AmateurRadio|AmateurRadio]]</nowiki> - General Information
* <nowiki>[[AmateurRadio/Sitemap|AmateurRadio/Sitemap]]</nowiki> - Table of related pages.

----
