{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Electronics ==

There are several tools to design analog, digital or RF circuits available through Synaptic.

gEDA is a suite (well not quite) of tools to design and simulate electronic circuits.
PCB is a tool to design pcb layouts. gnucap can be used for simulations. And gWave can display waveforms 
from circuit simulations.

gEDA has excellent documentation on gEDA, PCB and simulation; that I am not going to try and reproduce here.
This documentation is available from the install or at: <nowiki>[[http://geda.seul.org/wiki/|http://geda.seul.org/wiki/]]</nowiki>

=== Installation ===

The following software can be installed from Synaptic's Electronics (Universe) Section,
Or Add/Remove.. (they are listed under Education):

* gEDA - Schematic design and simulation.
* PCB - Printed Circuit Board (PCB) Layout.
* gWave - Waveform display, from circuit simulations.
* gnucap - Circuit Analysis/Simulation

=== Configuration ===

After you install gEDA there are some changes to make the system easier to use.

~/.gEDA/gafrc
<pre>
(component-library "${HOME}/.gEDA/gschem-sym") ; user library path
</pre>

This just points the system to the location of user specified component symbols.
If you don't define any of your own symbols that's okay, you don't need to. And 
if you download any symbols, you can keep them here too.

~/.gEDA/gschemrc
<pre>
(log-window "later") ; disable status window on startup
(image-color "disabled") ; for monochromoe PNG output
(load (string-append gedadatarc "/gschem-lightbg")) ; light background
(load (string-append gedadata "/scheme/auto-uref.scm")) ; load the autonumbering script
(add-hook! add-component-hook auto-uref)       ; autonumber when adding a component
(add-hook! copy-component-hook auto-uref)      ; autonumber when copying a component
</pre>

First option keeps the annoying dialog box from displaying on startup.
The second keeps printouts black and white, I think they are easier to read then.
On screen a dark background might be easier to see but I favor the light background.
Omit the third option if you want a dark background.
And the last options turn on autonumbering, which numbers the components reference 
designations as you add them.

~/.gEDA/gnetlistrc
<pre>
(component-library "${HOME}/.gEDA/gschem-sym") ; user library path
(debug-options (list 'stack 200000)) ; to prevent stack overflow
(eval-options (list 'stack 200000)) ; to prevent stack overflow
</pre>

Same user path is needed and the other options specify maximum number of components 
to prevent overflow errors.

~/.gEDA/project/attribs
<pre>
value
refdes
Mfr
Mfr_PN
Vendor
Vendor_PN
</pre>

This is a list of attributes you want displayed if you ask gnetlist to produce a 
Bill Of Materials (BOM). Must be found in each project directory, if you want to 
make BOM's for that project.

=== Circuit Design ===

gEDA is really easy to use, you just click on the part from the dialog box and then 
click where you want them to be in the circuit. In design apps in Windows, you 
connected components with 'wires' but in gEDA that are called 'nets'.

The Select Component.. dialog box can be displayed when you click on the AND gate in 
the tool bar. I do not know about the behavior option listed in the bottom of the 
box. I have no problems with the default behavior. I do know that the third option 
will do as it says, it will install the component with each pin and object of the 
component being selectable and can be modified.

Clicking on the blue lines in the toolbar brings up the 'nets' that you can use to 
connect components.

When you are done with the circuit, you can use gattrib to check and modify component 
attributes or gnetlist to produce SPICE netlists or BOM's. From there you can either 
use gnucap for simulation or PCB for layout design. The gEDA docs can show how to 
convert gschem files to pcb layouts.

=== Simulation ===

You'll have to check the docs, I can't find SPICE in the 7.10 repos except for 
oregano and gnucap is a different sort of simulation engine.

== Site Map ==

* <nowiki>[[AmateurRadio|AmateurRadio]]</nowiki> - General Information (this page).
* <nowiki>[[AmateurRadio/Sitemap|AmateurRadio/Sitemap]]</nowiki> - Table of related pages.

----
