{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

Hello, my name is '''Amir Eldor'''. I'm the leader of the IsraeliTeam. I'm also one of the administrators on http://ubuntu-il.org/, the Israeli LoCo website.

=== Contact Information ===

'''Bold''' items are where I'm most active at.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''E-Mail'''
| amir.eldor@gmail.com
|-
| IRC
| amireldor (#ubuntu, #ubuntu-il, #ubuntu-locoteams)
|-
| '''Cellphone'''
| +972-50-998-6124
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~amireldor|~amireldor]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Facebook'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/amireldor.personal|amireldor.personal]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Skype'''
| zingabo
|-
| '''Microsoft'''
| amir.eldor@gmail.com
|-
| ICQ
| 94970665
|-
| Personal website
| http://amir-x.com/
|-
| Twitter
| @AmirEldor
|}

In case you were wondering, '''Zingabo''' is the king of the forest!

=== Contributions ===

* I have been the leader and point-of-contact for the IsraeliTeam several times since 2006. I currently act as the LoCo lead.
* I provide technical support on our forums and IRC channel. I administer our LoCo website.
* I advocate Ubuntu on local FLOSS stands in differnet Israeli conventions.
* I also do IT and development for the IsraeliTeam infrastrcture when needed.
* I coordinate between team members and maintain healthy connection with other Israeli LUGs.
* I like cats.

=== Future Goals ===

* Joining forces with other LUGs and Israel's FOSS NPO ''<nowiki>[[http://www.hamakor.org.il/en/|HaMakor]]</nowiki>'' to raise awareness of FOSS in Israel.
* Lecturing about Ubuntu and FOSS in schools and other venues.
* Integrating Ubuntu in local businesses' computers while providing professional support.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

Amir is very active on our forums and very helpful to anyone who needs help, with referencing or giving the answer if he knows it. Amir is trying to take part on what he can and to make the LoCo (ubuntu-il) more active than it is now.this including the site, the forums, organizing meeting and more. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Moshenahmias|Moshenahmias]]</nowiki> 13-4-2013
----
CategoryIsraeliTeam
