{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
I get a "lot" of email. I am subscribed to LKML that in itself generates a few hundred a day. With that kind of email a typical GUI-based email client like Thunderbird or Evolution are just not good enough for me. Pointing and clicking takes too much time.

I use the following tools to handle email:

* offlineimap - to fetch mail from the sever to my local machine
* mutt - to read and write mail
* msmtp - to transmit mail to the mail server
* imapfilter - for server-side IMAP filtering

I'll try to describe the configuration of each of them here.

== Software Tools ==
=== offlineimap ===
=== mutt ===
=== msmtp ===
Here is my .msmtprc that works with Gmail. (If you use it, please remember to change ''user'' and ''password'' values)

<pre>
defaults
logfile ~/Mail/.msmtp.log

account verdurent
protocol smtp
host smtp.gmail.com
user email@domain.com
password XXXXXXXXXXXX
port 587
auth on
tls on
tls_trust_file /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
syslog LOG_MAIL 

account personal
protocol smtp
host smtp.gmail.com
user email@gmail.com
password XXXXXXXXXX
port 587
auth on
tls on
tls_trust_file /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
syslog LOG_MAIL 

account default : verdurent
</pre>

=== imapfilter ===
