{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Amit Kucheria, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Amit Kucheria
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~amitk
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AmitKucheria
|}

== Who I am ==
I currently live in Finland and am employed by Canonical as a Kernel Engineer. I primarily concentrate on the mobile side taking care of the LPIA kernel and now ARM. Before this, I worked at Nokia leading the team working on Power Management on OMAP processors used in the Internet Tablets (770, N800, N810)

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started with Linux in 1996 using Slackware (3.0?) and the first kernel I compiled was version 1.2.13. Having used most other major distros extensively (>1 year) since then, I settled on Ubuntu Gutsy. I've used Ubuntu since then. After Nokia, I got a chance to work on the guts of Ubuntu and I grabbed it.

=== My involvement ===
* Member of Canonical Kernel Team since Jun'07
* Responsible for LPIA architecture kernel shipped on the mobile images
* Misc. activity related to kernel and mobile efforts

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* LPIA kernel in Hardy and Intrepid
* Interacting with Intel on integrating platform bits (kernel, drivers) for Atom support
* Normal kernel development, integration, bug fixing
* ARM-kernel support for various boards (ongoing)

=== Things I could do better ===
* More work on the generic kernel bugs

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
* Getting Ubuntu running on ARM
* Improving out-of-the-box experience on several new mobile/netbook devices
* Power management improvements in Ubuntu

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
