{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Offline Page - Drafting 

'''Go back to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/SubTeams | Sub-Team Page]]</nowiki>'''

== Introduction ==

Lubuntu has <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/SubTeams | Sub-Teams]]</nowiki>. Each Sub-Team has a specific task and have full control over itself which means each team can come up with its own decision which eventually will help Lubuntu as a whole. Lubuntu has improved rapidly and proved itself as a strong player among over 300 Linux Distributions according to <nowiki>[[http://distrowatch.com/search.php?status=Active | DistroWatch.com]]</nowiki>. 

Users with old machines, they used Lubuntu to breathe new life into their old machine. Users who disliked Unity, most of them came to Lubuntu and started using it. Windows Users find Lubuntu very easy and meet their needs. Lubuntu has proved itself to be a very good option for everyone on different hardware.

Lubuntu has taken the initiative to start a huge project called <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/CommunicationsTeam/WOWLubuntu/StartUbuntu | Start Ubuntu]]</nowiki> which will be a great help to Windows XP Users after Microsoft will pull the plug from Windows XP and stop supporting it.

And the list of success and achievements is really long :)

All the great ideas that came from within Lubuntu Team from one of the members, were really successful and made a huge difference. New Ideas are very important factor of our big success.

Now, the coming days, Lubuntu will go through new challenges. Big challenges actually. And these are not going to be easy.

# Lubuntu is planning to go <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS | LTS]]</nowiki> with 14.04.
# Lubuntu will be the best alternative for Windows XP Users to replace Windows XP when Microsoft will no longer support it.
# Continue to be a great system and even better.

These challenges aren't easy at all. We do need each and every efforts. Above all, we do need MORE NEW IDEAS. Before, as mentioned, usually it is a one man idea who presented the idea to the team and then after long and long discussion, we vote to go for it or not. This is a long process. It is a healthy process yet, it is long. We can make it short. Above all, we can make it more powerful. From here, this team was born :)

== The birth of Brainstorming Team ==

Based on: '''''All of us are smarter than one of us ''''', we have found this team - Lubuntu Brainstorming Team.

This Sub-Team/Department will be in charge of making new ideas, discuss them, polish them, improve them, etc. Once the idea is finalized and ready to show/present to the whole community, the community will start to take a vote. So, we achieved:

1. Saved the time of long discussion for everyone.

1. It is no more one man idea, but a group of people who will create a much better and powerful idea.

Another advantage is: some discussion on the mailing list takes more than 60 emails [4] - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/lubuntu-users/2013-July/thread.html | subject called Lubuntu alternative sessions script by Federico Leoni]]</nowiki> and this is just one example. Please, understand I'm not saying this is wrong or bad AT ALL. I'm just saying, because we don't have such Sub-Team/Department, the user/member with an idea has to go that far just to explain himself. This is, IMHO, a total waste of time and effort. Why not have a group of people to do a brainstorming about such ideas and come up with something ready, short, plain and simple and present it to the community? 

If there is one user can come up with a good idea. What if we have a group of 5 who will polish and improve the idea even better and ask for the community vote after that?

Again, advantages:

* Less Headache

* Less Efforts 

* Saving Time for everyone - very important

* If the idea is bad, then the vote will decide. If the idea is good, the vote will decide too

If truth to be told, SOME of ideas got LOST because of long and long discussions and threads on the mailing list. Then after few months, the same idea pop up either by the same person or someone else. Then again, same old loop, same result, the idea will be ignored or forgotten. I'm not saying this is the case every time, I'm just saying SOME of the ideas :) after all, we still have good ideas on the mailing list but time consuming is too much.

<nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki> is the founder of this new Sub-Team/Department.

== Lubuntu Brainstorming Team ==

=== How to join ===
Please, send a request to join the team on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-brainstorming | Launchpad]]</nowiki>

Member of this group/Dept can be members of other Sub-Teams, that is totally up to them.

=== Facebook ===
You can join our <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/677038665655334/ | group on facebook]]</nowiki>.
