{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== About ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.amsn-project.net/|Taken from aMSN's homepage]]</nowiki>

aMSN is a free open source MSN Messenger clone, with features such as:

*** Offline Messaging
*** Voice Clips
*** Display pictures
*** Custom emoticons
*** Multi-language support (around 40 languages currently supported)
*** Webcam support
*** Sign in to more than one account at once
*** Full-speed File transfers
*** Group support
*** Normal, and animated emoticons with sounds
*** Chat logs
*** Timestamping
*** Event alarms
*** Conferencing support
*** Tabbed chat windows

For a full list, see the <nowiki>[[http://www.amsn-project.net/features.php|features page]]</nowiki>. More features can be added to aMSN with <nowiki>[[http://www.amsn-project.net/plugins.php|plugins]]</nowiki> , or completely change its look with different <nowiki>[[http://www.amsn-project.net/skins.php|skins]]</nowiki>!"

== How to install an updated version ==

=== Rationale ===
On Aug 5 2008 my aMSN stopped working. Turned out Microsoft had changed the behaviour of their servers causing aMSN, which expected a certain reply from the server, to be forever at the "Logging in" stage. The issue was <nowiki>[[http://www.amsn-project.net/forums/viewtopic.php?t=5552|speedily resolved by the aMSN developers]]</nowiki> which deployed a new version, aMSN 0.97.2 . The updated version isn't yet at Ubuntu official repositories and as such a custom install of aMSN is the easiest way to be able to connect again.

=== Options ===
* Install patched (but not latest) aMSN from Ubuntu (RECOMMENDED)
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5528712#post5528712|Install latest aMSN using autopackage]]</nowiki> (NOT RECOMMENDED)
* Install latest aMSN from source -- YET TO BE WRITTEN (and NOT RECOMMENDED)

==== Install patched (but not latest) aMSN from Ubuntu ====

===== Binary Distribution (like Debian and Ubuntu) Workflow =====
When a change is needed to stable packages, the source package is updated, compiled, uploaded to a testing repository and afterwards out in a stable repository.

Assuming Hardy Heron, the testing repository is hardy-proposed and the stable repository is hardy-updates.

As such you can:
* Wait for the package to be in hardy-updates
* Test the package in hardy-testing

====== Wait for the package to be in hardy-updates ======

Wait and you're done, sooner or later the package will appear.
----

====== Test the package in hardy-testing ======
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/EnableProposed|Enable {Ubuntu version}-proposed, aka hardy-proposed for most of you]]</nowiki>

'''Don't forget to add/edit the file /etc/apt/preferences as mentioned in the wiki, otherwise you'll end up testing ALL hardy-proposed packages instead of just the one you want, which is aMSN.'''

Finally, do:

' <<BR>>
' sudo aptitude -t hardy-proposed install amsn<<BR>>
' <<BR>>
(as you might have guessed, the -t hardy-proposed indicates that that particular package is to be downloaded from that category, hardy-proposed).

----
