{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ajenbo]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Name''':
| Anders Jenbo
|-
| '''Birth Date''':
| 05/09/1983
|-
| '''Nationality''':
| Danish
|-
| '''Location''':
| Vanløse, Denmark
|-
| '''IRC nick(s)''':
| '''AJenbo''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''My Danish Forum profile''':
| http://ubuntudanmark.dk/forum/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=3883
|}

=== About Me ===
I am a web-developer by trade. I mainly doing frontend working, but have also been known to build medium sized CMSs from the ground up. I have worked professionally about 7 years.
I am currently with out an employer, searching the jobmarket and doing some small jobs to scrape by.

I have been using Ubuntu as my main system, both for work and in private since 10.04, but have been flirting with it, and filling bug reports, since 2007.

=== My contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===
I started translating Ubuntu after the release of 8.10 after discovering some inconsistency with upgrading a server in Danish.
I joined the Danish LoCo November 2009 where i participated in distributing cd's in a large mall. I have since become a boardmember in the Danish Ubuntu organization as well as the maintainer and developer for the website ( http://ubuntudanmark.dk/ ).
As a boardmember i try to bridge the geographical gap by showing up to different meetings around the country when possible.
I also participated in the distribution of cd's for the 10.04 and 10.10 releases.
As part of a global jam I hosted a translation jam during the 10.04 development cycle, as well as a full global jam event during the 10.10 cycle.
I mainly translate the Ubuntu specific packages, but I also have intergeneration rights for the Debian installer and preformus. I try and help any one who wants to get in to translating Ubuntu and free software.
I have made a few minutes after some of the Danish IRC-meetings.

----
CategoryHomepage
