{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
Ubuntu A.P is sub-project of Ubuntu India that seeks to provide a free, open source desktop experience to the community that reflects the wishes of the users. Above all else, the project seeks to listen to and respond to the requests of the user base.

===== Our Ideology =====
We, the people at Ubuntu AndhraPradesh have every reason to be proud of and to spread the open source.

'''''Freedom''''', freedom to share, freedom to modify, freedom to reproduce is what we fihgt for.
'''''Knowledge''''', knowledge for the right use and knowledge for enlightment.
'''''Aspire''''', let us all hope and try to keep up and spread the thought of Sir Linus Torvaldas and Prof. Richard M. Stallmann

==== Resources ====
IRC:         : #ubuntu-ap

Mailing List : soon

Forum        : soon

Launchpad    : https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-andhrapradesh

apart from IRC, Mailing Lists or forums Ubuntu AP let us all help each other by volunteering each other on their free time. In the nearby LinSpots.

== Meetings ==
=== Online Meetings ===
Since Ubuntu is still in its evolving stages we hop that we start off with meetings as early as possible.
=== UMeetups ===
Anybody of basic knowledge is encouraged to start off a call for meet up nearby with the motto of spreading and encouraging novice linux users.

== LinSpots ==
Help evolve the tradition and the custom of LinSpot<nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/linspot]]</nowiki>. Volunteer in as many numbers as you can to share the what ever you know and to know more than what you know.
As of now one of I would officially say two LinSpots
==== Alwal ====
Charan Hub, 
Opposite Mother and Child Hospital, Alwal 
Secunderabad,
500010.
==== Old Alwal ====
Hno. 1-3-17/3,
Bheem Rao Nagar, 
Old Alwal, Secunderabad,
500010.

== Goals ==
===== Long Term =====
'''Spreading Ubuntu is not our goal'''. We must try to realise and help others realising their freedom and rights of using GNU/Linux with the help of Ubuntu. Ubuntu is only a mass and fast spreading weapon helping the needy one sacing those many profiteering gluttons. Who call us criminal. We try to spread knowledge and they call us criminals. Yes we at Ubuntu India, AndhraPradesh are criminals our crime is that of curiosity. 
===== Short Term =====
* We have emerged for out of darkness and despair of commercial software. Let us come together plan up and help                                                                                          people knowing and realise the freedom of Open source.
* Let us all help each other by volunteering GNU/Linux.
* We are the one to ravage and effective so feel free to come up with new ideas.
* Get involved in customisation projects organised by our enthusiasts for better experience and the best taste of our    local community. Start new projects.
* Involve yourselves converting you school to a free and open sources encourager. 
== Contact ==
Bharadwaj
mail      : bharadwaj.j@gmail.com
IRC       : bharadwaj.j@freenode.net
launchpad : https://launchpad.net/~bharadwaj-j
----
CategoryLoco
