{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Becoming a Member ==

=== How to join ===

* Create a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki> account.
* Please, subscribe to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-in-ap|ubuntu-in-ap mailing list]]</nowiki> (Recommended).
* Create your own wiki page. Like this <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/YourName]]</nowiki>.
* Add yourself to <nowiki>[[AndhraPradeshTeam/Members]]</nowiki> page, and create your own wikipage.
* Join the Ubuntu support and discussion IRC channel: '''#ubuntu-ap''' on '''irc.freenode.net''', please read <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/faq.shtml|Freenode FAQ]]</nowiki> and our <nowiki>[[AndhraPradeshTeam/IrcGuidelines]]</nowiki> while using IRC.''( You must register your nick first )''
* Be active & come to '''#ubuntu-ap''' regularly.
* Follow the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>

==== Help!!! I don't understand ====
No problems. If you need a hand with any of this (signing the CoC is not the easiest thing ;) ) just pop up in <code>#ubuntu-ap</code> and ask for help.

== Why Join ==

The members of Ubuntu-ap are what make the Ubuntu Andhra Pradesh team happen. As a member you can  obtain support in the <code>#ubuntu-ap</code> channel on '''irc.freenode.net'''. Additionally, as a member, you may choose to support and participate in any of our <nowiki>[[AndhraPradeshTeam:Projects|Projects]]</nowiki>.

Please join the Andhra Pradesh Ubuntu team to help Ubuntu in Andhra Pradesh.
