{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== About Me ==
My name is Andi Darmawan. Currently I'm living in Jakarta Indonesia.
Right now I'm one of the moderator for <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-id|Ubuntu Indonesian Mailing List]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/id-ubuntu|Ubuntu Indonesian Mailing List @ Google Groups]]</nowiki>.

== Activity ==
# Spreading the Ubuntu spirit.
# Translating Ubuntu and the apps. into Indonesian in rosseta, check my profile in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~belutz|here]]</nowiki>.
# Sometimes I help people in #ubuntu, #ubuntu-id and #edubuntu-id
# Manage <nowiki>[[IndonesianTeam|Ubuntu-ID LoCo]]</nowiki>
# Get in touch with local vendor, promoting Ubuntu

== To Do ==
# More translation.
# Prepare for 8.04 release party (national event).

== Indonesian LoCo Team Achievement ==
# Repositories mirror in Indonesia. <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-id.org/SourcesListLokal|Full list of Indonesian local mirrors.]]</nowiki>
# Ubuntu repositories in DVDs. <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-id.org/DistribusiDvdReposUbuntu|DVD Repositories]]</nowiki> (created by Fajran Iman Rusadi)

== Contact ==
* Email: [belutz@ubuntu.com]
* IRC: irc.freenode.net IN #ubuntu, #ubuntu-id, #edubuntu-id
* YM!: belutz7978
* Weblog: <nowiki>[[http://www.belutz.net]]</nowiki>

== Related Pages ==
<<FullSearch>>

----
CategoryHomepage
