{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


==== About Me ====
* Born 1983
* Married, 2+2 kids
* Working in the boat building industry. Studying to become a maths/science teacher.
* Timezone CET
* Have been using Linux since ca. 2001
* Kubuntu/Ubuntu since 2006
* Using Ubuntu on laptops and a home server
* Showing people the light by helping them ditch Windows in favor of Linux whenever I can.

==== Interests ====
* Computers (free (as in freedom) software obviously)
* SCUBA Diving
* Beer (Brewing and drinking)
* Hockey (Big fan of the local team: Rosenborg Ishockey Klubb)

==== Contacts ====
* Email: andreas (at) noteng (dot) no
* IRC: anoteng@irc.ubuntu.com
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~andreas-noteng

=== Ubuntu activities/interests ===
* Packaging unpackaged programs I come across, available on my Launchpad PPA
* Helping out with bugs whichever way I can.
* Testing Alpha/Beta releases
* Co-maintaining the transmission PPA.

After packaging for Ubuntu and uploading to PPA's for I while, I switched to packaging for Debian instead. After a while, I found it easier to switch my desktop to Debian unstable as well. Still think Ubuntu is a great distro though.

=== Packages in Debian ===
* PyPE - Python Programmers Editor
* Transgui - A great remote control for transmission-daemon
* python-easygui - A module for simple, very easy GUI programming in Python

=== Pending Debian packages ===
* pyspread - Python spreadsheet application. (Hanging in the NEW que.)
* checkinstall (ITA filed, waiting for sponsored upload.)
* lastfmlib - Last.FM C++ scrobbling library. (ITA filed, waiting for a sponsor.)
----
CategoryHomepage
