{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Reference ===

''Email:'' 
''IRC:''  arevamp on #revamp at freenode.net

''City:''  Zuerich

''Country:''  Switzerland

=== Projects and Membership ===
* Member of revamp-it Team in Zuerich, Switzerland<<BR>>
** revamp-it is selling recycled laptops and any other kind of computers with preinstalled Linux<<BR>>
** Based on the Linux Terminal Server Project (<nowiki>[[http://www.ltsp.org|www.ltsp.org]]</nowiki>) revamp-it also offers sets of computers for any office environment completely preconfigured with linux and free software and follow-up support.<<BR>>
* Participation in Freie``Computer.ch<<BR>>
 Freie``Computer.ch helps computershops in Switzerland in selling and supporting computers with preinstalled operating system and programms that are published under a free licence.<<BR>>
 Freie``Computer.ch is launching a support network for linux and other open source software in Switzerland<<BR>>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.revamp-it.ch/index.php/de/angebot-de/linux-workshops-de/|Workshops]]</nowiki> at revamp-it.ch<<BR>>
 We offer workshops for Linux, OpenSource Software and related issues in Zuerich at Birmensdorferstr. 379<<BR>>
 We focus on debian-based distributions.<<BR>>
 Price: free donations (more infos on our homepage)
* In the context of Linuxola I help preparing LTSP-systems with recycled hardware for educational and social institutions in Africa and elsewhere
* I am very interested in open source hardware projects. Projects I would like to work on:<<BR>>
** Developing a guide to build a 12V powersupply using as much as possible recycled parts of old 220V powersupplies and other reclycled hardware (to make use of alternative energies as energy source for computers)

=== Links ===
* <nowiki>[[https://www.revamp-it.ch|www.revamp-it.ch]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.FreieComputer.ch|FreieComputer.ch]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxola.org|linuxola.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://longlivemycomputer.ch|Long live my Computer]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Wiki Pages ===
 

=== Linux Distributions ===
I am mainly working with the following linux distributions:
* <nowiki>[[https://www.debian.org|Debian]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://mxlinux.org|MX-Linux]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://antixlinux.com|antiX]]</nowiki>

=== Open Source Projects ===
Here is a list of Open Source Projects I am using and might give some support. I'm also interested to get in personal contact with people here in Switzerland working with the same software.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.kivitendo.ch|kivitendo.ch]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://ltsp.org|ltsp.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://nextcloud.com|nextcloud.com]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://jitsi.org/|jitsi and jitsi-meet]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://openki.net/|Openki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.joomla.org|joomla.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.asterisk.org|asterisk.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://virtuemart.net/|virtuemart.net]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://civicrm.org|civicrm.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.freenas.org|freenas.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://opnsense.org|OPNsense.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.cyrusimap.org|cyrusimap.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.rainbow-software.org/uniflash/|uniflash]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://etherboot.org/wiki/|etherboot/gPXE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/mateli/OpenCyclos|OpenCyclos]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
