{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Andrew Ittner ==
<nowiki>[[Kubuntu]]</nowiki> user since 5.04

Currently running HardyHeron (Kubuntu) v8.04.1 LTS on an AMD64 CPU

----

== Wiki pages of note ==
* <nowiki>[[VNCOverSSH]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PNWTeam]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BluetoothSetup|BluetoothSetup]]</nowiki>
* CommunityCouncil, CommunityCouncilAgenda
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NumLock|NumLock]]</nowiki>
== Problems solved ==

=== x11vnc ===
After installing Kubuntu 6.06.1 LTS, I had a problem connecting to it via a ssh-tunnelled vnc connection (using x11vnc).  The viewer would connect fine, but every few seconds the screen would completely blank.

The <code>x11vnc</code> version in Dapper was 0.7.1-5; the current version (as of 2006-09-05) was 0.8.2.  It was easily compiled (<code>./configure && make && sudo checkinstall</code>) after I downloaded the <code>libxtst-dev</code> library (<code>apt-get install libxtst-dev</code>).

/!\ '''Update''': no, it was not the version.  It was my screensaver.  ''Any'' screensaver set to ''start automatically'' caused the vnc viewer to also blank its screen, even if keyboard or mouse activity had disabled the screensaver.

'''Workaround''': disable the start automatically feature, lock the workstation and power off the monitor manually.

== Commentary ==

=== It's about time ===

CommunityCouncil IRC log for <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/08/05/%23ubuntu-meeting.html|2008-08-05]]</nowiki>:

  23:50	sabdfl	so i think he knows he was out of line

I am glad to hear the council took the issue seriously.

----
CategoryHomepage
