{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I am Andres J. Riofrio; my displayed name (i.e. username) is usually andresj or andresjriofrio, and I hang around freenode irc sometimes in #ubuntu, #kubuntu, #kde, #python, etc. (as andresj).

=== Programming ===
I know some C/C++ programming, but don't feel very comfortable using them. I instead use Python, a much easier to use language (in my opinion, at least).

I also know Bash (though I always end up using Python for arrays/lists), PHP, HTML, Javascript (the programming language with worse implementations in my opinion), and if I remember other language I'll update this page.

=== Linux ===
I have been using Linux since the first day of 2006, started with Debian. Then, I moved to Gentoo, which I had for a very long time; until mid-2007, when I decided to try out Sabayon Linux but ended up switching to Ubuntu, and, eventually, Kubuntu.

My favorite (and the one I use mostly, if not exclusively) desktop environment is KDE.

=== Inside (K)Ubuntu ===
I want to contribute to Ubuntu/Kubuntu, I've done some translation in launchpad, and I'd also like to write documentation, especially in Spanish, which is my first language.

=== Outside (K)Ubuntu ===
I fix some things in Wikipedia when I find them and have the time.
