{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== AndrewVanspronsen ==

* '''Born''' March 27, 1976
* '''Email''' avanspronsen@gmail.com

=== Short Description ===
I am from the Kitchener\Waterloo area.  I have been using Linux since mid 2004.  I am a System Administrator for a local high tech company working mostly with Windows servers.  I currently run Hoary on my laptop, my primary productivity machine, and Warty on a couple of servers I run in my house; including the server that runs my personal website.  I have tried many distros but none has impressed like Ubuntu.  The combination of debian, package selection, minimalist approach, Ubuntu philosophy and strong sense of community makes this distro a clear winner for me.  I would like to help in anyway I can.  I just need to figure out what that way is.

=== Interests ===
* Linux
* Digital pictures/video
* Wikis/CMS Solutions
* Programming

=== Skills ===
* Apache
* MySQL
* System Administration ( 800+ Server )
* Scripting

=== Learning ===
* Linux
* Mono and .Net
* Python
* Programming in General

=== Current Books ===
* Linux  Network Administrators Guide - O'Reilly ISBN: 0-596-00548-2
* Mono - A Developers Notebook - O'Reilly ISBN: 0-596-00792-2
* Running Linux - O'Reilly ISBN: 1-56592-469-X
----
CategoryHomepage
