{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~andrewgee|Andrew Gee]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''AndrewGee''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Websites''':
| http://andrewgee.org/
|}

=== About Me ===
I first used Ubuntu back in the Breezy days and have found this a really easy distribution to use and join in with the community! Before Ubuntu, I had tried out a few other distros but none of them really appealed to be as much as Ubuntu.

=== My Contribution to Ubuntu ===
I like to contribute as much as I can in my free time and here are ways I do it.

==== Screencasts ====
I've started to create a number of ubuntu screencasts. So far I have created '''5''' screencasts:
* <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/Printing_In_Ubuntu|Printing in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/SAMBA_Filesharing|Samba Filesharing in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/MoS2007/04_Why_Ubuntu|Why Ubuntu?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/MoS2007/05_Getting_Help|Getting Help]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/MoS2007/06_Tour_of_the_Ubuntu_Desktop|Tour of the Ubuntu Desktop]]</nowiki>

==== Packaging ====
My first package has been approved and is on it's way into Ubuntu!
http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/details.py?package=osm-gps-map

==== Bug Reporting ====
I've reported a number of bugs in an attempt to help improve ubuntu

==== Promotion ====
I constantly try to promote ubuntu to people I know. I've been able to switch a good amount of people.

=== The future of my Contribution to Ubuntu ===

In the future? Well...
* More Screencasts
* Switch more people
* Continue to submit bugs, when found
----
CategoryHomepage
