{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Information Regarding Ubuntu Membership ==

1. Over 1000 posts in Ubuntu Forums, mostly in the Absolute Beginners section. Bug reports in various projects. Two accepted bug fixes in Tomboy Notes. Three accepted bug fixes in Deja Dup. Packaging of a Lexmark printer driver for Ubuntu.

2. My launchpad profile: https://launchpad.net/~andrewfister

3. '''Ubuntu Forums:''' I have over 1000 posts in Ubuntu Forums, primarily in the Absolute Beginners section. My primary focus has been to prevent recitivism of those trying Ubuntu by helping them through some difficult aspects of using Linux, and how it differs from other OSes.

 '''Bug reports''' and comments added in a number of projects. These include Network Manager, Ubuntu One Client, Ubuntu One Music Store, Deja-Dup, Duplicity.

 '''Bug Fixes:'''

 ''2010'' I fixed bug 581232 in the Deja Dup open source backup program. The bug fix was included in the
release version 15.5.
 ''2009'' I fixed bug 438389 in the Deja Dup open source backup program. The bug fix was included in the
release version 11.0.
 ''2009'' I fixed bug 306978 in the Deja Dup open source backup program. The bug fix was included in the
release version 11.0.
 ''2007'' I fixed bug 437684 in the Tomboy Notes open source note-taking program. The bug fix was included
in the release version 0.7.4.
 ''2007'' I fixed bug 409939 in the Tomboy Notes open source note-taking program. The bug fix was included
in the release version 0.7.1.

 '''Lexmark Driver Packaging: ''' When my Mom got a Lexmark printer that didn't work out of the box, I found that many others on the forums had the same issue. I repackaged the drivers into a deb so that they would work for Ubuntu, and so that my Mom could easily install the driver and use the printer. I then posted the packaged drivers to the relevant forum threads and the Ubuntu wiki so people could easily find it.

4. I plan to continue work in Deja Dup, implementing more features and fixing more bugs. Generally I will continue doing what I have been doing and always look for other avenues to contribute to Ubuntu.
