{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Working draft for Packaging/TrainingSessions

Based on the success of the past MOTU Q&A sessions and UbuntuDeveloperWeek and UbuntuOpenWeek sessions, regularly scheduled Packaging Training sessions are being planned. These weekly one-hour sessions in <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-classroom | #ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> on Freenode will consist of short demonstrations and offer plenty of time to ask all kind of questions.

When possible multilingual developers will be availiable in `#ubuntu-classroom-chat-{de,es,fr,it,..}` who can answer questions for those newcomers that are not too familiar with the English language yet.

Want to get started with Ubuntu development and packaging? Come to the next session! Is there a specific topic you want to learn about? Leave a suggestion! Do you have packaging techniques you think other developers should know about? Schedule a session! 

We'd like to maintain a regular schedule and plan to have sessions always at these times:
* '''<DAY>, 1st week of the month,  6:00 UTC'''
* '''<DAY>, 2nd week of the month, 12:00 UTC'''
* '''<DAY>, 3rd week of the month, 18:00 UTC'''
* '''<DAY>, 4th week of the month,  0:00 UTC'''

==== Upcoming sessions ====

* '''<Date>  6:00 UTC: Packaging 101, <Tutor>'''
* '''<Date> 12:00 UTC: Debhelper 7, <Tutor>'''
* '''<Date> 18:00 UTC: TBA'''
* '''<Date>  0:00 UTC: TBA'''

Future Packaging Training Sessions can also be found on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fridge/Calendar|Ubuntu Fridge Calendar]]</nowiki>, which is available <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|online]]</nowiki> and in <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/feeds/j5q85mmi6ujvjtii5s1n3li5io%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic|XML]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/ical/j5q85mmi6ujvjtii5s1n3li5io%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics|iCal]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=j5q85mmi6ujvjtii5s1n3li5io%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York|HTML]]</nowiki> formats. '''(Not actually true yet.)'''

* Note: For help on time equivalents around the world, visit <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/|Time and Date World Clock]]</nowiki>

==== Resources ====
* Packaging/TrainingSessions/Logs - IRC logs of past sessions
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-GettingStarted]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Mentoring]]</nowiki>
* PackagingGuide
* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Recipes]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-HandsOn]]</nowiki>
* PackagingJam

==== Tutors ====
'''If you're interested in running a session, add your name below and tell us what you'd like to talk about.'''
* Daniel Holbach, some European daytimes :-)
* James Westby
* Nicolas, Valcárcel, Wednesday or Thursday
* Siegfried Gevatter, Saturday / Sundays I'm available at 12:00 and 18:00, or any other day except for Wednesday at 18:00
* Onkar Shinde, UTC 17:00 onwards is fine on weekdays
* ''<your name here>, preferred timezones''

==== Suggestions ====
'''Are there any topics that you'd like to see covered in future sessions?'''
* ''<your idea> (please sign your idea with `@``SIG``@`)''

==== Comments ====
----
One idea for a session I'd like to see, maybe along with some new
documentation added to the wiki, would be something on the new dh auto
stuff added with debhelper 7. I've seen a number of packages entering
in from Debian using these features, but except for "man dh" (which is
very well written actually) I've been able to find very little
documentation. <nowiki>[[Andrewsomething]]</nowiki>
----
