{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Welcome to Ubuntu ==

We thank you for taking the time to explore using Ubuntu Linux on your computer system and we hope your experience is a good one. This page was created to provide a welcome introduction to new users of the Ubuntu operating system and provide some links to local and international support channels.

Ubuntu is a complete operating system that can be used on a number of different computer platforms. There are currently 6 different versions available freely through the ShipIt service provided by Canonical. These six versions are:

* Ubuntu 6.06 LTS for PC
* Ubuntu 6.06 LTS for 64-Bit PC
* Ubuntu 6.06 LTS for Mac
* Kubuntu 6.06 LTS for PC
* Kubuntu 6.06 LTS for 64-Bit PC
* Edubuntu 6.06 LTS for PC

If you require a different version than the one that you received, please ask the Ubuntu Australian Team member you acquired your original copy from about obtaining a different version, or visit the appropriate ShipIt page to order:

* Ubuntu 6.06 LTS - http://shipit.ubuntu.com
* Kubuntu 6.06 LTS - http://shipit.kubuntu.com
* Edubuntu 6.06 LTS - http://shipit.edubuntu.com

Please note the ShipIt service can take approximately 4-6 weeks for delivery. If you would like a copy sooner, somebody from the Ubuntu Australian Team should be able to help. Please ask the member who supplied it to you, or ask on our mailing list (https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-au).

=== Local Support ===

There are a large number of Australian users of the Ubuntu operating system and as such there are many of us available to provide assistance at a local level. The Ubuntu Australian Team consists of members located in most of the major areas of Australia.

==== Ubuntu Australian Team Wiki Page ====

As an official team we have our own part on the official Ubuntu wiki site. This can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam.

==== Ubuntu Australian Team Mailing List ====

This list is used by members of the Ubuntu Australian Team for general discussion relating to Ubuntu and it's promotion in Australia. Feel free to join in our discussion. Please note we do not use this mailing list for general help, we encourage you to use other places for general help. However if you are not sure where to go please feel free to ask on this list. You can subscribe to the mailing list at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-au.

==== Ubuntu Australian Team IRC Channel ====

The team also gathers on the #ubuntu-au channel on the Freenode IRC (Internet Relay Chat) network. You can connect using your favourite IRC client using the server irc.freenode.net:6667, or it may be accessed through a web browser at http://meldra.no-ip.info/eucalyptirc. For more help with connecting to IRC, take a look at <nowiki>[[XChatHowto]]</nowiki> .

=== International Support ===

==== Ubuntu Website ====

The official Ubuntu website is located at http://www.ubuntu.com. It provides many links to more information about Ubuntu.

==== Ubuntu User Guides ====

The Ubuntu Documentation Team has created some excellent user guides to help you explore your Ubuntu installation. These can viewed/downloaded from http://help.ubuntu.com, and community supplied help can be found at https://help.ubuntu.com/community .

==== Ubuntu Community ====

You can find more information on the Ubuntu community, like the Ubuntu Australian Team, at http://www.ubuntu.com/community.

==== Ubuntu Wiki ====

The Ubuntu wiki is a large collection of information collaborated on by many members of the Ubuntu community. Most questions can be answered through information included on the wiki. The wiki is located at http://wiki.ubuntu.com.

==== Ubuntu Forums ====

If you cannot find answers to your questions on the Ubuntu Wiki or through other channels you can also use the very active Ubuntu Forums. These are located at http://www.ubuntuforums.org. Please do a search before asking about specific issues. The forums are very active and most topics are covered extensively.

==== Ubuntu IRC Channel ====

Assistance can also be obtained through the #ubuntu channel on the Freenode IRC (Internet Relay Chat) network. Connect to irc.freenode.net:6667 using your favourite IRC client.

==== Ubuntu Books ====

There have been a number of help books published on Ubuntu. A list of the various books can be found here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBooks.

=== Commercial Support ===

Should you require commercial support in using Ubuntu as part of your IT infrastructure there are a number of options available to you.

==== Canonical Commerical Support ====

Canonical is the major sponser of the Ubuntu Linux project. To continue providing this support they provide many services, one of which is commerical support. Information on obtaining this can support can be found at http://www.ubuntu.com/support/paid.

==== Ubuntu Marketplace ====

As well as being able to obtain support directly from Canonical there are many organisations spread around the world that are able to provide a more localised support option. Details of those companies providing commerical support can be found at http://www.ubuntu.com/support/marketplace/oceania.
