{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Andrew Min ===

Email: 
    /ˈændruː/ /mi:n/
    (n): a Christian.
    (n): a student.
    (n): a technology enthusiast.
    (n): a journalist for several online publications.

Andrew Min is a student, programmer, and journalist from New York City.

My main forte in the technology realm is journalism. I’ve written for a variety of magazines, both print and non-print, with a focus on open source software and the new web. I’ve also been interviewed on a long list of topics, ranging from politicians on Twitter to open source software and homeschooling.

I also have experience with a variety of programming languages (Bash, Batch, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, and (X)HTML) and content management systems (WordPress). I’ve been hired to design and administer several websites. In addition, I’ve been the lead programmer on several small coding projects.

I enjoy hiking in the Adirondacks, rooting for the Yankees and Jets, listening to Billy Joel, and reading C.S. Lewis. I follow Techmeme, John Gruber’s Daring Fireball, Shawn Blanc, Kyle Baxter’s TightWind, Dan Shanoff’s Quickish, Ballbug, RealClearPolitics, Project Syndicate, Taegan Goddard’s Political Wire, Larry J. Sabato’s Crystal Ball, Nate Silver’s FiveThirtyEight, Volokh Conspiracy, and xkcd.

----
CategoryHomepage
