{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Andreas Moog, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Andreas Moog
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://edge.launchpad.net/~amoog
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndreasMoog
|}

== Who I am ==
Hi, I'm 30 years old, coming from a small town in the middle of Germany, Sontra. I've been a regular Linux-User since 1998, starting with SuSE, RedHat, Debian (which I still use for Servers) and Ubuntu on my home-computer. 

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started contributing last year towards the end of the Intrepid development-cycle. I helped out in triaging bugs and ended up being a member of bug-control. By then, I also had my first experience with packaging and getting patches in ubuntu.

=== Areas of work ===

I work mostly on syncs and merges from debian and new upstream versions of GNOME. But I also backport fixes from other upstream-sources to ubuntu-packages and send the changes to debian.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gwenrename/+bug/140012]]</nowiki>

- This was an issue where the upstream has shipped a wrong Makefile thus resulting in an installation error. I looked at how it was fixed and backported the change to ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flatnuke/+bug/312567]]</nowiki>

- This was a packaging problem. I investigated it and added the directive to install the missing files.

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/coherence/+bug/352653]]</nowiki>

- Another packaging issue, a file wasn't installed. I also submitted that patch to debian, where it got accepted, too.

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lighttpd/+bug/326899]]</nowiki>

- I splitted this package to provide a -dev package for development. Regrettably it was to late to be accepted for Jaunty, but i submitted it to debian and hope it gets accepted there.

I have worked on some merges/syncs, a complete list can be found via my <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~amoog/+uploaded-packages | Launchpad page]]</nowiki>

=== Things I could do better ===

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/totem/+bug/338963]]</nowiki>

- Here, a plugin had to be moved between packages. I made a mistake in the packaging though, resulting in an error upon upgrading. Thankfully, it was repaired just a few hours later.

I generally need to give more attention to detail, such as explaining why a specific change was made, adding tags to patches I introduce and adding the appropriate LP: #XXX tag in the changelog.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

There is no specific set of packages that I'm interested on working on, I think I'd just go through the list of bugs fixed upstream and see if we can use it in Ubuntu. I also want to focus on SRU's/backports to provide a better user experience in the stable Ubuntu-versions.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

There are many bugs not fixed even in LTS versions which have an impact on some Users. I think we should dedicate some more time to backport fixes to "older" versions of Ubuntu.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I think I sponsored around 10-15 uploads of Andreas and I was always happy with the quality. He's doing a great job and I support his application.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* gnome-doc-utils, bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/385206 (small mistake, quickly fixed)
* gnome-devel-docs, bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/382892
* ocaml-bjack, bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/384631
* gedit, bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/380924
* eog, bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/380578 and bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/375133
* alacarte, bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/375203
* seahorse-plugins, bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/370604
* debian-med, bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/371394
* gedit-plugins, bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/341440

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Could do some sponsoring once he's MOTU. :-)

=== Martin Pitt ===
==== General feedback ====
Andreas has been active in `#ubuntu-desktop` for many months now, and has contributed to packaging new GNOME releases as well as doing an large amount of bug triaging and bug fixing. He forwarded patches to Debian/upstream properly. I sponsored some 10 packages from him, all of which were good to upload without changes. I have not yet worked very closely with him beyond that, though, so my judgement is a bit limited.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
eog: Bug:387880
gnome-doc-utils: Bug:382964
abiword: Bug:376268
alacarte: Bug:366723
gnome-themes: Bug:361007
seahorse-plugins: Bug:360711

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Unknown to me, see above.

=== Sebastien Bacher ===
==== General feedback ====
Andreas is contributing to the desktop team work by doing packages update and bugs triage for several month now, he is doing a great job on those. His updates are most of the time good to be uploaded directly now, he's active on IRC asking questions when required and work with upstream to get bug solved too.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
gnome-utils: Bug:387394
xchat-gnome: Bug:387256
gconf-editor: Bug:387245
gnome-media: Bug:371952
seahorse: Bug:371871
gnome-utils: Bug:372168
==== Areas of Improvement ====
Nothing special there

=== Michael Bienia (geser) ===
==== General feedback ====
I've only sponsored a few uploads for Andreas while working on the u-u-s queue. The merge I sponsored was of good quality and the syncs I acked well researched.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dates/+bug/356039 (merge)
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sbrsh/+bug/382739
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/microcode.ctl/+bug/384900
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nzb/+bug/384951
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pidgin-encryption/+bug/386840

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Nothing to name at the moment.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
