{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''A. Matthew''
<<BR>>
24B Moorefield Rd,
Wellington 6037, New Zealand.
<<BR>>
Cell: by appointment
<<BR>>
Email: andribuu@gmail.com

'''Objective'''
<<BR>>
To seek a position that utilize my skills to the best of my ability. To make a positive impact on a diverse business environment.
----
'''Experience'''

Seattle College<<BR>>
1701 Broadway, WA<<BR>>
Position: Teacher Assistance<<BR>>
December 2000-January 2004
<<BR>>
 Help students with their English, Math, or other courses.<<BR>>
 Provide personal references about student.<<BR>>
 Evaluate students' homework, quiz, and exam.<<BR>>
 Research school material at OpenCourseWare and Dspace Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
<<BR>>
Integrated Systems<<BR>>
15600 N.E. 8th Street, WA<<BR>>
Position: Web Programmer and Project manager<<BR>>
August 2002-December 2004
<<BR>>
 Write modules and themes for Drupal CMS framework.<<BR>>
 Develop business logic algorithm that runs on multi-platform such as Microsoft dot NET platform.<<BR>>
 To chart a project using Gantt-chart.<<BR>>
 Assist, manage, and integrate team members' work.<<BR>>
 Serve as liaison between client and team members.
<<BR>>
Computech<<BR>>
Maple Ave, CA<<BR>>
Position: Software Engineering<<BR>>
February 2005-January 2008<<BR>>
<<BR>>
 Object-oriented design of a weather forecast application with UML method.<<BR>>
 Develop user interface for application with UI library including UI JQuery.<<BR>>
 Optimize performance of web application using various tools such as Google Page Speed.<<BR>>
 Unit or function testing with SimpleTest and JUnit test framework to find problem such as incorrect output.<<BR>>
 Write computer system procedure specifications and user manuals.<<BR>>
----
'''Education'''
 Henderson High School, New Zealand<<BR>>
 Seattle College<<BR>>
 Majoring in Associate Science (GPA: 3.2)<<BR>>
 California State University<<BR>>
 Majoring in Computer Science (GPA: 3.0)<<BR>>
 Relevant coursework includes: Java I, Java II, C#, Algorithms and Data Structure, Finite Automation, Computer System.<<BR>>
----
'''Qualifications'''
<<BR>>
 Proficient in Unit Testing.<<BR>>
 Construction and design of software system.<<BR>>
 Proficient in Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio, and Dia.<<BR>>
 Experience in most programming languages such as Java and C#, operating hardware, and software.<<BR>>
 3+ years of experience in system design, programming, and documentation.<<BR>>
 Strong background in user training.<<BR>>
 Excellent written and oral communication abilities.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
'''Affiliations'''
<<BR>>
 Member of Google Android and Ubuntu Team.
<<BR>>
References provided upon request

...
