{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Intro'''
----
I'm a 25 years old, italian student at Disi university (<nowiki>[[http://www.disi.unige.it]]</nowiki>).
I live in Genoa (Italy). I like to play and make videogames and I love the OpenSource movement.
I'm a member of LUGGE (<nowiki>[[http://www.lugge.net]]</nowiki>) that is a Linux User Group in GEnoa.
In my spare time I like to do Parkour.

'''Gnu/Linux Experience'''
----
My first approach with Linux was with Mandrake 8.0.
After that short experience I have tryed a lot of distro like: suse,fedora,slackware,gentoo,debian and finally one day someone gave to me the Ubuntu 4.10 cd.
Now I only use Ubuntu on my computer.

'''Programming Language Skills''
----
* Java: J2EE, JSP/Servlet, J2ME, J2SE and some other tecnologies based on Java platform. Strong knowledge.
* C: good knowledge
* C++: base knowledge but I hope to increase my skills on it in the future.
* C#: good knowledge. The differences with java aren't so much.
* Python: I did something in the past. I don't like it so much.
* Php: some experiences with version 4 and 5 for my university's exams using MySQL.

I always search for optimization in my program , so I prefer the freedom of language like C/C++.

'''Other Skill'''
----
* I'm not so good with english but I can read manual, searching info or tutorial in english without problem
* HTML/CSS
* SDL: base knowledge.
* GTK: base knowledge.
* OpenGL: base knowledge.
* game programming on J2ME and on normal computer.
