{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Andrew Hunter ==

Email: 
IRC/Forums: rexbron

Launchpad Profile: https://launchpad.net/~rexbron

=== About Me ===

* From Toronto, Canada
* Running Kubuntu since July 2006
** Running Ubuntu Studio since 7.04
* Believer in FOSS principles
* Member of the Ubuntu Canada LoCo team.
** Helped found Toronto Chapter of the Ubuntu Canada LoCo team.
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-dev/|Ubuntu Studio Development Team]]</nowiki>. 
* Active Ubuntero

=== Wiki Contributions ===

* UbuntuStudio/ToPackage
* UbuntuStudio/MetapackagesBreakdown
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Toronto/UbuntuVideo|CanadianTeam/Toronto/UbuntuVideo]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Toronto/UbuntuVideo/Burned|CanadianTeam/Toronto/UbuntuVideo/Burned]]</nowiki>
* CanadianTeam/Toronto/Website (and sub-pages)

=== Contributions to Ubuntu ===

 
* Did on the street marketing and promotion with Ubuntu Toronto on Software Freedom Day 2006. 
* Assisted friends and family in transitioning from Windows to FOSS. 
* Reported bugs and help translate programs into "Canadian" English
* Packaged <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/murrine|Murrine]]</nowiki>, a GTK2 engine, included in the Universe repository.
** Packaged at request of upstream and Ubuntu Studio.
* Packaged <nowiki>[[http://genpo.sourceforge.net|GENPO ]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu Studio (in progress)

=== Plans and Ideas ===

My plans and ideas for Ubuntu in the future are for the continued production of a quality  linux distribution. I also wish to become a MOTU and continue to help package with the Ubuntu Studio project. As a film student and Ubuntu user, I have a vested interest in helping to create a top quality Ubuntu-based distribution for multimedia production. 
 
----
CategoryHomepage
