{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Andrew Pollock, apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Andrew Pollock
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~apollock
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndrewPollock
|}

== Who I am ==
I used to be the tech lead for Goobuntu, Google's internal adaptation of Ubuntu for use as a corporate Engineering desktop, laptop, and server distribution. I've been an active <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=apollock|Debian Developer]]</nowiki> since 2003.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I became involved with Ubuntu by necessity, as we were using it for Goobuntu. I personally fostered a much closer relationship between Google and Ubuntu, resulting in a consistent presence at Ubuntu Developer Summits from the UDS for Hardy Heron onwards.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Most of my direct contributions to Ubuntu come by way of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~apollock/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status:list=NEW&field.status:list=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status:list=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status:list=INVALID&field.status:list=WONTFIX&field.status:list=CONFIRMED&field.status:list=TRIAGED&field.status:list=INPROGRESS&field.status:list=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status:list=FIXRELEASED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=apollock&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on|bug reports]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~apollock/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status:list=NEW&field.status:list=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status:list=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status:list=INVALID&field.status:list=WONTFIX&field.status:list=CONFIRMED&field.status:list=TRIAGED&field.status:list=INPROGRESS&field.status:list=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status:list=FIXRELEASED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=apollock&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_patch=on&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&search=Search|often with patches]]</nowiki>). I'm able to provide large-scale Enterprise deployment experience.

=== Areas of work ===
I've personally attended ever Ubuntu Developer Summit since October 2005. I've contributed bugs, patches, and general feedback on Enterprise and large-scale deployment of Ubuntu on the desktop and server. Indirectly, I maintain a few packages in Debian.

=== Things I could do better ===

I'd like to take a more active role in the bug management for the packages I maintain in Debian.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
One of my biggest concerns about Ubuntu is the quality, particularly of the LTS releases. I was pleased that for 10.04, it was syncing from Debian testing, I think that was a step in the right direction. I think some of the design decisions about what go into an LTS are questionable at times. Upstart and Plymouth both seem a bit problematic and immature in 10.04. Maybe a slightly more conservative approach towards the LTS releases is still necessary.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Scott James Remnant ===

Andrew is a great developer and community contributor to Ubuntu, and has been a leading guide on the use of Ubuntu in large enterprise deployments which has been invaluable.

=== Mathias Gug ===

Andrew brought valuable experience in large scale corporate deployements for Ubuntu. Associated with his packaging experience as a Debian developer he would be a great addition to the Ubuntu developer team.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
