{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu In Education ==

=== Overview ===

The main goals of the project:

* To develop a useful resource of reference to common questions and answers, and guides for various tasks that are specific to our education system. 
* To identify problems that exist within the education system and be able to show how Ubuntu is able to solve those problems.

=== Solutions For Our Education System ===

How Ubuntu Linux can provide simple solutions to problems that the education system may be facing.

Problem: Software licensing costs and restrictions are making it hard for us to purchase new computer hardware.

Ubuntu Solution: Ubuntu Linux is a free open source operating system solution that can be freely used anywhere. It comes with plenty of community support and commerical support also exists from numerous support providers. Being freely available the school is able to install and run an up to date and powerful operating system without the restrictions of licensing cost and restriction.

Further Resources:
* http://www.ubuntu.com/support/marketplace - Ubuntu Marketplace, Providing Links to Commerical Support organisations across the globe.
* http://www.ubuntu.com/support/supportoptions/paidsupport - Paid Technical support directly from the Ubuntu projects' funding organisation.

Problem: The school currently has some hardware stock that is starting to get old and unable to run our common software.

Ubuntu Solution: Using Edubuntu and it's LTSP (Linux Terminal Server Project) older hardware is able to run more powerful software through the use of a single server machine to provide the grunt required. This means that all the hardware does not need to be replaced in order to acheive a big jump in performance across a group of machines. The only spending required is on a suitable computer to act as the server and having a suitable networking system.

Further Resources:
* http://www.ltsp.org - Linux Terminal Server Project home.
* http://www.edubuntu.org - Home of Edubuntu, which includes LTSP by default.
