{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

A (very) brief intro

I am the project manager of the FLOSSCom project that is going to organize a summer university together with the Ubuntu team here at their launchpad space, but also outside throughout the real (virtual) world. I am also a PhD researcher at the British Open University (The OU), more precisely at the Institute of Educational Technology (IET). 

The Open Source way of learning?

Some years ago Open Source started to gain quite some attention regarding its application in education. 

Well, I believe that there are also some further lessons to be learnt from Open Source like the way Open Source communities work as learning environments – and that’s why I am here.

How I came into Open Source and learning 

I started back in 2002 as an absolute “dummy” by trying to set up and to modify an e-shop solution to fit my needs. I was quite impressed on the amount of learning materials around that helped me to get into the topic and also the support communities behind that would help me once I would not know further on. I not only got support on programming but also about legal requirements, different tax systems, marketing, purchasing and so on. This was quite a bit of a surprise for me and as Google just told me I probably saved more than thousand dollars on formal training. 
Certainly there were also those days where no one would help me and I whished to have a tutor around to ask, but well with Google as my friend it was usually only a matter of time to get things sorted out. And if nothing would work I still could go to rent a coder and get the answer by investing just some bucks - but this would still be cheaper and faster than attending any course. 
By the same time I started my PhD and was looking at higher education with a focus on quality and eLearning. I soon started to compare my personal Open Source learning spaces with their educational counterparts and that’s how it began.
Well, like usually, not everything is pink, but at least I never came across a manual that was 5 years old, and I never needed to hunt for old exams just to be able to reproduce an answer that my teacher considered to be “the right one” and the things I learnt were directly relevant (I still remember those hours where I would listen about stories from my teacher’s son, or whatever she felt like telling me)… I could go on now for quite a while with this, but don’t want to risk to enrage the good and committed educators that try to keep pace with this fast changing world that might came along this site.

To sum it up: I believe education has a lesson to learn from the virtual world and see open source communities as one of the good examples for it. And I don’t claim that the Open Source way of learning is replacing formal education, but hopefully helps to improve it.

Cheers
Andreas
