{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello!

My name is Andrew Ash, and you've probably come to this page to find out more about me.

Draft bugsquad diary - <nowiki>[[htts://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndrewAsh/Diaries/ash211]]</nowiki>

=== Launchpad ===
My launchpad ID is ash211:
* https://launchpad.net/~ash211

I tend to subscribe to bugs instead of assign them to me, so see https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ash211/+subscribedbugs for a list of bugs I've been involved in.
Bugs I feel I've done well in triaging / solving / submitting:
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/59346 - Wording fix
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/81768 - Recompile Amarok
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/21827 - Wikipedia pages in Amarok
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/76775 - Package Request: wlassistant 0.5.6

=== bugs.kde.org ===
I've also interacted a bit on bugs.kde.org, mostly with Amarok.
* http://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=137824#c6 - Recompile Amarok
* http://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=139803 - EBN changes

=== Accepted Patches ===
A few patches  I've submitted to Amarok have been accepted:
* http://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=131727 - Wording fix
* http://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=139757 - EBN changes

=== Bughelper contributions ===
I'm currently working on some code for the new bughelper application:
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bughelper/+bug/79142

=== Wikipages ===
Here are a couple wikipages I've had a lot of influence in:
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/DellInspironB130 - Personal Laptop I test
* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DebuggingSoundProblems - Rewrite - include info from DanielTChen, eliminate Hoary info

=== Bio ===
I'm a student in Atlanta, GA attending the Georgia Institute of Technology.

I'm currently running Kubuntu Gutsy on a LaptopTestingTeam/DellInspironB130 . I'm a big fan of Amarok, and have just started contributing patches to this great project.

I also exist in these communities:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=85270|ubuntuforums.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Ash211|en.wikipedia.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.last.fm/user/ash211|last.fm]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://folding.extremeoverclocking.com/user_summary.php?s=&u=184809|Folding@Home]]</nowiki>

And at my homepage:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.andrewash.com|andrewash.com]]</nowiki>

The best way to contact me is by email on launchpad 
----
CategoryHomepage
