{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~andylockran|Andy Loughran]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''andylockran''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://blog.zrmt.com/
|}

=== About Me ===

I'm 21 years old.  I graduated from MMU Cheshire in 2007 with a BA Joint Hons in Business & Psychology. Since finding Ubuntu (just before dapper) I've been drifting in and out of using it on many machines.  I now have it running on three servers, a desktop and my laptop.

=== Things I do for Ubuntu ===
==== FullCircleMagazine ====

I've recently signed up to help support Full Circle Magazine (www.fullcirclemagazine.org) which is an ubuntu magazine.  I'm currently working on creating a jingle for the new podcast, and will hopefully be one of the co-hosts/panel on the show.  I'll also (hopefully) be providing a mirror for both the magazine and the podcast.

==== Spread the Word ====

I've also recommended it to many friends, and recently setup an xubuntu desktop for the World Shipping Society archive in Chatham, Kent.  I hope to help encourage charities to adopt as many open source solutions as possible - and will always offer them ubuntu ahead of anything else, for the quality software and unrivalled community support.

=== Other ===

* I run a blog <nowiki>[[http://blog.zrmt.com/]]</nowiki> which contains anecdotes and some of my GNU/Linux experiences.
