{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

My name is Angel Luis Laguna Carrero. I am part of the Linux Ubuntu Spanish collaborators in translation.

I have obtained the five-year '''English Degree''' by the Official School of Languages in Spain, which is equivalent to the Cambridge Proficiency in English level. It consists on five years learning English, and it gives you some great skills to speak, write or understand English Language pretty well.

I have some previous experience translating texts from English to Spanish and viceversa, for four years.

I have also translated some freeware programs like Free Easy CD DVD Burner, or Free Eusing Registry Cleaner. 

I get part of '''Linux Ubuntu''' by collaborating in translating the system into Spanish, and I will probably get part of '''Linux Mandriva''' collaborators team in the short term. Moreover, I am cooperating with Rolando Ramos in the translation of '''Full Circle Magazine''' newest versions at the moment. Full Circle is not the official magazine for Linux Ubuntu system, but it is the next best thing you can find all over the net about Ubuntu.

On the other hand, I also get part of the development of a new project for an operating system called '''Syllable'''. It has its own website, and it has a beautiful magazine you can freely dowload from the net. I get part of the Syllable magazine collaborator as a redactor

My actual affairs are:

'''- Linux Ubuntu translation collaborator'''

'''- Full Circle magazine translator''' (Linux Ubuntu e-magazine)

'''- Syllable OS Spanish translators team'''

'''- Syllable Development Newsletter collaborator as redactor''' (Official Syllable e-magazine)

'''- Papirux Magazine redactor and administrator''' (Free Software e-magazine)

The website for Full Circle e-magazine Spanish Translation is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMagazine/TranslateFullCircle/Spanish

You can contact me in:
angelete_86@hotmail.com
angelete86@hotmail.com
angelete86@gmail.com
