{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

----

'''I, Angel Abad, apply for Universe Contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Angel Abad
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:angelabad | http:--www.launchpad.net-~angelbad]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[AngelAbad | https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-AngelAbad]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==

I'm Angel Abad, spanish (Basque Country) and 32. I'm free software entusiast since 15 when I met linux and gnu with one Slackware distribution. I'm sysadmin and I use Debian for my servers and Ubuntu for my desktop computers. I'm Debian Official Maintainer in <nowiki>[[https://nm.debian.org/nmstatus.php?email=angelabad%40gmail.com | Debian Developer applicant process]]</nowiki>.

Sorry for my English but I'm learning hard.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I've been using Ubuntu for 3 years more or less in my desktop computers and I feel very confortable using it. I contributed to Debian and more or less one year ago I started to contribute in Ubuntu too. If I use it I try to contribute it...

=== My involvement ===

At the moment Im contributing with merges, syncs and some bug fixes and ftbs through sponsors, and when I have time I work reporting bugs to upstream authors and tracking this bugs, making connection between launchpad and upstream bug system.

When I have free time, I like to translate technical documentation into spanish, at the moment I'm translating the Ubuntu Packaging Guide: <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Translation#Who | Packaging Guide Translations]]</nowiki>

Also <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=angelabad%40gmail.com | my Debian packages]]</nowiki> are imported into Ubuntu, I co-work with Debian Perl Team and some packages with Python Team.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

==== FTBFS ====

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-tulip-3.1.2-2ubuntu3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-python-hildondesktop-0.0.2-0ubuntu6]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-rss-glx-0.9.0-2ubuntu4]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-lcd4linux-0.10.1~rc2-2ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-muinescrobbler-0.1.8-0ubuntu6]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-kxmame-2.0~beta-0ubuntu3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libbuffy-1.2-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-tickcount-0.1-0ubuntu11]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-source-highlight-ide-+bug-617343]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-qsource-highlight-+bug-617346]]</nowiki>

==== Bug Fixes ====

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libamazon-sqs-simple-perl-1.06-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-vsftpd-2.2.2-3ubuntu7]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-scidavis-0.2.3-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-stage-2.0.3-2ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-acm4-4.7-19ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libtree-perl-1.01-0ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-rootstock-0.1.3-0ubuntu3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-telepathy-butterfly-0.5.12-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-backuppc-3.1.0-9ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-duplicity-0.6.09-0ubuntu2]]</nowiki>

==== Merges ====

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-yapgvb-1.2.3-0ubuntu5]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-pyrocket-0.6-0ubuntu3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-blueman-1.21-3ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-duplicity-0.6.08b-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-lastfmsubmitd-1.0.6-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libclass-trait-perl-0.31-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-csmash-0.6.6-6.5ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libdvdread-4.1.3-9ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-capisuite-0.4.5-11ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-service-discovery-applet-0.4.4-4.1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-taskjuggler-2.4.3-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-strongswan-4.3.2-1.3ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-ktechlab-0.3.7-9ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libphidgets-0.3.8-3.2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-criticalmass-1:1.0.0-1.4ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-motion-3.2.12-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-mongodb-1:1.4.4-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-galternatives-0.13.5+nmu2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-xenwatch-0.5.4-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-luckybackup-0.4.1-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-mpg123-1.12.1-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-cuyo-2.~-1.1.brl3-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-python-omniorb-3.3-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-refpolicy-2:0.2.20100524-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-goldendict-0.9.1~git20100719-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libgd2-2.0.36~rc1~dfsg-3.2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-d-shlibs-0.44+nmu1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>

==== Syncs ====

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-bbdb-2.36-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-ctemplate-0.97-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-shared-desktop-ontologies-0.5-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-jesd-0.0.7-3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-mochikit-1.4.2-3fakesync1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libjcommon-java-1.0.16-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libepc-0.3.11-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libcommons-modeler-java-2.0.1-5]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libhibernate-entitymanager-java-3.4.0.GA+dak1-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libhibernate3-java-3.3.2.GA-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-aspectwerkz2-2.0.dfsg.2-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-derivations-0.52.20100310-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-eqonomize-0.6-5]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-heartbeat-1:3.0.3-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libmei-1.0.1-6.1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libnet-tftp-perl-0.18-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libnet-twitter-perl-3.13006-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-xmlsec1-1.2.14-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-wikidiff2-0.0.1+svn55737-1.1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-xmlstarlet-1.0.2-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-gcin-1.4.6-3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-gdcm-2.0.14-9]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-frei0r-1.1.22git20091109-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-fbreader-0.10.7dfsg-3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-beneath-a-steel-sky-0.0372-4]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-linux-ftpd-ssl-0.17.31+0.3-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-plexus-containers-1.0~beta3.0.7-4]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-activeldap-1.2.1-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-diffpdf-1.1.3-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-php-geoip-1.0.7-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-xdrawchem-1.9.9-4.1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-libamazon-sqs-simple-perl-1.06-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-dajaxice-0.1.5-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-openmovieeditor-0.0.20080102-2.3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-python-pip-0.7.2-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-axis-1.4-12]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-python-pyxattr-0.5.0-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-motion-3.2.12-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-acl2-4.0-3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-vtkedge-0.1.0-3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-klog-0.5.6-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+source-python-gevent-0.13.0-1]]</nowiki>

==== Debian Maintained Packages ====

* <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:angelabad-+maintained-packages]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===

I'm working hard with merges and syncs with http://merges.ubuntu.com. Also I'm interested in package quality, things like lintian errors and maintain Ubuntu synced with Debian as possible.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

First, I would like to become a sponsor and help other people to integrate their work in Ubuntu, and also with time become a core-dev developer.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I dont like very much that sometimes poorly tested software is included in Ubuntu distribution. Sometimes it is better to have stability that the latest version.

----
== Comments ==

----
== Endorsements ==

----

=== Luca Falavigna ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored several packages from Angel, he is a really nice guy to work with. He has strong technical skills which he offers to the community, both for Ubuntu and Debian, I think he deserves Ubuntu membership!

----

=== Stefano Rivera ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored several syncs and a merge for Angel. I have found his work to be good although I don't have enough experience of working with him to give a stronger endorsement.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
<nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/602259|602259]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/595020|595020]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/602331|602331]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/600994|600994]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/598765|598765]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/598777|598777]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/605311|605311]]</nowiki> 

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I reviewed a couple of changes by Angel and was generally quite happy with the work. Sometimes a few small changes were necessary, but nothing too bad.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* some syncs
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/motion/+bug/604565
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/strongswan/+bug/597711
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/service-discovery-applet/+bug/597307
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libdvdread/+bug/596897 (unnecessary merge)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/csmash/+bug/596873
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blueman/+bug/594645
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/yapgvb/+bug/587875
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rss-glx/+bug/538722 (small fixes necessary)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-vpnc/+bug/596942 (marked invalid)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/matchbox-window-manager/+bug/596913 (still waiting for reply)

==== Areas of Improvement ====
In my eyes Angel just needs more experience, which will surely come over time.

=== Benjamin Drung ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored over a dozen syncs and one merge. All sync requests passed without any questions. His requests were the most verbose ones. I wish every sync requester were that precise. He deserves to become Universe Contributor.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openmovieeditor/+bug/607233
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dajaxice/+bug/606826
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xdrawchem/+bug/606645
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/php-geoip/+bug/606831
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/diffpdf/+bug/606840
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/shared-desktop-ontologies/+bug/593600
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mednafen/+bug/593621
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mochikit/+bug/595061
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libcommons-modeler-java/+bug/595843
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libhibernate-entitymanager-java/+bug/595854
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libhibernate3-java/+bug/595864
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xmlstarlet/+bug/598740
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/axis/+bug/614364
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-pyxattr/+bug/614389
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/motion/+bug/615864
* merge: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libgd2/+bug/606384

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
