{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 1.0em; width:40%;  margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Informacion sobre esta Wiki/Information on this Wiki'''<<BR>>
|}

=== Datos personales ===
* Ángel Cruz
* Valencia - Edo. Carabobo - Venezuela
* Usando ubuntu desde noviembre 2009.
* Ubuntu User #29501
* Gnu/Linux counter  #508418
* Idioma: Español

=== Información de contacto ===
* '''Por mi correo''': webmaster[at]abr4xas[dot]org
* '''También''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~abr4xas|en el launchpad]]</nowiki>.
* '''Puedes leer mi''': <nowiki>[[http://abr4xas.org/|blog]]</nowiki>.
* '''Puedes seguirme en twitter''': @<nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/abr4xas|abr4xas]]</nowiki>.
* '''Soy un''': <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/ContactosRegionales|contacto local]]</nowiki>.
* '''Skype''': abr4xas_ (con el guión bajo)

=== Colaboraciones en el team ===
* Pendón nuevo el cual fue usado en el flisol 2010.
* Apoyo logístico en el flisol.  
* Actualmente desarrollando pagina representativa del team carabobo.
* IRCop en el canal #ubuntu-ve en freenode (irc.freenode.net)

=== Colaboraciones en launchpad ===

* A través   de mi cuenta en <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~abr4xas|launchpad]]</nowiki> estoy participando en <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-desktop-course|Ubuntu Desktop Course]]</nowiki> ayudando a realizar traducciones.
=== Colaboraciones en eventos ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Evento'''
| '''Lugar'''
| '''Actividades'''
| '''Fecha'''
|-
| Aniversario del team ubuntu-ve
| Maracay Edo. Aragua
| Ponencia: Qimo, Gnu/Linux para niños. Que se puede bajar desde <nowiki>[[http://www.vaslibre.org.ve/index.php?id=20&go=7|aquí]]</nowiki>.
| 31 de julio 2010
|-
| Flisol Valencia 2011
| Universidad de Carabobo, Biblioteca Central de la Facultad de Ingeniería. Valencia Edo. Carabobo.
| Coordinador del evento y del stand de instalaciones y como ponente en dicho evento.
| 09 de Abril 2011
|}
== English Version ==
=== Personal ===
** Angel Cruz
** Valencia - Edo. Carabobo - Venezuela
** Using Ubuntu since November 2009.
** Ubuntu User # 29501
** GNU / Linux counter # 508418
** Language: Spanish

=== Contact information ===
* '''Mail''': webmaster[at]abr4xas[dot]org
* '''Also''': @<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~abr4xas| launchpad]]</nowiki>.
* '''Follow me''': @<nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/abr4xas|abr4xas]]</nowiki>.
* '''I'm''': <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VenezuelaTeam/ContactosRegionales|Local Contact]]</nowiki>.
* '''Skype''': abr4xas_

=== Collaborations @ launchpad ===

* Through my account on <nowiki>[[https: - - launchpad.net - ~ abr4xas | launchpad]]</nowiki> I am participating in <nowiki>[[https: - - launchpad.net - ubuntu-desktop-course | Ubuntu Desktop Course]]</nowiki> helping to make translations.

=== Collaborations ===
** Ubuntu's new banner used at flisol 2010
** Logistical support with Flisol 2010.
** Currently developing carabobo team webpage.
** IRC Operator in # ubuntu-ve on freenode (irc.freenode.net)
=== Event Partnerships ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Event'''
| '''Place'''
| '''Activities'''
| '''Date'''
|-
| Ubuntu-ve Anniversary
| Maracay Edo. Aragua
| Talk about: Qimo, for kids. Download <nowiki>[[http://www.vaslibre.org.ve/index.php?id=20&go=7|here]]</nowiki>. (Spanish )
| 31 de julio 2010
|-
| Flisol Valencia 2011
| University of Carabobo, Central Library of the Faculty of Engineering. Valencia Edo. Carabobo.
| Coordinator of the event and stand facilities and a speaker at the event.
| 09 de Abril 2011
|}
