{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Greetings K/X/Ed/Ubuntu-ites! ==

=== I'm Scott (a/k/a angrykeyboarder). ===

==== Linux Experience ====
I've been a Linux user and enthusiast (on and off) since 1999. I started first with <nowiki>[[http://web.archive.org/web/20000903125324/www.linuxmandrake.com/en/|Mandrake]]</nowiki> (now known as <nowiki>[[http://www.mandriva.com/|Mandriva]]</nowiki>), then <nowiki>[[http://www.redhat.com/|RedHat]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.suse.com/|SUSE]]</nowiki>.  Then I went on a "hiatus" for a few years came back in 2004 starting off on <nowiki>[[http://www.fedora.redhat.com|Fedora Core 3]]</nowiki> and after that, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org|Kubuntu]]</nowiki> Hoary and have upgraded to every new version since.  I have also used <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/|Debian]]</nowiki> (both <nowiki>[[http://www.us.debian.org/releases/unstable/|"Unstable" -a/k/a: "sid"]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.us.debian.org/releases/testing/|Testing)]]</nowiki> ) and <nowiki>[[http://fedoraproject.org/|Fedora]]</nowiki> in recent times.

This all just reinforces what a great distribution (K)Ubuntu is. Although the geek in me likes to toy around, so I'll probably end up adding something later to the mix.  Regardless, I can't see myself abandoning Ubuntu/Kubuntu.  There is too much going for it. Frankly one of the best things is the unbeatable community.  They are great.

I'm not a coder or programmer, but I enjoy answering new users' questions and try to help out when I can in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|forums]]</nowiki> and on the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com|mailing lists]]</nowiki> (and a bit less often on the IRC channels).

I have also begun dabbling in compiling Linux software from source code and building Debian (Ubuntu) packages (allthough I admit to "cheating" with <nowiki>[[http://freshmeat.net/projects/checkinstall/|"CheckInstall"]]</nowiki> ;) ).

As of this writing (28 May 2007) I'm running Feisty (with Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Xubuntu desktops installed). I spend most of my time in either KDE and GNOME.  I can't decide which of the two I like better, so I decided not to decide. ;-) I would say that I do generally lean toward KDE.  I also dual-boot with <nowiki>[[http://www.microsoft.com/windows/products/windowsvista/editions/ultimate/default.mspx|Windows Vista Ultimate]]</nowiki> (upgraded from XP in February 2007) because well...there are a few things that Windows still does better and I actually hold no ill will toward the OS.  It's pretty good actually (shh..keep that on the DL. It goes <nowiki>[[http://www.forbes.com/intelligentinfrastructure/2005/06/16/linux-bsd-unix-cz_dl_0616theo.html|against the grain]]</nowiki> of a lot of Linux people)..

I've never used an Operating System that I didn't (dis)like. :)

In any event, the geek in me likes the flexibility you get with Linux.  I spent more of my computer time in Linux than Windows.

==== My Box ====
Speaking of dual-booting, this is the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=541266#post541266|box]]</nowiki> I'm talking about.

And knowing me, I may end up with another couple of Linux distros, FreeBSD & (Open)Solaris on it as well (when I get around to it ;) ).  Besides, I have got more hard drive space than I know what to do with (and I keep adding more).

==== Launchpad Teams ====
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-arizona|Arizona LoCo]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad|Bugsquad]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kubuntu-users|Kubuntu Users]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-users|Xubuntu Users]]</nowiki>.

I am not on the Ubuntu Users team because it is for official Ubuntu Members. I am not (yet) an Ubuntu member.

==== Wiki Contributions ====
* OperaBrowser - Misc. Fixes and Additions
* IdeaPool - Suggestions
* XubuntuProposedPackages - Suggestions

==== Other Community Contributions ====

I am a regular on these mailing lists:

** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users|ubuntu-users]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-users|kubuntu-users]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-backports|ubuntu-backports]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/sounder|sounder]]</nowiki>

And in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=12487|web forum]]</nowiki> as well.

==== Hobbies/Interests ====
Computers, Software, Internet, Theatre, Music, Politics, Current Events, <nowiki>[[http://airliners.net|Commercial Aviation]]</nowiki>.  I blog/journal quite a bit (although I go through phases were I'm not in the mood.). You will find links to some of my various blogs/journals and so forth on my <nowiki>[[http://angrykeyboarder.com|web site]]</nowiki> (which I desperately need to update).

Since this is a Wiki, that reminds me, probably the best "bio" I have on the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internets_(colloquialism)|Internets™]]</nowiki> at the moment is on <nowiki>[[http://www.wikipedia.org|Wikipedia]]</nowiki>. It is my <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Angrykeyboarder|User Page]]</nowiki>.

==== My Job (or lack thereof) ====
I am presently unemployed (for reasons you can read about on my  <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Angrykeyboarder|Wikipedia Page]]</nowiki> but eventually I hope to go to school and get some training and/or a degree in the IT field.  I'd like to work in said field in some capacity (I am nmot sure what I would be doing at this point).  Most of my previous work experience (20 years worth) has been in the travel/call center industry. That is an industry I am no longer interested in (so IT Help Desks would be out of the question :) ).

==== Contact Info ====
** Email: geekboy AT angrykeyboarder DOT com]
** Jabber: angrykeyboarder @gmail.com, angrykeyboarder @jis.mit.edu & angrykeyboarder @livejournal.com
** Yahoo! Messenger: angrykeyboarder
** Windows Live (MSN) Messenger: angrykeyboarder @hotmail.com
** AIM: angrykeyboarder
** Google Talk: angrykeyboarder @gmail.com
** Skype: angrykeyboarder
** ICQ: 277439129
** IRC: angrykeyboarder or angrykeys

==== World Wide Web ====
** Main Website: <nowiki>[[http://angrykeyboarder.com|http://angrykeyboarder.com]]</nowiki>
** (Primary) Weblog: <nowiki>[[http://angrykeyboarder.wordpress.com|http://angrykeyboarder.wordpress.com]]</nowiki>
** Numerous <nowiki>[[http://del.icio.us/tag/angrykeyboarder|other places]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
