{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float: right; font-size:0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Name'''
| Ankit Mathur
|-
| '''Email'''
| 
|-
| '''{{http://launchpad.net/@@/language}} IRC'''
| ankreloadeded on <nowiki>[[http://www.freenode.net| Freenode]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad Profile'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~ankitreloaded| ankitreloaded]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Twitter'''
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/ankitmth| ankitmth]]</nowiki>
|}

== About Me ==
Hi there! this is Ankit Mathur. I am a final year student of Electronics & Communication (though I am much better at software development). I primarily like working with Java and other web technologies. I live in Gurgaon, India; though I've been studying at Birla Institute, Nainital for my engineering degree.

== My Tryst with Ubuntu ==
I strongly feel that Ubuntu is the king of all Linux distributions, nothing's better! My first encounter with Ubuntu was in 2007 when I first saw it's CD in the library. I've been working on it ever since. I love Open Source and look forward to making some great contributions to the community!
  
== Other Work ==
I've been writing for the ''Linux For You'' magazine on a variety of topics for the past few months.
  
