{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

/!\ This page is work in progress /!\

'''I, Anthony Wong, apply for upload rights for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntukylin-dev | Ubuntu Kylin package set]]</nowiki>.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Anthony Y.P. Wong
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~anthonywong
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[AnthonyWong]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
My name is Anthony Wong, living in Beijing. I have been involved in FLOSS since 1998. My Linux journey began when I first tried Redhat 4.2 in the summer before the program of my master degree of computer science started. My first FLOSS contribution is <nowiki>[[ftp:--distrib-coffee.ipsl.jussieu.fr-pub-linux-mandriva-prehistory-6.0-i586-index-html-emiclock-1.0.4-1.i386.html | some]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://distrib-coffee.ipsl.jussieu.fr/pub/linux/mandriva-prehistory/6.0/i586/index-html/Anthony_Y.P._Wong_%3Cypwong@poboxes.com%3E_.html | RPM]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ftp:--distrib-coffee.ipsl.jussieu.fr-pub-linux-mandriva-prehistory-6.0-i586-index-html-Anthony_Y.P._Wong_%3Cypwong@poboxes.com%3E.html | packaging]]</nowiki>. Redhat 4.2 was a solid distribution with a great user manual for newbies like me at that time, but system upgrade was a nightmare.

Soon after that I tried Debian and found apt-get just won RPM management hands down. The spirit of <nowiki>[[https://www.debian.org/social_contract#guidelines|DFSG]]</nowiki> also made me a firm follower of Debian and so I tried my best to apply for Debian Developer and was accepted. Ever since, FLOSS has become part of my life, no matter in my postgraduate study, my work and my hobby.

My previous jobs include PHP and Java web development, C system programming, the <nowiki>[[http://www.sw-linux.com.cn/ | RAYS distribution by Sun Wah Linux]]</nowiki> and OEM preload project at Novell/SUSE. Currently I worked at Canonical as project manager of OEM PC hardware enablement and Ubuntu Kylin.

== My Ubuntu story ==
Before joining Canonical I've been using Ubuntu on and off. Since 2011, Ubuntu is my primary desktop OS. 

''Tell us how and when you got involved, what you liked working on and what you could probably do better.''

=== My involvement ===

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

=== Areas of work ===
I am currently in the Ubuntu Kylin team and working with engineers from NUDT and ubuntu desktop developers.
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Some wiki pages are outdated and could be confusing to new contributors, like how to contribute fixes to Ubuntu. For example, one can attach a debdiff patch to a bug or link a Bzr branch.

For translators, the translation facility provided by Launchpad is quite limited. Ability to review and use other languages as reference are nice features, but we found it is not enough for our workflow when we were working on translation with the Ubuntu Kylin team. We do not only need the ability to review but the reviewer has to provide feedback to the translators so that the translators can refine the translations.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
