{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Howdy, and welcome to my Wiki Page!

=== About Me ===

I am currently in-between colleges (so to say) but no matter what I am always a student at heart.

I am 18 years old (19 in April), and currently reside in Mahoning County in Ohio, United States. I first started Linux with Ubuntu Breezy Badger, and currently use (X)Ubuntu 6.10 until Fiesty is released. 

In high school, I attended my first two years at a information technology magnet school in Florida. Once moved, I spent the next two years half day in regular high school and half day in an information technology vocational school. After high school, I attended college to study computer forensics, but left after a semester in disagreement with the college in the plans for the major and technology on campus, and a tuition raise. After securing a local job, I would like to attend a different college part time for information technology.

=== Ubuntu Goodness ===

==== Teams - Roles ====

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam|Ohio LoCo]]</nowiki> - Member

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/EducationTeam|Ohio Education Team]]</nowiki> - Founder / Leader

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/CommunicationTeam|Ohio Communication Team]]</nowiki> - Member

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/MarketingTeam|Ohio Marketing Team]]</nowiki> - Member

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/NewUserTeam|Ohio New User Team]]</nowiki> - Administrator

==== Current Ubuntu Projects ====

'''Education Team''' - This is currently my biggest project. The Education Team's goal is to educate End Users in not only using Ubuntu, but training them in the software in Ubuntu to make them more productive, for free, in a class-room / workshop environment at local institutions (libraries, schools, etc). The Education Team is currently coworking with the Ohio Marketing and Ohio New User teams in providing Ubuntu in libraries and providing training at the libraries to help benefit both the Ubuntu community and the libraries.

'''Ohio Marketing Team''' : ''OPLIN Project'' - This project aims to bring Ubuntu to the libraries to help introduce both the library staff of Ohio to Ubuntu and also provide Ubuntu discs to the libraries for distribution and hopefully eventually have Ubuntu a cataloged item. The project also works on the lower end, in setting up displays and distribution in local libraries.

'''Ohio LoCo''' : ''Ohio Linux Fest'' - Mostly self explanatory. We are working on representing Ubuntu and the LoCo at the Ohio Linux Fest.
