{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== About me ==

My name is Anthony Wong, Chinese name is 黃彥邦. I'm a GNU/Linux and open source software enthusiast. I joined Debian as DD in 1999, and have been working in the Linux industry for a long time. Now I'm working at Canonical and am responsible for hardware enablement in Ubuntu.

* irc: ypwong on freenode
* Launchpad profile: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~anthonywong]]</nowiki>
* Personal website: <nowiki>[[http://www.anthonywong.net]]</nowiki>
* Email:  (personal),  (work)

== Contribution ==

=== Packages in Debian and Ubuntu ===
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/sid/rifiuti2 | Rifiuti2]]</nowiki> - A MS Windows recycle bin analysis tool
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=ibus-cangjie | ibus-cangjie]]</nowiki> - Cangjie and Quick input methods for IBus, mainly for Hong Kong and Taiwan people.
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=libcangjie | libcangjie2 ]]</nowiki> - Cangjie input method library, which ibus-cangjie relies on.
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=pycangjie | python3-pycangjie ]]</nowiki> - Python wrapper to libcangjie, as ibus-cangjie is written in Python and so needs a python library of libcangjie.

=== Ubuntu Work ===

==== Ubuntu ====
* Manage hardware enablement issues on OEM projects and n+1 upstream/backport efforts as can be seen in  <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net/hwe-next | HWE Next]]</nowiki>. For how we do n+1, you can read <nowiki>[[http://odm.ubuntu.com/uhs/2011/Upstreaming%20Enablement%20and%20components.pdf | my slide deck]]</nowiki> of my talk in <nowiki>[[http://odm.ubuntu.com/uhs/2011/ | UHS 2012]]</nowiki> and this <nowiki>[[http://blog.canonical.com/2012/03/07/improving-hardware-support-in-ubuntu/ | blog]]</nowiki>.
* I also belong to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-zh-hk | Ubuntu Traditional Chinese (Hong Kong)]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-zh-tw | Ubuntu Traditional Chinese (Taiwan)]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-zh-cn | Ubuntu Simplified Chinese]]</nowiki> translation teams, an active translator.
* Helps <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/indicator-keylock|indicator-keylock]]</nowiki> to be in a good shape, i.e. lintian clean, for uploading to Ubuntu. - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1392283 | LP: #1392283]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Kylin ====
* I work on the <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin | Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> project, help managing the engineers for bug fixing and will fix one or two from time to time. We hang out at #ubuntukylin-devel on irc.freenode.net.
* Organized the first Ubuntu Kylin release party in Beijing for the 13.04 launch.
* Gave talks about Ubuntu Kylin, one for <nowiki>[[http://www.slideshare.net/ypwong/ubuntu1304-releaseparty-for-linkedin | 13.04]]</nowiki> and another for <nowiki>[[http://www.slideshare.net/ypwong/ubuntu-1404beijingreleaseparty | 14.04]]</nowiki>.

==== Bug Fixes ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/830801 | Unity bug 830801]]</nowiki> - This is my first patch to Ubuntu, at that time I was still not familiar with the Ubuntu bzr/merge request workflow and so I submitted the patch in the old style, i.e. attaching the patch to the bug.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1231305 | Kernel bug 1231305]]</nowiki> - Fixed a kernel bug that brightness adjustment does not work on Haswell ULT.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/command-not-found/+bug/1029204 | command-not-found bug 1029204]]</nowiki> - Fixed a locale issue.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-bluetooth/+bug/1312349 | gnome-bluetooth bug 1312349]]</nowiki> - Fixed a bluetooth bug which so that a certain type of bluetooth keyboard can be connected.
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~anthonywong/sudoku-app/better-i18n | sudoku-app i18n bug]]</nowiki> - Cleaned up the sudoku-app so it handles i18n/l10n properly.
* Merged branches can be found <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~anthonywong/+branches?field.lifecycle=MERGED&field.lifecycle-empty-marker=1&field.sort_by=most+recently+changed+first&field.sort_by-empty-marker=1|here]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryHomepage
