{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About ===
I am an IT professional specialising in collaboration technologies.  I have my own company called Virtual Teaming Strategies, started to help globally disbursed organisations work more effectively.  I have been using Ubuntu for about 5 years and believe in the idea of Open Source not only as a way of improving software, but as a economic model for the future.  I also have experience as a writer, focusing on culture, and would like to use my IT and writing skills to help the open source movement in some small way.  Ubuntu documentation seems to be the best fit.

=== Research ===
With 10 years experience working in and managing virtual teams and the technologies that make such teams possible, I understand the suite of technologies and how and when to use them.  I'm also interested in understanding the way the culture of these teams affect their productivity.  To this end, I am currently undertaking a Masters of Applied Anthropology.  I intend to use my experience here as part of my research and would appreciate any time other team members have to share their perspectives.  Interviews may take up to an hour.  If you are interested, please read the consent form below and contact me at murray.gunn@students.mq.edu.au.  If an interview is uncomfortable or the timing is difficult (I'm based in Sydney, Australia), I could also send a list of questions to be answered in your own time.

=== Consent ===
Name of Project:       Culture in Virtual Teams______

You are invited to participate in a study of culture in virtual teams.  The purpose of the study is to understand the impact of team culture on the effectiveness of virtual teams.  Globalisation is enabling experts and interested parties of all fields to come together on particular projects or interest groups.  Open Source communities are an especially productive example that demonstrates how many people can each give a little of their time to make advances that compete with funded corporate projects.  

The study is being conducted by Murray Gunn, a postgraduate student at Macquarie University, contactable at vtanthropologist@gmail.com. Culture in Virtual Teams is being conducted to meet the requirements of Masters of Applied Anthropology under the supervision of Greg Downey (greg.downey@mq.edu.au) of the Department of the Department of Anthropology, Macquarie University

If you decide to participate, you will be asked to provide your views on how the team/community is structured, your place in the team / community, the decision making process, the level of trust and familiarity you have with other members and conflict management.  Transcripts of interviews will be recorded in an encrypted file on the researchers PC with account names changed for privacy.  You will not be asked for any personal information.  Incremental effort by you will not exceed one hour.

Any information or personal details gathered in the course of the study are confidential (except as required by law).  No individual will be identified in any publication of the results.  The data will only be viewed by the researcher and the supervisor.   A summary of the results of the data can be made available to you on request by email to vtanthropologist@gmail.com

Murray Gunn owns Virtual Teaming Strategies, a one-man Australian company dedicated to helping virtual teams become more effective.  The results of this study will be used in a thesis that will be publicly available and may be used by Virtual Teaming Strategies or similar companies to advise other virtual teams.  The results may also be used in future academic or popular publications.

Participation in this study is entirely voluntary: you are not obliged to participate and if you decide to participate, you are free to withdraw at any time without having to give a reason and without consequence.

I, (participant’s name) have read (or, where appropriate, have had read to me) and understand the information above and any questions I have asked have been answered to my satisfaction.  I agree to participate in this research, knowing that I can withdraw from further participation in the research at any time without consequence.  I have been given a copy of this form to keep.

Participant’s Name:                                                                                                        
(block letters)

Participant’s Signature:                                                           Date:                              

Investigator’s Name:                                                                                                      
(block letters)

Investigator’s Signature:                                                           Date:                           

The ethical aspects of this study have been approved by the Macquarie University Ethics Review Committee (Human Research).  If you have any complaints or reservations about any ethical aspect of your participation in this research, you may contact the Ethics Review Committee through the Director, Research Ethics (telephone 9850 7854; email ethics@mq.edu.au).  Any complaint you make will be treated in confidence and investigated, and you will be informed of the outcome.
