{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Absolute New Users Guide (ANUG) ==
=== What it is ===
ANUG is a guide to people that are completely new to GNU/Linux, Ubuntu, and have only a minimal understanding of how computers work.  It is geared to the average computer user who only wants to do "basic" things with their new Ubuntu machine.  
=== What it is not ===
ANUG is not a comprehensive guide to GNU/Linux or Ubuntu or computers in general.  It will not teach you how to do everything. It will not have all the answers.  

=== Assumptions ===
* The latest version of Ubuntu is already installed (Hardy for now).
* The User has an active internet connection.
* The User is not hearing or visually impaired.

   
=== Outline ===
 1. Before you even start
  a. Looking at your Desktop
  a. Audio
  a. Video
  a. Flash
 1. Beginner
  a. Browse the Internet
  a. Type a paper
  a. Spreadsheet
  a. Printing
  a. Use an Instant Messenger
   i. AOL Instant Messenger (AIM)
   i. Microsoft Network (MSN)
   i. Yahoo Instant Messenger (YIM)
  a. Burn a CD or DVD
  a. Play Music
   i. Adjusting the volume
  a. Play Videos
  a. Download Music, Movies, Pictures, etc.
  a. Drawing pictures
  a. Where are all my files?
 1. Novice
  a. Creating/Managing Users
  a. Editing Images (Where is Photoshop?)
  a. Scan an Image
  a. Changing the appearance or theme
  a. 
 1. Help!
   a. Where to get Help
    i. using Google for Ubuntu Help
    i. Ubuntu Forums
    i. IRC
   a. Installfest's (Dont you people ever meet face to face)
 1. Ubuntu Glossary
  a. Here we would list terms that may come up(possibly with a pointer to a related section/article)
