{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Alexandru Polihron (APoliTech) ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ''' Location'''
| 
| Bucharest, Romania
|-
| ''' Time Zone'''
| 
| Europe/Bucharest (UTC+0200)
|-
| ''' Launchpad Page'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~apolitech]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Email Address'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:ppolihron@gmail.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' IRC Nick'''
| 
| APoliTech on freenode
|-
| ''' Twitter'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/apolitech_linux|@APoliTech_Linux]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' !GitHub '''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/APoliTech]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Telegram '''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://telegram.me/APoliTech|@APoliTech]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Youtube '''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/user/APolitech]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Website '''
| 
| <nowiki>[[http://www.apolitech.com]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
 An open source consumer since 2012 and an open source contributor since 2014. An active Ubuntu Mate member since 2014 assisting with QA tests, and a official Ubuntu Mate team member ( QA engineer) since July of 2017.

From June of 2014 I made a YouTube  channel made up of 2 types of videos:
"How to", which shows step by step how to install / fix some applications /
games.
"Bugs in the OS", in which they show step by step problems in different
versions based on Ubuntu that help Devs in reproducing problems.

And from March of 2015 I made a website that came out of the YouTube channel and the visitors requests.
On this site you can find all sorts of tutorials ("How to", "Gaming", "Tweaks",
etc.) in English for distributions based on Ubuntu.
This site has been visited by over 98,640 thousands visitors and has received
the approval of over 20 YouTubers appearing in their tutorials. There was two revisions of the website and at this time it’s in a stagnant stage because all my time it’s in QA tests. That’s because I can do much more good testing then doing some tutorials.

=== Contributions ===

* Ubuntu Mate Infrastructure

* Ubuntu Mate testing

* Ubuntu Budgie testing

* Mate interface testing
 
* Budgie interface testing

* Community Engagement VIA the YouTube channel and the website

* Video drivers testing (AMD and Intel)

* Wine testing

* Various applications testing

* Ubuntu Mate Community Support VIA Google + and forum

* Ubuntu Mate translation VIA Transifex

* Release Management

=== Future Goals ===

* Increase my coding capabilities
* Become more involved with packaging
* I want to resuscitate the Ubuntu community in my contry (Romania)
* Sharpening my QA skills and learn all the packaging names found in Ubuntu Mate
* Develop some applets for the Mate interface

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
