{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Apport Enhancement ==

=== Rationale ===

The current implementation of Apport message dialogues and notifications has a poor logic and does not benefit user experience over time.

Thu user is exposed to lots of message dialogues when multiple crash reports are detected at the same time.

=== Proposal ===
* Conditionally show message dialogue for batch crash report submit according to some logic explained below.
* Reduction of message dialogues visible on-screen simultaneously when a crash report is detected by implementing single instance message dialogue app
* Keep record of unreported crashes
* Add counter of unreported crashes en message dialogue
* Update on real time the counter when new crash report is detected
* Add persistent indicator when unreported crashes are detected.

=== Indicator ===
* Always: libindicator tray icon with counter
* Always: libnotify desktop-notification each time sudoer user is logged in.
* Conditional: message dialogue each time sudoer user is logged in, only if current number of reports is greater than interval-counter modelled as Fibonacci series.

==== Outdated packages ====
* Explain if necessary if report could not be sent due to outdated packages
* Offer package updates or launch update-manager if necessary.
* If auto-launched, explain in update-manager that an update is necessary to check if previous problem(s) is(are) already solved on newer version(s).

==== Intervals (interval-counter) ====

To avoid receiving too much reports from only one user, a persistent counter could be added. Basically, it increases every time a user sends a batch of reports, this way a few advantages are achieved:

* As long as times goes, user is less interrupted with notifications. Usability is exponentially-amortized enhancement; gets better as times goes by
* Could bring less false positives
* Ubuntu gets less reports from broken or experimental settings, such as when a user installs and reconfigures services just for the fun of it
* More batch of reports are gathered on fresh installs
* No interval logic should be considered on development versions.

==== Uptime ====
* Implement some logic to conditionally show notification when very long uptime is reached (ie, 100 Hours)
* Implement some logic to conditionally skip message dialogue show on login (or start-up) if last uptime was less than 1 Hour (for barely used systems).

==== Network Connection ====
* Server Downtime: do not show notifications or message dialogue when bug tracker could not be reached
* Mobile only: Implement some logic for users of mobile connections to avoid spending too much data quote if applicable
* * Prepaid: interval based on double counter value (2i) for prepaid (when user can't afford spending too much on updates and crash reporting). Not sure about this one.

==== Privacy ====
* Encrypt crash reports and unencrypt when submitting
* If encryption is implemented, automatically collect user data and stack traces and only submit if user authorizes it. Otherwise discard sensitive reports presents in the batch.
* If encrypted by SSH keys, discard or re-encrypt previous reports after successful new key pair is generated.
