{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ideas for new Apport symptoms ==

=== Window decorations/animations and workspace management ===

* metacity vs. compiz vs. mutter
* followup questions about 3D support -> driver issue?

=== Bluetooth ===
* distinguish linux, bluetooth and bluez-* packages

=== A/V codecs ===

The symptom could ask which codec the user is trying to open, like quicktime
for example. Or, the perhaps a file could be given as argument and the magic
number used to determine this information automatically.

After that, the totem package hook for this case should call the symptom
instead of just assigning everything to "gstreamer".

=== Flash ===

* many bugs about Flash are reported against "ubuntu". 
* check which flash package you have installed (proprietary/swfdec/gnash)

=== Infrared/IRDA ===

* linux vs. lirc?
* Needs more technical expertise for fleshing this out

=== Network ===

* NetworkManager vs. drivers vs wpasupplicant vs. ndiswrapper

=== Input devices ===

* touchpads (synaptic), tablets (wacom), touchscreen (xorg), mice, keyboards, multimedia buttons (udev)

=== Printing ===
* packages specific to Brother, HP (hplip)
* filters (ghostscript, foomatic)
* scheduler (cups)

=== Webcam ===

* linux (driver) vs. UI (cheese/totem/empathy)
