{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard|Ubuntu Application Review Board]]</nowiki> is scheduled to meet on the last Friday of every month at 21:00 UTC. The next meeting is scheduled for <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Ubuntu+Application+Review+Board+Meeting&iso=20121202T08&p1=136&ah=1 |Sunday 02nd December 2012, 8:00 UTC]]</nowiki> and and will be held in #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net.

To submit an application for review, see the <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/publish/|submission instructions]]</nowiki>. If you have a question to raise with the Application Review Board that isn't an application submission, you can reach the members directly by emailing app-review-board@lists.ubuntu.com.  They may decide that your issue should be discussed at the next meeting, in which case they will add it to this page.

* Next meeting (2012-12-02) chair: coolbhavi
* Action review
* Review active tickets for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/developer-portal/+bugs?field.tag=arb|Developer Portal]]</nowiki>
* Review workitems from UDS
* Doing a new recruiting run.
* Follow up with the TB again for a formal signoff on the new proposed ARB process
* Review health of <nowiki>[[https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/dev/arb/|the queue]]</nowiki>
* Any other business
* Decide time and select chair for next meeting.

==== Actions ====

Logs from previous meetings may be found at <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki> or via <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot|MootBot]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
