{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[Quickly]]</nowiki> is a tool for creating new applications from scratch. For more information, see the <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/get-started/|Quickly guide]]</nowiki>.

If your app is written in Quickly, run:

<pre>
quickly tutorial ubuntu-application
</pre>

for details on how to release to your PPA with a single command.

=== Fixes for Extras Apps ===

'''NOTE:''' most of the issues here have been addressed in the latest version of Quickly. Generally the <code>quickly submitubuntu</code> or <code>quickly package --extras</code> should take care of them for you. Follow these instructions '''only''' if you've got an unresolved issue with those commands.

Currently, apps packaged with Quickly need several changes before the ARB can publish them. Quickly is a little behind the current ARB requirements, but will be updated in future releases. These are the files that need to be edited:

==== myapp.desktop.in ====

Change the file path for Exec, by adding "/opt/extras.ubuntu.com/myapp/" before the app binary.

==== debian/changelog ====

Quickly will make a number of entries in this file. For release, these need to be collapsed down into one entry. Add the string "-0extras12.04.1" to the version number, and make sure the target is the current release, "precise". The file will look something like this:

<pre>
myapp (0.1-0extras12.04.1) precise; urgency=low

** New release.

 -- My Name <myname@example.com>  Sun, 01 Apr 2012 21:26:25 +0530
</pre>

==== debian/compat ====

This file contains a single number, change it from "6" to "8".

==== debian/control ====

Update the debhelper version in Build-Depends to "8". Remove cdbs and python-support from Build-Depends. (You can see the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Python/TransitionToDHPython2| dh_python2 transition guide]]</nowiki> for more details on why python-support is no longer used.) Update the Standards-Version to 3.9.3. Remove the lines for XS-Python-Version and XB-Python-Version. Add the required metadata for the Software Center: XB-AppName, XB-Icon, XB-Screenshot-URL, and XB-Category (see the <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Submissions-PackageQuickStart#control_file|packaging quick start guide]]</nowiki> for more details on these)

==== debian/copyright ====

Change `Format-Specification:` to `Format:` and update the URL to the current version of the spec "http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/copyright-format/1.0/"

Change `Name:` to `Upstream-Name:`. Change `Maintainer:` to `Upstream-Contact:`.

Delete the extra `Copyright:` lines, leaving only one. It should show the years, your name, and your email address.

Duplicate the `License:` line, with an extra line between the two.

The final file should look something like this example:

<pre>
Format: http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/copyright-format/1.0/
Upstream-Name: myapp
Upstream-Contact: My Name <myname@example.com>
Source: https://code.launchpad.net/~myname/+junk/extras-myapp-oneiric

Files: *
Copyright: 2011-2012 My Name <myname@example.com>
License: GPL-3.0+

License: GPL-3.0+
 This program is free software...
</pre>

==== debian/rules ====

Completely replace the contents of the debian/rules file. The new file will look like this example:

<pre>

PKGDIR=opt/extras.ubuntu.com/myapp

 %:
        dh $@

 override_dh_auto_install:
        dh_auto_install -- --install-lib=/$(PKGDIR)/ --install-scripts=/$(PKGDIR)/bin/ --install-data=/$(PKGDIR)/

 override_dh_gencontrol:
        dh_gencontrol
        cp data/media/myapp.png ../myapp.png
        dpkg-distaddfile myapp.png raw-meta-data -
</pre>

You can see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppReviewBoard/Submissions/PackageQuickStart#rules_file| packaging quick start guide]]</nowiki> for more details on the contents of the debian/rules file.

==== debian/source/format ====

Add a directory named "source" in the debian/ directory, and add a single text file in the directory. The text in the file is the simple string "3.0 (native)".

==== data/media ====

You need to add a PNG formatted icon for the Software Center to this directory. You can use the one you submitted to MyApps.
