{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Once you have finished packaging your app, you can upload it to your PPA with the command:

<pre>
dput ppa:myname/ppa myapp_0.1-0extras11.10.1_source.changes
</pre>

NOTE: Make sure you build the source package with `debuild -S`. You can't upload a binary package.

=== Setup ===

If you don't have a PPA set up yet, you can create one in a few simple steps:

1. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/+login|Login to Launchpad]]</nowiki>, or create a new account if you don't have one yet.
2. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct|Sign the Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
3. Activate your PPA on your <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/+me/| profile page]]</nowiki> under the heading "Personal package archives".
4. Visit the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/+me/+archive/ppa/|page for your PPA]]</nowiki> for instructions on uploading or installing, and for a list of packages in your PPA.

=== Named Shortcut (optional) ===

You can also add an optional <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Packaging/PPA/Uploading#FTP|named shortcut]]</nowiki> for uploads, with a configuration file named ''.dput.cf'' in your home directory. This file looks like:

<pre>
[myname-ppa]
fqdn = ppa.launchpad.net
method = ftp
incoming = ~myname/ppa/ubuntu/
login = anonymous
allow_unsigned_uploads = 0
</pre>

With this config file, you'll be able to upload packages to your PPA using the shortcut 'myname-ppa' instead of remembering the full upload path for your PPA.

<pre>
dput myname-ppa <packagename>_<version>_source.changes
</pre>
