{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Apps Sprint ==

We'd like to have an '''Apps Sprint''' together.

* Proposed date: Monday, 2nd July to Wednesday, 4th July.
* Where: `#ubuntu-arb` on irc.freenode.net

As part of this event we will work together to review apps and identify common issues and discuss how to resolve them systematically.

=== Check list ===

When reviewing an app, make sure you roughly follow this scheme:

* Mention on IRC what you're looking at to minimise overlap.
* Make use of <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Review-Responses]]</nowiki> for very common problems.
* You might want to make use of <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-AppsBranches]]</nowiki> to get the branch of an app easily.
* Install `arb-lint` to check packages for errors: <pre>
  sudo add-apt-repository ppa:dholbach/ppa
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install arb-lint
</pre>
* To use `arb-lint`, first build the package (you can use `bzr bd -- -us -uc` for example), then run this:<pre>
~$ cd cooking-lens
~/cooking-lens$ bzr bd -- -us -uc
 [...]
~/cooking-lens$ arb-lint
E: This package contains translations, which are not shipped in /opt.
   This issue needs to be fixed. Look at XXX for an example how do fix
   it.
~/cooking-lens$
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Review-Guidelines]]</nowiki> should give you a good idea of how to do a review.
* Ask on IRC whenever you run into problems.
* It might be interesting to find out if we can
** add tests for common problems, links to possible fixes and canned responses to `arb-lint`
** fix issues in the `quickly` templates to improve the situation for future apps
** improve `pkgme` to help us with the packaging in the future
** document the issues, along with links to fixes, so it becomes easier for others to do the same

=== Examples ===
A few examples of apps and which steps were involved as part of the review.
