{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Application Review Board is responsible for reviewing and approving proposals for lightweight applications to be distributed in Ubuntu.

The Application Review Board operates on the following basis:

* The Board meets at least every two weeks, on IRC. See the <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Agenda|Agenda]]</nowiki> for more details.
* You can <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/publish/|submit an application]]</nowiki> for review through developer.ubuntu.com.
* The Board can be reached at app-review-board@lists.ubuntu.com.  This <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/app-review-board|list]]</nowiki> is publicly <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/app-review-board/|archived]]</nowiki>; if you wish to raise confidential issues, please mail the members of the Board directly.
* Board meetings are open to all interested parties, but only Board members vote on applications.
* Board members vote +1, -1, or 0 (abstain). Three or more +1 votes mean the application is approved, three or more -1 votes mean the application is rejected.
* <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-TeamReports|Minutes]]</nowiki> of the meeting will be published immediately after the meeting.

=== Agenda ===

The agenda for the upcoming meeting is kept at <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Agenda]]</nowiki>.

=== Meeting Chair Duties ===

* Review <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Agenda|Agenda]]</nowiki> for this meeting.
* Facilitate meeting
** Send a reminder email 1 day before the meeting
** Round up people needed for the meeting as necessary
** Drive <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot|MootBot]]</nowiki>
** Review actions from last meeting
** Follow Agenda
* Write <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-TeamReports|TeamReports]]</nowiki> for the meeting.
* Update <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Agenda|Agenda]]</nowiki> for next meeting.

=== Guides for board members and contributing reviewers ===
* <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Charter|Board charter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Responsibilities|Member responsibilities]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Restaffing|Recruiting new members]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Review|Review process]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Review-Responses|Common responses to submissions]]</nowiki>

=== Guides for app developers ===
* <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Submissions|How to submit an app]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Review-Guidelines|Guidelines for app submissions]]</nowiki>

=== Members ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~app-review-board/+members|Application Review Board Members]]</nowiki>
