{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Meeting 2011-10-28
** Chair: Allison Randal
** Present: Andrew Mitchell, Bhavani Shankar
** Apologies: Stéphane Graber, Sean Fagan, Jonathan Carter, Luke Faraone
* Action review
** DONE: Notified all existing submissions about updating for Oneiric.
** DONE: AppReviewBoard/Review has been updated with intermediate process for MyApps/Launchpad hybrid.
** DONE: Recruited 3 new members, with new process approved by Tech Board (including public call for nominations, and poll to Ubuntu Developers).
** Confirmed that Precise archive wasn't created. Unconfirmed whether standard process has been updated, stgraber was checking.
* Review of proposals
** AskUbuntu Lens is close, blocked on pygobject bug #855402, fix currently in -proposed.
** HarmonySEQ is close, but has a permissions problem with /dev/snd/seq.
** grub-customizer modifies low-level system configs. May be better submitted to Debian.
*** [ACTION] Review with cjwatson, as grub expert (and Debian developer)
** RStudio is larger than our usual app, but clean code. Brian Thomason (iamfuzz) has volunteered to package. Looks like a good candidate for migrating into the distro after a trial cycle in extras.
** Note of common problems in new influx of proposals:
*** Source tarballs that can't be built.
*** Binary packages instead of source packages.
*** Java submissions a tarball of .jar files.
*** License incompatibilities, especially in bundled dependencies.
** [ACTION] Review documentation on developer.ubuntu.com to and check for consistency with ARB process/policy.
** [ACTION] Add a simple page explaining FLOSS licensing.
* Tools
** New features on MyApps portal for ARB review process launched
*** [ACTION] Get accounts set up for all ARB members
*** [ACTION] Test new MyApps features
*** [ACTION] Refine review workflow (and documentation of workflow) for new MyApps features
** Need better visibility into the status of submissions
*** [ACTION] ajmitch will share script he's been using on the bug queue with other members
*** [ACTION] Work with MyApps developers, who are adding review metrics features.
* Concern that we're falling behind in the review queue. UDS session next week will include workload planning.
** [ACTION] Explore a "patch pilot" program, where ARB members take scheduled slots.
* Next chair: Andrew Mitchell
