{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

We're reviewing apps submitted as part of the <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/showdown|Ubuntu App Showdown]]</nowiki> contest. We got a ton of them and we need your help!

So if you've got some experience packaging, would like to learn more along the way and contribute to make Ubuntu a successful app development platform, follow these simple instructions and <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-arb|join us on the Ubuntu App Review Board channel]]</nowiki>.

== Instructions ==

* Read the <nowiki>[[AppReviewBoard-Review-Guidelines|ARB Guidelines]]</nowiki> 
* Install `arb-lint`
** `sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-app-review-contributors/ppa`
** `sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get install arb-lint`
* Run `arb-lint` in source tree of app.
* Trello: https://trello.com/board/ubuntu-arb-submissions/4fee2215cee295013c0862ba
* List of ARB branches: https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-app-reviews/+branches
* Submissions as they came in: https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/dev/arb/

=== Workflow ===

* get the source of a app showdown submission 
* build it, using `bzr bd -- -us -uc` or `debuild -us -uc`
* run: `arb-lint`
* do a quick check of the license - run `bzr inventory | xargs licensecheck` (or `find . -type f | xargs licensecheck`) and see if it roughly matches debian/copyright; also check if a LICENSE or COPYING file is included
* if you just find small mistakes, such as
** multiple debian/changelog entries
** missing real name in debian/changelog, debian/copyright and debian/control
** no proper description in debian/control
  please fix them and push your branch to ~<you>/ubuntu-app-reviews/<app>
* test-install the app `sudo debi`, run it
* if it's fine, send a mail to app-review-board@lists.ubuntu.com asking for a vote on it, mention your branch and CC the app author. Also click on "start review" on the app page, so it does not stay on https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/dev/arb/
* if it's not fine, 
** go on to the app page on myapps, click "start review", add comments into text box, click "needs information"
** write something like "Thanks a lot for your submission. This is a review for inclusion into the Ubuntu Software Center. I pushed a couple of changes to https://code.launchpad.net/~<user>/ubuntu-app-reviews/<....> which you might want to merge."
** update Trello (https://trello.com/board/ubuntu-arb-submissions/4fee2215cee295013c0862ba)

=== Issues you might run into ===
* If you get an error message like:
** <pre>
dpkg-source: warning: no source format specified in debian/source/format, see dpkg-source(1)
dpkg-source: error: Version number suggests Ubuntu changes, but Maintainer: does not have Ubuntu address</pre>
** Simply run 'update-maintainer' (from ubuntu-dev-tools) and try again

=== Interesting cases ===
* Files not installed in /opt 
** If app developers don't use "quickly submitubuntu" to push to PPA, this might happen: https://launchpadlibrarian.net/109545227/pictag_12.07.9_12.07.11.diff.gz - so all of the /opt installation changes will be removed
** It might be good enough to reply to them "Thanks for your submission. This is a review for inclusion into the Ubuntu Software Center. Please resubmit your app to your PPA using 'quickly submitubuntu', so all the files in the package are placed into /opt. To see an example of how your debian/rules should roughly be looking, have a look at http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-app-review-contributors/ubuntu-app-reviews/download-monitor/view/head:/debian/rules"
* crashdb.conf files installed into /etc/apport/
** Apply this change to the debian/rules file, replacing 'cuckoo' with your package name: http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~dholbach/ubuntu-app-reviews/cuckoo/revision/59
