{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Application ID is the string "$(click_package)_$(application)_$(version)" (without the quotes and with the obvious substitutions made).

`click_package` is the dotted name of the click package; a package `com.ubuntu.foo_0.5_all.click` would have `click_package` of `com.ubuntu.foo`.

`application` is the hook name from your `manifest.json` file (obtainable for an installed package with `click info com.ubuntu.foo`). The `manifest.json` will contain a section like: `"hooks": { "myapphookname": { "desktop": "FooApp.desktop" } }`. The `application` here is `myapphookname`.

'''version''' is the installed version number.

This ID is used for identifying the application throughout the system:

* Click
* Mir
* HUD
* <nowiki>[[..-AppArmorProfile|AppArmorProfile]]</nowiki>
* Content Hub
* Download manager
* Infographic (libusermetrics)
* etc

The following restrictions to the components apply, from various parts of the system:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| filesystem
| store^1^
| apparmor^2^
| deb^3^^,^^4^
| intersection
|-
| click_package
| [^\0/]+
| [a-zA-Z0-9.-]+
| [a-zA-Z0-9+.:~-]+
| [a-z0-9][a-z0-9+.-]+
| [a-z0-9][a-z0-9.-]+
|-
| application
| [^\0/]+
| 
| [a-zA-Z0-9+.:~-]+
| [a-zA-Z0-9+.-]+
| [a-zA-Z0-9+.:~-]+
|-
| version
| [^\0/]+
| [0-9.]+
| [a-zA-Z0-9+.:~-]+
| [0-9][a-zA-Z0-9.+:~-]*
| [0-9][0-9.]*
|}
# The store supports debian versioning (ie, same as the 'deb' entry) but the !AppStore interface uses a reduced scheme to keep it simple for users
# <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Specifications/ApplicationConfinement/Manifest#Security_keys|security manifest definition]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~click-hackers/click/trunk/view/head:/doc/file-format.rst|click file-format definition]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~click-hackers/click/trunk/view/head:/doc/hooks.rst|click hooks definition]]</nowiki>

Additionally, version should be structured more or less as you would expect, and be strictly monotonically increasing (new versions should always be greater than old versions).

Alternate nomenclatures:
* 'APP_ID' and '`${id}`' (from click documentation) are synomymous with '!ApplicationId'. The full regex for a valid APP_ID is:<pre>
[a-z0-9][a-z0-9+.-]+_[a-zA-Z0-9+.-]+_[0-9][a-zA-Z0-9.+:~-]*
</pre>
* 'click package name' ("name" in the click manifest) and 'APP_PKGNAME' are synonymous with $(click_package)
* 'application name' and 'appname' are synonymous with $(application)
* 'APP_VERSION' is synonymous with $(version)

'''Note:''' as of 2013-09-18 only one $(application) is allowed per click package. Future versions will support specifying multiple $(application)s per click package (this is already supported in the click manifest and click-apparmor, where the keys to the click manifest's hooks dictionary define the values for each $(application)).
