{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FFDD55> /!\ Work in Progress
|}

The AppStream spec provides desktops and application stores with a better quality icons than was previously required by FreeDesktop.org specs. Because of this, many existing applications will need new icon files in order to conform to the spec.

=== Format ===

While many different images formats are allowed by AppStream, the two most preferred are PNG and SVG (or SVGZ). Because vector art is more flexible in terms of sizing, an SVG would allow the creation of PNGs of any size, so provide them whenever possible. If an SVG is not available, try to use a PNG image that meets the sizing guidelines below.

=== Size ===

AppStream requires bitmap icons to be at least 64x64 pixels, but that's only a minimum. Many desktop interfaces, including Unity, will benefit from even larger icons. So if possible, it's always better to include bitmap icons in up to 256x256 pixels.

=== Contributing Images ===

You don't need any coding or packaging experience to help improve the AppStream data in Ubuntu, and your contributions here will also help upstream and other Linux distros who are adopting AppStream. 

We have identified the packages in Ubuntu that are missing the necessary application icons, or where the icons provided are not up to spec, available at the link below. For each one, there is also a link to create a bug report for the needed icon, and a column for your name. Replace the bug creation link with a link to the new bug report, and add your name to the last column so that others can see that you are working on it. 

After you have created the bug, attach the correct icon, and subscribe `ubuntu-sponsors` who will take it from there. While you're at it, you should also contact the upstream project developers and ask them how you should submit the icon to them as well. Getting it into Ubuntu 16.04 is only good for one release, getting it into the upstream project means it will be there for all future releases too.

See the list of <nowiki>[[AppStream-Icons-IconErrors|Current Icon Needs]]</nowiki>.
