{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

A click package can be identified with a reverse domain name that represents the project: com.ubuntu.foo

A click package will have a version number defined, and will be installed in a separate directory based on the version number.  This directory will be /opt/click.ubuntu.com/$(package)/$(version)/

  NB: You must not rely on this directory.  It may change, particularly to support things like non-removable preinstalled apps in the system partition, or other cases of OEM apps.

Every click package will contain a manifest that is the root of information about that package.  It is in JSON and called manifest.json.

A click package may have (and won't in v1) several applications available from that package.  Each of those are defined in the manifest with one being designated as "primary" for showing to the user removal/installation graphics.

Each application in the package will be represented by a file that conforms to <nowiki>[[ http:--standards.freedesktop.org-desktop-entry-spec-desktop-entry-spec-latest.html|the Freedesktop.org Desktop file format]]</nowiki> that contains information on the icon and executable path.  The core difference being that it'll have relative paths that aren't resolvable using standard XDG directory definitions (they'll all be in the package).

Each application defined in the manifest will also have a security definition in the manifest.

The structure of the package file is defined at https://bazaar.launchpad.net/~click-hackers/click/trunk/view/head:/doc/file-format.rst
