{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Apt and automatic dependencies ==

=== How it works ===

Apt (and its frontends) has a new feature directly taken from aptitude to keep the system nice and clean. It will mark packages that were installed automatically to satisfy a dependency and keep track of those. If a package that was automatically installed is no longer required (nothing depends on it anymore) apt will notice and suggest to remove it. 

=== Example ===

Consider you install k3b in your gnome desktop because you want to checkout this burning solution. Installing it under gnome means that quite a few dependencies are installed as well (kdelibs4c2a, libk3b2, etc). After using it a couple of days you decide to go back to nautilus-cd-burner and want to remove k3b again. If you use "apt-get autoremove k3b" then it will automatically mark the dependencies that were installed earlier (kdelibs4c2a, libk3b2, etc) for removal too. 

=== Tips ===

There is a new apt-mark utility available as well. It can be used to "markauto" or "unmarkauto" packages. This functionality can also be found in the latest synaptic.

=== Testing ===

Feedback and bugreports are very welcome as this feature is relatively new in apt and there may be corner cases were the current solutions fails.
