{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== APTonCD ===

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://launchpad.net/aptoncd
* '''Created''': 2006-08-26 by CypherBios
* '''Contributors''': CypherBios, OgMaciel, <nowiki>[[Pretto]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': 
* '''See also''': OfflineUpdateSpec, <nowiki>[[CDRomBasedUpgradesSpec]]</nowiki>, http://wiki.debian.org/AptMedium

=== Summary ===
A GUI-based tool which allows to create one or more CDs or DVDs (you choose the type of media) with all of the packages you've downloaded via APT-GET, APTITUDE or <nowiki>[[Synaptic]]</nowiki>, creating a removable repository that you can use on other computers.

The tool will also allow you to create automatically a media with all .deb packages located in one especific repository, so you can install them into different computers without an internet conection.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===
* Jack has just installed Ubuntu and has configured it for a radical look, with all his favorite applications, packages, codecs etc., and everything is working very well.  But, if in the course of destiny, he needs to re-format his PC, all packages will be lost, and later he will have to download all of the packages all over again.

* Kate does not have a Internet conection in her home... but she wants to have a way to install her favorites (or needed) packages on her Ubuntu box.

* Hugo is making a Ubuntu network in his office with 50 computers that will be run Ubuntu. He is downloading the same 534 packages on all 50 machines, one by one.

* Charlie is a happy boy... he is going to spend 2 months in the home of his grandmother but, in the Lost Island there isn't an Internet connection. In his home, where he is now, he has a 10Mbps Internet link and he wants take with him all the repositories to use in his off-line-notebook.

* Sawyer has installed thousands of packages in his Dapper box, but... the Edgy release is coming and he wants to reinstall the system. He wants to have the same packages (not the same version of them) in Edgy too, but he doesn't know the name of packages that he installed, and he wants a 'automagic' way to do it.

* Sun is a pretty girl that likes various flavours of desktops, she likes KDE, GNOME, XFCE... and many others desktops environments... She wants to have all the installable desktops and metapackages (and their dependencies) on one (or more) DVD(s) so she can have them with her everywhere.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec CategoryPackagingGuide
