{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=apturl&searchon=names&suite=all&section=all|apturl]]</nowiki> is a graphical mini-program for installing packages from the repository that a user has. It is pre-installed on Ubuntu since version 7.10, and the Firefox and Pidgin programs come with support for it.

<nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/jaunty/en/man8/apturl.8.html|AptURL man page]]</nowiki>

=== Making an APT link ===

==== Single package ====
The basic syntax for an apt link is the following:

 <code><a href="apt:package">click</a></code>

Where ''package'' is the package you'd like the user to install.

==== Multiple packages ====
To bundle several packages into one link, the syntax is the following:

 <code><a href="apt:package1,package2,package3">click</a></code>

Where ''package1'', ''package2'' and ''package3'' are the packages you'd like the user to install.

For example:

 <code>apturl apt:pidgin,pidgin-plugin-pack</code>

Installs Pidgin and Pidgin Plugin Pack (if the user confirms).

==== Enabling repositories ====

  <code>apturl apt:freevial?section=universe</code>

Enables the "universe" component and installs package  Freevial.

==== Using AptUrl right after adding a repository ====

After adding a repository line via the Software Sources tool, the user has an option to reload the package list now or close the window, without reloading.

This can be an issue if the user wants to install a package via AptUrl right after - because the newly added repositories haven't been scanned, and thus the program will not be found. To avoid such a situation, a "refresh" flag is available - if it's present, apturl will do a refresh first and then look for the program.

Sample syntax: <code><a href="apt:package1?refresh=yep">click</a></code>

Sample link: <nowiki>[[apt:geany?refresh=yep|Get Geany]]</nowiki>!

==== For websites that malform apt: links ====

Some websites / wiki's tend to break apt links. A workaround for this is to make use of appnr.com for the linking - simply use <code>http://appnr.com/install/package</code> as the link URL, though appnr does not let you add repositories.

Another workaround is to use a service like TinyURL.  This link enables the Universe repository and then installs Wine, for instance: http://tinyurl.com/installwine

==== Using apturl on the Ubuntu Forums ====

apturl can be used on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> by using BBcode.
<pre>
[URL="apt://firefox"]apt://firefox[/URL]
</pre>
or apt://firefox in a insert link box also works great.

=== AptURL uses ===

<nowiki>[[http://appnr.com/|Appnr.com]]</nowiki> is a website that works entirely on apturl links.

Apturl links can also be very handy if your program is available in Ubuntu repositories. Providing one on your project website is a user-friendly way to have the user install your program and additionally takes the load off your servers.
