{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Ara Pulido, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Ara Pulido
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~apulido]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[AraPulido]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm Ara Pulido and work for Canonical as a QA Engineer on the Ubuntu Platform team. My main focus is Desktop Testing Automation, meaning, I write test scripts that attack directly the UI. I have been using Linux since 1994 (at University). I was a founder of the Granada LUG, Gcubo (http://www.gcubo.org).

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using Ubuntu in 2006??, I can't remember exactly. I was with RedHat/Fedora before that, but I never really liked RPM packaging system. I just loved Ubuntu simplicity with DEB/APT packaging system.

=== My involvement ===
* Lead of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Automation/Desktop/ | desktop automation effort ]]</nowiki>
* Maintainer of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/mago|Mago]]</nowiki> project
* Blogging about desktop testing efforts in Ubuntu : http://ubuntutesting.wordpress.com
* Daily on #ubuntu-testing and #ubuntu-quality for supporting and coordinating testing efforts
* Organizing Ubuntu Testing Days (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/UbuntuTestingDay)
* Giving sessions at Ubuntu Developer Week and Ubuntu Open Week
* Helping organizing the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training|Packaging Training sessions]]</nowiki>

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* For totem, I worked in the complete cycle of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/totem/+bug/336574| bug 336574]]</nowiki>. I filed the bug, incorporated the needed information, diagnosed the problem, fixed the problem and subscribed the main sponsors team for review. The fix got uploaded.
* I maintain LDTP package in Ubuntu, fixing bugs in the packaging and coordinating efforts with upstream. Some of my patches have been accepted in the Debian package and for that, the maintainer of the Debian package added me as co-maintainer.
* I wrote the apport hook for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd|notify-osd package]]</nowiki>
* I packaged ubuntu-qa-tools, went through the REVU process, and got uploaded in Jaunty. I maintain the package and the new version was uploaded to Karmic as well.
* I packaged mago, the desktop testing framework we are using in Ubuntu QA, went through the REVU process, and got uploaded in Karmic.
* I packaged LDTP2, a rewrite of ldtp in Python. It was accepted in Lucid and Debian pulled the same package to their unstable repository.
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/trac/+bug/580412
* Accerciser 1.12.1 upload to Natty
* Checkbox 0.11 (Natty) - Merged (and fixed) the branch that migrated Checkbox to gtkbuilder. Cleaned Checkbox from lintian errors and warnings.

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
