{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I have been using Ubuntu since June, 2005, and I am a novice Linux user. I like trying out new distros on my "extra computer". I've had my feet wet on Fedora Core 3 and 4, Linspire, Gentoo, Debian Sarge, just to mention some. Additionally, I like previewing Live CDs - Knoppix, Gnoppix, dyne:bolic, GoblinX, Archie, etc.

I have helped several friends moved from "it" to Ubuntu. This coming autumn, I am scheduled to talk to students (I am a college teacher) about '''freedom of choice'''. I will take that opportunity to advocate the use of Ubuntu, and give away the 49 CDs that was generously shipped to me two months ago.

I added an idea wiki regarding Ubuntu's Live CD. I was just playing around with dyne:bolic (http://www.dynebolic.org) Live CD, and was totally blown away by how different it is from other distributions. I suggested how good it would be to use an Ubuntu Live CD and save sessions and setting, and even files on removable media, such as a floppy, a usb disk or even a CD-RW. This way, the next time you reboot, you can be assured that you'll be working on a system the way you wanted it set without having to go through the process of setting everything all over.
