{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Mirror System ==

There are two types of mirrors of Ubuntu: package archive mirrors, which mirror the packages that make up the distribution, including regular security update packages and <nowiki>[[#cd-images|release-cd-only mirrors]]</nowiki>. In addition, if you run a very reliable package archive mirror in a country, you can request to be the '''Official Country Mirror''' for that country. This means that all installations of Ubuntu in that country will prefer to use your mirror rather than any other. If you wish to be an official country mirror, please email mirrors@ubuntu.com.

== Package Archive Mirror Setup ==

The master package archive is available from:

* http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu
* rsync://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu

For example, if you wish to create a mirror install apache on your computer then do the following:

<pre>
$ rsync -va rsync://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu /var/www
</pre>

An apt sources.list entry for the main archive would look like this:

<pre>
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu dapper main
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu dapper-security main
</pre>

Besides 'main', there are also 'restricted', 'universe' and 'multiverse' archives, which provide additional non-free and/or unsupported software packages. See http://www.ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu/components/ for more information.
