{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is intended to provide a brief 'checklist' for Archive Admin's reviewing a new source package, as well as packagers submitting a new source package.

=== References ===

The following references provide copious documentation on various packaging processes.  Archive Admins and packagers should be familiar with the information provided at:
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArchiveAdministration#NEW%20Processing
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Basic
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Basic#NewPackages
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Basic#Copyright
* http://ftp-master.debian.org/REJECT-FAQ.html

=== Basic Checklist ===
# '''Does the source package build (debuild -S)?'''
# '''Does the binary package build (pbuild or sbuild environment)?'''
** NB: This perhaps impractical for the Archive Admin, but ''absolutely'' the responsibility of the packager!
1. '''Is the source package lintian clean?'''  Hint: use <pre>
lintian -Ivi *dsc</pre>
** There should be detailed explanations for any excusable lintian flags.
1. '''Is the binary package lintian clean?'''  Hint: use <pre>
lintian -Ivi *deb</pre>
** There should be detailed explanations for any excusable lintian flags.
1. '''<code>licensecheck -r</code> on the source, ensure that files are licensed''' appropriately, and match what's stated in debian/copyright
** while not required, use of <nowiki>[[http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep3/|DEP-3]]</nowiki> should be encouraged. A package should not be rejected for this alone, but can be given as feeback to the submitter.
1. '''Are the files in the source package redistributable''' (eg, for GPL, they can be built from source):
** This command should help identify potentially problematic files: <pre>
suspicious-source | xargs -r file | egrep -v ':.*(XML|text|empty|very short file)' | sed 's/\(.*\)/ \1/g'</pre>
1. '''Meticulously review <code>debian/*</code>'''.  This can be ''very'' time consuming.
  a. Is <code>debian/control</code> thorough and accurate?
  a. Is <code>debian/copyright</code> thorough and accurate?
  a. Are the <code>debian/pre*</code> and <code>debian/post*</code> maintainer scripts thorough and accurate?
** Run <code>checkbashisms</code>.  Look for errant, illegal, or inadvisable behavior, since these scripts run as root!!!
  a. Cursory review of <code>debian/rules</code>, ensuring accuracy.
  a. Thoroughly review of <code>debian/patches</code>, if any, ensuring that the packager has sent these upstream.
1. Examine <code>*orig.tar.gz</code>, ensuring there are no unintended artifacts.
** Also in the source tree, run <pre>
find . \( -name "*.orig" -o -name "*.rej" -o -name "*.swp" -o -name "*~" \)</pre>
** and for Vcs files, run <pre>
find . \( -name ".git*" -o -name ".bzr*" -o -name ".svn*" -o -name "CVS*" -o -name "RCS*" -o -name ".hg" \)</pre>
# Examine <code>*diff.gz</code>, ensuring that this is accurate.
# Run <code>dpkg -c</code> on the resulting <code>*.deb</code>'s, ensuring that the contents meet the FHS
** NB: This can be exceedingly difficult with Partner packages; particularly Java applications, which rarely meet the FHS
1. Test package installation, uninstallation, and purging (perhaps in a VM), ensuring that these happen cleanly.
** NB: This perhaps impractical for the Archive Admin, but ''absolutely'' the responsibility of the packager!

=== Useful tools ===
* lintian
* licensecheck (from ubuntu-dev-tools)
* suspicious-source (from ubuntu-dev-tools)
* what-patch (from devscripts)
* checkbashisms (from devscripts)
* diffstat
* <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-security-tools/tree/package-tools/check-source-package|check-source-package]]</nowiki> from the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-security-tools|ubuntu-security-tools]]</nowiki> project can be used to help with review. It is meant to complement lintian on things that are often Ubuntu-specific, are informational, or are common packaging errors encountered when sponsoring. While it can be quite helpful, it should not replace manual inspection of the package.
