{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Dear friends,

Ubuntu Argentina is pleased to invite you all to the first edition of
the Argentina Ubuntu Day, a full day dedicated to learn about Ubuntu, to
share our love for this excellent operating system and the people that
use it and make this community a great place.

There will be technical and community related talks, a community lunch
and, at the end, some beers to talk and relax for the intense day
activities.

The date will be on Saturday, September 26, from 9:30 AM to 5:00PM. at
the Complejo Costa Salguero (Rafael Obligado 1221 - Ciudad Autonoma de
Buenos Aires. In front of Pabellon 4 2nd floor, Globant offices map[0]

Registration on our wiki page[1] is required to be allowed to
enter the building. Other than that, it is open to anyone and free of charge (gratis).

We all are looking forward to sharing with you this incredible experience !!

Please share this invitation with your friends and acquaintances.

Ubuntu Argentina

[0]
http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msa=0&msid=115383152694159870227.00044779d88f7eddff32f&ie=UTF8&ll=-34.570171,-58.394533&spn=0.006334,0.009645&t=h&z=17
<<BR>>
[1] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArgentinaTeam/ubuntu-day/
