{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Chris J Arges, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Chris J Arges
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~arges
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/arges
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is Chris J Arges and I was previously a member of the Canonical Technical Services Engineering Platform Team. I helped fix kernel, userspace, and desktop bugs filed by Ubuntu Advantage customers. In practice this results in many stable fixes for the entire Ubuntu community. Most bugs I fix are via SRUs to stable releases but I always run a laptop with the latest development release to file bug reports (and fix them) as I can. I've also helped with FTBFS/NBS issues, tested ISOs on hardware, fixed upstream issues, completed some Debian merges and contributed numerous bug reports. I've done some work using launchpadlib to help our team better prioritize and fix bugs and track statistics. I've had some experience using Juju to charm our internal django website for our team. Finally, I develop tools and help partners with their Debian packaging when possible. My focus is not only fixing bugs, but also helping to maintain a high quality Linux distribution through data, tools and communication.

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first distribution of Linux was RedHat 5 installed with a few floppy disks. Throughout college I used Linux for development and learning, and I switched full time to Ubuntu Linux in 2006. My first job out of college was working for IBM's Linux Technology Center, and I deep dove into writing libraries, maintaining spec and ebuild files, and debugging Linux kernel issues. At this point I started to file bugs against Ubuntu when I could to solve issues I thought other people might be interested in. In 2011 I was hired by Canonical to help fix customer bugs and help build the SEG/CTS Engineering team. I have also been involved in helping with LTS point-releases,  testing for the Kernel team, and doing plus-one maintenance. So far it has been a pleasure spending most of my day making Ubuntu better for everyone.

=== My involvement ===
I joined the Sustaining Engineering Group at Canonical in 2011 as the second team member. I helped build this team along with JosePlans as the bridge between Ubuntu Advantage support and Ubuntu Engineering. From building this team I realized that development of tools to help with the many bugs our team needed to fix was important. I read many wikis about the Ubuntu development processes and learned how to contribute effectively. I also have looked for ways to help out the Ubuntu community when I can.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
I've produced many kernel patches for Ubuntu which can be found on the kernel-team mailing list. Some of these ranged from simple fixes to debugging that took many weeks of hard work. I've also fixed many bugs in Ubuntu for Ubuntu Advantage users, myself, and the community. I've written a paper about data-mining the Ubuntu distribution which can be found on my webpage. I've written a tool called shadow-database which allows me to download bug information to help determine which bugs need attention and calculate relevant statistics. This project also gave me some insight into debian and python packaging. I've also helped with point-releases, participated in blueprints, and try to help where I can on mailing lists and IRC.

=== Areas of work ===
My fixes and uploads are mostly related to bug fixes for Ubuntu Advantage users. A good chunk of these fixes are kernel patches which are submitted through the kernel team mailing list. In addition, code fixes are submitted and can be seen through my uploaded packages.

In addition to bug fixes, I've fixed many packages that FTBFS during my PlusOne rotations.

A list of packages I have fixed can be seen here: https://launchpad.net/~arges/+uploaded-packages

A list of sponsors can be found here: http://people.canonical.com/~arges/uploaders.txt

I'd like to thank the following people for sponsoring my uploads:
TimGardner, AdamConrad, BarryWarsaw, SebastienBacher, AndyWhitcroft, IainLane,
ColinWatson, JamesPage, KeesCook, MarcDeslauriers, SteveLangasek, MartinPitt, JamieStrandboge,
MichaelTerry, OliverGrawert, StefanoRivera, SergeHallyn, and StéphaneGraber

=== Things I could do better ===
While I primarily fix bugs in the kernel, I will continue to fix more non-kernel packages and expand my packaging knowledge. My goal is to be patient with fixes and ensure that my patch is the best way to solve a problem. I'd like to help Debian/Ubuntu further by participating in PlusOne rotations as well as. I'd like to also help to improve debugging tools, test cases, development tools, and ways of displaying information that would be useful in making Ubuntu better like bug dashboards.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I would like to continue to help make Ubuntu better by additional Plus One rotations, Patch Piloting, and other areas where I can help out. I'd like to continue to fix problematic packages and ensure that various features and tools are working not only in development releases but in LTS releases as well. I will continue to develop skills in the Linux kernel as well as Debian packaging. In addition, I'd like to help others become involved with Ubuntu.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
When fixing a package there are multiple ways the fix could be contributed back to the Ubuntu maintainer. One could attach a debdiff patch to a bug, link a Bzr branch, or provide a patch via e-mail. It would be great to have the maintainer indicate preferred method of patches. Also, when I did my study of all Ubuntu bugs in 2012, I noticed that many teams have different bug workflows. Some keep the person assigned after the upload, some remove the name, some use status fields a bit differently. Finally, one thing I noticed is the proliferation of bug bots. While I'm guilty of using them myself, perhaps there are better way to introduce this functionality server-side instead of cobbling these solutions together.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
=== Tim Gardner ===
<pre>
==== General feedback ====
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

I have reviewed and signed the following list of packages for Chris:

 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xen/4.2.0
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cinder/2013.1~g2
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp/2.8.2
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxml2/2.9.0+dfsg1
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxslt/1.1.27
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/parser/3.4.2
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/php
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/php
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/php
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/turnserver/0.7.2
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxcrypt/1:2.4
 http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rpm/4.10.1

I have found Chris to be very competent. More importantly, I believe
Chris to be trustworthy and to know when to ask questions before
doing something stupid.

=== Tim Gardner Feb 7, 2013 ===
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.11 (GNU/Linux)
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=fKau
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
</pre>

=== Andy Whitcroft ===
<pre>
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

Although I have only sponsored a small number of simple fixes for Chris,
he was quick to respond to issues and to learn from them.  I have also
had the oppotunity to work with him on a number of projects under the
Ubuntu umbrella.  I have found him a very competant, thinking before
suggesting actions and being concerned with the long-term consequences
even where those were at odds with his own agenda.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.11 (GNU/Linux)
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=58yW
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
</pre>

=== Marc Deslauriers ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored 3 packages for Chris, and the debdiffs he provided were of good quality. I think the list of packages he has uploaded speaks for itself, and I am confident that Chris will do a good job as CoreDev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt-cacher-ng/0.7.2-1ubuntu2.1

http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/iptables/1.4.12-2ubuntu2.2

http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/memtest86+/4.20-1.1ubuntu3

----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
