{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== About Me ==

I am Arif Ali, a Staff Support Engineer at <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com|Canonical's]]</nowiki> supporting a specific customer, I work on <nowiki>[[https://github.com/sosreport/sos/|sosreport]]</nowiki> at work as well as my spare time. I have a BS in Computer Science and Mathematics as well as a MSC in Advanced topics in Computer Science.

Before joining Canonical in 2019, I worked in the HPC industry deploying,
architect, designing and supporting systems across many industries including
Motorsport, Aerospace, Automotive and Research.

I have been using Linux since 1999 with various distributions, with the earliest
being Mandrake Linux, with Fedora Core 1 being the first official distro for work
Laptop in 2003. Which you can imagine had several issues to actually get
working. Over the years I delved into Debian, CentOS, Red Hat and Ubuntu,
interchanging based on experiences and requirements.

== Contact Information ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| arif-ali on Libera
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~arif-ali|~arif-ali]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| <nowiki>[[mailto:arif.ali@canonical.com|arif dot ali at canonical dot com]]</nowiki>
|-
| Location
| Sheffild, UK
|-
| Git Repos
| !GitHub <nowiki>[[https://github.com/arif-ali/|arif-ali]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://gitea.arif-ali.co.uk/explore/|Personal gitea]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| Gerrit <nowiki>[[https://review.opendev.org/q/owner:arif.ali@canonical.com|opendev]]</nowiki>
|}

== Contributions ==

When it comes to open source contributions, there are a few in my time, and some of
these are listed below

=== xCAT ===

As part of my employment with OCF, i was introduced to a project called <nowiki>[[https://xcat.org/|xCAT]]</nowiki> which is a product that allows you to deploy bare-metal machines across ,any racks of servers.

The main support for xCAT was RPM bases, i.e. RedHat, CentOS, SLES and Fedora. There was no support for Ubuntu.

In my spare time I worked on solve the Debian/Ubuntu story, and added the feature to be able to deploy using xCAT. Below is a link to a video of a successful deployment of a stateless Ubuntu 9.10.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iLaa3EyEOJM

Furthermore, I built the initial Ubuntu packages for xCAT in-line to how the project was creating the RPM packages

My main contribution for this is in he commit below.

https://github.com/xcat2/xcat-core/commit/5bda5a1df69238756e750b8eb1ad33cfb782eb00

There were many more features and bug-fixes that were implemented and the list would be too long to list here, these are easily visible in https://github.com/xcat2/xcat-core

=== Android ===

During a period of 3 years, I had the HTC HD2 and was getting sick of the Windows OS on the phone itself. This encouraged me to look at the forums, and found a way to get Android working on the platform. The first part of yhe learning curve was to actually get it working and deploying on the phone.

Contributions wise, I was packing 2 ROMs in the early stages to allow for myself first and then make it available to the community to use.

While using one of the more open-source implementations of the ROMS CyanogenMod the maintainer left, and no new ROMs

I took over the project, and was the device maintainer for 18 months. The device tree, the binaries were made public, and with 100% open-source ethos.

The main idea from my side was to make the device tree more in-line with other Android devices so that automation and maintainer story was a lot easier.

* Device Tree: https://github.com/cmhtcleo/android_device_htc_leo
* Vendor Blobs: https://github.com/cmhtcleo/android_vendor_htc_leo

=== OpenStack ===

I have used Openstack in my previous role as well as my current role. I used Havana, Juno and Kilo in my previous role, where we developed many salt stack formulas to deploy Openstack, albeit these were all in-house developments.

I started to work on Contributions to the salt-formula-X projects in opendev, but eventually the project was abandoned.

In my current role I have used Queens, Ussuri and Yoga, where I have working knowledge of deployment and support.

Over the years as part of my clos relationship with customers I have been able to fix bugs and create features in the OpenStack Charms, and all of my contributions are listed above in Gerrit.

As a side thing, I also have a <nowiki>[[https://gitea.arif-ali.co.uk/arif/openstack-lab|small git]]</nowiki> repo where i have various docs from historical lab environments as well as some heat templates that I use regularly for customer testing or verification

=== Ubuntu HPC ===

With my experience in HPC from my first employment, I have been involved in various
discussions the past and present on various aspects of HPC within Canonical.

I attend the weekly community meetings that the Ubuntu HPC team hold, and occasionally
report back on any of the work they have been doing.

Every now and again, I personally go to te HPC conference in the UK to promote Ubuntu
with he community to hopefully get more people coming towards Ubuntu for HPC.

=== snapcraft ===

Since joining canonical in 2019, I was fascinated by snaps especially after creating a
simple hello world snap as part of onboarding. Since then, I have been able to pick up
the sosreport snap and worked on trying to strictly confine with not much luck, and
then it was agreed to be classically confined.

I have since then uploaded 2 unofficial snaps, primarily as these 2 applications I was
using heavily in my local environments

# sshuttle
# apt-mirror

There was then a call on snapcrafters to get more people involved, so I worked on the
'''mutt''' snap, and got into a state that is based on the latest guidelines. Now it has
automatically pushed 2 revisions of mutt with little involvement. I also updated the
snap to work with '''core24'''

=== sosreport ===

My main open source project that I work on currently os '''sos''' which is a tool that
allows a user to grab diagnostic data from a machine or a set of machines for support
personnel to then debug any of the corresponding issues.

I have been extensively been working on the project since April 2023 I have the been
one of the upstream core Maintainer since November 2024. I did some work in 2020 and
2021, but major upstream work only started in August 20222. Some of the major pieces
of work are listed below

'''Testing and Releases'''

* Create a new snap for `sosreport`, it is classic confined snap
* Automate build of snap in GH workflows and publish to `latest/edge`
* Automate build of snap and publish releases to `latest/candidate`
* Automate build and test all stable Ubuntu releases in CI
* Automate build and testing of deb package
* Testing framework improvements including current Ubuntu in dev

'''Major peices of Work'''

* Added various plugins for the benefit of Ubuntu and Debian users
* Update the Debian policy to add all the revisions
* Added snap package manager (<nowiki>[[https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/b8724fd04f13542c17e7905c6eeec515d2636b6b|link]]</nowiki>)
* Updated ubuntu plugin so that we can now use `pro` commands
* Plugins updated for ubuntu detection
** alternatives
** selinux
** grafana snap enablement
** omnipath
* Plugin additions
** vault
** slurm
** sunbeam

'''Direct Ubuntu Work'''

The Support Engineering typically requires sos report collection from systems for
debugging purposes and hence having someone with in-depth knowledge to help us to move
the Ubuntu specifics is extremely important, so working on SRUs and helping with
verification is also very important. This is where I come in again and work on
uploading sosreport for all the stable supported distros in Ubuntu and Debian.

Below you can see the sponsorships for the work I have done since May 2024

* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Arif+Ali&sponsoree_search=name|Ubuntu Sponorships]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/sosreport|Debian Sponsorships]]</nowiki>

== Future Goals ==

There are so many things I like to get involved in the future. Key items listed below

'''Ubuntu HPC'''

Get more involved with the team and look at the work that is being done and mak some
contributions to the documentation or charm work that is being done.

'''snapcraft'''

Would like to get more involved in building and maintaining more snaps apart from the
ones I am managing currently.

'''sosreport'''

As the key component of open-source work that I do, I want to make sos report the best
it can be for the Ubuntu platform, which means we are able to integrate anything that
Ubuntu comes uo with and be able to consume those applications and products.

Furthermore, continue the work upstream, building the Ubuntu and Debian packages as
well as the snap.

== Links ==
* <nowiki>[[arif-ali-sosreportPerPackageUploadApplication]]</nowiki>

== Testimonials ==
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
