{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxmann> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> +1
<Rich_> +1
<toddc> +
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> Use those secret NSA search tips as shown in this NSA PDF book
<Dazed_75>     http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2013/05/nsa-manual-on-hacking-internet/
<Dazed_75> Go paperless: Stop printing everything
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/163015/go-paperless-stop-printing-everything-and-enjoy-the-digital-life/
<Dazed_75> Using Autokey scripts to automate your Linux desktop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/using-autokey-scripts-to-automate-linux-desktop/2013/05/11
<Dazed_75> NOTE: the included script did not work on my system for several reasons (all fixable).  First, awk and sed are located in /bin/, not /usr/bin/ which may just be a distro or release difference.  Second, line 21 uses 'lt' rather than '<' as a comparison operator and my awk did not recognize that.  Third, after fixing th 'lt' to '<' I also need to remove the ';' following the operator.
<Dazed_75> HP 225 Laptop lists Ubuntu as OS option
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/hp-225-laptop-with-ubuntu
* skreeves (~steve@174-17-164-175.phnx.qwest.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Man from Microsoft runs the Ubuntu project now
<Dazed_75>     http://techrights.org/2013/05/15/ubuntu-and-microsoft-veteran/
<toddc> skreeves: welcome!!
<Dazed_75> Configuring Gmail as a Sendmail email relay
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxconfig.org/configuring-gmail-as-sendmail-email-relay
<skreeves> Hi!
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu One detailed guide for 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxlibrary.org/ubuntu-onedetailed-guide-13-04/
<Dazed_75> Linux based robonaut 2 preps for active ISS duty
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-based-robonaut-2-preps-for-active-iss-duty/
<Dazed_75> Linux Top 3: Google chooses Debian, Ubuntu Installer and GNOME's Bugzilla
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxplanet.com/news/linux-top-3-google-chooses-debian-ubuntu-installer-and-gnomes-bugzilla.html
<Dazed_75> How mighty Mint became one of the most popular Linux distros
<Dazed_75>     http://www.techradar.com/news/software/operating-systems/how-mighty-mint-became-one-of-the-most-popular-linux-distros-1146584#null
<Dazed_75> Mir in Kubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://blog.martin-graesslin.com/blog/2013/05/mir-in-kubuntu/
<Dazed_75> Unity 8 gets demoed on Mir, Looks impressive already
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/unity-8-gets-demoed-on-mir-looks-impressive-already
<Dazed_75> Google Chrome Keyboard Shortcut & Cheatsheet download
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/google-chrome-keyboard-shortcut-cheatsheet-download/2013/05/15
<Dazed_75> Google Now inspired Conky theme for Linux desktop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/google-now-themed-conky-for-ubuntu-desktop
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Brainstorm to get the boot?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/ubuntu-brainstorm-to-get-the-boot
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu billboard photo contest
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/ubuntu-announce-er-billboard-photo-taking-contest
<Dazed_75> Fix: Shadow displayed on top of Full-Screen videos/windows in 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/fix-shadow-displayed-on-top-of-full.html
<Dazed_75> 12 awesome devices powered by Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://mylinuxbook.com/awesome-devices-powered-by-linux/
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint 15 "Olivia" approaches with new tools
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM3MzU
<Dazed_75>     http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/05/linux-mint-15-brings-prettier-desktop-new-software-and-driver-managers
<Dazed_75> 50 million Apache OpenOffice downloads (80% to Windows) in a year
<Dazed_75>     http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/50-million-Apache-OpenOffice-downloads-in-a-year-1864812.html
<Dazed_75> Critical Linux vulnerability imperils users even after "silent" fix
<Dazed_75>     http://arstechnica.com/security/2013/05/critical-linux-vulnerability-imperils-users-even-after-silent-fix/
<Dazed_75> New IntelliJ-based Android Studio IDE now available
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxgizmos.com/new-android-studio-ide-available-for-download/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu still figuring out how to handle hybrid graphics
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM3MjY
<Dazed_75> How to change attributes of a file in Linux using the chattr command
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/unix-command/chattr/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu looks toward MySQL alternatives
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM3Mjc
<Dazed_75> Useful apps to aid parental control in Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/parental-control-in-linux/2013/05/16
<Dazed_75> Linux: The Gold Standard of code
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Linux-The-Gold-Standard-of-Code-78051.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.pcworld.com/article/2038244/linux-code-is-the-benchmark-of-quality-study-concludes.html
<Dazed_75> Raspberry Pi camera available for purchase
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/163419/raspberry-pi-camera-board-now-available-for-purchase/
<Dazed_75> Monitor network devices with SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/141135/it-geek-monitor-network-devices-with-snmp-simple-network-management-protocol/
<Dazed_75> What is the text in front of the command line called?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/149272/what-is-the-text-in-front-of-the-command-line-called/
<Dazed_75> How to install Cinnamon 1.8 on Ubuntu 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-install-cinnamon-1-8-on-ubuntu-13-04.html
<Dazed_75> Google Devs install Ubuntu on Google Glass (to no apparent usefulness apparently)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/ubuntu-gets-installed-on-google-glass
<Dazed_75> Install Weather Indicator with new location and forecast fixes in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/install-weather-indicator-with-new.html
<Dazed_75> Desktop search tool "recoll" updated with significant improvements
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/desktop-search-tool-recoll-updated-with.html
<Dazed_75> Get better Linux desktop performance and more with pf-kernel
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/get-better-linux-desktop-performance.html
<Dazed_75> Linux users have a choice: These 8 desktop environments and more
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/163154/linux-users-have-a-choice-8-linux-desktop-environments/
<Dazed_75> 13.10 Stuff
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/unity-8-mir-to-be-available-to-try-in-ubuntu-13-10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/chromium-to-replace-firefox-as-default-browser-in-ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/what-to-expect-from-ubuntu-13-10
<Dazed_75> ... and that would be all from my part of AJ.  Hopefully everyone found something interesting in there
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> Ubuntu vs. Mint: Which Linux Distro Is Better for Beginners?
<toddc> http://lifehacker.com/5993297/ubuntu-vs-mint-which-linux-distro-is-better-for-beginners
<toddc> Dell Now Offering Ubuntu on Alienware X51 Machines
<toddc> http://www.tomshardware.com/news/Alienware-X51-Ubuntu-GeForce-Core-i7,21935.html
<toddc> splunk live is coming to Phoenix June 18
<toddc> http://live.splunk.com/phoenix
<toddc> TUCSON Ubuntu Hour
<toddc> we are pleased to announce that the Tucson Ubuntu hour is on and scheduled for Saturday June 8 at 2pm at Bookmans in Tucson 1930 E. Grant at Rd 2 pm.
<toddc> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-arizona/2411-ubuntu-hour-tucson-az/
<toddc> but we are looking for a better location so check back
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Network Engineer, Jr.
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=2544021&t=2
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Senior Systems Engineer
<toddc> http://www.telesphere.com/jobs2/job/54/senior-systems-engineer-at-telesphere/
<toddc> IT Administrator Needed
<toddc> http://topclassactions.theresumator.com/apply/LPsSjt/IT-Administrator.html
<toddc> Linux Systems Engineer
<toddc> http://employment.cwie.net/?page_id=24
<toddc> Android App Pick of the week
<toddc> Gyft     Gift Cards on your phone
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.gyft.android
<toddc> no more losing them!!!! and they take Bitcoins
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> Fianal Term a new terminal emulator—(Thanks Dewayne)
<toddc> http://finalterm.org/
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<toddc> Thursday May 23 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday Saturday June 1 and June 15 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc>  calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on air
<toddc> ubuntu development hang out Tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
<toddc> Jono Bacon O&A Wednesday 7-8 pm GMT you can ask him why they do what they do!!
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> FernHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday May 21 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday June 13  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> google glass runs on ubuntu with a hack--thanks Archfan
<toddc> tuxmann is building a G+ page chack it ont and give us some feedback
<toddc> https://plus.google.com/u/1/b/111285361198176059670/111285361198176059670/posts
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<toddc> short one tonight
<toddc> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
