{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


04 June - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* Talked about Ubuntu 20.04
* Troubleshot Virtualbox pass thru audio to VM

06 June - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 12 attendees
* Conducted on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net
* Assisted 2 people to register their IRC nicks and configure their accounts for Freenode
* Discussed several Linux topics.
* Discussed some of the games that can be played on a Linux box.
* Discussed Python with a new attendee

07 June - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 07 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2007%2C%202020%20Meeting

11 June - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 06 attendees
* Discussed possible physical locations for meetings
* Discussed future presentations:
1. How to do an installation defining the partitions yourself. (27 June – Rex).
2. A Hands on Installation. (25 July – Team) 3 computers will be available to have a Linux OS installed.  Members will act as clients. Members will do the install.   We should be able to do 9 installs baring problems.
3. Different ways to install a program on a Linux OS. (22 August – Greg)
4. Building a computer. (TBD – Ted) 
5. The contents of some Linux Directories. (TBD – Rex) 
6. Robo Linux (TBD – Tim Kirk)
* Discussed Installfest (5 September target date) Location TBD (possibles Livia’s Coffee, Warrior Healing Center, SV Library)
* Discussed SNAPS

11 June - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed SNAPS and Flatpaks.

20 June - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Conducted on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net
* Assisted a member resize a hard drive in a virtual environment
* Attempted to assist a member to recover a file in Libre Office that had not been saved because of a loss of power and the recovery process failed. Because the backup file and /tmp files were empty, the process was unsuccessful.
* Discussed the procedure to install Ubuntu in a dual boot instance with Win10.  Then attempted an install but it was canceled because of bad sectors on the hard drive  
* Discussed the procedures for navigating within the directories and files of a Linux OS from the CLI.

21 June - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2021%2C%202020%20Meeting

25 June - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* Discussed pros/cons of snaps
* Conducted a demonstration of ipfire configuration over BBB
* Discussed multipass to spin Linux VMs
