{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# Discussion
# PLUG Announcements
# TBA

If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with johnc4510 or scott_ev.

=== Log ===
This week's links are available <nowiki>[[#links|below the log]]</nowiki>.
<pre>
21:06 < Flakeparadigm> Good evening everyone, thanks for being here and welcome to the weekly meeting of the Arizona Ubuntu LoCo Team. Please let us know you're here with a +1.
21:06 < toddcnb> +1
21:06 < syn-ack> Sorry I was late. Installing some windows updates. +1
21:07 < Flakeparadigm> Is there anyone here for the first time ?  Please introduce yourself and tell us a little about you.
21:07 < fuzzy> +1
21:08 < Flakeparadigm> Okay, I'm moderating the meeting tonight in place of scott_ev.
21:08 < Flakeparadigm> xHans: Because I do not have the news, would you like to share anything with us?
21:08 < xHans> +1
21:08 < Flakeparadigm> Feel free, at any time during the meeting, to ask questions, make productive comments or observations: we want your input.
21:09 < Flakeparadigm> xHans: ^^
21:10  * fuzzy makes a productive comment
21:10 < xHans> Flakeparadigm: give me a sec to update :)
21:10 < Flakeparadigm> alright
21:10 < fuzzy> no new joins?
21:10  * syn-ack makes a semi-unproductive comment, just because he was told not to
21:11  * fuzzy laughs out loud
21:11  * Flakeparadigm scolds you
21:11  * syn-ack is scolded. :/
21:11 < syn-ack> Oh, I have a productive comment. I. Hate. Vista.
21:12  * fuzzy seconds that
21:12 < syn-ack> why you may ask? Because it's a slow memory hog that his college insisted he run and not linux
21:12 < fuzzy> although loathe might be more appropriate
21:12 < toddcnb> send him ti the corner for being late with a poor excuse
21:12 < Flakeparadigm> We all know that the GRUB loading menu that greets many of upon boot isn't the most stylish or modern looking interface - even adding a poorly pixelated picture background can't save it from looking lame.
21:12 < Flakeparadigm> "GET ANIMATED, THEMED, ICON ONLY GRUB MENU USING BURG - NOW SIMPLE TO USE!" - http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/01/make-grub-themes-beautiful-look-nicer.html
21:13  * fuzzy seconds that too
21:13 < Flakeparadigm> ^ Productive
21:14 < xHans> Flakeparadigm: ok, ready
21:14 < Flakeparadigm> Alright, here we go everyone! Turn your attention towards xHans
21:14 < xHans> danke, danke :)
21:14 < xHans> Both Valley Stammtische are this week
21:14 < xHans> Tempe on Tuesday and Avondale on Wednesday
21:14 < syn-ack> Flakeparadigm, with the current GRUB2 issues, it'd be a miricle if you even got to the point to which that would be of any use.
21:14 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/425
21:14 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/593
21:14 < xHans> the next PLUG IRC planning meeting is next Sunday
21:15 < xHans> it's at 20:00, the hour before the LoCo meeting, in #PLUGaz
21:15 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2280
21:15 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2280
21:15 < xHans> the next ABLEconf IRC planning meeting is next Sunday
21:15 < xHans> er, in two weeks, 4th Sunday of the month
21:15 < xHans> it's at 20:00, the hour before the LoCo meeting, in #ABLEconf
21:15 < xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/
21:15 < xHans> PLUG west side meeting is a week from Wedneday
21:15 < xHans> topic is Alfresco Content Management System
21:15 < syn-ack> xHans, Remind me when the time comes and I'll attend
21:15 < xHans> pizza will be provided if I can find someone to pick it up
21:16 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2508
21:16 < xHans> syn-ack: ok
21:16 < xHans> I generally post reminders in here :)
21:16 < xHans> PLUG and LoCo Installfest is the last Saturday of the month
21:16 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/172
21:16 < xHans> and that's it
21:17 < syn-ack> Oh and another semi-nonproductive comment: My baby has no neckl.
21:17 < xHans> neckl?
21:17 < fuzzy> that's nice
21:17 < syn-ack> neck, it was a typo
21:17 < Flakeparadigm> I don't really have anything because I was told last minute and didn't get a chance to get anything prepared...
21:17 < xHans> or 'no neck'?
21:17 < fuzzy> mother or father trait?
21:17 < syn-ack> fuzzy, my trait.
21:17 < fuzzy> I'm in BIO I need to know
21:17  * xHans hands Flakeparadigm a jit meeting compiler :)
21:18 < syn-ack> And she's got a fuzzy head
21:18  * fuzzy laughs, you witty thing you
21:18 < syn-ack> :D
21:18 < xHans> my baby has a neck and a catapault stomach
21:18 < Siph0n> +1 lol
21:18 < Flakeparadigm> hey Siph0n.
21:19 < Siph0n> reading the meeting now.
21:19 < syn-ack> is the meeting over? I need to reboot. :P
21:19 < xHans> fuzzy: one thing you could do in Havasu is start a Stammtisch
21:19 < fuzzy> you know...
21:19 < fuzzy> I work at the library
21:19 < Flakeparadigm> well, if no one else has anything to say, then the metting is over
21:19 < Flakeparadigm> going once...
21:19 < xHans> go to a bar once a month, let others know you'll be there and see if anyone shows up
21:19 < syn-ack> damn windows and their reboots for updates
21:19 < fuzzy> you'd think I could get people on board here, but now
21:19 < fuzzy> no
21:19 < Flakeparadigm> going twice...
21:19 < syn-ack> alright, brb
21:19 < xHans> if the bar you choose is an irish pub, then at least you'll have an evening at an irish pub ;-)
21:20 < fuzzy> i'm a Free Software loser when it comes to promo apparently
21:20 -!- syn-ack [~meskes@unaffiliated/syn-ack] has quit [Quit: Windows Reboot.]
21:20 < Flakeparadigm> A third and final chance to say anything now...
21:20 < fuzzy> irish pub here sux
21:20 < Flakeparadigm> Okay, meeting adjourned
</pre>

=== Links ===
Links mentioned in this week's meeting.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/01/make-grub-themes-beautiful-look-nicer.html|"GET ANIMATED, THEMED, ICON ONLY GRUB MENU USING BURG - NOW SIMPLE TO USE!"]]</nowiki> - Theming the boring GRUB boot menu.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
