{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #78 for the week January 12, January 18.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Seventy Eighth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 21, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday January 25, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the January 18, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09January18

Johnc4510 began the meeting with some announcements:

* Jaunty Jackalope Alpha 3 is out. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-January/000524.html.  This release will feature among other things the new Ext.4 file system.  It's suppose to be faster at read/write.  It also supports up to 1 terabyte hard drives.
* Ubuntu Developer Week: There will be one week of action-packed sessions from Jan 19th to Jan 23rd! Ubuntu Developer Week is a series of online workshops.  These are all IRC sessions, so anyone can sit in.  Sessions dates and times at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek
* Fridge Mockups: is a new idea to replace the "Fridge", our Ubuntu community news page.  http://www.ndeschildre.net/2009/01/10/ubuntu-news-website-mockups/
* Proceedings from the Ubuntu Developer Summit for Ubuntu 9.04, which took place from 8-12 April in Mountain View, CA, USA, are now available. UDS is Ubuntu Developer Summit [ED note:  I believe that the correct dates are December 8-12].  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDSJaunty/Report.  It's where the devs get together to plan the next release, in this case Jaunty Jackalope.  You can get some insight on the planning and what might be included in the release.
* The Ubuntu Forums has been named the "Best Support Resource" in the Linux Format awards according to issue LXF115. Ubuntu won the "Best Distribution" award, and Canonical bagged the "Best Enterprise" award. 2008 was a great year for Ubuntu.

johnc4510 has gotten word from Shawn at U of A, and he's checking on dates.  johnc4510 asked for February 7, since time is running out for anything earlier.  Shawn didn't think there would be a problem.  Everything seems set for the Phoenix install fest.  The flier is up on the forum, http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1037635.  Mauricio contacted PLUG, and xHans said that fliers could be put out at Red``Seven and Motherboards and Upgrades.  Mauricio and xHans have both volunteered routers for the install fest, so that's covered.  johnc4510 said that he'd send the banner and CDs to tyche the end of this week or beginning of next week.  It only takes a couple of days for delivery to Phoenix.

johnc4510 introduced bender304, who supplied a short summary for himself.  "Im over at 43ave& Cactus, 61yo been doing Ubuntu about 8mo. Retired pipefitter, native of AZ , lived in Page, Taylor, Lakeside, Hayden.  I've got 3 machines one with 8.04, one with 8.10.  P4``C800 has 8.10, Emachine 8.04 I read ubuntu forum all the time."  bender304 was welcomed to the group.

johnc4510 then had calimer make some announcements:

* First Sandbox is looking to make it into edubuntu in Jaunty Jackalope, which is some cool stuff, I would love to have it make it into ubuntu.  Platinum Arts Sandbox is a free 3d game maker and world creator for kids and adults.  http://kids.platinumarts.net
* Second, new 2.3 release, which has tons of new goodies.  It features new modes such as a sidescroller, machinima, rpg, cartmode, etc.
* Third, it is a finalist at moddb, top 100 out of over 5k, and could use some votes.  http://www.moddb.com/events/2008-mod-of-the-year-awards/top100
* If anyone is interested helping with it, contact us at irc.oftc.net #sandbox

xHans then added announcements:

* Lots of community college classes starting this week.  The Open``Office.org class sold out again!  They even considered opening a second section for the semester.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes and http://plug.phoenix.az.us/node/751
* My networking admin class needs a few more students, we had enough, but several dropped at the end of the week.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/CIS240DL.html
* Both Stammtische are this week.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch
* The west side meeting in 10 days will be on phpmyadmin.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/359
* Still waiting for an ABLEconf local committee.  http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/23.  We have many volunteers already, but we're waiting on the local committee.

tyche mentioned, in passing that the Events calendar for the Fridge has moved:  http://tycheent.wordpress.com/2009/01/17/upcoming-events-calendar-has-moved/.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:54 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
