{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
 
<pre> 
[21:00]	toddc_	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddc_	+1
[21:00]	scott_ev	+1
[21:00]	pjdamws	+1
[21:00]	toddc_	Wheww I was thinking I was the only one
[21:01]	toddc_	Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[21:01]	toddc_	Team Website is http://azloco.org/
[21:01]	toddc_	Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
[21:01]	toddc_	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	toddc_	some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
[21:01]	scott_ev	no, I said I want to get involved again so I figure it starts with attending meetings again
[21:01]	toddc_	Anybody here that is new tonight?
[21:02]	scott_ev	where is everyone
[21:02]	toddc_	I understand not feeling well tho scott_ev
[21:02]	toddc_	EASTER SUNDAY
[21:02]	toddc_	chasing eggs
[21:02]	scott_ev	thanks. I've been in bed for 3 days but I think I can sit upright for this
[21:02]	scott_ev	ah, yhea
[21:02]	toddc_	lets start with the news
[21:02]	toddc_	UBUNTU NEWS
[21:03]	toddc_	Lightworks’ Linux Beta Gets April Release Date
[21:03]	toddc_	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/03/lightworks-linux-beta-gets-april-release-date
[21:03]	toddc_	ZFS on Linux is "ready for wide scale deployment"
[21:03]	toddc_	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/ZFS-on-Linux-is-ready-for-wide-scale-deployment-1832848.html
[21:03]	toddc_	I may test this later this week
[21:03]	toddc_	Monitor your bandwidth from the Linux shell
[21:03]	toddc_	http://linuxaria.com/article/monitor-your-bandwidth-from-the-linux-shell?lang=en
[21:04]	toddc_	How to stop ISPs sucking at Youtube
[21:04]	toddc_	http://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/19gpzd/how_to_stop_isps_sucking_at_youtube/
[21:04]	toddc_	Back up Email with a Single Command
[21:04]	toddc_	http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Blogs/Productivity-Sauce/Back-up-Email-with-a-Single-Command
[21:04]	toddc_	New features in Cairo-Dock 3.2
[21:04]	toddc_	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/New-features-in-Cairo-Dock-3-2-1830572.html
[21:04]	toddc_	Will Ford's open-source car API drive us to distraction?
[21:04]	toddc_	http://www.linuxtoday.com/infrastructure/will-fords-open-source-car-api-drive-us-to-distraction.html
[21:05]	toddc_	Linux Foundation Training Prepares the International Space Station for Linux Migration
[21:05]	toddc_	http://www.linux.com/news/featured-blogs/191-linux-training/711318-linux-foundation-training-prepares-the-international-space-station-for-linux-migration
[21:05]	toddc_	Paypal To Drop VMware From 80,000 Servers and Replace It With OpenStack (Updated)
[21:05]	-->|	[R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:05]	toddc_	http://www.forbes.com/sites/reuvencohen/2013/03/26/paypal-to-drop-vmware-from-80000-servers-and-replace-it-with-openstack/
[21:06]	toddc_	FBI Pursuing Real-Time Gmail Spying Powers as “Top Priority” for 2013
[21:06]	toddc_	http://www.slate.com/blogs/future_tense/2013/03/26/andrew_weissmann_fbi_wants_real_time_gmail_dropbox_spying_power.html
[21:06]	scott_ev	eww
[21:06]	toddc_	JOB LIST
[21:06]	toddc_	Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
[21:06]	toddc_	https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
[21:06]	toddc_	Several openings at Limelight Networks
[21:06]	toddc_	http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
[21:07]	toddc_	Android App Pick
[21:07]	toddc_	Caffeine
[21:07]	toddc_	https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=nl.syntaxa.caffeine
[21:07]	toddc_	Linux App of the week
[21:07]	toddc_	Geany
[21:07]	toddc_	http://www.geany.org/Main/HomePage
[21:08]	toddc_	TEMPE INSTALLFEST
[21:08]	toddc_	Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is April 6 at UAT 10am to 4 PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
[21:08]	toddc_	next weekend
[21:08]	toddc_	Please note that that we have had to cancel the April 13th Tagose event since UAT will be need all of there rooms that day. But we are looking into alternative locations
[21:08]	toddc_	We have also had to cancel the April 20 installfest for the same reason
[21:09]	toddc_	So we will only have one installfest this month
[21:09]	toddc_	For more info see
[21:09]	toddc_	AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
[21:09]	toddc_	UBUNTU HOUR
[21:09]	toddc_	Thursday April 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
[21:09]	toddc_	http://xtremebeancoffee.com
[21:10]	toddc_	we had several new users show up last Thursday
[21:10]	toddc_	this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
[21:10]	toddc_	UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:10]	toddc_	ubuntu on air
[21:11]	toddc_	http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
[21:11]	toddc_	ubuntu deveopment hang out tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
[21:11]	toddc_	Jono Bacon O&A wedsday 7-8 pm GMT
[21:11]	toddc_	Beta Testing Extraordinaire with the Ubuntu Quality team
[21:11]	toddc_	Tue, April 2, 8pm – 9pmGMT
[21:11]	scott_ev	I really wanted to go to Ubuntu Hour - I was going to bring one of my SBCs and install a new OS...
[21:11]	toddc_	bring it Sat to the installfest!!
[21:12]	toddc_	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:12]	scott_ev	if I'm feeling better by then, you bet
[21:12]	toddc_	Release Party for 13.04??? April 25
[21:12]	toddc_	it would be fun but a bit late to locate a location
[21:13]	toddc_	Any thoughts on other events or projects???
[21:13]	toddc_	Several other Teams have had great luck gaining new users/members using meetup.com
[21:13]	toddc_	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:14]	toddc_	xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:14]	xHans	is not here
[21:14]	toddc_	ok!!
[21:14]	xHans	PLUG east side is moving to a new location in two weeks
[21:14]	xHans	Desert Breeze Substation in Chandler
[21:14]	xHans	251 N Desert Breeze Blvd W, Chandler, AZ 85226-6913
[21:14]	xHans	the presentation will be about graphing with gnuplot from Walter
[21:15]	xHans	and that's it for this week
[21:15]	xHans	oh, wait, OWASP should be Tuesday
[21:15]	toddc_	I like Walter's talks
[21:15]	toddc_	Developer Meeting Thursday April 4 7-9pm
[21:15]	toddc_	University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
[21:15]	toddc_	The developer group is adding bar code reading features to cheese
[21:15]	xHans	Walter's awesome
[21:16]	xHans	OWASP on Tuesday - Top Ten Web Defenses, Jim Manico, VP of Security Architecture for WhiteHat Security
[21:16]	xHans	https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Phoenix#Meeting_Tuesday_April_2nd_--_Top_Ten_Web_Defenses.2C_Jim_Manico.2C_VP_of_Security_Architecture_for_WhiteHat_Security
[21:16]	toddc_	xHans Thanks for keeping us up to date on plug
[21:17]	xHans	hmm, I need to go to that
[21:17]	toddc_	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:17]	scott_ev	I have nothing
[21:18]	toddc_	Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
[21:18]	scott_ev	wow, short meeting
[21:18]	toddc_	yes I was like on news it was a slow week
[21:18]	toddc_	lite
[21:19]	scott_ev	not that I'm complaining
[21:19]	scott_ev	I just hope I can sleep tonight
[21:19]	toddc_	I semi try for 30 min and we were at 18 so not too far off
[21:19]	scott_ev	yeah
[21:20]	pjdamws	okay good job toddc_, talk to you guys latter.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
