{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #69 for the week October 19, October 26.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Sixty Ninth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-October 29, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday November 2, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the October 19, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08October19

johnc4510 began by talking with slofgren about the demonstration he'd just put on.  slofgren reported that it went well.  The people he presented to didn't know much about Linux, so he stayed at a very basic level.  They invited us to come back again next year, since they stop meeting during the winter.  johnc4510 asked slofgren to write it up.  slofgren also reported that he hadn't yet had a chance to set up the new server due to lack of time and work commitments, but that it would be set up.  He should have more time to work on it, shortly.  Also, the Prescott LUG is changing some plans that should generate more activity.

johnc4510 announced that word has gotten a job.  He'll be working at Circuit City.  word received numerous congratulations.  xHans offered "congrats or commiseration, whichever is appropriate".

johnc4510 then asked xHans to make his announcements:

* The Hackfest is a week from Saturday, at UAT.
* Anybody qualified to review technical books on GNU/Linux or Open``Solaris and interested in doing so?  It is for a published work, or one to be published, and includes trying all the examples to make sure they work as well as actually reviewing the book.  azteech offered to help with GNU/Linux, if time permitted.

There was a brief dialog concerning the upcoming installfest.  As yet, tyche has not been able to finish up the fliers, due to lack of information concerning location, etc., for each one.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:44 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
