{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 05 Dec at 03:59 &mdash; 04:17 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-12-05-03.59.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/excellent-utilities-sticky-note-taking-app/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/history-of-the-internet/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/first-look-at-the-upcoming-fedora-web-based-installer/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/midori-astiango/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/best-ides-code-editors-for-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/podman-desktop-a-gui-that-makes-container-management-easy/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/notepad-replacement-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/excellent-utilities-kooha-simple-screen-recorder/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/tuxedo-stellaris-17-and-polaris-15-linux-gaming-laptops-get-high-end-nvidia-gpus   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/nvidia-525-60-11-linux-graphics-driver-adds-dynamic-boost-support-on-amd-laptops   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://debugpointnews.com/bodhi-linux-7-0-0-testing/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-python-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/11/14/kali-linux-tools/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://debugpointnews.com/anaconda-web-ui-testing/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/openrgb-0-8-lighting-control-tool/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxhandbook.com/check-certificate-openssl/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/reset-windows-password-with-linux-live-cd/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/remove-passphrase-ssl-certificate-ssh-key/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://github.com/ruyrybeyro/chrootvpn   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/key-is-stored-in-legacy-trusted-gpg/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://careers.hpe.com/us/en/job/HPE1US1141166EXTERNALENUS/Field-Technical-Support   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://careers.hpe.com/us/en/job/HPE1US1141263EXTERNALENUS/Field-Technical-Support   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techradar.com/best/best-free-linux-firewalls   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.ubuntupit.com/best-linux-software-our-editorial-list-of-essential-linux-apps/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (58)
* stephenm (44)
* MajB (24)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started at 03:59:32 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +2.5

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 100524.29

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Today is also National Cookie Day

 04:02 <toddc> did you clean your cookies out?

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> news like always starts simple and keeps more complex, depends where you are at in linux

 04:03 <stephenm> Sticky: Note-Taking App

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/excellent-utilities-sticky-note-taking-app/

 04:03 <stephenm> History of the Internet

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/history-of-the-internet/

 04:03 <stephenm> First Look at the Upcoming Fedora Web-Based Installer

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/first-look-at-the-upcoming-fedora-web-based-installer/

 04:04 <stephenm> Midori Browser to Integrate Its Own Open-Source Engine

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/midori-astiango/

 04:04 <stephenm> Best IDEs (Code Editors) for Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxstans.com/best-ides-code-editors-for-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Podman Desktop: A GUI That Makes Container Management Easy

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/podman-desktop-a-gui-that-makes-container-management-easy/

 04:04 <stephenm> Real Notepad++ Replacement for Ubuntu and Other Linux Distros

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/notepad-replacement-ubuntu/

 04:04 <stephenm> Kooha: A Simple Screen Recorder

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/excellent-utilities-kooha-simple-screen-recorder/

 04:04 <stephenm> Stellaris 17, Polaris 15 Linux Gaming Laptops Get High-End Nvidia GPUs

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/tuxedo-stellaris-17-and-polaris-15-linux-gaming-laptops-get-high-end-nvidia-gpus

 04:05 <stephenm> NVIDIA 525.60.11 Adds Dynamic Boost Support on AMD Laptops

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/nvidia-525-60-11-linux-graphics-driver-adds-dynamic-boost-support-on-amd-laptops

 04:05 <stephenm> Bodhi Linux 7.0.0 Testing Begins With New Features, Packages

 04:05 <stephenm> https://debugpointnews.com/bodhi-linux-7-0-0-testing/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Latest Python Version in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-python-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> 5 Kali Linux Tools You Should Learn How to Use

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/11/14/kali-linux-tools/

 04:05 <stephenm> Fedora’s Anaconda Web UI Preview Image is Now Available for Testing

 04:05 <stephenm> https://debugpointnews.com/anaconda-web-ui-testing/

 04:05 <stephenm> OpenRGB 0.8 is Here With Many More Devices Supported

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/openrgb-0-8-lighting-control-tool/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Check for Certificates With OpenSSL

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxhandbook.com/check-certificate-openssl/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Reset Forgotten Windows Password With Chntpw, Linux Live CD

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/reset-windows-password-with-linux-live-cd/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Remove SSL Certificate and SSH Key Passphrase in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/remove-passphrase-ssl-certificate-ssh-key/

 04:06 <stephenm> CShell/SNX chrooted Wrapper Automated Setup for Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://github.com/ruyrybeyro/chrootvpn

 04:06 <stephenm> Fixing ‘Key is stored in legacy trusted.gpg keyring’ Issue in Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/key-is-stored-in-legacy-trusted-gpg/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:07 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:07 <toddc> are there any questions please ask?  Any other item requests?

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <toddc> The Linux philosophy is 'Laugh in the face of danger'. Oops. Wrong One. 'Do it yourself'. Yes, that's it.

 04:09 <toddc> Read more at https://www.brainyquote.com/topics/linux-quotes

 04:09 <toddc> What I find most interesting is how people really have taken Linux and used it in ways and attributes and motivations that I never felt.

 04:09 <toddc> Read more at https://www.brainyquote.com/topics/linux-quotes

 04:10 <toddc> I don't have any authority over Linux other than this notion that I know what I'm doing.

 04:10 <toddc> Read more at https://www.brainyquote.com/topics/linux-quotes

 04:10 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:10 <toddc> Feild Technical support 2 positions

 04:10 <toddc> https://careers.hpe.com/us/en/job/HPE1US1141166EXTERNALENUS/Field-Technical-Support

 04:10 <toddc> https://careers.hpe.com/us/en/job/HPE1US1141263EXTERNALENUS/Field-Technical-Support

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical has 211 open positions

 04:10 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:11 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 6 local open jobs

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&

 04:11 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:11 <toddc> Best Linux firewalls of 2022

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.techradar.com/best/best-free-linux-firewalls

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Best Linux Software: Our Editorial List of Essential Linux Apps

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.ubuntupit.com/best-linux-software-our-editorial-list-of-essential-linux-apps/

 04:12 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:13 <MajB> @page { size: 8.5in 11in; margin: 0.79in } 		p { line-height: 115%; margin-bottom: 0.1in; background: transparent } 		a:visited { color: #800000; so-language: zxx; text-decoration: underline } 		a:link { color: #000080; so-language: zxx; text-decoration: underline } 	   08 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to r

 04:14 <MajB> elax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 08 December, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 17 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:14 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 18 December,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:14 <MajB> 22 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> Thanks all I have

 04:14 <toddc> LuftHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:15 <MajB> Many events are being held on line.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:16 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 08 December, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 20 December, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly meeting 14 December, 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 27 December, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),  Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:17 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:17 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:17 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
