{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 23 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:37 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2015/ubuntu-us-az.2015-02-23-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/how-to-setup-failover-and-load-balancing-in-pfsense/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/2885168/linux/torvalds-people-who-start-writing-kernel-code-get-hired-really-quickly.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/article/2886829/ubuntu-14-04-2-lts-released.html 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/sony-taps-linux-robot-car-tech-for-self-driving-car-project/ 
''LINK:'' https://blogs.gnome.org/alexl/2015/02/17/first-fully-sandboxed-linux-desktop-app/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/article/2885122/the-8-best-desktop-environments-for-linux.html 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Unity-8-and-Mir-See-Nice-Improvements-for-Windows-Management-and-Much-More-473537.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/Mozilla-Firefox-36-Will-Bring-Support-for-HTTP-2-473800.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/developer/facebook-picking-up-the-pace-on-its-open-source-code-journey.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.forbes.com/sites/benkepes/2015/02/19/canonical-achieves-broad-industry-buy-in-for-snappy-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.unixmen.com/linux-basics-check-state-network-interface-card/ 
''LINK:'' http://venturebeat.com/2015/02/18/facebook-unleashes-stetho-its-android-debugging-tool-under-open-source-license/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tuxmachines.org/node/73556 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-lts-update-dist-upgrade/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fixmestick.com/blog/8-fixmestick-facts/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/02/further-evidence-lenovo-breaking-https-security-its-laptops 
''LINK:'' https://filippo.io/Badfish/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.darkreading.com/vulnerabilities---threats/advanced-threats/newly-discovered-master-cyber-espionage-group-trumps-stuxnet/d/d-id/1319104 
''LINK:'' http://www.techdrivein.com/2015/02/vlc-30-to-come-up-with-chromecast.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/2885752/log-analysis/open-source-graylog-puts-splunk-on-notice.html 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/tiny-rugged-box-pc-implements-intel-iot-platform/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/canonical-partners-with-amazon-microsoft-and-others-on-internet-of-things/ 
''LINK:'' http://it.toolbox.com/blogs/enlightenment/creating-a-community-getting-started-65741 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592 
''LINK:'' http://www.instructables.com/id/Raspberry-Pi-Controlled-Aquaponics/?ALLSTEPS 
''LINK:'' http://beets.radbox.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/100-off-linux-foundation-certification-for-ubuntu-users/1915 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tucsonlinux.com/services-1.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (162)
* MajB (6)
* wmack (5)
* BobTucson (5)
* collie (4)
* meetingology (3)
* stephenm (3)
* Tuxmann (2)
* pavlos (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 23 04:00:12 2015 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Tuxmann> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <collie> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 92748.57

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> There goes our CA guy.

 04:01 <toddc> what did I do to scare him?

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:02 <toddc> the news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:02 <toddc> Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:02 <toddc> How to Setup Failover and Load Balancing in PFSense

 04:02 <toddc> http://www.tecmint.com/how-to-setup-failover-and-load-balancing-in-pfsense/

 04:03 <toddc> Torvalds: ‘People who start writing kernel code get hired really quickly’

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.networkworld.com/article/2885168/linux/torvalds-people-who-start-writing-kernel-code-get-hired-really-quickly.html

 04:03 <toddc> Ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS released

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.itworld.com/article/2886829/ubuntu-14-04-2-lts-released.html

 04:03 <toddc> Sony taps Linux robot car tech for self-driving car project

 04:03 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/sony-taps-linux-robot-car-tech-for-self-driving-car-project/

 04:04 <toddc> First fully sandboxed Linux desktop app

 04:04 <toddc> https://blogs.gnome.org/alexl/2015/02/17/first-fully-sandboxed-linux-desktop-app/

 04:04 <toddc> The 8 best desktop environments for Linux

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.itworld.com/article/2885122/the-8-best-desktop-environments-for-linux.html

 04:04 <wmack> +1

 04:04 <toddc> Unity 8 and Mir See Nice Improvements for Windows Management and More

 04:04 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Unity-8-and-Mir-See-Nice-Improvements-for-Windows-Management-and-Much-More-473537.shtml

 04:05 <toddc> Mozilla Firefox 36 Will Bring Support for HTTP/2

 04:05 <toddc> http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/Mozilla-Firefox-36-Will-Bring-Support-for-HTTP-2-473800.shtml

 04:05 <toddc> Facebook Picking Up the Pace on Its Open-Source Code Journey -

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.eweek.com/developer/facebook-picking-up-the-pace-on-its-open-source-code-journey.html

 04:05 <toddc> Canonical Achieves Broad Industry Buy-In For Snappy Ubuntu

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.forbes.com/sites/benkepes/2015/02/19/canonical-achieves-broad-industry-buy-in-for-snappy-ubuntu/

 04:06 <toddc> Linux Basics: How To Check The State Of A Network Interface Card

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.unixmen.com/linux-basics-check-state-network-interface-card/

 04:06 <toddc> Facebook unleashes Stetho, its open-source Android debugging tool

 04:06 <toddc> http://venturebeat.com/2015/02/18/facebook-unleashes-stetho-its-android-debugging-tool-under-open-source-license/

 04:06 <toddc> Symple Introduces the $89 Planet Friendly Ubuntu Linux Web Workstation

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.tuxmachines.org/node/73556

 04:07 <toddc> How to Update a Ubuntu LTS release to the next LTS Version

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-lts-update-dist-upgrade/

 04:07 <toddc> FixMeStick Facts | Boot LiveUSB | The FixMeStick Blog

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.fixmestick.com/blog/8-fixmestick-facts/

 04:07 <toddc> Lenovo Is Breaking HTTPS Security on its Recent Laptops | Electronic Frontier Foundation (windows)

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/02/further-evidence-lenovo-breaking-https-security-its-laptops

 04:08 <toddc> Check if you trust the Superfish CA (windows)

 04:08 <toddc> https://filippo.io/Badfish/

 04:08 <toddc> Newly Discovered 'Master' Cyber Espionage Group Trumps Stuxnet

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.darkreading.com/vulnerabilities---threats/advanced-threats/newly-discovered-master-cyber-espionage-group-trumps-stuxnet/d/d-id/1319104

 04:08 <toddc> VLC 3.0 to come up with Chromecast support

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.techdrivein.com/2015/02/vlc-30-to-come-up-with-chromecast.html

 04:08 <toddc> Open source Graylog puts Splunk on notice

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.infoworld.com/article/2885752/log-analysis/open-source-graylog-puts-splunk-on-notice.html

 04:09 <toddc> Tiny, rugged, box-PC implements Intel's IoT platform

 04:09 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/tiny-rugged-box-pc-implements-intel-iot-platform/

 04:09 <toddc> Canonical partners with Amazon, Microsoft, and others on Internet of Things

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/article/canonical-partners-with-amazon-microsoft-and-others-on-internet-of-things/

 04:09 <toddc> Microsoft Announces the First Azure Hosted Service to Run on Ubuntu Linux

 04:09 <toddc> edia.com/news/Microsoft-Announced-the-First-Ubuntu-Linux-Powered-Azure-Hosted-Service-473632.shtml

 04:10 <toddc> Creating a Community: Getting Started

 04:10 <toddc> http://it.toolbox.com/blogs/enlightenment/creating-a-community-getting-started-65741

 04:10 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:10 <toddc> May 9th Mother's Day should we cancel the sunday meeting?

 04:11 <toddc> May 24th is Memorial Day I may be out of town can someone cover it or cancel it also?

 04:11 <wmack> I can cover

 04:11 <toddc> ok may 24 covered thank you

 04:12 <toddc> we will be planning a ubuntu membership prep class in the near future for those that would like to

 04:12 <toddc> become ubuntu members.

 04:12 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership

 04:12 <toddc> We had a great time at the Computer Technonolgy Conf last week and presentation went well

 04:12 <toddc> the booth was busy till late in the event.

 04:13 <toddc> And the Installfest did 6-7 installs and repairs

 04:13 <toddc> I also want to thank all those that help to make it possible for all the help!

 04:13 <MajB> Great job toddc.

 04:14 <toddc> Wmack did a cool demo of his XY plotter other than bad artwork/photo he used

 04:14 <toddc> or the subject of the photo

 04:14 <wmack> don't be so modest :)

 04:14 <toddc> we still have some swag left over for the next event!

 04:14 <collie> It was Jerry Garcia, wasn't it?

 04:15 <toddc> Jerry's dead

 04:15 <toddc> Many of the other user groups are inerested in what we are doing and wish to promote cross group

 04:15 <MajB> Je ne sait pas.

 04:15 <toddc> participation and I have had several requests to for RSS feeds of our events and news.

 04:15 <wmack> Actually Jerry is our team leader if you haven't yet noticed..

 04:16 <MajB> There is an after life.

 04:16 <collie> (check for missing fingers!)

 04:16 <toddc> we are also talking to az strut about switching to linux

 04:16 <stephenm> They only use M$ there though

 04:17 <toddc> they used mint for a while but are now having windows licenceing concerns

 04:17 <collie> I would like to volunteer to help az strut...I got spare time

 04:17 <toddc> we norw have two

 04:17 <toddc> I will get both of you the info

 04:18 <toddc> Tuesday at the Phoeninx ubuntu hour we had Six attendants.

 04:18 <stephenm> thanks

 04:18 <toddc> we are also working to update and maintain the face book page and linked-in and g+ if anyone has a few minutes  and figure a way to keep them current.

 04:19 <toddc> scale is just ending but is anyone here wanting to give a quick report on it

 04:20 <toddc> I did watch several video feeds and it looks like it was setting new records

 04:20 <toddc> the ubuntu booth looked very busy doing BQ phone and orage box demos

 04:21 <toddc> We have a team project board to list projects that could/should be done for team http://www.azloco.org/node/184 if you pick one please leave a comment and status and ask for help

 04:21 <toddc> JOB list

 04:21 <toddc> 39 current canonical Jobs today

 04:21 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:21 <toddc> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data)

 04:22 <toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:22 <toddc> many are remote positions

 04:22 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:22 <toddc> https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592

 04:22 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:22 <toddc> Raspberry Pi Controlled Aquaponics

 04:23 <toddc> http://www.instructables.com/id/Raspberry-Pi-Controlled-Aquaponics/?ALLSTEPS

 04:23 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:23 <MajB> Hello BobTucson.

 04:23 <toddc> Beets The purpose of beets is to get your music collection right once and for all.

 04:23 <BobTucson> Hi MajB

 04:23 <toddc> http://beets.radbox.org/

 04:23 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:24 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  Thursday February 26. 2014 17:30 - 18:30 MST , 5:30pm – 6:30pm

 04:24 <toddc> Sierra Vista Public Library (foyer) 2600 East Tacoma St. Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:24 <toddc> Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your

 04:24 <toddc> personal computer and the FREE software that is available as an

 04:24 <toddc> alternative to Microsoft Windows and other software that you must buy.

 04:24 <toddc> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:24 <toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:25 <toddc> Thursday February 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock

 04:25 <toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:25 <toddc> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or

 04:25 <toddc> we need to move the tempe ubuntu hour to 5pm so it will be listed before SV's event!!

 04:26 <toddc> Phoenix Ubuntu Hour

 04:26 <toddc> Phoenix Ubuntu hour will be meeting on the first and third Tuesday at 6pm Burton Barr library on the 4th floor in the mach1 area.1221 North Central Avenue, Phoenix, AZ 85004

 04:26 <toddc> Stop by for all your linux questions chat and have fun and see Linux in action!

 04:27 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be March 04 7pm – 9pm at Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA   http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:27 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:27 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:27 <toddc> LINUX TRAINING

 04:27 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/100-off-linux-foundation-certification-for-ubuntu-users/1915

 04:27 <toddc> $100 off Linux Foundation Certification for Ubuntu Users

 04:28 <toddc> LFD331 Developing Linux Device Drivers

 04:28 <toddc> 02 Mar » 06 Mar - Virtual

 04:28 <toddc> Ubuntu On-Air

 04:28 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:28 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:28 <toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net

 04:28 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:28 <toddc> When Tue, February 24, 9am – 10am local time

 04:28 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:29 <toddc> chamoco do you have any events we need to know about?

 04:29 <toddc> notes from Dennisk

 04:30 <toddc> We have two Linux sysadmin classes starting the week of March 23rd including a Monday-Wednesday

 04:30 <toddc> 1:30-4:45 afternonn class Also, a Linux security class Monday-Wednesday evening.

 04:30 <toddc> MCC is an Linux Professional Institute Academy with discounded vouchers for the CompTIA Linux+

 04:30 <toddc> certification. The network Academy has gotten a good response on the afternoon classes and will be adding more, Cisco, etc.

 04:30 <toddc> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:31 <toddc> PLUG EVENTS

 04:31 <toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday March 12 7-9 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226 Misc presentations and chat about linux and open source projects.

 04:32 <toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday March 17 at  7:00PM Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210 7PM till ??

 04:32 <toddc> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:32 <toddc> Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux. Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:33 <toddc> OTHER  LUG EVENTS

 04:33 <toddc> Lugy (Prescott users group)

 04:33 <toddc> Tue, March 10, 6:30pm – 9:00pm

 04:33 <toddc> Raven Cafe 142 N. Cortez St Prescottt AZ 86301 928-717-0009

 04:33 <toddc> SLUG Sunland Village East Computer Club

 04:33 <toddc> March 11 6-8 PM in the Computer Club Training Facility 2145 So. Farnsworth Mesa AZ 85209

 04:33 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:34 <Tuxmann> SCALE has a youtube page that they've posted a flood of videos from SCALE 13x https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCN2nbMPLJWv3Y__4JuF_hMQ

 04:34 <BobTucson> Got some old P4 Small form factor boxes, if anybody wants them

 04:35 <toddc> cool I will look later   p4 cases or with MB

 04:35 <wmack> here's jerry 2: http://componentsw.com/jerry2-1.jpg

 04:35 <toddc> I still use p4 for servers

 04:35 <BobTucson> with mb, & cpu... ram iffy

 04:36 <toddc> np I have some ram left

 04:36 <toddc> :)

 04:36 <BobTucson> http://www.tucsonlinux.com/services-1.html

 04:36 <toddc> BobTucson: I may call you monday

 04:37 <BobTucson> it's a cell, call anytime

 04:37 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:37 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
