{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 19 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-03-19-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.fastcompany.com/40529429/meet-the-hardware-artisans-keeping-classic-video-games-alive 
''LINK:'' https://fossbytes.com/linux-most-preferred-development-platform/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/google-thinks-android-is-as-secure-as-apple-s-ios-and-wants-you-to-know-that-520252.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/rugged-kaby-lake-based-nvr-system-offers-up-to-eight-poe-ports/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/best-editor-0 
''LINK:'' https://dzone.com/articles/container-isolation-gone-wrong 
''LINK:'' https://www.theverge.com/2018/3/14/17120764/raspberry-pi-button-sound-guide-how-to-diy 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/irl-why-a-hard-drive-raid-array-can-save-your-bacon/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhint.com/creating-and-resizing-xfs-partitions/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/how-encrypt-files-within-file-manager 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/lessons-learned-from-growing-an-open-source-project-too-fast/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cncf.io/blog/2018/03/15/cncf-to-host-nats/ 
''LINK:'' https://phys.org/news/2018-03-year-old-code-writing-tool.html#jCp 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/maricopa?page=10 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/cdhcggerf0050t9hopf4qni1cvc 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (61)
* stephenm (36)
* xHans (7)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* nhasian (2)
* wmack1 (2)
* toddc (2)
* ron_a_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar 19 04:00:03 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +2

 04:00 <ron_a_> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <stephenm> The start of news is easy to more direct with Linux.

 04:03 <wmack1> +1

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> Meet The Hardware Artisans Keeping Classic Video Games Alive

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.fastcompany.com/40529429/meet-the-hardware-artisans-keeping-classic-video-games-alive

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux Beats Windows To Become The Most Popular Development Platform: Stack Overflow Survey 2018

 04:03 <stephenm> https://fossbytes.com/linux-most-preferred-development-platform/

 04:03 <stephenm> Was there any doubt

 04:03 <stephenm> Google Says Android Is as Secure as Apple's iOS and Wants You to Know That

 04:03 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/google-thinks-android-is-as-secure-as-apple-s-ios-and-wants-you-to-know-that-520252.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> I might have a grude with Google but they are right

 04:04 <stephenm> Rugged, Kaby Lake based NVR system offers up to eight PoE ports

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/rugged-kaby-lake-based-nvr-system-offers-up-to-eight-poe-ports/

 04:04 <stephenm> Best Editor

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/best-editor-0

 04:04 <stephenm> VIM is the best command line editor out there

 04:05 <stephenm> Container Isolation Gone Wrong

 04:05 <stephenm> https://dzone.com/articles/container-isolation-gone-wrong

 04:05 <stephenm> How to build something ‘useful’ with a Raspberry Pi

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theverge.com/2018/3/14/17120764/raspberry-pi-button-sound-guide-how-to-diy

 04:05 <stephenm> Why a hard drive RAID array can save your bacon

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/irl-why-a-hard-drive-raid-array-can-save-your-bacon/

 04:05 <stephenm> Creating and Resizing XFS Partitions

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxhint.com/creating-and-resizing-xfs-partitions/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Encrypt Files From Within a File Manager

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/how-encrypt-files-within-file-manager

 04:05 <stephenm> Lessons Learned from Growing an Open Source Project Too Fast

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/lessons-learned-from-growing-an-open-source-project-too-fast/

 04:06 <stephenm> CNCF to Host NATS

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.cncf.io/blog/2018/03/15/cncf-to-host-nats/

 04:06 <stephenm> 38-year-old code-writing tool released for general use

 04:06 <stephenm> https://phys.org/news/2018-03-year-old-code-writing-tool.html#jCp

 04:06 <nhasian> +1

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to you MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Hello nhasian

 04:06 <nhasian> Just made it

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <Ron_A> Good job stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> thanks RonA

 04:07 <wmack1> Thanks you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> Ron_A

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome wmack1

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 01 April 			(Easter)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 34 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 13 open jobs under "Data Science" at Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:10 <MajB> There are 89 new and a total of 165 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 15 new and a total of 31 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:11 <MajB> 22 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 22 March, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 05 April,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/maricopa?page=10

 04:12 <MajB> 07 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:12 <MajB> 21 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop and Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic Beaver Release party, 1400-1800 at the home of Walter and Ingeborg Mack, 5831 W. Kesler St. Chandler.  The AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest for the same day at the University of Advancing Technology will be relocated to that location also starting at 2 pm. instead of the normal 10 am. Internet will be available, installs will still be conducted and problems will be solved while we celebra

 04:12 <MajB> 28 April, AZLOCO/Cochise Linux User Group Installfest on 1100-1500 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.   Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss fre

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:14 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is Tuesday, 19:00 to 22:00

 04:14 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ 85204

 04:14 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/cdhcggerf0050t9hopf4qni1cvc

 04:14 <xHans> LibrePlanet is this weekend, talks will be streaming

 04:14 <xHans> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:15 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:15 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 March 1-3:45 pm, Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E Tacoma Street, Sierra Vista.  There will be a presentation on Penetration Testing by Chad Wheeler, a Penetration Tester for Campus Guard, a company focused on PCI Compliance and Information Security and Consulting Services for Higher Education.

 04:15 <MajB> http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 March 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 April 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 April 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 April 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 April 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:16 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 19 April 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:16 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Join the Phoenix Linux Users Group at their Security Session to learn about Tor and why it is pretty terrible. We will be discussing how Tor can increase your privacy, enhance your security, and reduce major co

 04:17 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:17 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <Ron_A> Thanks MajB

 04:19 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
