{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

<tuxmann> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxmann> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<pjdamws> +1
<Rich__> +1
<tuxmann> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<tuxmann> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<tuxmann> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toodc> +1
<tuxmann> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<tuxmann> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<tuxmann> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toodc> or +1/2 anyway
<tuxmann> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<tuxmann> lets start with the news!!
<tuxmann> UBUNTU NEWS
<tuxmann> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> The perfect desktop Linux Mint 15 (Olivia)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/the-perfect-desktop-linux-mint-15-olivia
<Dazed_75> Another Linux Mint 15 review - less than perfect
<Dazed_75>     http://dasublogbyprashanth.blogspot.com/2013/06/review-linux-mint-15-olivia-cinnamon.html
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint 15 Olivia on Nvidia-ed laptop - Perfection?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/linux-mint-olivia-cinnamon-high.html
<Dazed_75> Lightweight alternatives to Wordpress
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20130608091805577/LightweightAlternativesWordPress.html
<Dazed_75> GUI tools to check hardware information in Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/GUI-tools-hardware-information.html
* [R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Good ideas catch on: Windows 8.1 adds Ubuntu Linux Unity style search feature
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/good-ideas-catch-on-windows-8-1-to-add-unity-style-search-feature
<Dazed_75> How to make Mint Menu always show favorite applications in Linux Mint 15 MATE
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/mint-menu-always-show-favorite-applications.html
<Dazed_75> Linux server hardening
<Dazed_75>     http://linux-news.org/index.php/2013/06/10/linux-server-hardening/
<Dazed_75> Amazing Raspberry Pi projects
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/features/amazing-raspberry-pi-projects-part-1
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/features/amazing-raspberry-pi-projects-part-2
<Dazed_75> How to change the default search engines of Firefox in Linux Mint 15
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/search-engines-firefox-linux-mint.html
<Dazed_75> Linux File System: inodes explained
<Dazed_75>     http://www.loneshooter.com/webhosting-inodes-explained/
<Dazed_75> Work with PDF on Linux with PDFTk
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/recensioni/work-with-pdf-on-linux-with-pdftk?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Steam for Linux users seemingly in decline
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/steam-for-linux-users-in-decline
<Dazed_75> An Ubuntu skin for Spotify
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/download-spotify-skin-for-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> SimpleScreenRecorder: Powerful screen recording software for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/simplescreenrecorder-powerful-screen.html
<Dazed_75> Testing the faith of the Linux masses
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Testing-the-Faith-of-the-Linux-Masses-78228.html
<Dazed_75> How (and why) to get started with Google Cloud Print
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/165160/how-and-why-to-get-started-with-google-cloud-print/
<Dazed_75> Should you use the 32-bit or 64-bit edition of Ubuntu Linux?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/165144/htg-explains-should-you-use-the-32-bit-or-64-bit-edition-of-ubuntu-linux/
<Dazed_75> How does a BitTorrent client initially discover its peers?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/163751/how-does-a-bittorrent-client-initially-discover-its-peers/
<Dazed_75> GNOME 3 not result of Windows 95 patent threats
<Dazed_75>     http://fossforce.com/2013/06/gnome-3-windows-95-disconnected/
<Dazed_75> Adobe Flash Player security updates for all platforms
<Dazed_75>     http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb13-16.html
<Dazed_75> World's smallest dual core ARM Cortex-A9 runs Linux and Android
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxgizmos.com/tiny-cortex-a9-module-runs-linux-and-android/
<Dazed_75> Reasons for losing motivation in Wayland
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM4ODc
<Dazed_75> The Wayland situation: Facts about X vs Wayland
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=x_wayland_situation&num=1
<Dazed_75> Chromium may be the default browser in Ubuntu 13.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/chromium-to-be-default-browser-in-ubuntu-13-10
<Dazed_75> How to use a Playstation 2 joypad with Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/article/how-to-use-a-playstation-2-joypad-with-linux?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Google Summer of Code: 16 students to work on Debian
<Dazed_75>     http://www.itwire.com/business-it-news/open-source/60256-16-students-to-work-on-debian-during-google-summer-of-code
<Dazed_75> How to access Linux ext4 partitions from Windows
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/access-linux-ext4-partition-from-windows/2013/06/12
<Dazed_75> Better manage Chrome Browser Tabs by hibernating unused tabs
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/manage-chrome-browser-tabs/2013/06/12
<Dazed_75> System 76 unveils Haswell powered Ubuntu laptops
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/system-76-unveil-slim-new-laptop
<Dazed_75> Availability of Dell's Linux laptop confusing to US buyers
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/dell-xps-pulled-from-dell-website
<Dazed_75> Lubuntu 13.10 Changes:
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/lubuntu-1310-changes-firefox-zram-added.html
<Dazed_75> Variety wallpaper changer 0.4.15 released with Cinnamon 1.8 and Mate 1.6 support (in addition to others)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/variety-wallpaper-changer-0415-released.html
<Dazed_75> EZAME: A new menu editor for Unity
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/ezame-new-menu-editor-for-unity.html
<Dazed_75> How to auto-close the terminal after a certain period of inactivity
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/how-to-auto-close-terminal-after.html
<Dazed_75> IBM unveils two new power system Linux centers
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/ibm-unveils-two-new-power-systems-linux.html
<Dazed_75> Glasgow University built a cloud platform from Raspberry Pi's and Lego
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/glassgow-university-built-cloud.html
* dwaynex (~dwaynex@wsip-24-249-177-197.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> How can I minimize Flash Drive data corruption and loss?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/163753/how-can-i-minimize-flash-drive-data-corruption-and-loss/
<Dazed_75> Best newbie distro? You say Linux Mint
<Dazed_75>     http://fossforce.com/2013/06/best-newbie-distro-you-say-linux-mint/
<Dazed_75> Mini-ITX boards step up to Intel's 4th generation
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxgizmos.com/mini-itx-boards-adopt-4th-generation-intel-core-processors/
<Dazed_75> LibreOffice V4 review
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/article/libre-office-version-4-tantalizingly-close?lang=en
<Dazed_75> System76 introduces new high end Ubuntu Linux laptops
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/system76-introduces-new-high-end-ubuntu-linux-laptops-7000016816/
<Dazed_75> Divergence in the distros: How the Linux community is splitting into a two-tier system
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/06/two-tier-linux.html
<Dazed_75> Zorin OS 7 Screenshot tour
<Dazed_75>     http://www.thecodingstudio.com/?linux&release=Zorin%20OS%207
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Touch apps available in Ubuntu 13.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/ubuntu-touch-apps-arrive-on-ubuntu-desktop
<Dazed_75> How to mount Google Nexus 4 on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/mount-nexus-4-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Mir still causing concerns by Ubuntu derivatives
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM4OTU
<Dazed_75> How to use awk to find and sort text in Linux, GnuCash
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/724060-amazing-awk-fu-gnucash-import-find-blocks-of-text-remove-dupes-without-sorting/
<Dazed_75> X.Org XDC2013 announced for X, Wayland, Mesa
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM4OTI
<Dazed_75>     http://wiki.x.org/wiki/Events/XDC2013
<Dazed_75> KDE 4.11 Beta released, works on Wayland
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM4OTE
<Dazed_75> How BitTorrent DHT peer discovery works
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/how-bittorrent-dht-peer-discovery-works/2013/06/14
<Dazed_75> How to enable AppIndicator in Gnome Shell
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/enable-appindicator-in-gnome-shell/2013/06/15
<Dazed_75> How to install Compass.app on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/how-to-compile-compass-app-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://solancer.blogspot.in/2013/06/compassapp-on-ubuntu-for-free.html
<Dazed_75> Securely share files using Samba and your UFW firewall rules
<Dazed_75>     http://xpressrazor.wordpress.com/2013/06/16/securely-share-files-between-your-computer-and-phone-using-samba/
<Dazed_75> What KDE can learn from Cinnamon
<Dazed_75>     http://netrunner-mag.com/?p=2912
<Dazed_75> Install iTunes on Ubuntu 12.04 / 12.10 using PlayOnLinux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/technicaltips/index11.php
<Dazed_75> Optimized binaries provide great benefits for Intel Haswell
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel_core_avx2&num=1
<Dazed_75> Sony smart watch now open sourced
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/sony-smartwatch-now-open-sourced.html
<Dazed_75> FLOSS Manuals offers new, useful guides to cool FOSS aplications
<Dazed_75>     http://ostatic.com/blog/floss-manuals-offers-new-useful-guides-to-cool-foss-applications#buzz
<Dazed_75>  ... and that's it from AJ
<tuxmann> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toodc> nice job Dazed_75!!!
<tuxmann> Since Ubuntu/Canonical will no longer make cd/dvd for other than LTS to teams, Tuxmann (myself) will be providing DVDs of the latest version of Ubuntu & Linux Mint as needed at the installfest
<tuxmann> JOB LIST
<tuxmann> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<tuxmann> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<tuxmann> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<tuxmann> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<tuxmann> Android App Pick of the week
<tuxmann> Drive Droid
<tuxmann> Linux App of the week
<tuxmann> PDFtk PDF Toolkit
<tuxmann> http://linuxaria.com/recensioni/work-with-pdf-on-linux-with-pdftk?lang=en
<tuxmann> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<tuxmann> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday June 6 and Saturday July 20 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<tuxmann> For more info see
<tuxmann>  calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<tuxmann> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<tuxmann> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toodc> wrong dates
<tuxmann> July & not June.
<toodc> thanks
<tuxmann> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<tuxmann> Thursday June 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<tuxmann> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<tuxmann> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toodc> july 6 and 20th
<tuxmann> Stammtisch on Tuesday at 19:00 or 7pm
<tuxmann> Iguana Macks in Chandler
<tuxmann> 1371 N Alma School Rd, AZ 85224
<tuxmann> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<tuxmann> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<toodc> thanks tuxmann for covering me this month
<tuxmann> xHans did you have anything else to add?
<tuxmann> My pleasure toodc! Thanks to you & Dazed_75 for hosting the installfests all the time.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
