{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
20:59 < tyche> One minute warning.  Who's here for the meeting?
20:59 < tyche> +1
20:59 < MatthewMPP> I guess I will fit right in.
20:59 < kennymc0> +1
20:59 < scott_ev> +1
20:59 < scott_ev> MatthewMPP: will fit right in
21:00 < tyche> Siph0n: I saw you in hear earlier.
21:00 < scott_ev> I have a feeling he ain't quite right neither
21:00 < Siph0n> yup
21:00 < Siph0n> +1
21:00 < kennymc0> hear or here?
21:00 < Siph0n> lol was just reading the channel, didnt get to the end yet
21:00 < kennymc0> yeah it can get quite chatty in here at times
21:00 < tyche> I know slofgren is working, so he won't show.
21:01 < tyche> OK.  First of all, I have some bad news.  johnc4510 won't be with us tonight.
21:01 < kennymc0> did you get him sick again?
21:01 < tyche> In his words, "I'm going to have to bow out tonight. I'm really feeling rotten, and can't keep anything down."
21:01 < xHans> all OK on the johnc4510 front?
21:01 < tyche> I sent him back to bed.  Hopefully, it will pass soon.
21:02 < tyche> So, that's the bad news.  The good news is . . . YOU'VE GOT ME!!!  Hee hee
21:02 < scott_ev> dizzamn
21:02 < tyche> So, first off, are there any new members that haven't had a chance to introduce themselves?
21:02 < kennymc0> uh oh.....we're in trouble
21:03 < scott_ev> Siph0n: MatthewMPP , you're up
21:03 < MatthewMPP> yeah i'm here
21:03 < Siph0n> ? Siph0n? Im not new
21:03 < kennymc0> i'm pretty sure Siph0n has been here for a meeting befor
21:03 < tyche> MatthewMPP: You sign up with the team?
21:03 < kennymc0> several times
21:03 < scott_ev> sorry Siph0n I wasn't sure
21:03 < Siph0n> scott_ev, yup, no worries :)
21:04 < xHans> MatthewMPP: if you're not certain what to say just cut-and-paste from tyche's bio
21:04 < tyche> MatthewMPP: Member or not, you're always welcome here.
21:05 < MatthewMPP> I have started to be more active in the community lately.  Plug meetings, ASU install fest, and Wednesday I will be going to the West Side meeting.  This is my AZloco meeting.
21:05 < tyche> There's nothing really obligatory about the team.  We don't even charge dues or anything like that.
21:05 < kennymc0> i guess i'll see you at the westside meeting :)
21:05 < tyche> We're happy to have you.
21:05 < tyche> OK, I've got a couple of announcements.  Nothing too serious.
21:06 < tyche> Ubuntu 9.04 Beta freeze is in effect now. The Beta release will be Thursday.
21:06 < MatthewMPP> I tried to sign up on the web page a half hour a go.  Hit a snag.  I will try again tomorrow.
21:06 -!- Adler [n=jjmacey@72.208.119.3] has joined #ubuntu-us-az
21:06 < tyche> I'm looking forward to the beta release.  I'm hoping they have the new artwork in it.
21:06 < scott_ev> wb Adler
21:06 < kennymc0> one of the admins have to approve you on the webpage
21:07 < kennymc0> make sure to sign up on launchpad and the mailing list MatthewMPP
21:07 < scott_ev> I will be taking MatthewMPP through all of our stuff this week
21:07 < kennymc0> cool
21:07 < tyche> MatthewMPP: and if you have problems, holler.  I'm not sure I can help, but I'll try.  johnc4510 would be the one that has to approve you, though (pure formality)
21:08 < tyche> scott_ev: GREAT!!!  Thanks.
21:08 < tyche> OK, next announcement:  Everyone should take a look at the Ubuntu Forums news in todays UWN issue. It lays out some of the major things about the forums that everyone should know. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue134
21:08 < tyche> Also, There is a good interview with Jono Bacon the Ubuntu Community Mgr. who works for Canonical here: http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/interviews-28/interview-with-jono-bacon-ubuntu-community-manager-712635/
21:09 < tyche> And on the lighter side:  Here is a quick little read that gave several of us working on the UWN a good laugh today. It'll only take you about 5 mins. at the most. http://www.ubuntuproductivity.com/journal/uncategorized/03/2009/top-10-reasons-ill-never-use-ubuntu/
21:10 < tyche> scott_ev: Do you have anything new on the bug front to go over?
21:10 -!- Adler [n=jjmacey@72.208.119.3] has quit [Connection reset by peer]
21:10 < scott_ev> not tonight
21:10 < tyche> KK
21:10 < scott_ev> well
21:11 < tyche> Well?
21:11 < scott_ev> I'm putting together a presentation.  MatthewMPP and i are going to work on a few things
21:11 < scott_ev> he lives close
21:12 < scott_ev> that's all
21:12 < tyche> I'll look forward to seeing it when you get it done.
21:12 < MatthewMPP> xHans when do scott and I need to have the presentation ready?
21:13 < scott_ev> not until we are ready
21:13 < xHans> MatthewMPP: when do you want to give it?
21:13 < MatthewMPP> scott_ev, good answer.
21:13 < tyche> johnc4510 asked me to have everyone put in ideas for the Jaunty events.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/JauntyEvents
21:13 -!- Adler [n=jjmacey@ip72-208-119-3.ph.ph.cox.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-az
21:14 < tyche> WB, Adler
21:14 < xHans> MatthewMPP, scott_ev: let me know when you want to give it
21:14 < MatthewMPP> ok
21:14 < tyche> Jeff_Martin has put in some ideas for Northern Arizona.
21:14 < xHans> for 30 to 45 minute presentations the only block we have is the east side May meeting
21:15 < Siph0n> what about having some games at the parties? Computer games
21:15 < tyche> Some of the ideas we need are ways to improve our media exposure, how to get the flyers out better, game ideas, etc.
21:15 < scott_ev> we could be done by then, I think
21:15 < Adler> Hi Guys (Gals?)
21:15 < Siph0n> and having sort of a lan party / release party
21:15 < xHans> for a 90 minute presentation we're open for either meeting starting in June and probably earlier on the west side
21:15 < xHans> moin moin Adler
21:16 < scott_ev> wb adler
21:16 < xHans> tyche: whoever is working on promo for jaunty parties should also help with ABLEconf promo
21:16 < tyche> The idea of games is interesting,  but might take a bit of planning.  Put it up on the wiki.
21:16 < tyche> xHans: not a bad idea.
21:16 < xHans> and we'll push the ABLEconf promo channels to help with the jaunty release promo
21:16 < xHans> we should be promoting Free Software gaming at every event :)
21:16 < scott_ev> true
21:17 < Adler> I'm looking to Jaunty not seizing up my notebook.
21:17 < tyche> I saw, on the ABLEconf mailing list, that you've got one person interested in doing fliers, already
21:17 < tyche> Adler: Well, the beta should be out Thursday, and you can check it out then.
21:17 < tyche> LiveCDs are great for that.
21:18 < tyche> Any other ideas floating around?
21:18 < scott_ev> tyche: I think he already installed it, right Adler
21:18 < kennymc0> we could have a pool party at your apartment for the release party like scott_ev keeps mentioning :)
21:18 < xHans> tyche: we have a bit of a promo channel in place, but haven't exercised it since September
21:19 < tyche> I didn't know that.  Or, maybe I just wasn't paying attention (you know us Scots.  We pay as little as possible).
21:20 < Adler> I'll wait for the final. Linux distros are coming out all over, and I never have been satisfied with WiFi support outside of running a usb device. I'm running now on Cox ethernet - love that speed. But, the last Ubuntu was not good  for notebooks.
21:20 < MatthewMPP> xHans, okay I think scott and I can have it ready by May 14, 2009.  I will keep you up to date on our progress.
21:20 < tyche> Adler: I'll agree with you there.
21:21 < xHans> MatthewMPP: OK, that's the one night I can't yet say we have room on the schedule
21:21 < Adler> Run Linux, Run Free ist meine Devise!
21:21  * xHans needs to email Hurricane
21:22 < tyche> xHans: they have it up by May 14 means that it would be ready for any time after that.
21:22 < xHans> hmmm, Ubuntu install CDs as currency...
21:22 < tyche> That should give you some flexibility.
21:22 < xHans> tyche: yeah, just letting them know that particular night might not work out :)
21:22 < tyche> xHans: do you have any announcements for us, tonight?
21:22 < tyche> Yep
21:23 < xHans> tyche: a couple
21:23 < Adler> I've not tried the live CD of any distro after openSuSE 11.1, which I run know.
21:23 < xHans> GNU/Linux classes are starting this week, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/757
21:23 < xHans> I think we're full up at MCC, but EMCC had some openings
21:23 < Adler> What would we learn there?
21:24 < Adler> Computing is my hobby, I do Linux ites, Forums and Blog.
21:24 < xHans> Adler: they're all GNU/Linux classes this quarter ranging from intro to sysadmin  to security
21:24 < xHans> there might also be a shell scripting class in there
21:24 < scott_ev> sweet
21:25 < xHans> in the Fall we should again have OpenOffice.org, some webdev stuff and PHP and Python classes
21:25 < kennymc0> sounds like something for everyone
21:25 < MatthewMPP> xHans, well later is fine.
21:25 < Adler> I understand that there are other places - better places - to go rather than ASU that I live next to.
21:25 < xHans> kennymc0: I'm working on Inkscape, GIMP and Blender, but don't count on that soon
21:25 < xHans> Adler: depends on what you want to study and learn
21:26 < xHans> MatthewMPP: cool
21:26 < xHans> PLUG West side this Wednesday, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/357
21:26 < xHans> speaking of gaming :)
21:26 < xHans> PLUG Installfest this Saturday, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/107
21:26 < xHans> The West side meeting will have a presentation on Free Software gaming
21:26 < xHans> the presentation is based on a presentation from SCaLE that got good reviews from all I've talked to
21:26 < kennymc0> cool
21:27 < xHans> in fact, the presenter from SCaLE and calimer are probably plotting on Free Software gaming stuff :)
21:27 < Adler> Well, the secrets of computing - I want to kick back and have some one so me the past, future and now.
21:27 < MatthewMPP> xHans are those the classes at MCC?  I took a linux class at Chand/Gilbert a while ago that wasn't any good.
21:28 < xHans> MatthewMPP: my classes are at MCC, I haven't talked to the Gilbert instructors
21:28 < MatthewMPP> what is EMCC?
21:28 < xHans> Estrella Mountain Community College in Avondale
21:29 < xHans> we're working on an ABLEconf in Tucson, join the ABLEconf discuss mailing list if you'd like to help
21:29 < xHans> http://lists.ABLEconf.com/private.cgi/discuss-ableconf.com/2009-March/000056.html
21:29 < Adler> I did run into a guy at the hi-speed line here in Tempe and he showed me a card to enroll. I asked him for his web site / forum, but he had none.
21:30 < xHans> MatthewMPP: I think MCC's BII ( where I teach ) and EMCC are the only community colleges to offer 8 week classes, so we're the only ones starting mid-semester
21:30 < xHans> hi-speed line?
21:31 < Adler> The new metro rail in Mesa - Tempe - Phoenix.
21:31 < xHans> tyche: that's it from me for now
21:32 < xHans> Adler: ah, I thought you might mean that, but I wasn't certain and I wouldn't categorize it at hi-speed :)
21:32 < tyche> OK, Thanks, xHans.  We appreciate the information.
21:32 < tyche> Is there anything else that should be brought up tonight?
21:32 < xHans> bitte
21:33 < tyche> If not, then I'll adjourn the meeting, and we can all wish johnc4510 a speedy recovery, so we can get back to a REAL meeting.  :-)
21:33 < tyche> Thanks for coming, all.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
