{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 02 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-12-02-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-2g6-9wc 
''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/11/maker-gifts-kids 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/orange-pi-4-launches-at-60-with-4gb-ram/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi-4-chronicling-desktop-experience-office-software/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/docker-run-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://devconnected.com/how-to-unstage-files-on-git/ 
''LINK:'' https://net2.com/how-to-merge-or-split-pdf-files-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/beginners-guide-emacs 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/dig-command-check-find-dns-records-lookup-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/zorin-os-privacy-concerns/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zRNFNZyUE9Y&feature=youtu.be 
''LINK:'' http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/datacenter/cumulus-networks-enhances-linux-based-network-operating-system.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.usessionbuddy.com/post/How-to-Zip-Files-and-Directories-in-Linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/linux-user-account-management 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-5-4-gets-first-point-release-it-s-now-ready-for-mass-deployments-528382.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://jhurani.com/linux/2019/10/09/rhel8-adding-a-drive-to-lvm.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-avoid-or-prevent-accidental-shutdown-or-reboot-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-find-server-geographic-location-using-the-terminal-on-debian/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-virtualbox-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-netstat-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/linux-network-troubleshooting-commands 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/setup-home-media-server-jellyfin-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-compile-and-install-php-7.4-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (47)
* Ron_A (46)
* MajB (31)
* toddc (5)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <Ron_A> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec  2 04:00:04 2019 UTC.  The chair is Ron_A. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Join us on There are several of us here

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-2g6-9wc

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date   97517.42

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <Ron_A> 

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <stephenm> News in general stuff and Linux stuff with no commentary

 04:02 <stephenm> 7 maker gifts for kids and teens

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/11/maker-gifts-kids

 04:02 <stephenm> Orange Pi 4 launches at $60 with 4GB RAM

 04:02 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/orange-pi-4-launches-at-60-with-4gb-ram/

 04:02 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi 4: Chronicling the Desktop Experience Office Software

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi-4-chronicling-desktop-experience-office-software/

 04:02 <stephenm> Docker Run Command with Examples

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/docker-run-command/

 04:02 <stephenm> How To Unstage Files on Git

 04:02 <stephenm> https://devconnected.com/how-to-unstage-files-on-git/

 04:02 <stephenm> How to merge or split PDF files on Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://net2.com/how-to-merge-or-split-pdf-files-on-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> A beginner's guide to text editing with Emacs

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/beginners-guide-emacs

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Find DNS (Domain Name Server) Records On Linux Using the Dig Command

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/dig-command-check-find-dns-records-lookup-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Zorin OS Responds to the Privacy Concerns

 04:03 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/zorin-os-privacy-concerns/

 04:03 <stephenm> Google Stadia on Linux and Destiny 2: How Well Does It Work?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zRNFNZyUE9Y&feature=youtu.be

 04:03 <stephenm> Cumulus Networks Enhances Linux Based Network Operating System

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/datacenter/cumulus-networks-enhances-linux-based-network-operating-system.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Zip Files and Directories in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.usessionbuddy.com/post/How-to-Zip-Files-and-Directories-in-Linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux sysadmin basics: User account management

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/linux-user-account-management

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux kernel 5.4 gets first point release its now ready for mass deployments

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-5-4-gets-first-point-release-it-s-now-ready-for-mass-deployments-528382.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> RHEL8: Adding a second drive to LVM

 04:04 <stephenm> http://jhurani.com/linux/2019/10/09/rhel8-adding-a-drive-to-lvm.html

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Methods to Avoid or Prevent Accidental Shutdown or Reboot on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-avoid-or-prevent-accidental-shutdown-or-reboot-on-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to find Geographic Server Location using the Terminal on Debian 10

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-find-server-geographic-location-using-the-terminal-on-debian/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install VirtualBox on CentOS 8

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-virtualbox-on-centos-8/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install netstat Command in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-netstat-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> My go-to Linux network troubleshooting commands

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/linux-network-troubleshooting-commands

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Set Up a Home Media Server with Jellyfin on Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/setup-home-media-server-jellyfin-ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to compile and install PHP 7.4 as PHP-FPM & FastCGI for ISPConfig 3 on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-compile-and-install-php-7.4-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you Ron_A

 04:06 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:06 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:06 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:06 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:06 <Ron_A> "People say Microsoft paid 14M$ for using the Rolling Stones song 'Start me up' in their commercials. This is wrong. Microsoft payed 14M$ only for a part of the song. For instance, they didn't use the line 'You'll make a grown man cry'."

 04:07 <Ron_A> "A computer lets you make more mistakes faster than any invention in human history - with the possible exceptions of handguns and tequila"

 04:07 <Ron_A> "Computer are like air conditioners: they stop working when you open windows."

 04:07 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:07 <Ron_A> 69 current canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:07 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:08 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:08 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:08 <MajB> 05 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 07 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:08 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 12 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <MajB> 12 December, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:09 <MajB> 21 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:09 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 26 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:10 <Ron_A> New Member this week

 04:10 <Ron_A> Dennis McClellan

 04:10 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:11 <MajB> I can cover it with the other LUG news

 04:11 <Ron_A> Thank you

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 December 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:12 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 December  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of th

 04:12 <MajB> ings tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 19 December 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:12 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:12 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:12 <MajB> Meeting on 22 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:12 <MajB> Meeting on 06 December 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 11 DEcember 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 28 December 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:13 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB  for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:13 <Ron_A> El jeffe do you have anything to add?

 04:13 <toddc> programmer317   has setup a new cafepress store at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:14 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:14 <toddc> are there any questions please ask?  Any other item requests?

 04:14 <toddc> Please thank programmer 317 for her hard  work

 04:14 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:14 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:14 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:14 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:14 <Ron_A> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
