{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===

{{{
<toddc2> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc2> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc2> +1
<Eric-A> +1
<toddc2> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc2> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me during the meeting
<toddc2> Here is new news from ubuntu news:
<toddc2> firefox 5 installer
<toddc2> http://techie-buzz.com/foss/firefox-5-ubuntu-main-repo.html
<toddc2> ubuntu 11.10 will be hybrid cd/usb image
<toddc2> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Ubuntu-11-10-ISOs-to-be-hybrid-CD-USB-images-1261923.html
<toddc2> LibreOffice  3.4 install
<toddc2> http://www.libre-software.net/how-to-install-libreoffice-on-ubuntu-linux-mint
<toddc2> Thunderbird to replace Evolution in 11.10
<toddc2> install ubuntu on Galaxy 10.1
<toddc2> http://galaxytabhacks.com/galaxy-tab-10-1-hacks/how-to-install-ubuntu-linux-on-galaxy-tab-10-1-tabuntu/
<toddc2> Team Status is still in question and has not moved to my knowledge I have updated the azloco site a bit
<toddc2> The BBB server is working well. I recommend everyone try it at  http://azlocobbb.banditti.com and pick a log in name. I think we can start talking about holding meetings there and picking a date to switch. Any thoughts?
<toddc2> Friday, July 8
<toddc2> 4:30pm
<toddc2>  Q and A with Jonathan Lange on Launchpad
<Dazed_75> Any time you want to get folks over there
<toddc2>  I was thinking about a 11.10 release party/ meet and greet Oct 11 but need Idea's as to where?
<toddc2> Some thoughts are UAT or a bar/ coffee shop or I hear there is wifi at Tempe Town lake maybe a BBQ?
<toddc2> Team status must be renewed by July 19
<toddc2> this needs to be done if we want to keep active status as a Team we will also need to show events like the installfests and keep up your personal wiki's and
<toddc2> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc2> Devoper meeting July 7 at uat 7pm
<toddc2> XHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<xHans> a couple of things
<xHans> topic for the dev mtg this Thursday is code pizza party
<xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/07/07/619/-/developer-meeting.html
<xHans> PLUG Security Hackfest this Saturday
<xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/07/09/2149/-/linux-security-hackfest.html
<xHans> a great lineup for the PLUG east side meeting this month, which is a week from Thursday
<xHans> Blender presentation from MCC instructor Phillip Waclawski. Open Source programs for virtual worlds from lawyer Connie J Mableson.
<xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/07/14/11/-/plug-east-meeting.html
<xHans> happy Independence Day
<xHans> and that's it from me
<Eric-A> ditto
<toddc2> hanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
<toddc2> anyine have anything else?
<xHans> bitte. thanks for giving me the opportunity
<toddc2> thanks for the info and help
<Dazed_75> Nothing from me
<toddc2> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<Dazed_75> grabbing the log in 3 so speak up if uou want to
<toddc2> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc2> thank all and have a great 4th weekend
<Dazed_75> Happy 4th everyone }}}
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
