{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #79 for the week January 19, January 25.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Seventy Ninth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 28, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday February 1, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the January 25, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09January25

Johnc4510 began the meeting with some announcements:

* "Bug Jam" is coming. And for those who are interested in learning how to run one the Ubuntu-Classroom Team has put together some classes. The classes will be held in IRC channel #ubuntu-classroom. Mark your calendars now to attend and learn more about squishing bugs. More information can be seen at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom.  This is a group of sessions to learn bug jam procedures.  The schedule is at the link.
* Josh Chase and Nick Ali from the Georgia US LoCo released episode #18. http://ubuntupodcast.net/2009/01/23/ubuntu-podcast-episode-18/.  Nick is one of the UWN editors and a force in Ubuntu.

johnc4510 then asked urugTON to introduce himself:  "I run a DR center in Glendale for a CA bank.  Been around quite a while.  Much mainframe, some unix, little linux."  urugTON was warmly welcomed to the Team.

johnc4510 then asked svaz to introduce himself:  "Well, as my nym suggests I'm from Sierra Vista, AZ (wwwaaaayyyyyyy down south). I've been using Ubuntu for about a year."  svaz was warmly welcomed to the Team.

Ok, for the new folks, we're putting on an installfest in Phoenix this next Saturday.
 University of Advancing Technology (UAT) <<BR>>
 2625 Baseline Rd. <<BR>>
 Tempe, AZ  <<BR>>
 South Side of Baseline Rd. between South Pointe Pkwy and 48th St. <<BR>>
 10AM - 4PM  <<BR>>
The flyer is here: http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=99582&d=1231737588.  We can use help and warm bodies please.  For those that can't see the flier, see http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/3227006607/, or use http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/3227006607/sizes/o/ for a larger size.

tyche filled in for a couple of minutes:  Those going to the Phoenix install fest, if you're headed east on Baseline and get to 48th street, turn around.  THEN it'll be on your right hand side.  I'll be there.  Look for a Jeep Wrangler (RED) in the parking lot on the east side of the building.  I should be there about 9:30, if all goes well.

With johnc4510 back, a brief discussion was held concerning what people should bring, and what the dress code was.  Dress is casual, and equipment needed is routers, cables, power cords and power strips.  nhasian volunteered to bring some Ubuntu computer stickers.

johnc asked tyche to email him the generic flier so he could fill in the information for the Tucson install fest.  The Tucson event will happen on February 14 (a Saturday).

xHans then added announcements:

* The PLUG west side is this Wednesday, the topic will be phpmyadmin.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/359.  I might also do a test run of my Intermediate Bash presentation for SCa``LE.
* Two seats for the Open``Office.org class have opened up.  http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5648.  It starts tomorrow and is almost full.  It's awesome that MCC is seeing some demand for Free Software classes!

slofgren then asked to make some announcements:

* Jan 27th is LUGY's first presentation event.  We are starting off with an Install fest.  We are teaming up with the Prescott Computer Socienty.  They are mainly windows users that have shown interest in Linux.  The meetings will be a second event for LUGY each month.  They will focus on more open presentation style.  TThe other meeting is more social or Stammtisch, the second Tuesday of every month.  The presentation ones are mostly the forth Tuesday.  See http://lugy.net/ for further details.
* Server update.  I am taking the server down to phx with me tomorrow to go to a job fair.  I will try to get it racked if i can hear back from david.  If not i will leave it with kennymc0.  We are moving forward with the server.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:59 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
