{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #77 for the week January 5, January 11.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Seventy Seventh Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 14, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday January 18, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the January 11, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:07 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09January11

* johnc4510 started the meeting with a discussion of the Phoenix installfest flier.  Suggestions were made to improve the look an incorporate the PLUG logo, since the Phoenix installfest would be held in conjunction with the monthly PLUG installfest.  Examples were rendered during the meeting for approval or further discussion.  The last suggestion, made just before the meeting adjourned, was not posted to the forums until after the end of the meeting. [Ed. note:  The final version can be viewed at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1037635.  tyche]

Additional discussions were held concerning equipment, particularly router, for the Phoenix Install Fest at UAT.  Mauricio and Luft``Hans both offered to have 8 port routers available.  johnc4510 said he'd send the Team banner and a supply of CDs to tyche before the event.

* johnc4510 still hasn't heard back from U of A, but isn't too concerned.  It is his opinion that if it can't be held on the 24th, then it could be held the week after the Phoenix event.  With that one, he's not concerned about equipment, such as the routers, as U of A appears to be adequately supplied.

Luft``Hans then added announcements:

* The Open``Office.org online class is coming up.  We really, really need to make sure that one fills up.  There's also my intro to GNU/Linux networking.  Dennis will be teaching intro to GNU/Linux.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes
* Both Stammtische are in a week.
* http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/23.  We need to get the local committee running.  johnc4510 said that he'd try to look into getting a leader for the committee.
* Some of us are planning to carpool for SCaLE.  ttp://scale7x.socallinuxexpo.org/conference-info/scale-u.  Last year had several Ubuntu presenters, including Jono Bacon and Ted Gould.

The meeting was adjourned at 10:02 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
