{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 18 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:11 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-09-18-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/purism-launches-new-secure-librem-11-tablet-pc-powered-by-linux   (stephenm, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/typical-linux-distribution-in-2023/   (stephenm, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/yoshiki-ohshima-croquet/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/xfce-path-to-wayland-compatibility/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/libre-computer-showcases-low-cost-sbc-with-poe-support/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/tap-terLibre Computer showcases low-cost SBC with PoE supportminal-based-music-player-fuzzy-finder/  (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/gomu-go-music-player/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/09/07/linux_distro_roundup_fall_23/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/orange-pi-introduces-rpi-zero-2w-alternativeorange-pi-unveils-cost-effective-alternative-to-raspberry-pi-zero-2w/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/linus-torvalds-announces-first-linux-kernel-6-6-release-candidate   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/filemanager-cross-platform-stylish-web-file-manager/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/independent-distros-blend-ideas-and-innovate-user-experiences-177048.html   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/tech-talent-trend-hiring-eased-upskilling-in-limelight-177099.html   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/package-is-in-a-very-bad-inconsistent-state-error/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-piper/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/savedesktop-save-linux-desktop-configuration-settings/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/suggest-installation-packages-running-unavailable-command/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/safeguarding-linux-landscapes-backup-and-restore-strategies   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/prevent-ssh-brute-force-attacks-fail2ban-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-easily-configure-flatpak-apps-permissions-with-flatseal/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/apt-clean-apt-autoclean-apt-autoremove-and-apt-autopurge/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/setting-up-nvidia-cuda-toolkit-in-a-docker-container-on-debian-ubuntu   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/   (MajB, 04:09)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (55)
* stephenm (49)
* wipmonkey (4)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:01 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <stephenm> Good and yourself?

 04:00 <wipmonkey> I'm alive

 04:00 <toddc> great

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <wipmonkey> +

 04:00 <toddc> *1

 04:00 <wipmonkey> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:00 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:00 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:00 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:00 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:00 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:00 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:00 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <wipmonkey> copy pasta for the win!

 04:01 <MajB> Yes indeed

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:01 <stephenm> news is as random as possible

 04:01 <stephenm> Purism Launches New Secure Librem 11 Tablet PC Powered by Linux

 04:01 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/purism-launches-new-secure-librem-11-tablet-pc-powered-by-linux

 04:01 <stephenm> What a Typical Linux Distribution Looks Like in 2023

 04:01 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/typical-linux-distribution-in-2023/

 04:02 <stephenm> Advancing the future of the internet with new ways of defining our shared digital realities

 04:02 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/yoshiki-ohshima-croquet/

 04:02 <stephenm> Xfce’s Path to Wayland Compatibility: A Slow but Steady March

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/xfce-path-to-wayland-compatibility/

 04:02 <stephenm> Libre Computer showcases low-cost SBC with PoE support

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/libre-computer-showcases-low-cost-sbc-with-poe-support/

 04:02 <stephenm> tap is a terminal-based music player with fuzzy-finder

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/tap-terLibre Computer showcases low-cost SBC with PoE supportminal-based-music-player-fuzzy-finder/

 04:02 <stephenm> Gomu – Go Music Player

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/gomu-go-music-player/

 04:02 <stephenm> Linux distros drop their feelgood hits of the summer

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/09/07/linux_distro_roundup_fall_23/

 04:03 <stephenm> Orange Pi Unveils Cost-Effective Alternative to RPi Zero 2W

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/orange-pi-introduces-rpi-zero-2w-alternativeorange-pi-unveils-cost-effective-alternative-to-raspberry-pi-zero-2w/

 04:03 <stephenm> Linus Torvalds Announces First Linux Kernel 6.6 Release Candidate

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/linus-torvalds-announces-first-linux-kernel-6-6-release-candidate

 04:03 <stephenm> File Browser – A Cross-platform Stylish Web File Manager

 04:03 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/filemanager-cross-platform-stylish-web-file-manager/

 04:03 <stephenm> Independent Distros Blend Ideas and Innovate User Experiences

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/independent-distros-blend-ideas-and-innovate-user-experiences-177048.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Tech Talent Trend: Hiring Eased, Upskilling in Limelight

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/tech-talent-trend-hiring-eased-upskilling-in-limelight-177099.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Fix Package is in a Very Bad Inconsistent State Error?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/package-is-in-a-very-bad-inconsistent-state-error/

 04:04 <stephenm> Machine Learning in Linux: Piper

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-piper/

 04:04 <stephenm> SaveDesktop: An Easy Way to Save Your Linux Desktop Environment Configuration Settings

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/savedesktop-save-linux-desktop-configuration-settings/

 04:04 <stephenm> Command-not-found: Suggest Package Installation For Unavailable Commands In Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/suggest-installation-packages-running-unavailable-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> Safeguarding Linux Landscapes: Backup and Restore Strategies

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/safeguarding-linux-landscapes-backup-and-restore-strategies

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Prevent SSH Brute Force Attacks Using Fail2ban In Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/prevent-ssh-brute-force-attacks-fail2ban-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Easily Configure Flatpak Apps Permissions With Flatseal

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-easily-configure-flatpak-apps-permissions-with-flatseal/

 04:05 <stephenm> When to Use apt clean, apt autoclean, and apt autoremove

 04:05 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/apt-clean-apt-autoclean-apt-autoremove-and-apt-autopurge/

 04:05 <stephenm> Setting Up NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit in a Docker Container on Debian/Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/setting-up-nvidia-cuda-toolkit-in-a-docker-container-on-debian-ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:05 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:05 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:06 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:06 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:06 <MajB> There are 199 open canonical Jobs today

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:06 <MajB> There are 51 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:07 <MajB> There are 8 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:07 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:07 <MajB> 28 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:07 <MajB> 01 October, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 05 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 07 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:08 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 12 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:08 <MajB> 12 October, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:08 <MajB> 15 October, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 21 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:08 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 26 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:09 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:09 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:09 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 12 October, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:09 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 19 September, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:09 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:09 <MajB> https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:09 <MajB> Monthly meeting 11 October 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:09 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:09 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 26 September 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month), Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:10 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:10 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:11 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
