{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

(09:00:03 PM) MajB: #startmeeting 
(09:00:24 PM) MajB: Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
(09:00:28 PM) markthomas: +1
(09:00:29 PM) MajB: +1
(09:00:31 PM) stephenm: +1
(09:00:35 PM) wmack: +1
(09:00:46 PM) Ron_A: +1
(09:00:55 PM) toddc: +1
(09:00:56 PM) MajB: Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly
(09:01:23 PM) MajB: Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/ 
(09:01:23 PM) MajB: IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/
(09:01:42 PM) MajB: Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
(09:01:42 PM) MajB: Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
(09:02:02 PM) MajB: Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/
(09:02:02 PM) MajB: The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
(09:02:25 PM) MajB: The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam
(09:02:25 PM) MajB: The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/  
(09:02:46 PM) MajB: Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
(09:03:02 PM) MajB: LINUX NEWS:
(09:03:18 PM) MajB: First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm
(09:03:20 PM) az_fox [~az_fox@ip24-251-120-218.ph.ph.cox.net] entered the room.
(09:03:32 PM) toddc: hi az_fox
(09:03:35 PM) MajB: What does the fox say
(09:03:40 PM) stephenm: The news is a little short but should be easy to rummage through
(09:03:46 PM) Ron_A: hello az_fox
(09:03:52 PM) az_fox: The fox says Wooo Hoo!
(09:03:53 PM) stephenm: Electric car that can recharge in moments being developed by toyota
(09:03:54 PM) stephenm: https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/motoring/motoring-news/toyota-electric-cars-ev-recharging-battery-all-solid-state-2022-a7858616.html
(09:03:58 PM) az_fox: +1
(09:04:04 PM) stephenm: After A Year In Space, The Air Hasn't Gone Out Of NASA's Inflated Module
(09:04:04 PM) stephenm: http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2017/07/26/532610193/after-a-year-in-space-the-air-hasnt-gone-out-of-nasas-inflated-module?sc=tw
(09:04:17 PM) stephenm: 10 Linux or Android Based Smart Eyewear Devices
(09:04:18 PM) stephenm: https://www.linux.com/news/10-linux-or-android-based-smart-eyewear-devices
(09:04:33 PM) stephenm: some of these are pretty awesome yet kinda useless gadgets
(09:04:48 PM) stephenm: Windows Subsystem for Linux out of Beta!
(09:04:48 PM) stephenm: https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/commandline/2017/07/28/windows-subsystem-for-linux-out-of-beta/
(09:04:55 PM) stephenm: again with the evil that is M$
(09:05:07 PM) stephenm: Code is a story that explains how to solve a particular problem
(09:05:08 PM) stephenm: http://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3127495
(09:05:20 PM) stephenm: The Biggest Shift in Supercomputing Since GPU Acceleration
(09:05:21 PM) stephenm: https://www.nextplatform.com/2017/06/22/biggest-shift-supercomputing-since-gpu-acceleration/
(09:05:38 PM) stephenm: Create your own Linux Radio Station
(09:05:39 PM) stephenm: https://www.linux.org/threads/create-your-own-linux-radio-station.4572/
(09:05:48 PM) stephenm: IT talent retention power tool: A learning culture
(09:05:49 PM) stephenm: https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2017/7/it-talent-retention-power-tool-learning-culture
(09:06:02 PM) stephenm: this is a very powerful statement in the times we live in
(09:06:14 PM) stephenm: Future Proof Your SysAdmin Career: An Introduction to Essential Skills
(09:06:15 PM) stephenm: https://www.linux.com/blog/sysadmin-ebook/2017/7/future-proof-sysadmin-career-introduction-essential-skills
(09:06:25 PM) stephenm: The 4 Quadrants of Open Source Entrepreneurship
(09:06:25 PM) stephenm: https://www.linux.com/blog/4-quadrants-open-source-entrepreneurship
(09:06:36 PM) stephenm: Building IPv6 Firewalls: IPv6 Security Myths
(09:06:36 PM) stephenm: https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/7/building-ipv6-firewalls-ipv6-security-myths
(09:06:47 PM) stephenm: 7 Steps to Start Your Linux SysAdmin Career
(09:06:48 PM) stephenm: https://www.linux.com/blog/7-steps-start-your-linux-sysadmin-career
(09:06:57 PM) stephenm: How to Install and Configure Chef on Ubuntu 17.04
(09:06:58 PM) stephenm: https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-and-configure-chef-on-ubuntu-1704/
(09:07:06 PM) stephenm: Ops: It's everyone's job now
(09:07:07 PM) stephenm: https://opensource.com/article/17/7/state-systems-administration
(09:07:15 PM) stephenm: that's all the news I have tonight for everyone
(09:07:54 PM) MajB: Thanks stephenm
(09:08:08 PM) stephenm: welcome MajB
(09:08:13 PM) MajB: Ubuntu 17.10: Back to a GNOME Future
(09:08:13 PM) MajB: https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/7/ubuntu-1710-back-gnome-future
(09:08:17 PM) Ron_A: Thanks stephenm
(09:08:31 PM) stephenm: welcome Ron_A
(09:08:34 PM) MajB: The Kernel Put On Some Weight With Linux 4.13
(09:08:34 PM) MajB: http://phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Linux-4.13-Post-Merge-Stats
(09:08:51 PM) MajB: Debian GNU/Linux 9.1 "Stretch" and Debian 8.9 "Jessie" Officially Released
(09:08:51 PM) MajB: http://news.softpedia.com/news/debian-gnu-linux-9-1-stretch-and-debian-8-9-jessie-officially-released-517107.shtml
(09:09:12 PM) MajB: TEAM NEWS:
(09:09:30 PM) MajB: Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects
(09:09:30 PM) MajB: If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.
(09:09:48 PM) MajB: We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.
(09:10:08 PM) MajB: LINUX QUOTES AND JOKES:
(09:10:30 PM) MajB: At the most recent Ubuntu Hour in Sierra Vista one of the members inadvertently locked her keys in her car so we spent 30 minutes after the meeting attempting to open the car with wire, cable, a broom, and a few other items.  With 9 people present, there were 9 different solutions because we are group of Linux users who use different distros.
(09:10:57 PM) MajB: Of course had a Windows user been there he would have suggested buying a new car since a locked car is very much like the Blue Screen of Death.  The Arch guy wanted to break a window and then reinstall a new window.  Apparently that is common with Arch – breaking something and having to re-install the OS.
(09:11:22 PM) MajB: The solution appeared to be simple, since the window was open slightly, insert something that would move the door latch to unlock.   That was where the other Linux users could not agree so each tried his/her own solution.
(09:11:34 PM) stephenm: it's no longer blue MajB but green
(09:11:39 PM) toddc: software defined radio to hack the remote keyfob and open the door  using linux
(09:11:53 PM) MajB: The old standard coat hanger was the eventual winner, succeeding where the others had failed.  You may guess which distro that individual used but it wouldn't be fair to tell you.
(09:12:15 PM) MajB: JOB LIST:
(09:12:18 PM) stephenm: kali?
(09:12:39 PM) MajB: DevOps Engineer – Phoenix
(09:12:39 PM) MajB: https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/devops-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF
(09:12:53 PM) MajB: Software Engineer – Phoenix
(09:12:53 PM) MajB: https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/software-engineer-platform-bbRs0gJimr5y1feMg-44q7
(09:13:08 PM) MajB: Software Engineering Intern - Tempe
(09:13:08 PM) MajB: https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/software-engineering-intern-bfFrX6aHar46UVeJe7cNAE
(09:13:37 PM) MajB: Server Brake Fix Engineer -Tempe
(09:13:37 PM) MajB: http://www.nextstepsystems.com/jobs/sw-tempe-az-jobs-server-break-fix-days.html
(09:13:54 PM) MajB: Software Developer – Tempe
(09:13:54 PM) MajB: https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper
(09:14:09 PM) MajB: Data Center Technician 
(09:14:09 PM) MajB: http://employment.phoenixnap.com/?page_id=120
(09:14:26 PM) MajB: Site Reliability Engineer
(09:14:26 PM) MajB: https://www.datadoghq.com/careers/detail/?gh_jid=88569
(09:14:44 PM) MajB: There are 18 open canonical Jobs today
(09:14:44 PM) MajB: http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies
(09:15:00 PM) MajB: Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix
(09:15:00 PM) MajB: https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1
(09:15:19 PM) MajB: Security Analytics Analyst - Phoenix
(09:15:19 PM) MajB: https://jobs.petsmart.com/job/phoenix/security-analytics-analyst/899/4929703
(09:15:38 PM) MajB: There are 46 new and a total of 196 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix
(09:15:38 PM) MajB: http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html
(09:15:50 PM) superfly: +1
(09:16:03 PM) MajB: There are 18 new and a total of 76 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ
(09:16:03 PM) MajB: http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ
(09:16:12 PM) toddc: hi superfly
(09:16:21 PM) MajB: TEAM SERVER NEWS:
(09:16:45 PM) MajB: If you would like a Owncloud/NextCloud account on the team server contact any team administrator.  
(09:17:02 PM) MajB: UP COMING TEAM EVENTS: 
(09:17:18 PM) MajB: AZLOCO Events and Activities: 
(09:17:18 PM) MajB: Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28 
(09:17:35 PM) MajB: 03 August, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe AZ.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.
(09:17:54 PM) MajB: 05 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe AZ.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.
(09:18:12 PM) MajB: 19 August, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe AZ.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.
(09:18:30 PM) MajB: 24 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista AZ.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires. 
(09:18:45 PM) MajB: 24 August, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe AZ.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users. 
(09:19:04 PM) MajB: PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:
(09:19:57 PM) MajB: xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?
(09:21:09 PM) MajB: AZ LUG ACTIVITIES: 
(09:21:09 PM) MajB: Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225
(09:21:28 PM) MajB: Tucson Linux Meet-up meeting on 01 August 7-8 pm. Location TBA, Tucson
(09:21:28 PM) MajB: https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 
(09:21:49 PM) MajB: Phoenix2600 meeting on 04 August 6-7 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com
(09:22:09 PM) MajB: PLUG security Class on 08 August 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd 
(09:22:09 PM) MajB: Chandler, AZ.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Understand how software is written effectively, what to look for when checking security, and how to verify that you are following good practices. This will not be an introduction to computer programming but will be a discussion of how to write software properly with a focus on security and safety.
(09:22:09 PM) MajB: http://phxlinux.org/
(09:22:29 PM) MajB: Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 09 August 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  
(09:22:29 PM) MajB: http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/
(09:22:46 PM) MajB: Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 09 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   
(09:22:46 PM) MajB: http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm
(09:23:03 PM) MajB: Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 10 August 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.  Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.
(09:23:03 PM) MajB: http://phxlinux.org/
(09:23:21 PM) MajB: Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 15 August 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.  Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem...
(09:23:21 PM) MajB: http://phxlinux.org/
(09:23:37 PM) MajB: Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 20 August 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  
(09:23:37 PM) MajB: http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
(09:23:56 PM) MajB: Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 26 August 1-3:45, Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.  
(09:23:56 PM) MajB: http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/
(09:24:12 PM) MajB: FUTURE EVENTS:
(09:24:33 PM) MajB: 11-14 September
(09:24:33 PM) MajB: Open Source Summit North America (LinuxCon, ContainerCon, CloudOpen, and Open Community Conference)
(09:24:33 PM) MajB: JW Marriott LA Live
(09:24:33 PM) MajB: Las Angeles, CA
(09:24:33 PM) MajB: http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america/?utm_source=event-promo&utm_campaign=ossna17&utm_medium=email
(09:24:58 PM) MajB: 06-07 October 2017
(09:24:58 PM) MajB: Seattle GNU/Linux Conference
(09:24:58 PM) MajB: Seattle Central College, Seattle WA
(09:24:58 PM) MajB: http://seagl.org/
(09:25:22 PM) MajB: Any thoughts on other events or projects?
(09:25:56 PM) MajB: That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else? 
(09:26:15 PM) MajB: Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions
(09:26:34 PM) MajB: #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
