{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 07 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-01-07-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/1/7-things-desktop-linux-needs-2019 
''LINK:'' https://www.hostingadvice.com/blog/the-linux-foundation-offers-cant-miss-education-events-and-training/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/1/linux-hacker-board-trends-2018-and-beyond 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/linux-technology-for-the-new-year-ebpf/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/assessing-progress-in-automation-technologies 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/tech-ethics-new-years-resolution-dont-build-software-you-will-regret/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/help-non-techies 
''LINK:'' https://kerneltalks.com/howto/how-to-disable-gui-in-suse-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2018/12/a-tour-of-elementary-os-perhaps-the-linux-worlds-best-hope-for-the-mainstream/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-timeout-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/dmidecode-command-examples-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-encrypt-your-dns-with-dnscrypt-on-ubuntu-and-debian 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/troubleshooting-hardware-problems-linux 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-disable-enable-automatic-error-reporting-in-ubuntu-18-04-lts/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-build-nginx-from-source-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/tmate-share-ssh-terminal-session/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/disable-gutenberg-and-use-classic-editor-in-wordpress/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.theverge.com/2018/12/6/18128648/microsoft-edge-chrome-chromium-browser-changes 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/534/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* RexB (59)
* stephenm (38)
* xHans (15)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (3)
* pirateP (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <RexB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan  7 04:00:04 2019 UTC.  The chair is RexB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <RexB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <pirateP> +1

 04:00 <RexB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> *1

 04:01 <RexB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <RexB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <RexB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <RexB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <RexB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <RexB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <RexB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <RexB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <RexB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <RexB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <RexB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> The news tonight is about easily Linux stuff and then more complex stuff.

 04:03 <stephenm> 7 Things Desktop Linux Needs in 2019

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/1/7-things-desktop-linux-needs-2019

 04:03 <stephenm> The Linux Foundation in 2019: Can’t-Miss Educational Programs, Events, and Training Opportunities Offer Something for Everyone

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.hostingadvice.com/blog/the-linux-foundation-offers-cant-miss-education-events-and-training/

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux Hacker Board Trends in 2018 and Beyond

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/1/linux-hacker-board-trends-2018-and-beyond

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux Technology for the New Year: eBPF

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/linux-technology-for-the-new-year-ebpf/

 04:04 <stephenm> Assessing Progress in Automation Technologies

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/assessing-progress-in-automation-technologies

 04:04 <stephenm> Tech Ethics New Year’s Resolution: Don’t Build Software You Will Regret

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/tech-ethics-new-years-resolution-dont-build-software-you-will-regret/

 04:04 <stephenm> 8 Tips to Help Non-Techies Move to Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/help-non-techies

 04:04 <stephenm> How to disable GUI in SUSE Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://kerneltalks.com/howto/how-to-disable-gui-in-suse-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> A Tour of elementary OS, Perhaps the Linux World’s Best Hope for the Mainstream

 04:04 <stephenm> https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2018/12/a-tour-of-elementary-os-perhaps-the-linux-worlds-best-hope-for-the-mainstream/

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux timeout Command Explained for Beginners (with Examples)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-timeout-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> 12 Useful 'dmidecode' Command Examples for Linux Systems

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechi.com/dmidecode-command-examples-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Encrypt Your DNS With DNSCrypt on Ubuntu and Debian

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-encrypt-your-dns-with-dnscrypt-on-ubuntu-and-debian

 04:05 <stephenm> Troubleshooting Hardware Problems in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/troubleshooting-hardware-problems-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Disable/Enable Automatic Error Reporting in Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-disable-enable-automatic-error-reporting-in-ubuntu-18-04-lts/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Build Nginx from source on CentOS 7

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-build-nginx-from-source-on-centos-7/

 04:06 <stephenm> Tmate - Securely Share SSH Terminal Session with Linux Users

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/tmate-share-ssh-terminal-session/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Disable Gutenberg and Use the Classic Editor in WordPress

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/disable-gutenberg-and-use-classic-editor-in-wordpress/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for you tonight.  Back to you RexB

 04:06 <RexB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <RexB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <RexB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <RexB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:07 <RexB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.theverge.com/2018/12/6/18128648/microsoft-edge-chrome-chromium-browser-changes

 04:07 <RexB> hmmmm

 04:08 <RexB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <RexB> There are 53 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <RexB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <RexB> There are 28 new jobs and a total of 155 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <RexB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <RexB> There are 6 new jobs and a total of 80 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25

 04:08 <RexB> miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <RexB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <RexB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <RexB> 10 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <RexB> 19 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:10 <RexB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <RexB> 24 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <RexB> 02 February, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:10 <RexB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <RexB> 02 February, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500,  Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Dr., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also

 04:11 <RexB> happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:12 <RexB> 07 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <RexB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:12 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:12 <xHans> PLUG east side is this Thursday at 19:00

 04:13 <xHans> Topic: debian package management

 04:13 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/534/east-valley-meeting/

 04:13 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:13 <xHans> Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday

 04:13 <xHans> This month we have a resume review event starting at 18:00

 04:13 <xHans> Stammtisch starts at 19:00

 04:13 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/

 04:13 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:14 <xHans> Security is a week from Thursday

 04:14 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/

 04:14 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html
=== Agenda ===
 04:14 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:14 <RexB> Thank you xHans

 04:14 <xHans> bitte

 04:14 <RexB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:15 <RexB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:15 <RexB> Meeting on 27 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:15 <RexB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/
=== Agenda ===
 04:15 <RexB> Meeting on 01 February 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ== Agenda ==

 04:15 <RexB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <RexB> Meeting on 09 January 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:16 <RexB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <RexB> Meeting on 26 January 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <RexB> CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest on 02 February 1100-1500 p.m. Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Dr. Sierra Vista, AZ.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. W== Agenda ==e are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as ins

 04:16 <RexB> tall media. You must bring everything n

 04:16 <RexB> eeded to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:16 <RexB> CONFERENCES:

 04:16 <RexB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:16 <RexB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:16 <RexB> Pasadena, CA

 04:17 <RexB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else?

 04:17 <RexB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.== Agenda ==

 04:18 <RexB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
