{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 02 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-09-02-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.seclore.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechnews.com/pinebook-pro-199-linux-laptop-pre-orders-are-available-to-everyone/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ghacks.net/2019/08/26/bookworm-is-a-light-weight-ebook-reader-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (50)
* MajB (37)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep  2 04:00:09 2019 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 97268.33

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime. I will ether way

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> I do not see stephenm so we will skip the news

 04:03 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:03 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:03 <MajB> 02 November 2019 AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop Canceled because of a UAT campus wide event.  No alternative venue is available at this time.

 04:04 <MajB> 28 November 2019 Tempe Ubuntu Hour canceled because of a conflict with Thanksgiving day.

 04:04 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project  still

 04:04 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:04 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:05 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:05 <toddc> How can you tell if you have been spending too much time at home on the Internet?

 04:05 <toddc> Your spouse emails you a message saying dinner is ready and she/he uses the address

 04:05 <toddc> "Your spouse@home.com."

 04:06 <toddc> Once upon a time, a computer programmer drowned at sea.

 04:06 <toddc> Many were on the beach and heard him cry out, ???F1! F1!???, but no one understood.

 04:06 <toddc> I keep hitting escape, but Im still here.

 04:07 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:07 <toddc> Canonical has 63 open positions

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <toddc> Onsite Technical Consultant

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.seclore.com/careers/

 04:08 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:08 <toddc> Pinebook Pro ($199) Linux Laptop Pre-Orders are Available to Everyone

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.linuxtechnews.com/pinebook-pro-199-linux-laptop-pre-orders-are-available-to-everyone/

 04:08 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:08 <toddc> Bookworm is a light-weight eBook reader for Linux

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.ghacks.net/2019/08/26/bookworm-is-a-light-weight-ebook-reader-for-linux/

 04:09 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:09 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:09 <MajB> 05 September,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 07 September, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:10 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 07 September, AZLOCO/CLUG Computer Repair and Installation Workshop, 1000-1400, Verteran Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  The Group will repair donated computers with parts that are on hand, install a Linux operating system on them in preparation for donation to individuals or groups requiring or desiring a computer with a LInux operating system installed.  All are welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 12 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 12 September, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 21 September,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source S

 04:11 <MajB> oftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 26 September, Presentation "Why you should switch to a Linux Operating System", 1730-1830, Veteran Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 26 September,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:12 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:13 <toddc> almost had a installfest in Flaggstaff yeaterday

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 September 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 September  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of t

 04:13 <MajB> hings tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 19 September 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:14 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:14 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 22 September 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 06 September 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 11 September 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> 07 September, CLUG/AZLOCO Computer Repair and Installation Workshop, 1000-1400, Verterans Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  The Group will repair donated computers with parts that are on hand, install a Linux operating system on them in preparation for donation to individuals or groups requiring or desiring a computer with a LInux operating system installed.  All are welcome.

 04:15 <MajB> 26 September,  Presentation on Why you should switch to a Linux Operating System, 1730-1830, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  A presentation on Linux aimed primarily at the Microsoft users to induce them to switch to a free computer operating system for their personal computers.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 28 September 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:16 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:16 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:17 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:17 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
