{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# PLUG Announcements
# Announcements
# Discussion
# ETC

If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with johnc4510 or scott_ev.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[21:00]	<toddc>	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	<LostPenguin>	+1
[21:00]	<toddc>	+1
[21:00]	<fuzzyvader>	+1
[21:00]	<toddcbu>	+
[21:00]	<toddc>	Our launch pad site
[21:00]	<toddc>	https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona
[21:00]	<toddc>	Our web site is azloco.com
[21:01]	<toddc>	Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:01]	<toddcbu>	me?
[21:01]	<toddc>	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	<toddc>	Here is new news from ubuntu news:
[21:01]	<toddc>	Fedora 15 vs Natty the battle for your next desktop
[21:01]	<toddc>	http://maketecheasier.com/fedora-15-vs-ubuntu-natty-narwhal-the-battle-for-your-next-desktop/2011/03/17
[21:02]	<toddc>	Lucidly Drupal: set up 10.04 Lucid LAMP stack for Drupal
[21:02]	<toddc>	http://pingv.com/blog/lucidly-drupal-setting-up-ubuntu-10-4-lucid-lamp-stack-for-your-drupal-site
[21:02]	<toddc>	Speed up Downloads using APT-Fast
[21:02]	<toddc>	http://www.lifehacker.com.au/2011/03/apt-fast-speeds-up-package-downloads-in-ubuntu/
[21:02]	<toddc>	gnome Alpha 3 is out
[21:03]	<toddc>	Quick Ubuntu install using minimal installer
[21:03]	<toddc>	http://www.lifehacker.com.au/2011/03/speed-up-your-ubuntu-install-with-ubuntu-minimal/
[21:03]	<toddc>	KiWi PC –Connecting Seniors to the Internet ---A pc desingned for the enry level Adult
[21:03]	<toddc>	http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2382177,00.asp
[21:03]	<toddc>	ubuntu core to go after ARM based market
[21:03]	<toddc>	http://blog.internetnews.com/skerner/2011/03/ubuntu-core-going-after-embedd.html
[21:04]	<toddc>	Microsoft gives you Windows... Linux gives you the whole house.
[21:04]	<toddc>	Ubuntu 11.10 to be named Oneirc Ocelot
[21:04]	<toddc>	buntu Globbal Jam April 1-3
[21:04]	<toddc>	http://www.linuxsouls.com/node/32
[21:04]	<toddc>	Spotlight on Linux: Puppy Linux 5.2
[21:04]	<toddc>	http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/spotlight-linux-puppy-linux-52
[21:05]	<toddc>	Ubuntu 11.04 will include upgrade option on live disk
[21:05]	<toddc>	http://www.webupd8.org/2011/03/ubuntu-live-cd-will-let-you-upgrade-to.html
[21:05]	<toddc>	Any thoughts for a 11.04 release Party?
[21:05]	<FernHans>	celebrate at ABLEconf :)
[21:06]	<toddc>	could but a bit early
[21:06]	<toddc>	Job list
[21:06]	<toddc>	AMD hiring over 1000 IT/linux engineers
[21:06]	<toddc>	http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=OTIwNA
[21:06]	<toddc>	TUCSON INSTALLFEST NEWS
[21:06]	<toddc>	we were able to add a global jam event to our Tucson installfest. Simply put the global jam is to debug 11.04 installs and report them so this fits in with our installfest and we are part of the global jam which gives us a better standing with ubuntu /conical
[21:07]	<toddc>	current plans are for me to drive to Tucson 4/2/2011 with my van to carpool leaving Azmills at 7:00AM
[21:07]	<toddc>	Dazed_75 will be with me anyone else?
[21:08]	<toddc>	I am making a list of installs and helpers for Tucson
[21:08]	<toddc>	Thanks to azmike he has posted over 30 flyer's for the Tucson installfest
[21:08]	<toddc>	TEMPE INSTALLFEST NEWS
[21:08]	<toddc>	Azloco/plug installfest is this Saterday at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
[21:08]	<LostPenguin>	how many e-mails have you gotten about it so far?
[21:09]	<toddc>	The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:09]	<toddc>	5 for installs and 5 for tucson help at the event
[21:10]	<toddc>	We are now gaining access to all team wiki and servers so we will be looking for so help to update wiki
[21:10]	<toddc>	pages and head up areas events, training leaders ect I am currently working on them but hope to divide up projects
[21:10]	<toddc>	wed 3/23 plug weside meeting http://plug.phoenix.az.us/meetings.html
[21:10]	<toddc>	FernHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:11]	<toddc>	he is in another meeting so he may be late back here
[21:12]	<toddc>	meanwhile any othere thoughts or comments?
[21:13]	<toddc>	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while
</pre>

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
