{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 01 December – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees
* Installed ZoneMinder and LAMP stack on a member’s computer
* Assisted a member to create usb using Startup Disk Creator
* Troubleshooted pale moon Browser because it was not playing audio
* Prepared the Installfest server for Saturday 
* Troubleshooted a Zentyal server
* Build LXC container for the team
* Discussed smart TVs and arcade games emulators
* 03 December - Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 12 attendees
* Installed Mint 18 as a dual boot with Microsoft Windows 7 on a desktop computer
* Set up display for dual monitors on a desktop computer
* Installed Mint 18 as a dual boot with Microsoft Windows 10 on a laptop computer
* Installed Mint 18 in a virtual machine on a laptop computer
* Upgraded Ubuntu 14.04 to Ubuntu 16.04 on a laptop computer
* Installed proxmox on a Team back-up server 
* Set up remote access for an attendee from his laptop computer to his desktop server
* 04 December - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 10 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2004%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 11 December – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 10 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2011%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 17 December – Installation Festival/Linux Workshop
* 16 attendees
* Installed Ubuntu 16.04 as a dual boot on Mac apple computer
* Continued to work on a VPN for a member
* Worked on team servers
* Ubuntu 16.04 in a VM on a Windows machine
* Started, but did not completed an IP Fire configuration
* Installed numerous Snaps on Ubuntu 16.04 machine
* 18 December – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2018%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 22 December – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed attendance at other AZLOCO around the state and upcoming CLUG events.
* Received donations for enough power strips, extension cords, and CAT5 cables, for our installfest on the 28th of January.  The hardware requirements, install media, and personnel required to run the event are now on hand.  The IEEE section of Fort Huachuca will be joining us at the installfest.
* Discussed the use of Virtual Box to do testing of programs and Linux distros.
* 22 December - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Discussed FreedomBox (what is it), use it on Ubuntu 16.04
* Tested PIA graphical client on mint & IP addressing (CIDR)
* Copied files between hosts using SCP
* Benchmarked Net speeds over openVPN cloning the app's repo from github (pavlos had written an article on measure speed back in February 2016 http://azloco.org/node/230)
* Tried fingerprinting services using nmap to get RSA/DSA fingerprints
