{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #83 for the week February 23, March 1.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Eighty Third Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-March 4, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday March 8, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the March 1, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09March01

Johnc4510 began the meeting with some announcements:

* Jaunty Alpha 5 was release Thursday: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-February/000540.html

* Ubuntu Server team is asking for help testing Suspend, Hibernate, and Resume on the Jaunty server stack. http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/02/ubuntu-server-suspendhibernateresume.html

* There's a call for Jaunty Countdown Banners for website for display. Those interested in graphics should look that over. https://lists.canonical.com/archives/ubuntu-website/2009-February/000558.html.  All you graphics yahoo's there's your chance for fame and glory.

* Big UWN issue this week. Jeff Martin of our team join the UWN team this week and is learning the ropes of publishing the issue. w00t Jeff!!  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue131.  We have 4 AZ Teams members on the UWN now.

* 13 registered members at the new website: http://azloco.com.  150 hits on the counter.  I've had lots of compliments on the site.  We've had a few blog entries, but we need more, so get in there an publish! LOL.  All in all site is going nicely!

johnc4510 then began a discussion on setting up an email server for the team.  The problem is that Drupal wants to send out acknowledgements when people register, among other things.  Numerous suggestions were made.  It was finally determined that we really didn't need to receive email on the server, just send it.  It came out that we just need to configure it such that the sendmail binary will have the right domain, etc.  xHans said that the sendmail binary is provided by the mail server package.  He still recommends moving to postfix, but the default exim will work fine for that.

On the test server, johnc4510 has installed Word``Press to play around with. The idea being to migrate his Word``Press blog from their website. http://12.159.65.82/blog   It's a work in progress.  If it works we may install to the main server.  A further discussion was held on Word``Press, but for the time being it remains something for johnc4510 to play with.

Next, johnc4510 brought up hosting for state LUGS.  LUGY is already hosted on our server.  slofgren explained that we will use a virtualhost via apache but not a virtual machine.  It take setting up a new available site in apache and restarting apache.  He also said that he didn't think we want to be their whole services world but a help.  we don't have unlimited resources here.  He felt our main goals with the lugs is to just be helpful.

johnc4510 then turned to the idea of a calendar for the joint LUGS to use.  It was decided that a separate sub-domain should be set up, like cal.azloco.com.  It would be set up for two lug contacts per host.  That would provide a main and a backup in case of sickness, vacations, etc.

johnc4510 and slofgren decided to try to set up the calendar and mail server this week.

johnc4510 then turned the meeting over to xHans for PLUG announcements:

* Nothing this week
* Next week we have our east side meeting that will have a wrapup presentation on SCaLE from the editor of lxer and a presentation on Free Software and gaming.

johnc4510 then asked xHans about ABLEconf.  xHans replied that he wants a local committee outside the Phoenix metro area with at least 3 people dedicated to making it happen.  It shouldn't actually be that much time, but we need locals to get locations and connect with local businesses and organizations.  Also someone here in the loco and Cory from SCaLE.  xHans thinks he's interested in building up a more involved group than what tfug wants to be.  johnc4510 said that he should have some time this week.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:57 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
