{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

06 August - Virtual Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Tested and repaired routing firewall issue
* Tested Raspberry Pi program found obsolete. Migrated back to buster
* Update of AZLOCO's  Nextcloud server started
* Discussed Open VPN vs Wireguard
* Discussed site security programs vs hosted vs cloud and Snap and Flatpacks
07 August - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2007%2C%202022%20Meeting
11 August - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* Distributed Raspberry Pi 4 cases to those who had ordered them.
* Discussed the release of Linux Mint 21 on 31 July.
* Discussed the released of Ubuntu 22.04.1 that occurred today.  Members were urged to download and create their own flash drive because of the great number of updates that have occurred since the initial release of 22.04.
* Discussed the options to change the size of the icons in the dock.
* Discussed the options open to an individual who has forgotten his log on password in a Microsoft Windows environment as opposed to a Linux environment.
* Discussed using the option of a raffle as a gimmick to attract additional attendees at events.
11 August - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed the release of Ubuntu 22.04.1
20 August - Virtual Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* Discussed the Christmas Light Project proposed by one of the attendees
* Assisted in the solution of issues that occurred with a Prox Mox installation
* Discussed Open Source and Linux topics and why someone would or could be drawn into using a Linux OS
* Discussed Security and Home Routing
21 August - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2021%2C%202022%20Meeting
25 August - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed ongoing Linux projects
