{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 05 Oct at 04:01 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-10-05-04.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/9/open-source-user-research 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/poll-why-are-you-still-using-windows-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/calibre-5-0-ebook-manager-released-with-text-highlighting-support-dark-mode 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2020/09/lenovo-launches-thinkpad-and-thinkstation-pcs-with-ubuntu-pre-loaded 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/a-million-students-and-counting-have-learned-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/check-what-fonts-used-in-website/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/now-and-then-journey-five-open-source-linux-music-players/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-graphical-apps-coming-to-windows-subsystem-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/quantum-computers 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-show-a-calendar-in-the-debian-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/presentation-linux-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/dupeguru-find-duplicate-files/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/jetson-nano-based-system-can-be-powered-over-ethernet/ 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/hosseinseilani/emperor-os 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/disable-lock-screen-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/csplit-splitting-files-on-linux-command-line.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/9/gnome-templates 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/beginners-guide-gawk 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/technologies-junior-sysadmins 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-long-does-your-linux-system-take-to-boot/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/tails-4-11-anonymous-os-released-with-tor-browser-10-extended-persistent-storage 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/puppy-linux-9-5-fossapup-is-here-to-revive-your-old-pc-based-on-ubuntu-20-04-lts 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-20-10-beta-is-now-available-for-download 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/first-look-at-the-gnome-3-38-desktop-on-ubuntu-20-10 
''LINK:'' https://linuxh2o.com/how-to-install-composer-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://net2.com/how-to-remove-broken-packages-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://lkml.org/lkml/2020/9/27/449 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/debian_usb_drive/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers 
''LINK:'' https://bloodsystems.taleo.net/careersection/vitalantexttier1/jobdetail.ftl?job=201163&tz=GMT-07%3A00&tzname=America%2FPhoenix 
''LINK:'' https://www.gdit.com/careers/search/ 
''LINK:'' https://careers.bankofamerica.com/en-us/job-search?ref=search&city=phoenix&state=arizona&country=united+states&searchstring=phoenix%2C+arizona%2C+united+states&start=0&rows=10&search=jobsByCityState 
''LINK:'' http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3575524/recovering-deleted-files-on-linux-with-testdisk.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/. Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (61)
* toddc (60)
* RexB (26)
* meetingology (3)
* mark91 (2)
* gnewbie (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:01 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct  5 04:01:17 2020 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:01 <meetingology> 

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <RexB> One of the other

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <RexB> I answer to a lot of nicks

 04:01 <RexB> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 98360

 04:02 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> I will

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <gnewbie> +1

 04:03 <stephenm> News is a bit out of wack but it's a lot of news

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 ways to conduct user research with an open source mindset

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/9/open-source-user-research

 04:04 <stephenm> Poll: Why are you still using Windows 7?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/poll-why-are-you-still-using-windows-7/

 04:04 <stephenm> Calibre 5.0 Ebook Manager Released with Text Highlighting Support, Dark Mode

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/calibre-5-0-ebook-manager-released-with-text-highlighting-support-dark-mode

 04:04 <stephenm> Lenovo launches ThinkPad and ThinkStation PCs with Ubuntu pre-loaded

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2020/09/lenovo-launches-thinkpad-and-thinkstation-pcs-with-ubuntu-pre-loaded

 04:04 <stephenm> A million students and counting have learned Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/a-million-students-and-counting-have-learned-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Check What Fonts Used in a Website

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/check-what-fonts-used-in-website/

 04:04 <stephenm> Now and Then: The Journey of 5 Open Source Linux Music Players

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/now-and-then-journey-five-open-source-linux-music-players/

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux graphical apps coming to Windows SubSystem for Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-graphical-apps-coming-to-windows-subsystem-for-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Quantum computers and future of system administration

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/quantum-computers

 04:05 <stephenm> How to show a Calendar in the Debian Terminal

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-show-a-calendar-in-the-debian-terminal/

 04:05 <stephenm> Present Slides in Linux Terminal With This Nifty Python Tool

 04:05 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/presentation-linux-terminal/

 04:05 <stephenm> dupeGuru – find duplicate files

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/dupeguru-find-duplicate-files/

 04:05 <stephenm> Jetson Nano based system can be powered over Ethernet

 04:05 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/jetson-nano-based-system-can-be-powered-over-ethernet/

 04:05 <stephenm> Emperor-OS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://github.com/hosseinseilani/emperor-os

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Disable Lock Screen in Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/disable-lock-screen-ubuntu/

 04:06 <mark91> +1

 04:06 <stephenm> csplit-Splitting files on Linux command line

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/csplit-splitting-files-on-linux-command-line.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Create template files in GNOME

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/9/gnome-templates

 04:06 <stephenm> A beginner's guide to gawk

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/beginners-guide-gawk

 04:06 <stephenm> Need to know technologies for junior sysadmins

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/technologies-junior-sysadmins

 04:06 <stephenm> How long does your Linux system take to boot?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-long-does-your-linux-system-take-to-boot/

 04:07 <stephenm> Tails 4.11 Anonymous OS Released with Tor Browser 10, Extended Persistent Storage

 04:07 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/tails-4-11-anonymous-os-released-with-tor-browser-10-extended-persistent-storage

 04:07 <stephenm> Puppy Linux 9.5 "FossaPup" Is Here to Revive Your Old PC, Based on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS

 04:07 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/puppy-linux-9-5-fossapup-is-here-to-revive-your-old-pc-based-on-ubuntu-20-04-lts

 04:07 <stephenm> Ubuntu 20.10 (Groovy Gorilla) Beta Is Now Available for Download

 04:07 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-20-10-beta-is-now-available-for-download

 04:07 <stephenm> First Look at the GNOME 3.38 Desktop on Ubuntu 20.10

 04:07 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/first-look-at-the-gnome-3-38-desktop-on-ubuntu-20-10

 04:07 <stephenm> How to install composer on Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxh2o.com/how-to-install-composer-on-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to remove broken packages in Ubuntu

 04:08 <stephenm> https://net2.com/how-to-remove-broken-packages-in-ubuntu/

 04:08 <stephenm> Linux 5.9 rc7

 04:08 <stephenm> https://lkml.org/lkml/2020/9/27/449

 04:08 <stephenm> How to use a USB Drive on Debian 10

 04:08 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/debian_usb_drive/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to toddc

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <RexB> Thanks stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:09 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:09 <toddc> are there any questions please ask?  Any other item requests?

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> So I've been watching Gordon Ramsey's Kitchen Nightmare clips, but one video wouldn't load

 04:11 <toddc> There was a problem with the server

 04:11 <toddc> It request

 04:11 <toddc> Can someone put in an IT request to reboot the reality server. This one seams to be not working very well. Viruses and overheating and stuff

 04:11 <toddc> Why didn't the client tip the server?

 04:11 <mark91> Stephenm thank you for the use-full information!  I hope  to have time to read them all.

 04:12 <toddc> Because they didn't have enough cache!

 04:12 <toddc> Why did I spill root beer on a DNS server?

 04:12 <toddc> Just because ICANN.

 04:12 <stephenm> yep lots of stuff and reading over Kubernetes stuff while I'm at it.

 04:12 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 87 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:13 <toddc> Sr. Systems Engineer (Linux)

 04:13 <toddc> https://bloodsystems.taleo.net/careersection/vitalantexttier1/jobdetail.ftl?job=201163&tz=GMT-07%3A00&tzname=America%2FPhoenix

 04:13 <toddc> General Dynamics IT Several jobs in AZ with a linux background

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.gdit.com/careers/search/

 04:14 <toddc> Back of America Phoenix has several openings

 04:14 <toddc> https://careers.bankofamerica.com/en-us/job-search?ref=search&city=phoenix&state=arizona&country=united+states&searchstring=phoenix%2C+arizona%2C+united+states&start=0&rows=10&search=jobsByCityState

 04:14 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Ubuntu 20.10 Beta is out

 04:15 <toddc> http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/

 04:15 <toddc> Recovering deleted files on Linux with testdisk

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3575524/recovering-deleted-files-on-linux-with-testdisk.html

 04:15 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <RexB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:16 <RexB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:16 <RexB> 08 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <RexB> 08 October, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000,  https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:16 <RexB> Meet with Linux users.  Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:17 <RexB> 17 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal proje

 04:17 <RexB> cts, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <RexB> 22 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn about Linux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <RexB> 05 November,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn about Linux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <RexB> 07 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal proj

 04:17 <RexB> ects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:18 <toddc> FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <RexB> Back to you

 04:19 <RexB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:19 <RexB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:19 <RexB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:19 <RexB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:20 <RexB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:20 <RexB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:20 <RexB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:21 <RexB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:21 <RexB> Meeting on 24 October 1-3:45 pm.  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael St., Sierra Vista

 04:21 <RexB> That's all I have

 04:21 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:21 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:22 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:22 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:22 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:22 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
