{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 09 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-04-09-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/the-history-of-the-floppy-disk-1703.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.itproportal.com/features/the-evolution-of-it-infrastructure-from-mainframe-to-server-less/ 
''LINK:'' https://blog.acolyer.org/2018/03/28/deep-learning-scaling-is-predictable-empirically/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/event/elc-open-iot/2018/3/civil-infrastructure-platform-sets-out-save-civilization 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/training/2018/3/4-new-training-courses-help-you-keep-pace-open-source-networking 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/4/ipfire-user-friendly-linux-firewall-distribution 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/protect-your-websites-lets-encrypt 
''LINK:'' https://mesosphere.com/blog/java-container/ 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/heres-why-you-should-secure-your-etcd-deployment/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.lightreading.com/the-edge/open-source-zeroes-in-on-the-edge/d/d-id/741836 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/3/through-looking-glass-security-sre 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-monitor-network-protocol-traffic-on-your-data-center-linux-servers/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-18-04-lts-bionic-beaver-final-beta-released-available-for-download-now-520571.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/4/submitting-my-first-patch-linux-kernel 
''LINK:'' https://www.virtra.com/careers 
''LINK:'' https://motiontactic.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/8aour2/gemini_smartphone_runs_5_linux_distros_debian/ 
''LINK:'' https://linux.slashdot.org/story/18/04/06/1312219/ubuntu-linux-1804-lts-bionic-beaver-beta-2-now-available 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (61)
* stephenm (31)
* MajB (30)
* Ron_A (11)
* meetingology (3)
* Programmer317 (2)
* wmack (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Apr  9 04:00:55 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 95870.24

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <wmack> +1

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> Hello programmer317

 04:02 <Programmer317> +1

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <Programmer317> Hello

 04:03 <toddc> welcome Programmer317

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> one second he is not here

 04:03 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:04 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:04 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:04 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:04 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:04 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:04 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:04 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:04 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:04 <toddc> we will come back to the news

 04:05 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:05 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:05 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:05 <stephenm> I'm late, dumb xchat wasn't working

 04:05 <toddc> You have just received the ???Kentucky Virus???!!! As we ain???t got no programin experience, this here Virus works on the honor system.

 04:06 <toddc> Please delete all the files on your hard drive, and manually forward this virus to everyone on your mailing list. Thanks for your cooperation.

 04:06 <toddc> stephenm: are you ready with the news?

 04:06 <Ron_A> Just glad your alive

 04:06 <stephenm> ya finally

 04:06 <MajB> Yo stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:06 <stephenm> Floppy disk history: The evolution of personal computing

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/the-history-of-the-floppy-disk-1703.html

 04:07 <stephenm> sorry late entry

 04:07 <stephenm> The evolution of IT infrastructure – from mainframe to server-less

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.itproportal.com/features/the-evolution-of-it-infrastructure-from-mainframe-to-server-less/

 04:07 <Ron_A> stephenm: +1

 04:07 <stephenm> Deep learning scaling is predictable, empirically

 04:07 <stephenm> thanks Ron_A

 04:07 <stephenm> https://blog.acolyer.org/2018/03/28/deep-learning-scaling-is-predictable-empirically/

 04:07 <stephenm> +1

 04:07 <stephenm> Civil Infrastructure Platform Sets Out to Save Civilization

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/event/elc-open-iot/2018/3/civil-infrastructure-platform-sets-out-save-civilization

 04:08 <stephenm> 4 New Training Courses Help You Keep Pace with Open Source Networking

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/training/2018/3/4-new-training-courses-help-you-keep-pace-open-source-networking

 04:08 <stephenm> IPFire: A User-Friendly Linux Firewall Distribution.

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/4/ipfire-user-friendly-linux-firewall-distribution

 04:08 <stephenm> Protect Your Websites with Let's Encrypt

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/protect-your-websites-lets-encrypt

 04:08 <stephenm> Running Java in a Container

 04:08 <stephenm> https://mesosphere.com/blog/java-container/

 04:08 <stephenm> Here’s Why You Should Secure Your Etcd Deployment

 04:08 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/heres-why-you-should-secure-your-etcd-deployment/

 04:08 <stephenm> Open Source Zeroes In on the Edge

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.lightreading.com/the-edge/open-source-zeroes-in-on-the-edge/d/d-id/741836

 04:09 <stephenm> Through the Looking Glass: Security and the SRE

 04:09 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/3/through-looking-glass-security-sre

 04:09 <stephenm> How to monitor network protocol traffic on your data center Linux servers

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-monitor-network-protocol-traffic-on-your-data-center-linux-servers/

 04:09 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for this week.

 04:09 <Ron_A> I have a few

 04:09 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:09 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <wmack> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <Ron_A> Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (Bionic Beaver) Final Beta Released, Available for Download Now

 04:10 <toddc> I have a few more jokes if you can handle them

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-18-04-lts-bionic-beaver-final-beta-released-available-for-download-now-520571.shtml

 04:10 <Ron_A> Submitting my first patch to the Linux kernel

 04:10 <Ron_A> https://opensource.com/article/18/4/submitting-my-first-patch-linux-kernel

 04:10 <toddc> There are two major products to come out of Berkeley: LSD and UNIX. We don???t believe this to be a coincidence.

 04:10 <Ron_A> done

 04:10 <toddc> My computer made a funny sound the other day. Of course, I???ve never heard it get thrown out a window before.

 04:11 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:11 <Ron_A> lmfao

 04:11 <toddc> PYTHON WEB DEVELOPER  (Tempe)

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.virtra.com/careers

 04:11 <toddc> web devoper

 04:11 <toddc> https://motiontactic.com/careers/

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical has 32 open positions

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> Gemini smartphone runs 5 Linux distros: Debian, Ubuntu, Sailfish, Android with an open source bootloader

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/8aour2/gemini_smartphone_runs_5_linux_distros_debian/

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:13 <toddc> Ubuntu Linux 18.04 LTS 'Bionic Beaver' Beta 2 Now Available

 04:13 <toddc> https://linux.slashdot.org/story/18/04/06/1312219/ubuntu-linux-1804-lts-bionic-beaver-beta-2-now-available

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 21 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop and Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic Beaver Release party, 1400-1800 at the home of Walter and Ingeborg Mack, 5831 W. Kesler St. Chandler.  The AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest for the same day at the University of Advancing Technology will be relocated to that location also starting at 2 pm. instead of the normal 10 am. Internet will be available, installs will still be conducted and problems will be solved while we celebra

 04:14 <MajB> 26 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 26 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 28 April, AZLOCO/Cochise Linux User Group Installfest on 1100-1500 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.   Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss fre

 04:15 <MajB> 03 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 05 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:16 <toddc> no new members this week but several on meetup

 04:16 <toddc> but meetup is bringing a few new people

 04:16 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <toddc> where id MajBbot today?

 04:17 <toddc> is

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 April 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 April 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 April 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:19 <toddc> Plug has some great events please check them out

 04:19 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 April 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the convers

 04:19 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:19 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 19 April 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:19 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Join the Phoenix Linux Users Group at their Security Session to learn about Tor and why it is pretty terrible. We will be discussing how Tor can increase your privacy, enhance your security, and reduce major co

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 22 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 28 April 1100-1500 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.   Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 04 May 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:20 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:21 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:21 <Ron_A> thanks MajB

 04:21 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:21 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:22 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:22 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
