{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 05 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:23 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2026/ubuntu-us-az.2026-01-05-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/12/my-five-linux-and-open-source-2026-resolutions-oh-and-bsd/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/clapper-0-10-media-player-released-with-enhancer-plugin-system-improvements/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/12/24/freshen_up_old_os/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/meet-armbian-imager-the-official-flashing-utility-for-armbian-linux-beta-out-now   (stephen_laptop_, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/12/from-great-to-greater-our-5-favorite-distro-of-the-week-picks/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/12/from-brussels-to-bengaluru-amanda-brock-on-ai-openness-and-digital-sovereignty/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/install-steam/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/12/22/what_linux_desktop_really_needs/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/fresh-launches-as-a-new-terminal-first-text-editor/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2026/01/02/brow6el_browser_terminal/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/openshot-3-4-open-source-video-editor-released-with-new-effects-and-features   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/KVM-Guests-AMX-Host-Panic   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/head-command/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-wget/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/hash-command/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/diff-command/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/force-user-to-change-their-password/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-imager-2-0-3-improves-drive-filtering-and-appimage-bundle-on-linux   (stephen_laptop_, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/logout-ssh-users/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/time-command/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/type-command/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/sched-ext-future-plans-2026   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/4107254/the-state-of-open-source-networking-the-foundations-and-technologies-driving-todays-networks.html   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-Inaccuracy-OOM-High-CPUs   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.equinoxpayments.com/about-equinox/careers-at-equinox/   (toddc, 04:17)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:19)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:19)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/GNU-ddrescue-1.30   (toddc, 04:20)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (58)
* stephen_laptop_ (54)
* MajB (18)
* MajB1 (4)
* Stephenm (3)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:04 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB1> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> stardate -296990.6392694063

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <Stephenm> evening all

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> hello Stephenm

 04:01 <Stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB1> evening Stephenm

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <Stephenm> evening toddc and MajB1

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also National Spaghetti Day

 04:02 <toddc> have you had some today?

 04:03 <MajB1> nope

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news over to you Stephenm

 04:03 <MajB1> just Mexican cuisine

 04:04 <toddc> Stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:06 <toddc> Stephenm: do have any news for ues tonight?

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> sorry about that, lost connection

 04:07 <toddc> np

 04:08 <toddc> we are at the news part if yu have it

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> yep

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> News is a mix of iteams I collected over the month, take what looks interesting.

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> My Five Linux and Open Source 2026 Resolutions (Oh… and BSD)

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> https://fossforce.com/2025/12/my-five-linux-and-open-source-2026-resolutions-oh-and-bsd/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> Clapper 0.10 Media Player Released With Enhancer Plugin System Improvements

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxiac.com/clapper-0-10-media-player-released-with-enhancer-plugin-system-improvements/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> Keeping Windows and macOS alive past their sell-by date

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.theregister.com/2025/12/24/freshen_up_old_os/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> Meet Armbian Imager, the Official Flashing Utility for Armbian Linux, Beta Out Now

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> https://9to5linux.com/meet-armbian-imager-the-official-flashing-utility-for-armbian-linux-beta-out-now

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> From Great to Greater: Our 5 Favorite ‘Distro of the Week’ Picks

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> https://fossforce.com/2025/12/from-great-to-greater-our-5-favorite-distro-of-the-week-picks/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> From Brussels to Bengaluru: Amanda Brock on AI Openness and Digital Sovereignty

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> https://fossforce.com/2025/12/from-brussels-to-bengaluru-amanda-brock-on-ai-openness-and-digital-sovereignty/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> How to Install Steam on Ubuntu and Other Linux Distros

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> https://ubuntushell.com/install-steam/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> What the Linux desktop really needs to challenge Windows

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.theregister.com/2025/12/22/what_linux_desktop_really_needs/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> Fresh Launches as a New Terminal-First Text Editor

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxiac.com/fresh-launches-as-a-new-terminal-first-text-editor/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> Finally - a terminal solution to the browser wars

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.theregister.com/2026/01/02/brow6el_browser_terminal/

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> OpenShot 3.4 Open-Source Video Editor Released with New Effects and Features

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://9to5linux.com/openshot-3-4-open-source-video-editor-released-with-new-effects-and-features

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> KVM Guest VMs Using Intel AMX Can Cause The Linux Host To Kernel Panic

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.phoronix.com/news/KVM-Guests-AMX-Host-Panic

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> Linux Head Command: View Top of Files & Command Output

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/head-command/

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> Installing and Using Wget on Linux Like a Pro

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-wget/

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> Beginners Guide for Hash Command in Linux

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/hash-command/

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> Beginners Guide for Diff Command in Linux

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/diff-command/

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> How to Force Password Changes for Users in Linux

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> https://ubuntushell.com/force-user-to-change-their-password/

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> Raspberry Pi Imager 2.0.3 Improves Drive Filtering and AppImage Bundle on Linux

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-imager-2-0-3-improves-drive-filtering-and-appimage-bundle-on-linux

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> How to Kick Out SSH Users from the Linux System

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/logout-ssh-users/

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> Beginners Guide for Time Command in Linux

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/time-command/

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> Beginners Guide for Type Command in Linux

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/type-command/

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> Linux's sched_ext Has Plans For GPU Awareness, Energy-Aware Abstractions

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.phoronix.com/news/sched-ext-future-plans-2026

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> The state of open-source networking: The foundations and technologies driving today’s networks

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.networkworld.com/article/4107254/the-state-of-open-source-networking-the-foundations-and-technologies-driving-todays-networks.html

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> Linux Addressing Out-Of-Memory Killer Inaccuracy On Large Core Count Systems

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-Inaccuracy-OOM-High-CPUs

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> And that's all I have for tonight

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> back to toddc

 04:14 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> welcome

 04:14 <toddc> Great job Stephenm! Thank You

 04:14 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:14 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:15 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:15 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:15 <toddc> Where did the IT guy go?

 04:15 <toddc> He probably ransomeware

 04:15 <MajB> Not sure but he should have got fired

 04:16 <toddc> Most Issues can be fixed by replacing or simply removing the failed component located between

 04:16 <toddc> the keyboard and chair

 04:16 <toddc> If at first you don???t succeed; call it version

 04:16 <toddc> 1.0Y

 04:16 <toddc> Y

 04:17 <toddc> Why did the programmer prefer Linux?

 04:17 <toddc> Because its always open to new ideas.

 04:17 <toddc> Local Linux Jobs

 04:17 <toddc> Linux System Administrator - AZ Only

 04:17 <toddc> https://www.equinoxpayments.com/about-equinox/careers-at-equinox/

 04:18 <toddc> Linux System Engineer: Any Level

 04:18 <toddc> 1423 South Higley Road, Mesa, AZ 85206

 04:18 <toddc> Senior Linux Systems Administrator

 04:18 <toddc> Steps Talent Scottsdale

 04:18 <toddc> System Administrator Chandler

 04:19 <toddc> Carvana

 04:19 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 261 most are remote

 04:19 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:19 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 66 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:19 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:19 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:19 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:20 <toddc> ddrescue 1.30 "Orders of Magnitude" Better In Recovery From Drives With A Dead Head

 04:20 <toddc> https://www.phoronix.com/news/GNU-ddrescue-1.30

 04:20 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:20 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:20 <MajB> 08 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:20 <MajB> 08 January, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:21 <MajB> 17 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:21 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:21 <MajB> 22 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:21 <MajB> 01 February. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for LUG events and activities with map locations can be found on their websites.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities.

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:21 <MajB> 08 January, PLUG East meeting, 1900-2200, 1702 E. Highland Ave. (3rd floor), Phoenix, AZ (2nd Thursday of each month)

 04:21 <MajB> 20 January, Free Software Stammtisch, 1900-2200, BOULDERS ON SOUTHERN, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ (3rd Tuesday of each month)

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> 27 January, monthly meeting, 1700-1830, Native Grill & Wings, 3950 Martin Luther King Jr. Pkwy, Sierra Vista, AZ (4th Tuesday of each month)

 04:22 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:22 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:22 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:23 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
