{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #56 for the week July 14, July 20, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Fifty Sixth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-July 23, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday July 27, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the July 20, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08July20

johnc4510 started with the following announcements:

1. New Ubuntu QA team - A new community-driven Ubuntu QA team has formally been created. The Ubuntu QA team is focused on developing tools, policies, and practices for ensuring Ubuntu's quality as a distribution as well as providing general advice, oversight, and leadership of QA activities within the Ubuntu project.  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2008-July/000452.html

2. Intrepid Alpha 3 - The expected release date of Intrepid Alpha 3 is next Thursday, July 24.  johnc4510 mentioned that he had tried Intrepid Alpha 1 and it appeared to be pretty stable, but recommended that people not replace Hardy with it yet.

3. Ubuntu Forums Interview - New Forums interview with Mark Shuttleworth by the forums. These interviews are a standard 9 simple questions of all the people interviewed. They say Mark's answer to #7 is very funny.  When you look at the URL, you will see that the final of it is sabdfl.  This stands for Self Appointed Benevolent Dictator For Life, which is Mark Shuttleworth's position in Canonical.  This is Mark's nickname in IRC.  http://matthewhelmke.net/wordpress/2008/07/13/an-interview-with-the-sabdfl/

4. New Dell machines now have Ubuntu Hardy 8.04 pre-installed - johnc4510 thought that these were the same 3 machines that were offered before with Feisty Fawn installed on them, simply with an upgraded OS.  Whether or not, they are a good range, 2 laptops and a desktop, and all configurable.  http://www.dell.com/content/topics/segtopic.aspx/ubuntu?c=us&cs=19&l=en&s=dhs

5. Ubuntu-UK podcast: episode #10 now available - These are very good podcast from the uk, put together by some of the leading ubuntu folks.  http://podcast.ubuntu-uk.org/

6. And finally, hooray!! - The 100th issue of the UWN is out. Lots of added special items including a podcast with Mark Shuttleworth discussing the UWN, and a podcast that includes tyche and johnc4510 talking about the UWN with past and present editors. Lots of great stuff, be sure to check it out!!  tyche and johnc4510, along with boredandblogging and others, worked very hard on this issue, and explains why they were missing from IRC for long periods of time.  johnc4510 did the recordings, and edited out problem areas.  tyche did the introductions and exits, and transcriptions of the podcasts.  johnc4510 mentioned that tyche had a great speaking voice.  kennymc0 mentioned that tyche must have enjoyed it, since he complained so much.  [ed. note:  Naw, tyche would NEVER do something like that.]  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue100

johnc4510 then told the Team that he had emailed the person at ASU about a location for the Open Source Conference.  That person didn't reply.  However, lenards has been looking at a possible location in Mid-town.  lenards said that there is a joint campus in downtown phoenix, in the Van Buren and 7th St area.  It's a few buildings, including the Mercado district on the corner of Van Buren and 7th.  It's a joint venture with UA medical, ASU journalism, nursing and others, along with NAU.  The area that he was looking at belongs mainly to ASU.  This can be seen at http://www.asu.edu/tour/downtown/index.html and http://www.asu.edu/tour/downtown/ucent.html.  The second is the "University Center" - which looks like, given the information, might be a solid location for the conference.  johnc4510 thanked lenards for the information, and request that he pass the information on to xHans.

xHans then entered the channel, and the information was passed to him.  A discussion took place as to the actual location of the building that lenards was suggesting.  Further discussion was held about that location, and possible other ones.  The requirements for the Open Source Conference are a large room for the keynote speech, 3 to 4 classrooms for presentations, and space for booths for sponsors, etc.  The large room should hold about 200 to 300 people.  We also need wireless access and projectors.  Since we are attempting to do this on $0, it was felt that, for this year, we shouldn't charge for the booths.  This should be done entirely on donations.  We would, of course, prominently advertise the college as a sponsor of the Conference.  johnc4510 also mentioned that if they say anything about cleanup and a charge, tell them we will leave it as good or better than we find it.  lenards said that he knows that one of the UA buildings is a theater space - if they're friendly, we might be able to find someone for a keynote in another building... PURL or Post Office building.  the auditorium he was talking about is shown at http://www.asu.edu/tour/downtown/uaaud.html.  lenards mentioned that he wasn't sure who to contact about the use of the space, but would try to find out further information.  johnc4510 made sure that lenards had the information on the Conference mailing list for the organizers.

xHans added announcements for PLUG:

 1. This Wed is the PLUG west side meeting at I-17 and Bell, we'll be covering networking for the Ubuntu Desktop class and we'll also have a presentation on Hobbit monitoring software  (see http://hobbitmon.sourceforge.net/).

 2. The Install``Fest is this coming Saturday.

 3. Tell everyone to sign up for the OOo class!  It's online, so open to those not in the Phoenix area.  Those out of state probably have to pay more, though.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:59 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
