{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #94 for the week May 11, May 17.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Ninety Fourth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-May 20, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday May 24, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the May 17, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09May17

Since there were no new members to introduce, johnc4510 started the meeting with some announcements:

* Karmic Koala Alpha 1 Released: Ubuntu 9.10 Alpha 1 has been released. Pre-releases of Karmic are *not* encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent breakage. This release consists only of the alternate and server CDs; the desktop CD will follow in the next Alpha release.
** Ubuntu: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/karmic/alpha-1/
** Kubuntu: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/karmic/alpha-1/
** Xubuntu: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/karmic/alpha-1/
OK, unless your a developer i would suggest not installing this early release.   You'll have lots of problems usually, but it's great to see another new version in the works.  Final release will be in October

* Landscape 1.3 released: Landscape is the package that allows server and desktop administrators to maintain Ubuntu on physical, or virtual servers, and to more easily manage their deployments. The new release, Landscape 1.3, also makes that service available to the Amazon EC2 cloud. Landscape is available as part of the commercial support package, or as a stand-alone service. http://www.ubuntu.com/news/manage-ubuntu-server-in-amazon-ec2-c

* Ubuntu Podcast #28: http://ubuntupodcast.net/

* Works``With``U Vodcast: Episode #1 - http://www.workswithu.com/2009/05/11/workswithu-vodcast-episode-1/ .  Nick and Josh have been asked to expand and are now doing workswithu podcasts.

Jeff_Martin has a great idea for our future install fests.  Live streaming of install fests and other team events via USTREAM.

Jeff_Martin then responded with: "Live Video Broadcast: Install``Fest live feeds, with a small amount of preparation, we could run live video from our install festivals -- that is live from Tucson, PHX, and anywhere else we desire.  You can see examples of live feeds at http://www.ustream.tv .  Ustream.tv has many little gadgets that you can use: polls, scrolling text, video in video.

The team gave +1s to the idea.

tyche and johnc4510 then discussed the fliers for the install fest.  Determination was made as to what should be on them, and tyche promised to have a new one to johnc4510 on Monday morning, so that he could send it to System76 for printing. [Editor's note:  The flier was completed and sent to johnc4510 on Monday morning.  A .jpg version of the flier can be seen at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7308701#post7308701]

johnc4510 then asked xHans for any PLUG announcements:

* The Stammtische are both this week:
** http://www.LuftHans.com/node/1522
** http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5497
We'll probably be talking about Open``Street``Map and maybe be doing some upgrades.

* Matthew``CPP is throwing a weekly Blender``CAD event on Sundays.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/772 .  He will also likely do some presentations for us once he gets the weekly group going.

* The Install fest was already mentioned.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/120

* Dennis' class was full last I checked, but he can give overrides.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:40 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
