{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 29 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-10-29-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/2018/10/overview-android-pie 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Another-Milestone-Achieved-Run-Linux-Apps-on-a-Chromebook-85639.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/2nd-New-MakuluLinux-Release-Offers-Flash-and-Substance-85611.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Software-Security-Best-Practices-Are-Changing-Finds-New-Report-85597.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/10/lutris-open-gaming-platform 
''LINK:'' https://betanews.com/2018/10/22/system76-ubuntu-pop_os-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/how-architecture-evolves-into-strategy 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/new-security-flaw-impacts-most-linux-and-bsd-distros/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-tcpdump-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/10/taxonomy-black-swans 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/10/write-favorite-r-functions-python 
''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/login-challenge-response-authentication/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/10/database-metrics-matter 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/lakka-linux-distro-for-retrogaming-console/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/internationalizing-kernel 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-and-run-the-maltrail-detection-system-on-ubuntu-server-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/ibm-open-sources-mac-sysadmin-software/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.engadget.com/2018/10/28/ibm-buys-red-hat/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/lightweight-linux-beginners/ 
''LINK:'' https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2018/10/latest-firefox-takes-aim-at-tracking-cookies-and-promotes-the-use-of-vpn/ 
''LINK:'' http://SeaGL.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2018/schedule 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://my.fsf.org/node/20/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (57)
* stephenm (41)
* MajB (34)
* xHans (14)
* meetingology (3)
* Ron_A (2)
* wmack (2)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 29 04:00:58 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 96425.64

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 96425.64

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News starts out as broad and then gets more expert level.

 04:03 <stephenm> An Overview of Android Pie

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/2018/10/overview-android-pie

 04:03 <stephenm> I don't know how I feel about this, the pie is already a small device so why put in on Android.

 04:04 <stephenm> Another Milestone Achieved: Run Linux Apps on a Chromebook

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Another-Milestone-Achieved-Run-Linux-Apps-on-a-Chromebook-85639.html

 04:04 <toddc> I like PIE

 04:04 <stephenm> Better option would be to blow away Chrome and install Linux.  But that's just my option.

 04:04 <MajB> That can be done

 04:04 <stephenm> 2nd New MakuluLinux Release Offers Flash and Substance

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/2nd-New-MakuluLinux-Release-Offers-Flash-and-Substance-85611.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Software Security Best Practices Are Changing, Finds New Report

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Software-Security-Best-Practices-Are-Changing-Finds-New-Report-85597.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Lutris: Linux game management made easy

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/10/lutris-open-gaming-platform

 04:05 <stephenm> System76 releases Ubuntu-based Pop!_OS 18.10 Linux distribution

 04:05 <stephenm> https://betanews.com/2018/10/22/system76-ubuntu-pop_os-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How Architecture Evolves into Strategy

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/how-architecture-evolves-into-strategy

 04:05 <stephenm> New Security Flaw Impacts Most Linux and BSD Distros

 04:05 <stephenm> e-evolves-into-strategy

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/new-security-flaw-impacts-most-linux-and-bsd-distros/

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux tcpdump Command Tutorial for Beginners (8 Examples)

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-tcpdump-command/

 04:06 <stephenm> What breaks our systems: A taxonomy of black swans

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/10/taxonomy-black-swans

 04:06 <stephenm> How to write your favorite R functions in Python

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/10/write-favorite-r-functions-python

 04:06 <stephenm> Improve login security with challenge-response authentication

 04:06 <stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/login-challenge-response-authentication/

 04:07 <stephenm> Monitoring database health and behavior: Which metrics matter?

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/10/database-metrics-matter

 04:07 <stephenm> Lakka - Transform Your Old PC into a Retrogaming Console

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/lakka-linux-distro-for-retrogaming-console/

 04:07 <stephenm> Internationalizing the Kernel

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/internationalizing-kernel

 04:07 <stephenm> How to install and run the Maltrail detection system on Ubuntu Server 18.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-and-run-the-maltrail-detection-system-on-ubuntu-server-18-04/

 04:08 <stephenm> IBM open-sources Mac sysadmin software

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/ibm-open-sources-mac-sysadmin-software/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news that I have for tonight.

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> IBM buys Linux giant Red Hat to thrive in the cloud

 04:08 <Ron_A> good stuff thanks stephenm

 04:08 <wmack> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.engadget.com/2018/10/28/ibm-buys-red-hat/

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO/PLUG installfest 03 November (All campus event at UAT – No room is available)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:09 <toddc> wmack I broke weewx

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> Our software of tomorrow will make sure that on your hardware of tomorrow everything will work at the usual speed.

 04:10 <MajB> Is that a quote from Microsoft?

 04:11 <toddc> HAL 9000 [nervous]: "Dave, put down those Windows disks!!!"

 04:11 <toddc> Computer Industry Acronyms

 04:11 <toddc> PCMCIA =People Can't Memorize Computer Industry Acronyms

 04:11 <toddc> WWW=World Wide Wait

 04:11 <toddc> MIPS=Meaningless Indication of Processor Speed

 04:11 <toddc> WINDOWS=Will Install Needless Data On Whole System

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 54 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <MajB> Hats off toddc.  You done good

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 54 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:13 <toddc> 10 Best Lightweight Linux Distributions For Older Computers

 04:13 <toddc> https://itsfoss.com/lightweight-linux-beginners/

 04:13 <toddc> Firefox 63 blocks tracking cookies, offers a VPN when you need one (Ars Technica)

 04:13 <toddc> https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2018/10/latest-firefox-takes-aim-at-tracking-cookies-and-promotes-the-use-of-vpn/

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 01 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 03 November, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop Room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network con

 04:14 <MajB> nectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:14 <MajB> 15 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 17 November,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:15 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> 29 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> Back to the boss

 04:15 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:15 <toddc> graymatter7 joined today

 04:16 <MajB> Rah

 04:16 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:16 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:16 <xHans> Next month's east side topic is: Technically private

 04:16 <xHans> it's a tech savvy guide to online privacy

 04:16 <xHans> SeaGL is Friday and Saturday November 9th and 10th in Seattle

 04:17 <xHans> that's Veteran's Day weekend, the schedule is up

 04:17 <xHans> http://SeaGL.org/

 04:17 <xHans> https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2018/schedule

 04:17 <xHans> No AZLoCo mtg that weekend, so got to SeaGL :)

 04:17 <xHans> CfP is open for SCaLE in Pasadena, CfP closes Halloween

 04:17 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x/cfp

 04:17 <xHans> CfP for LibrePlanet in Boston extended until Nov 9th

 04:17 <xHans> https://my.fsf.org/node/20/

 04:17 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:17 <MajB> Thanks xHans

 04:17 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:18 <xHans> bitte

 04:18 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 25 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 02 November 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 14 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:19 <MajB> CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest on 03November 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop Room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network con

 04:19 <MajB> nectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 14 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 24 November 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:20 <MajB> xHans, you might want to give PLUG a nudge since they are still showing the 3 Nov installfest in Tempe as a go

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:20 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:20 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:21 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:21 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
