{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 04 Aug at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-08-04-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/firefly-aibox-3588s-embedded-fanless-pc-power-consumption/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/intel-shuts-down-clear-linux-os/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/orangepi-rv2-single-board-computer-running-linux-building-program/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/07/whats-the-point-of-linux-anti-something-distros/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-autodesk-fusion/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/orangepi-rv2-single-board-computer-running-linux-emmc/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/sudo-insult-when-enter-wrong-password/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-autodesk-fbx-review/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/fix-docker-invalid-reference-format-error/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/learn-linux-by-playing-games/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/rustdesk-1-4-1-remote-desktop-adds-terminal-and-stylus-support/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/07/dont-struggle-with-flatpaks-warehouse-gives-easy-control-on-any-distro/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/virtualbox-7-1-12-improves-support-for-linux-kernel-6-16-on-linux-hosts-and-guests   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/ffmpeg-command/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/incus-6-15-container-virtual-machine-manager-released/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/07/super-productivity-open-source-project-manager-that-does-it-all/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/starship-shell-prompt-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2025/07/14/pqcscan-open-source-post-quantum-cryptography-scanner/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/sftp-command-examples/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/edit-configuration-files-using-sed-and-awk/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2025/07/16/falco-open-source-cloud-native-runtime-linux-security-tool/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/opnsense-25-7-brings-revamped-gui-and-new-firewall-tools/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2025/08/newelle-ai-assistant-ubuntu-linux-desktop   (toddc, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (56)
* Stephenm (49)
* MajB (24)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:37 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <Stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> stardate 79055.5

 04:01 <toddc> eam Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:03 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL GRAB SOME NUTS DAY

 04:03 <toddc> I am nuts are you?

 04:04 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:04 <MajB> You betcha

 04:04 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit

 04:04 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:04 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <Stephenm> news is random and people can take what they'd like.

 04:04 <Stephenm> Firefly AIBOX-3588S Embedded Fanless PC: Power Consumption

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/firefly-aibox-3588s-embedded-fanless-pc-power-consumption/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Clear Linux Discontinued as Intel Pulls the Plug Overnight

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/intel-shuts-down-clear-linux-os/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Orange Pi RV2 Single Board Computer Running Linux: Building a Program

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/orangepi-rv2-single-board-computer-running-linux-building-program/

 04:05 <Stephenm> What’s the Point of Linux “Anti-Something” Distros?

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/07/whats-the-point-of-linux-anti-something-distros/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Autodesk Fusion

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-autodesk-fusion/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Orange Pi RV2 Single Board Computer Running Linux: Installing to the eMMC

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/orangepi-rv2-single-board-computer-running-linux-emmc/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Make Sudo Insult Users on Wrong Password in Linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/sudo-insult-when-enter-wrong-password/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Autodesk FBX Review

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-autodesk-fbx-review/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Fix “Docker: Invalid Reference Format” Error

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/fix-docker-invalid-reference-format-error/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Learn Linux Fast by Playing These Fun and Interactive Games

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/learn-linux-by-playing-games/

 04:06 <Stephenm> RustDesk 1.4.1 Remote Desktop Adds Terminal and Stylus Support

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/rustdesk-1-4-1-remote-desktop-adds-terminal-and-stylus-support/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Don’t Struggle with Flatpaks—Warehouse Gives Easy Control on Any Distro

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/07/dont-struggle-with-flatpaks-warehouse-gives-easy-control-on-any-distro/

 04:07 <Stephenm> VirtualBox 7.1.12 Improves Support for Linux Kernel 6.16 on Linux Hosts and Guests

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/virtualbox-7-1-12-improves-support-for-linux-kernel-6-16-on-linux-hosts-and-guests

 04:07 <Stephenm> FFmpeg: Powerful Multimedia Processing Tool (Installation + Usage)

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/ffmpeg-command/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Incus 6.15 Container & Virtual Machine Manager Released

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/incus-6-15-container-virtual-machine-manager-released/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Super Productivity: Open Source Project Manager That Does It All

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/07/super-productivity-open-source-project-manager-that-does-it-all/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Customize and Speed Up Your Shell with Starship Prompt on Linux

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/starship-shell-prompt-linux/

 04:08 <Stephenm> pqcscan: Open-source post-quantum cryptography scanner

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2025/07/14/pqcscan-open-source-post-quantum-cryptography-scanner/

 04:08 <Stephenm> 10 Must-Know sFTP Commands for Linux File Transfers

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/sftp-command-examples/

 04:09 <Stephenm> How to Use sed and awk to Modify Config Files in Linux

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/edit-configuration-files-using-sed-and-awk/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Falco: Open-source cloud-native runtime security tool for Linux

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2025/07/16/falco-open-source-cloud-native-runtime-linux-security-tool/

 04:09 <Stephenm> OPNsense 25.7 Brings Revamped GUI and New Firewall Tools

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/opnsense-25-7-brings-revamped-gui-and-new-firewall-tools/

 04:09 <Stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:10 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:10 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:10 <MajB> Thamks Stephenm

 04:10 <Stephenm> welcome toddc

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <Stephenm> welcome MajB

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> Less = Less is More

 04:11 <toddc> Nobody remembers what XFCE stands for, but it's commonly referred to as Xtra Freakin' Cool Environment.

 04:11 <toddc> TWAIN = Technology Without An Interesting Name

 04:11 <toddc> ISDN: It Still Does Nothing

 04:12 <toddc> PCMCIA: People Can't Memorize Computer Industry Acronyms

 04:12 <toddc> MCSE: Must Consult Several Experts

 04:12 <toddc> "Programming today is a race between software engineers striving to build bigger and better idiot-proof programs, and the Universe trying to produce bigger and better idiots. So far, the Universe is winning." ~ Rich Cook

 04:13 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:13 <toddc> Senior Linux System Administration Specialist

 04:13 <toddc> General Dynamics Mission Systems, Inc ??? Scottsdale, AZ ??? via General Dynamics Mission Systems

 04:13 <toddc> Senior Linux Full Stack Engineer Motorola Phoenix AZ

 04:13 <toddc> Linux Infrastructure Engineering and Operations

 04:13 <toddc> MUF

 04:13 <toddc> G back Tempe Az Remote

 04:14 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 147 most are remote

 04:14 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:14 <toddc> Y

 04:14 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 43 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:14 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:14 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:15 <toddc> Framework 12, Clear Linux Going EOL, AMD EPYC Performance & Other Excitement

 04:15 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> Newelle, a ???Virtual Assistant??? for GNOME, Hits Version 1.0

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2025/08/newelle-ai-assistant-ubuntu-linux-desktop

 04:16 <toddc> MajB has some Canceled meetings and events

 04:16 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:16 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:17 <MajB> 07 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 14 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:17 <MajB> 14 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:17 <MajB> 16 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:17 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <MajB> 28 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 04 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 06 September, Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop,  1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:17 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <MajB> 07 September. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for LUG events and activities with map locations can be found on their websites.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities.

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:18 <MajB> 14 August, PLUG East meeting, 1900-2200, 1702 E. Highland Ave. (3rd floor), Phoenix, AZ

 04:18 <MajB> 19 August, Free Software Stammtisch, 1900-2200, BOULDERS ON SOUTHERN, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:18 <MajB> 26 August, monthly meeting, 1700-1800, Warrior Healing Center (main conference room),1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:18 <MajB> Thats all I have

 04:19 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:19 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:19 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
