{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #42 for the week March 31, April 6.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Forty Second Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-April 9, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday April 13, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the April 6, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

johnc4510 began the meeting by saying that he had called Silvermine Subs today to see about having our release party there, but the manager won't be there until tomorrow. They have wifi, and a deli style menu. The are located at 760 N. Tyndall Ave. which is just across from the U of A campus on the west side. Their website is here: http://www.silverminesubs.com/locations/.  He is going to try and physically visit the place tomorrow to make sure it is ok, and that it will suit our purposes. i.e. space, plugs for laptops, cleanliness, etc. If so, we will need to plug the address into the flier for Tucson and start printing and handing them out.  tyche mentioned that there would be no problem with putting the address in the flier.  Everyone should try to print out filers to hand out on a daily basis wherever they might happen to be. In other words, take some fliers and tape with you. wherever you go and try to get businesses to let you post in their window or on their contact board. Flier should also be left at counters if acceptable to give people a chance to take one home with them.  The current version of the Phoenix flier is on the AZ Forums, and the attachment can be seen at http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=64598&d=1207088622.  Tucson's will be the same day, but a different address.

We also need to put together a good email for the team list. We need to try and get some of the members who are not participating at this point to come and join in the celebration and friendship of a release party. By doing this, we will also be gaining a chance to get more help for the installfest that will be taking place shortly after the release party.  johnc4510 said that he would take care of sending out the email.  We are only about 3 weeks away from the release, so we need to move quickly to distribute the flier. We also need to contact the radio show host that soldats has been in contact with so that he might give us a plug. johnc4510 then asked if there were any other ideas about free advertising that we might use?  tyche responded with Craigslist, and mentioned that the Phoenix information was already put up there.  ianmcorvidae suggested facebook/myspace/so forth might be good, but only if we have a set of people who are willing to try to spread the news on those sites.  johnc4510 added that anyone with a blog could post a notice there concerning the party.

No one else had anything else they wanted to discuss.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:18 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

