{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 04 January - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 9 attendees
* Worked on ZFS clusters and L2 cache
* Worked on Firefox slowness on 16.04 (installed nvidia drivers)
* Installed multisystem boot on a flash drive
* Calibrated a Raspberry pi on a 5" screen
* Discussed the Intel security flaws (meltdown,spectre)
* 06 January - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest
* 17 attendees
* Installed Ubuntu on two computers
* Configured IP Fire server
* Provided assistance to 4 individuals with computer problems
* Conducted a one on one tutorial on Rsync
* 07 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2007%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 14 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2014%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 20 January – AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest
* 16 attendees
* 2 successful installations of Xubuntu 16.04 (on a PC and a Chromebook using Crouton.)
* 3 incidents of assistance provided to attendees for their Linux Operating Systems.
* Ubuntu lanyards, install thumb drives, pins, and stickers were distributed to attendees.
* 20 January – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* 6 successful installs (1 Ubuntu, 2 Ubuntu in VM, 1 Mint dual boot, 1 Linux Mint 18.3, and 1 Lubuntu) 
* Updated 3 machines (2 Ubuntu and 1 Linux Mint)
* 21 January – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2021%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 25 January – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Reviewed and approved the After Action Report for the AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest 20 January 2018.
* Discussed the recent kernel releases that were patch releases for Meltdown.  The Spectre fixes are still forthcoming.
* 25 January – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees (1 new person)
* Discussed virtuualbox and proposed trip to Sierrra Vista plans 
* Demonstrated a Ubuntu install on uefi
* 28 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2028%2C%202018%20Meeting  
