{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #36 for the week February 18 - February 24.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Thirty-Sixth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-February 27, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday March 4, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

==== Summary of the February 24, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

There was a new member present, and johnc4510 asked him to introduce himself.  danp is from Yuma.  He works for a school technology consortium that are big opensource users and are using Ubuntu on their servers more and more.  danp was welcomed into the Team.

Next, johnc4510 declared that we would be working on the text of the InstallFest flyer.  soldats has been working on the artwork for it, and it can be found at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=704786.  Both soldats and johnc4510 told the Team that this could be edited, and that criticism would be appreciated, so, if you have ideas or changes in the artwork, please make a comment on the thread.

Now, we need to work on the text for the flyer.  tyche and johnc4510 have found a very cool new open source tool called gobby.  Gobby is a free collaborative editor supporting multiple documents in one session and a multi-user chat.  It's a tool so we can all edit a text at the same time and chat in the process.  Gobby does not log the chat session, but tyche was willing to copy and paste it into a text file.  The Team agreed to try it, and johnc4510 pasted instructions into the meeting for people to download it and join a session.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install gobby or use synaptic
launch gobby
click on join a session
put this in the host slot: gobby.ubuntu.com
leave port at 6522
replace you name with your nick
click ok   gobby will connect to the server
click on the window button on the tool bar and make sure:User List, Document List and Chat are all marked
In the document window click on AZ-Flyer.txt and click on Subscript at the bottom
You should now be in the text with chat
</pre>

Within minutes, the following people made the switch from IRC to gobby:  johnc4510, tyche, kennymc0, chagas (eddieftw), paul928, jsounder, soldats rs3 (rsthree) and ianmcorvidae.  tyche suggested that some of the members choose a lighter color because the black text didn't show up against the dark blues.  As the Team began working on the text, various suggestions and comments were made in the chat session just below it.  By the end of the evening, the suggested text looked like this:

<pre>
An InstallFest is an event, generally sponsored by a local Linux User Group or University, where people get together to install computer operating systems or software. Most often Linux, the operating system, or some other open source software is the installation candidate.

We will have the LiveCD's for Ubuntu 8.04 "Hardy Heron" (A Linux distribution) and earlier releases available at our InstallFest. A LiveCD is a CD of a complete and functional Linux distribution you can boot from to test the distribution without having to install to your computer first. The LiveCD also includes an installer. You can install at the InstallFest with our help or take the disks home to test and install Ubuntu for yourself. When installing a new operating system such as Ubuntu, you may also keep your current operating system, if you so desire, and boot either one (something called dual-booting).

One goal of Linux is to provide a stable operating system to users who wish to continue to use their less capable machines despite their age or flaws. Linux is capable of allowing you to use newer and more advanced applications on such machines. If you have a older computer, bring it along. You might find that switching to Ubuntu Linux will improve your operability and save you from needing to buy a newer computer.
It also performs excellently on newer machines, helping them realize their optimum potential by avoiding "bloat" such as useless data or background services.

The Ubuntu-Arizona LoCo Team can be found on irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-us-az.  We also have a web page with more information at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam. Completely free support is available through either location.

Indeed, although everything mentioned here is completely free, its quality is unsurpassed - the open-source philosophy of community involvement ensures these programs and services are the best they can be.
</pre>

From the number of additions and edits to the text, and the comments made by the members, it was clear that gobby was a hit.  Also, other suggestions were made in the chat session concerning the use of a local repository to install from and the use of earlier releases and alternate CD's.  johnc4510 announced that, now that the flyer was started, anyone could go in at any time to continue editing and/or adding text to the file.  This is a rough draft, and the finished product may be pared down to fit the available space.  But all suggestions were welcome.

The meeting was adjourned at 10:15 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

