{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 02 February – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 8 attendees, 1 new person
* Discussed Ubuntu membership. 2 of the 3 AZLOCO members who applied for membership were approved (the third is pending)
* Discussion on virtualization flags on cpu
* Extended discussion on gpg, how to create keys and fingerprints
* Discussion on ssh; differences between password and passphrase 
* Troubleshooted PPPoE connections for a zentyal server
* 04 February – Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 22 atendees
* 6 installs (Ubuntu and Mint - one in Virtual Box)
* Conducted testing/training on Zentyal server
* Configured home media center with a book viewing program 
* Tested a broken Zentyal server and decided to reinstall at a later time
* 05 February – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 11 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2012%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 12 February – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2012%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 19 February - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2019%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 23 February – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Discussed the release of Ubuntu 16.04.2 and the requirement to update our install media.
* Discussed our participation in the West End Fair on 6 May 2017.  The project manager will be Louie Garcia.
* Distributed information on Ubuntu and the Cochise Linux User Group to an interested individual.
* 23 February – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees, 1 new person
* Trained new person on basic Ubuntu use, Firefox bookmarks, and file management
* Updated Zentyal server, cleaned boot partition, and discussed upgrade to ver5
* Discussed ZFS ZIL and L2ARC for team and other Proxmox servers
* 26 February - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 10 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2026%2C%202017%20Meeting
