{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #110 for the week December 21, December 27.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Tenth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-December 30, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday January 3, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the December 27, 2009 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09December27

scott_ev then gave some announcement:

* Welcome everyone to the semi-regular Sunday AZ LoCo Team meeting.  Just so you know, out normal meeting moderator and team leader, johnc4510, has not been able to make it to the meeting lately and I'm trying to fill in for him.  He will be returning sometime; don't worry.  You won't be stuck with me forever.  I'm sorry I couldn't make it last week and that made me think.  I need someone to volunteer to mod the meeting if I can't make it.

* We have set a date for our 10.04 release party.  We will be meeting at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe on Sat. April 24th after the Installfest at UAT.  Hans is making reservations for us to have the room upstairs at Boulders. It's a great space for us to meet and the food is good, and you can drink if you're old enough! The installfest goes from 10 - 4.
** Map to UAT: http://tinyurl.com/ycuxehx
** Map to Boulders: http://tinyurl.com/ye6waet

* Ubuntu 10.04 LTS will ship in April 2010 and is the culmination of significant work in Ubuntu, in Debian and across the free software ecosystem. LTS releases are maintained for five years on the server and three years on the desktop, so they are designed for those who are making larger deployments or who otherwise prefer to have a common platform for an extended period.

* The Ubuntu Forums have grown to be one of the largest Linux forums on the internet today with over 970,000 users.

* Phoronix's Michael Larabel reports that Mark Shuttleworth has just announced this morning via a blog post that he will be stepping down as the CEO of Canonical, the formal company behind Ubuntu Linux. Jane Silber, the current COO of Canonical, will be taking over Mark's position as the CEO.  Mark Shuttleworth though will not be leaving Canonical, but rather he wishes to focus more of his time on bettering Ubuntu and its products rather than the formal business responsibilities. From his blog post, "I've become very passionate about design and quality, and want to spend more time figuring out how we harness the collaborative process to build better, more insightful products."  Shuttleworth will be formally stepping down as the Chief Executive Officer in March when Jane Silber takes over.  http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzgxOQ

* Michael Larabel of Phoronix states that Ubuntu 10.04 Alpha 1 was released last week and while it did not bring any major features yet for this Long-Term Support release, it began to introduce some underlying changes like the switch to the Linux 2.6.32 kernel, X Server 1.7, and the complete removal of HAL.  Larabel's early benchmarks of Ubuntu 10.04 show that there are some negative performance regressions right off the bat, but one area that Canonical is focusing upon in particular with Ubuntu 10.04 LTS is speeding up the boot process.  Also surfacing this month is a new kernel that pulls in more of Intel's Moblin speed patches from their kernel. As most know, Moblin 2 boots extremely fast.  Phoronix has tested out this kernel with the Moblin patches on Ubuntu 9.10 and it booted three seconds faster compared to the stock Karmic kernel.

* In Mozilla’s words, “Prism is an application that lets users split Web applications out of their browser and run them directly on their desktop.” In practical terms, that means you can have individual browser windows dedicated to specific Web applications–like Gmail, Facebook or Twitter–without having to worry about them becoming mixed up with your other Firefox tabs or needing to be restarted if you restart your browser.  http://www.workswithu.com/2009/12/15/pushing-prism-on-ubuntu/

* Linux``Devices.com's Eric Brown tells us that Jolicloud released a public beta of its Ubuntu-based, cloud-oriented Jolicloud Linux distribution for netbooks. The free, open source distro offers fast boot-ups, a netbook-optimized interface, and Intel GMA500 graphics support, while running both web-based and native Linux apps.  The distribution offers both Firefox 3.5.3 and Prism 1.0b2 browsers, and supports a wide variety of wireless protocols, as well as audio and video formats. Jolicloud founder and CEO Tariq Krim, "Traditional operating systems find their roots in the late seventies and are built around software. But today, 90 percent of our computing life is on the Web. Jolicloud was built with Web users in mind."  http://www.linuxfordevices.com/c/a/News/Jolicloud-beta/

* As always you can find more news and announcements at:
** http://www.ubuntu.com/news
** http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

* I'm still trying to make connections down in Tucson se we can start preparing for our next installfest down there.  I'm going to be going down there one day right after the new year to have lunch with johnc4510 and some of the other team members.  If you think you'd like to go, just let me know.  It will be a week day.

* Please tell everyone you talk to in channel that meetings are back on. I'm going to try to make them as interesting and informative as I can.  It's important that we do stuff as a team to keep our charter with Ubuntu.  We want to continue to be a recognized Lo``Co.

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:20 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
