{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 15 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:25 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-10-15-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/ubuntu-18.10-brings-cosmic-cuttlefish-to-the-linux-desktop 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/teal-one-drone-runs-linux-on-a-jetson-tx1-and-flies-at-60-mph/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/valve-have-updated-steam-play-with-the-316-1-beta-based-on-wine-316-and-new-dxvk.12749?module=articles_full&title=valve-have-updated-steam-play-with-the-316-1-beta-based-on-wine-316-and-new-dxvk&aid=12749 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-mainline-linux-ready-la-frite-sbc-starts-at-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-vmware-workstation-player-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/cloc-count-the-lines-of-source-code-in-many-programming-languages/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/10/4-must-have-tools-monitoring-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/best-design-practices-to-get-the-most-out-of-your-api 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/10/bookmark-terminal-commands-and-easily.html 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/four-web-browsers-for-the-linux-command-line/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-ntp-server/ 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/testing-automation-perspectives/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/10/kbuild-and-kconfig 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/enable-monitor-php-fpm-status-in-nginx/# 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/use-apache-reverse-proxy-as-load-balancer/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/run-commands-on-multiple-linux-servers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.responsivedata.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://careers.isoutsource.com/apply/mUjFmzujgl/IT-Field-Technician 
''LINK:'' https://fossbytes.com/linux-smartphone-librem-5-will-ship-with-gnome-3-32/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/four-web-browsers-for-the-linux-command-line/ 
''LINK:'' http://phx.from-az.net:8083/weewx/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/254/floss-jobs-networking-event/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' http://www.BouldersOnSouthern.com 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/214/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/221/plug-security/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/ 
''LINK:'' http://SeaGL.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2018/schedule 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://my.fsf.org/node/20/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (62)
* stephenm (39)
* MajB (37)
* xHans (34)
* meetingology (3)
* Ron_A (1)
* wmack (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 15 04:00:36 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 96387.34

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/Y

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> Some of us cannot talk on BBB

 04:02 <toddc> Some are better off silent on BBB

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <MajB> Yes they are

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News is from open source then gets into more advance topics.

 04:03 <stephenm> Ubuntu 18.10 Brings Cosmic Cuttlefish to the Linux Desktop

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/ubuntu-18.10-brings-cosmic-cuttlefish-to-the-linux-desktop

 04:03 <stephenm> My Linux keeps pestering me to update

 04:04 <stephenm> Teal One drone runs Linux on a Jetson TX1 and flies at 60 mph

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/teal-one-drone-runs-linux-on-a-jetson-tx1-and-flies-at-60-mph/

 04:04 <toddc> update update update

 04:04 <stephenm> very useful

 04:04 <toddc> broken update!

 04:04 <stephenm> nah I usually wait for a year or more

 04:04 <stephenm> Valve have updated Steam Play with the 3.16-1 beta based on Wine 3.16 and new DXVK

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/valve-have-updated-steam-play-with-the-316-1-beta-based-on-wine-316-and-new-dxvk.12749?module=articles_full&title=valve-have-updated-steam-play-with-the-316-1-beta-based-on-wine-316-and-new-dxvk&aid=12749

 04:04 <stephenm> Compact, mainline Linux ready “La Frite” SBC starts at $10

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-mainline-linux-ready-la-frite-sbc-starts-at-10/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Install VMware Workstation Player on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-vmware-workstation-player-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> Cloc - Count The Lines Of Source Code In Many Programming Languages

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/cloc-count-the-lines-of-source-code-in-many-programming-languages/

 04:05 <stephenm> 4 Must-Have Tools for Monitoring Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/10/4-must-have-tools-monitoring-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> Best Design Practices to Get the Most out of Your API

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/best-design-practices-to-get-the-most-out-of-your-api

 04:05 <stephenm> Bookmark Terminal Commands And Easily Retrieve Them Using Marker

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/10/bookmark-terminal-commands-and-easily.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Four Web Browsers for the Linux Command Line

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/four-web-browsers-for-the-linux-command-line/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install NTP Server and Client on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-ntp-server/

 04:06 <stephenm> Add It Up: Test Automation Is Not a Tooling Story

 04:06 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/testing-automation-perspectives/

 04:06 <stephenm> Exploring the Linux Kernel: The Secrets of Kconfig/kbuild

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/10/kbuild-and-kconfig

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Enable and Monitor PHP-FPM Status in Nginx

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/enable-monitor-php-fpm-status-in-nginx/#

 04:06 <stephenm> How to use Apache reverse proxy as Load Balancer

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/use-apache-reverse-proxy-as-load-balancer/

 04:07 <stephenm> 4 Useful Tools to Run Commands on Multiple Linux Servers

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/run-commands-on-multiple-linux-servers/

 04:07 <stephenm> Alright, that's all the news I have for this week.  Back to you toddc.

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO/PLUG installfest 03 November (All campus event at UAT – No room is available)

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:08 <MajB> That is all

 04:08 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <toddc> A printer consists of three main parts:

 04:10 <toddc> the case, the jammed paper tray and the blinking red light

 04:10 <MajB> Right on

 04:10 <toddc> Having multiple passwords doesnt seem to stop hackers

 04:10 <toddc> But it sure stops me!

 04:11 <toddc> Before newtons law of gravity

 04:11 <toddc> People could fly!

 04:11 <MajB> How about the headset that I just tossed off the balcony

 04:12 <MajB> Figure it can fly

 04:12 <toddc> tossed a perfectly good hedset ? human error on settings

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 52 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <toddc> Full Stack Web Developer PHP, Javascript, Mysql and Linux systems administration Mesa

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.responsivedata.com/

 04:13 <toddc> IT Field Technician

 04:13 <toddc> http://careers.isoutsource.com/apply/mUjFmzujgl/IT-Field-Technician

 04:13 <MajB> Hello wmack

 04:13 <wmack> Hello All

 04:13 <toddc> hello wmack

 04:13 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:14 <toddc> Linux Smartphone Librem 5 Will Ship With GNOME 3.32

 04:14 <toddc> https://fossbytes.com/linux-smartphone-librem-5-will-ship-with-gnome-3-32/

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Four Web Browsers for the Linux Command Line

 04:14 <toddc> https://vitux.com/four-web-browsers-for-the-linux-command-line/

 04:15 <toddc> http://phx.from-az.net:8083/weewx/

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:16 <MajB> 20 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:16 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 25 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <MajB> 25 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 01 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 03 November, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop Room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network con

 04:17 <MajB> nectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:17 <MajB> That is all

 04:17 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:17 <xHans> Jobs networking event before Stammtisch on Tuesday starting at 18:00

 04:17 <xHans> We have several confirmed employers this month:

 04:18 <xHans> * Early Warning/Zelle - hiring in the dozens

 04:18 <xHans> * Recruit Bit Security

 04:18 <xHans> * Shutterfly

 04:18 <xHans> * Red Hat - always hiring lots of Free Software people

 04:18 <xHans> * PayPal

 04:18 <xHans> We might also have two companies hiring in the hundreds, USAA and State Farm

 04:18 <xHans> We might even have some off-planet work

 04:18 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/254/floss-jobs-networking-event/

 04:18 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:18 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ

 04:19 <xHans> http://www.BouldersOnSouthern.com

 04:19 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch will be at it's regular time of 19:00

 04:19 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/214/floss-stammtisch/

 04:19 <xHans> you can RSVP on gettogether if you want

 04:19 <xHans> PLUG security is this Thursday at 19:00

 04:19 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/221/plug-security/

 04:20 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:20 <xHans> DevOpsDays Phoenix is Tuesday, 2018Oct23 at Galvanize in Phoenix

 04:20 <xHans> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/

 04:20 <xHans> use discount code PLUG2018 to get 10% off

 04:20 <xHans> SeaGL is Friday and Saturday November 9th and 10th in Seattle

 04:20 <xHans> that's Veteran's Day weekend, the schedule is up

 04:20 <xHans> http://SeaGL.org/

 04:20 <xHans> https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2018/schedule

 04:20 <xHans> No AZLoCo mtg that weekend, so got to SeaGL :)

 04:20 <xHans> CfP is open for SCaLE in LA, CfP closes Halloween

 04:20 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x/cfp

 04:20 <xHans> CfP is open for LibrePlanet in Boston, CfP closes on the 26th in the morning

 04:21 <xHans> https://my.fsf.org/node/20/

 04:21 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:21 <toddc> off planet work  where do i sign up as a space cadet?

 04:21 <toddc> off planet work  where do i sign up as a space case cadet?

 04:21 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:21 <MajB> You are definitely qualified as a space cadet

 04:21 <xHans> bitte

 04:21 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:22 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:22 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:22 <MajB> Meeting on 28 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:22 <MajB> Meeting on 02 November 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:22 <MajB> Meeting on 14 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:23 <MajB> Meeting on 27 October 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:23 <MajB> CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest on 03November 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop Room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network con

 04:23 <MajB> nectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:23 <MajB> Meeting on 14 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:23 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:23 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:24 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:24 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:24 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:25 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:25 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
