{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #116 for the week February 1, February 7, 2010.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Sixteenth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-February 10, 2010
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

* Next meeting: Sunday February 14, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the February 7, 2010 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10February7

scott_ev began the meeting by reminding everyone that he is only filling in temporarily until johnc4510 can get back.

A new member introduced himself and was welcomed to the Team:
* randlieb:  Hi...just moved to the Verde Valley area from Fayetteville, AR. Was about to start up an Ubuntu installation class at the local Community Access tv statio there when I moved. I would like to try to start something like that here in the Cottonwood-Sedona area...  I have been using Ubuntu on my home computer since 2005.

scott_ev then gave some announcements:

* Announcement of a new Linux enthusiast by xHans:  "Sonya and I are proud to announce the arrival of our son Hans Augustus! We are amazed and blessed. And quite a bit scared :) . It has been a true joy to have him in our lives these last couple days."

* Mark Shuttleworth: Meta-cycles: 2-3 year major cycles for free software - http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/288

* It has been noted that not many people have been making it to out installfests looking for help.  This is, perhaps, because there's no real advertising.  So a few of us got together and discussed options.  What we came up with is adding another installfest at the Tempe Escalante Community Center on a trial (3 months) basis.  This way The City of Tempe offers us 3 ways to get the word out:  via their newsletter that goes to every resident of Tempe, by adding us to the bulletin board on channel 11, and by adding us to the website for the city.  	We can get more advertising by putting fliers up at other city locations like schools, libraries, community centers, and other city facilities.  We went ahead and made arrangements because we were trying to get into the newsletter.  The manager of the Escalante Center thought we could get into it this quarter but he was wrong.  It's not a huge commitment so we went for it without team approval.  Please also note that this is a co-operative effort between PLUG and the AZ Loco and every effort is being made to keep it that way.  We want everyone to be informed and have an opportunity to add their input.  So the schedule for installfests will be as follows for the next few months:
** Feb 27th - UAT
** Mar 20 - Escalante
** Mar 27 - UAT
** April 10 Escalante
** April 24 - UAT
** April 24 - Licid Release Party - Boulders
** May 8 - Escalante
** May 22 - UAT

http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1399585 and http://www.azloco.com/node/128

* SCaLe Ride Sharing - http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1400877

* Ubuntu 10.4 Lucid Lynx Alpha 2 Released
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu)
** http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu Server for UEC and EC2)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu ARM)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Kubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Edubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Mythbuntu)

Alpha 2 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider testing. Please refer to http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/lucid/alpha2 for information on changes in Ubuntu.

* On Saturday I went to Tucson to meet Matthew Helmke who is one of the Authors of Ubuntu Unleashed 2010.  He signed a copy and donated it to us.  So, I have a question - what should we do with it?  I kind of thought raffling it off at the release party and we could buy power cords and power strips for the team or something like that.  Any comments or suggestions?  Ubuntu Unleashed 2010 Edition Review - http://www.thelinuxblog.com/ubuntu-unleased-2010-edition-revie/ .  Also, he's involved in a complete re-write of The Official Ubuntu Book and will be giving us one of those as well.  I't several months away, but nice to look forward to.

* There will be a 10.04 Lucid Lynx release party at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe (http://www.bouldersonbroadway.net/) on the 24th of April. Boulders on Broadway has a room upstairs that we will have all to ourselves.  We'll have wifi access too.  It's going to be a good chance to eat some good grub, have a few drinks or brewski's and meet some of the other UbuGeeks that you have only met online.  You're not going to want to miss this.  Ok, that brings up another point:  We need volunteers for a couple of things:  we'll need a few extension cords and power strips.  Someone can pick out new features in 10.04 and present them or concentrate on one for example.  Anything to do with Ubuntu will be OK.  Things like how to navigate Launchpad and report bugs...  Actually, if you have a favorite piece of software that you use you can present that even if it's not in Ubuntu's repos.  Please be thinking about this.  It will only make the Release Party more of a success.  Here is a link to the Lucid Lynx planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/LucidLynx .  Feel free to add to the ideas section or fill in anything that might be missing.  We will be heading there from the monthly installfest at UAT. http://tinyurl.com/yemru26 If you've never been to an installfest at UAT, you may want to consider checking it out.  Our LoCo co-sponsors it with PLUG but we are poorly represented.  There's a proposed flyer posted at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1388113 please give us your feedback in the form of a vote with comments if needed.  It's a chance to help another linux user or, better yet, possibly install Linux an a computer that currently is running that other OS.  http://azloco.com/node/120

* I've started the making plans for our next instalfest in Tucson at the University.  Andrew Lenards made the necessary introductions to get the ball rolling and start communication between us ans the CS dept.  So, it's time to start thinking about how we want to organize this event.  I'll need feedback from those of you that attended last time.  And I'm open to input.  We'll need to do a lot of planning so we can put on a good show for all attendees.  Remember that the University called it a Windows Removal Event.  That's because the CS dept has migrated to Ubuntu Linux!  I'd imagine they are wondering where we've been since they wanted us to schedule regular installfests.  This would be a great opportunity to promote Ubuntu Linux to students and the general public in Tucson.  We'll need fliers, etc. etc. We'll need volunteers for a variety of duties so please please spread the word in channel and via email that we are calling for help.  If no one else steps up and offers to be the main contact point and organizer I'll do it.  I would prefer to have someone anyone living in Tucson volunteer to be the person to make face to face contact with our contacts on campus?  It's over 4 hours round trip for me if I need to drive down there.

* This weekend hutchnate brought up the point that we need to set some guidelines about hardware requirements for different types of installs at an installfest.  There are regular installs, dual boot installs, Virtual Machine installs, and Wubi installs.  Apparently there was some issue with low powered machines and VM installs.  We really should avoid trying to run into this at the next installfest

* I'm proud to announce an Ubucon at SCaLE8X on Friday, February 19th, 2010. An Ubucon is an organized event for Ubuntu users that's halfway between an unconference and a convention. The main focus is for Ubuntu users to get together and meet others, share ideas, and improve their skills.  You might consider going to SCaLE8X since we live within driving distance.  hutchnate and I have already registered and reserved a room for Friday and Saturday night.  Oh, if you don't know what SCaLE is, it's the Southern California Linux Exposition.  And Ubucon is part of it.  The Expo is held at the Westin LAX. map: http://tinyurl.com/yacqsst .  Keynote speakers: http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/speakers . http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/

* I need a volunteer to moderate the meeting on that Sunday night as I won't be home in time to prepare for or attend the meeting.

* Ubuntu Us Teams Website - http://ubuntu-us.org/

* Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Current Or subscribe: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-news

scott_ev then asked xHans for any PLUG and class announcements:

* PLUG security hackfest Tuesday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2135

* PLUG east side Thursday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/164 .  "Can a devote Emacs user find happiness using a GUI editor? Dennis Kibbe, Mesa Community College Linux Instructor, will give a presentation on three useful extensions to the GNOME gedit text editor. See how you can make this simple editor more versatile and fun to use."  "Saving Money by Using Linux to Deploy Windows"  Brian will be previewing his ScaLE OSSIE talk.  http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/presentations/saving-money-using-linux-deploy-windows

* Both Valley Stammtische are next week - http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:29 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
