{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<wolsen> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
* spinrage (~jason@ip68-2-112-200.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> spinrage: hi
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> HP buys platinum status in the Linux Foundation
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2012/11/05/hp-buys-platinum-status-in-the-linux-foundation/
<Dazed_75> How to upgrade from Ubuntu 12.04 LTS to Ubuntu 12.10
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Upgrade-Ubuntu-12-04-LTS-to-Ubuntu-12-10-303851.shtml
<spinrage> hi Toddc!
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu installation and partitioning guide
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2012/11/03/ubuntu-12-10-installation-and-disk-partitioning-guide/
<Dazed_75> Secure deletion of data in Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/article/secure-deletion-of-data-in-linux?lang=en
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/howto/secure-deletion-of-data-in-linux-part-2?lang=en
<Dazed_75> LXPup - Puppy Linux with LXDE
<Dazed_75>     http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2012/11/lxpup-puppy-linux-with-lxde.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu used to make props for 'The Hobbit' [video]
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/ubuntu-used-to-make-props-for-the-hobbit-video
<Dazed_75> Why are we still using CPUs instead of GPUs?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/128221/why-are-we-still-using-cpus-instead-of-gpus
<Dazed_75> Does hard drive orientation affect its lifespan?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/128397/does-hard-drive-orientation-affect-its-lifespan
<Dazed_75> Adobe Reader zero day exploit shows why sandboxes aren't a magic bullet
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/computing/139918-adobe-reader-zero-day-exploit-shows-us-why-sandboxes-arent-a-magic-bullet
<Dazed_75> Microsoft demos English to Chinese universal translator that keeps your own voice and accent
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/computing/139945-microsoft-demos-english-to-chinese-universal-translator-that-keeps-your-voice-and-accent
<Dazed_75> DARPA adopts Android-based battlefield helmet cameras
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2012/11/08/darpa-adopts-android-based-battlefield-helmet-cameras/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 13.04 daily builds now available
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/ubuntu-13-04-daily-builds-now-available
<Dazed_75>     http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/
<Dazed_75> Windows 8 is a one way street for consumer PC users
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/windows-8-is-a-one-way-street-for-consumer-pc-users-7000007136/
<Dazed_75> Full Disk Encryption (FDE) in Ubuntu's Unity is only half done
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2012/11/07/note-to-eff-fde-implementation-in-ubuntus-ubiquity-is-only-at-50/
<Dazed_75> Open Recall on the H
<Dazed_75>     http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Open-Recall-Snowlinux-3-KDE-4-9-3-RISC-OS-1746363.html
<Dazed_75> Beginners Guide to Ubuntu One Personal Cloud
<Dazed_75>     http://beginlinux.com/desktop/ubuntu/beginners-guide-to-ubuntu-one-personal-cloud
<Dazed_75> Install Ubuntu 12.10 in Macbook Air
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/install-ubuntu-12-10-in-macbook-air/2012/11/08
<Dazed_75> Manage files on your Kindle Fire HD with Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/manage-files-on-your-kindle-fire-hd-with-ubuntu/2012/11/07
<Dazed_75> New Nvidia driver doubles performance on Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/new-nvidia-driver-doubles-performance-on-linux
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu for Nexus 7 gets updated
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/ubuntu-for-nexus-7-gets-small-updated
<Dazed_75> 'Ubuntu Made Easy' book Review
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/ubuntu-made-easy-book-review
<Dazed_75> How to use Steam for Linux right now, without a Beta account
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-use-steam-for-linux-right-now.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/steam-for-linux-download-first-ubuntu.html
* xHans (~LuftHans@wsip-174-79-56-141.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> How to find out which PPA repository a package belongs to
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-find-out-to-which-ppa-repository.html
<Dazed_75> Pin Notes to your desktop with StickyNotes Indicator
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/pin-notes-on-your-desktop-with.html
<Dazed_75> Two years later, Ubuntu isn't running on Wayland
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTIyNTA
<Dazed_75> Crossover xi 11.3.0 Released
<Dazed_75>     http://ubuntugamingproject.blogspot.it/2012/11/crossover-xi-1130-released.html
<Dazed_75> The GPL self-destruct mechanism that could be killing Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/11/09/opensource_festering_hacks/
<Dazed_75> These Lightworks Quick Start video tutorials give a preview of what to expect with Lightworks for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.lwks.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=69&Itemid=192
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news tonight!!!
<Dazed_75> ... and thats it from AJ
<toddc> Applause for Dazed_75
<toddc> I have a few more to add
<toddc> Introducing Ubuntu Google Play Lens for Unity
<toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Introducing-Ubuntu-Google-Play-Lens-for-Unity-306095.shtml
<toddc> Privacy in Ubuntu 12.10: Full Disk Encryption
<toddc> https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2012/11/privacy-ubuntu-1210-full-disk-encryption
<toddc> Setting up an Obfsproxy Bridge on Debian/Ubuntu (TOR)
<toddc> https://www.torproject.org/projects/obfsproxy-debian-instructions.html.en
<toddc> Updating Ubuntu OS & Applications: The Essentials Any Ubuntu User Should Know
<toddc> http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/updating-ubuntu-os-and-applications-the-essentials-any-ubuntu-user-should-know/
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> We now have 12.10 DVD's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> Systems Admin (Old Town Scottsdale, AZ)
<toddc> www.blueglobalmedia.com/careers
<toddc> Database and Operations Engineer (Scottsdale)
<toddc> www.marketinsightcorp.com
<toddc> Jr. Network Engineer (Tempe, AZ)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=2544021&t=1
<toddc> Information Technology Manager (Phoenix)
<toddc> jobs@lawlogix.com
<toddc> ANDROID APP PICK
<toddc> Open Signal Maps tracks your coverage and speeds by location and carrier and set it for the strongest signal
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.staircase3.opensignal
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Canceled due to Thanksgiving Nov 22
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is December 1  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc> Caleb (madrobit) say to him if you see him pop in!!!
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday November 17 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on December 10 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> Linux Security HackFest
<toddc> 2nd Saturday of each month 11AM to 2PM.  Devry 2149 West Dunlap Avenue
<toddc> Phoenix, AZ
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> No classes this week
<toddc> Dec 11 road trip carpool to Prescott for the LUGY meeting and to meet with Shane
<toddc> We will plan to leave around 5pm Dazed_75 will be driving (god help us)
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<xHans> a couple of things
<xHans> thanks to Dazed_75 and toddc for impromptu presentations at Thursday's PLUG mtg!
<xHans> Brian says they went really well, danke
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> and that's it
<Dazed_75> Thanks xHans
<toddc> xHans Thanks for keeping up to date on plug
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
