{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 11 Jan at 04:01 &mdash; 04:30 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-01-11-04.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' http://www.grillocracy.com/blog/2015/4/9/candied-bacon-cinnamon-roll-burger 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-yourls-on-ubuntu-14-04/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/low-cost-drone-plane-runs-linux-and-streams-30fps-video/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/mozilla-re-enables-sha-1-certificate-support-in-firefox.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/1/getting-started-qtcam-linux-webcam 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxtoday.com/developer/fedora-24-will-likely-be-delayed.html 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/linksys-to-provide-dd-wrt-support-for-all-current-wrt-routers-498572.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2016/01/in-search-of-a-linux-calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxtoday.com/security/third-try-is-no-charm-for-failed-linux-ransomware-creators-160106114409.html 
''LINK:'' http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/kde-plasma-5-6-to-land-on-march-22-2016-will-have-five-point-releases-498545.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/1/my-linux-story-Drew-Kwashnak 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam and http://www.reddit.com/r/arizona/comments/33tjao/calling_ubuntu_users/
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/37325.html 
''LINK:'' http://stretchinternet.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744# verify dates on http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
''LINK:'' http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona
''LINK:'' http://www.phxlinux.org/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/138-topics-for-plug-meeting-on-1-14.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (112)
* toddc (14)
* MajB (8)
* xHans (6)
* meetingology (3)
* stephenm (3)
* paul_be (1)
* pavlos (1)
* markthomas (1)
* wmack (1)
* bird_dog (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:01 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan 11 04:01:34 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:01 <meetingology> 

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <pavlos> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <paul_be> +1

 04:01 <bird_dog> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Star Date 93629.75

 04:02 <wmack> +1

 04:02 <toddc> +0.5

 04:02 <Ron_A> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:03 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <toddc> +1/2

 04:03 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <Ron_A> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:03 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:04 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:04 <mark91> +1

 04:04 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:04 <Ron_A> .lets start with the news!!

 04:04 <Ron_A> LINUX NEWS

 04:04 <Ron_A> The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try! Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:04 <Ron_A> Lets start with BACON

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://www.grillocracy.com/blog/2015/4/9/candied-bacon-cinnamon-roll-burger

 04:05 <Ron_A> How to install YOURLS on Ubuntu 14.04

 04:05 <Ron_A> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-yourls-on-ubuntu-14-04/

 04:05 <Ron_A> $149 drone plane runs Linux and streams 30fps video

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://linuxgizmos.com/low-cost-drone-plane-runs-linux-and-streams-30fps-video/

 04:06 <Ron_A> Mozilla Re-enables SHA-1 Certificate Support in Firefox

 04:06 <Ron_A> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/mozilla-re-enables-sha-1-certificate-support-in-firefox.html

 04:06 <Ron_A> Getting started with webcams on Linux using QtCAM.3

 04:06 <Ron_A> https://opensource.com/life/16/1/getting-started-qtcam-linux-webcam

 04:07 <Ron_A> Fedora 24 Will Likely Be Delayed

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.linuxtoday.com/developer/fedora-24-will-likely-be-delayed.html

 04:07 <Ron_A> Linksys to Provide DD-WRT Support for All Current WRT Routers

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/linksys-to-provide-dd-wrt-support-for-all-current-wrt-routers-498572.shtml

 04:07 <Ron_A> In Search of a Linux Calendar

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://fossforce.com/2016/01/in-search-of-a-linux-calendar/

 04:08 <Ron_A> Third try is no charm for failed Linux ransomware creators

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.linuxtoday.com/security/third-try-is-no-charm-for-failed-linux-ransomware-creators-160106114409.html

 04:08 <Ron_A> Just is case I am not the only one running KDE

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/kde-plasma-5-6-to-land-on-march-22-2016-will-have-five-point-releases-498545.shtml

 04:08 <Ron_A> How many of us could say the same

 04:09 <Ron_A> https://opensource.com/life/16/1/my-linux-story-Drew-Kwashnak

 04:09 <Ron_A> Android devs using Visual Studio now have an open source option

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3019698/application-development/android-devs-using-visual-studio-now-have-an-open-source-option.html

 04:09 <Ron_A> Windows and Linux Malware Linked to Chinese DDoS Tool

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/windows-and-linux-malware-linked-to-chinese-ddos-tool-498554.shtml

 04:10 <Ron_A> TEAM NEWS

 04:10 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <Ron_A> MajB has updated the new members guide on ubuntu foums AZ page thank him please!

 04:10 <Ron_A> He also reched out to New Mexico and Califonia teams to  see if we help each other and tackle some projects togeather as a group. Or support user that do not have a local ubuntu loco.

 04:11 <Ron_A> California Loco has asked if we can assit with Scale 14 on the ubuntu booth.

 04:11 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam and http://www.reddit.com/r/arizona/comments/33tjao/calling_ubuntu_users/

 04:11 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.  See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <stephenm> thank you MajB

 04:11 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES

 04:11 <Ron_A> The Linux philosophy is 'Laugh in the face of danger'. Oops. Wrong One. 'Do it yourself'. Yes, that's it.

 04:12 <Ron_A> Linus Torvalds

 04:12 <Ron_A> JOB list

 04:12 <Ron_A> 33 current canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <Ron_A> CyberSponse  Sr. Systems Engineer http://cybersponse.com/careers

 04:13 <Ron_A> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data)

 04:13 <Ron_A> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:13 <Ron_A> Systems Administrator

 04:13 <Ron_A> https://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/37325.html

 04:14 <Ron_A> systems Administrator Scottsdale

 04:14 <Ron_A> Https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592

 04:14 <Ron_A> Systems Administrator

 04:14 <Ron_A> http://stretchinternet.com/careers/

 04:14 <Ron_A> Runs LINUX

 04:15 <Ron_A> Thank you to the Linux action show for some cool links

 04:15 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:15 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:15 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS

 04:15 <Ron_A> Linux Installfest

 04:15 <Ron_A> When  Sat, January 16, 10am – 4pm

 04:16 <Ron_A> Where  University of Advancing Technology: 2625 W Baseline,Tempe, AZ 85283 (between 48th and Fry's

 04:16 <Ron_A> We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer router or all most any device that can run on linux

 04:16 <Ron_A> (you must bring everything needed to use your computer e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, router, server, etc).

 04:16 <Ron_A> Linux Training

 04:16 <Ron_A> http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744# verify dates on http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts

 04:16 <Ron_A> http://ubuntuonair.com/ http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:17 <Ron_A> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:17 <Ron_A> Where#juju on irc.freenode.net (map) Description Join members of the Juju team during our office hours, where we make ourselves available to answer questions, fill you in on what’s going on in the land of Juju, and walk you through anything you might need help for.

 04:17 <Ron_A> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <toddc> We have 2 presentations for our meeting on 1/14

 04:18 <toddc> Joe Giron: MassScan is better than nmap

 04:18 <toddc> Why MassScan is better than nmap and why you should be using it.

 04:18 <toddc> der hans: Anatomy of the Command Line

 04:18 <toddc> Order matters when the shell executes a command, but isn't strictly left to right. Redirects, functions, sub-shells, {brace,tilde,parameter,variable,arithmetic} expansion, pipes, globbing, regular expressions

 04:18 <toddc> command substitution and more.

 04:19 <toddc> The Desert Breeze Substation is on Chandler Blvd and Desert Breeze Blvd, which is half way between McClintock and Rural.  It is very close

 04:19 <toddc> to both the south 202 and 101 freeways.

 04:19 <toddc> 7-9

 04:20 <MajB> Now for the CLUG events

 04:20 <MajB> 13 January 1700-1800 University of Arizona Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., room C165A North – Presentation:  Introduction to GIT.

 04:20 <MajB> (This a primer for the next presentation (23 Jan) on creating web sites with Jekyll.

 04:21 <MajB> 23 January 1400-1545 Sierra Vista public library, 2600 East Tacoma St., conference room – Presentation:  Creating web sites with Jekyll.

 04:21 <Ron_A> Thursday January 28, 7pm – 8pm at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:21 <MajB> Back you

 04:21 <Ron_A> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:21 <Ron_A> West side Ubuntu Hour

 04:21 <Ron_A> When Wed, February 3, 7pm – 9pm

 04:21 <Ron_A> Where  Starbucks Coffee 13706 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona

 04:22 <Ron_A> http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:22 <Ron_A> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find  out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:22 <Ron_A> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:22 <Ron_A> When Thursday January 28, 6pm – 7pm

 04:23 <Ron_A> Where Schlotzsky's Cafe 3900 East Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista AZ 85635 Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your computer

 04:23 <Ron_A> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:23 <Ron_A> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:23 <Ron_A> Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux. Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:24 <Ron_A> AZ LUG activities

 04:24 <Ron_A> Stammtisch-East Valley

 04:24 <Ron_A> When Tue, January 19, 7pm ??? 10pm

 04:24 <Ron_A> WhereBoulders on Southern 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa,

 04:24 <Ron_A> Description Please come and join us for some good

 04:25 <Ron_A> conversation over good food and drinks, both of which are optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Free Software and Linux. Us geeks are interested in all sorts of things, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:25 <Ron_A> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering)

 04:25 <Ron_A> When Tuesday, January 12, 2016 at 6:30 P.M

 04:25 <Ron_A> Where BARBUDOS CANTINA 1042 Willow Creek Road, Suite 1076 Prescott, AZ 86301 928-443-0102

 04:25 <Ron_A> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting

 04:26 <Ron_A> When 13 January 6-8 pm

 04:26 <Ron_A> Where Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility  2145 S. Farnsworth Dr. Mesa, AZ

 04:26 <Ron_A> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting

 04:26 <Ron_A> When 14 January 7-9 pm

 04:26 <Ron_A> Where Desert Breeze Substation  251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd. Chandler AZ

 04:27 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:27 <xHans> topics for Thursday

 04:27 <xHans> Joe Giron: MassScan is better than nmap

 04:27 <xHans> der.hans: Anatomy of the Command Line

 04:28 <xHans> http://www.phxlinux.org/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/138-topics-for-plug-meeting-on-1-14.html

 04:28 <xHans> sorry for being a bit late

 04:28 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 24 January 3-4 pm

 04:28 <MajB> Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:28 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight toddc will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:29 <xHans> Also, for Stammtisch next week, it's a jobs night event starting at 18:00

 04:29 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight toddc will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:30 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
