{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 20 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-09-20-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/products/firefox/the-great-resignation-new-job-tips/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/cozy-modern-audio-book-player/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/raspberry-pi-firewall/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2021/09/14/kali-linux-2021-3-released/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-format-a-harddisk-partition-with-btrfs-on-ubuntu-20-04/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/9/linux-watch-command   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/echo-command-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/15-basic-ls-command-examples-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/9/python-numpy   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://k8syaml.com/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/create-large-file-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/create-new-mysql-user-via-phpmyadmin/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/remove-packages-installed-on-certain-date-time-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/what-linux-version/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/install-third-party-software-fedy-fedora/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/ftp-vs-ftps-vs-sftp/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/9/intro-yaml   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/find-out-which-process-listening-on-a-particular-port/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstoney.com/ventoy-now-with-gui/   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-2-gets-first-point-release-more-than-85-bugs-were-fixed   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-touch-ota-19-is-slated-for-release-on-september-17th-now-ready-for-testing   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://jobs.lever.co/rackspace/04e324a2-6467-4e2f-9651-63e22480e0cf   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:16)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (68)
* stephenm (42)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:15 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +.5

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:02 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:03 <stephenm> It goes from simple to more how tos

 04:03 <stephenm> The Great Resignation: New gig? Here are 7 tips to ensure success

 04:03 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/products/firefox/the-great-resignation-new-job-tips/

 04:03 <stephenm> Cozy is a Modern Audio Book Player for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/cozy-modern-audio-book-player/

 04:03 <stephenm> Haven't tried this but the article made it sound OK

 04:04 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi Firewall: How to Install and Manage it by Using UFW

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/raspberry-pi-firewall/

 04:04 <stephenm> Kali Linux 2021.3 released: Kali NetHunter on a smartwatch, wider OpenSSL compatibility, new tools, and more!

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2021/09/14/kali-linux-2021-3-released/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to format a harddisk partition with BTRFS on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-format-a-harddisk-partition-with-btrfs-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:04 <stephenm> Watch commands and tasks with the Linux watch command

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/9/linux-watch-command

 04:04 <stephenm> 15 Practical Examples of ‘echo’ command in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/echo-command-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> 15 Basic ‘ls’ Command Examples in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/15-basic-ls-command-examples-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Crunch numbers in Python with NumPy

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/9/python-numpy

 04:05 <stephenm> Kubernetes YAML Generator

 04:05 <stephenm> https://k8syaml.com/

 04:05 <stephenm> Useful if you need something quick but doesn't teach you YAML

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Create a Large 1GB or 10GB File in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/create-large-file-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Create a New MySQL User via phpMyAdmin

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/create-new-mysql-user-via-phpmyadmin/

 04:06 <stephenm> Remove Packages Installed On Certain Date/Time In Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/remove-packages-installed-on-certain-date-time-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> What Linux Version Am I Running? Here’s How to Find Out

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/what-linux-version/

 04:06 <stephenm> Install Third Party Software Using Fedy In Fedora

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/install-third-party-software-fedy-fedora/

 04:06 <stephenm> FTP vs FTPS vs SFTP: The Difference Between Them Explained

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/ftp-vs-ftps-vs-sftp/

 04:07 <stephenm> Start using YAML now

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/9/intro-yaml

 04:07 <stephenm> 3 Ways to Find Out Which Process Listening on a Particular Port

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/find-out-which-process-listening-on-a-particular-port/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> Ventoy Now Available With GUI

 04:07 <MajB> https://linuxstoney.com/ventoy-now-with-gui/

 04:08 <MajB> LibreOffice 7.2 Gets First Point Release

 04:08 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-2-gets-first-point-release-more-than-85-bugs-were-fixed

 04:08 <MajB> Ubuntu Touch OTA-19 Is Slated for Release on September 17th, Now Ready for Testing

 04:08 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-touch-ota-19-is-slated-for-release-on-september-17th-now-ready-for-testing

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 138 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 205 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 49 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> Rack Space Technology

 04:10 <MajB> https://jobs.lever.co/rackspace/04e324a2-6467-4e2f-9651-63e22480e0cf

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:11 <MajB> 23 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 02 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:11 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 03 October, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 07 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 14 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 14 October, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 16 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:12 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 17 October,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:13 <MajB> 28 October, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:13 <MajB> Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> 25 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour (conflict with Thanksgiving holiday)

 04:13 <MajB> 23 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour (conflict with Christmas holiday)

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:14 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  LuftHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:15 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:15 <MajB> 14 October PLUG Meeting

 04:15 <MajB> 19 October Stammtisch

 04:15 <MajB> 21 October Security Meeting

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:16 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:16 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month at the Sunland Village East computer lab 1800-1930.

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 25 September1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:17 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:17 <MajB> Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
