{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 03 Aug at 03:59 &mdash; 04:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-08-03-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/mozilla-firefox-79-is-now-available-for-download-with-new-password-export-feature 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/linux-changed-my-life 
''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/07/kde-plasma-5-20-wayland/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtoday.com/infrastructure/7-new-feature-changes-coming-to-fedora-33-release-200724043504.html 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/boothole-and-seven-other-vulnerabilities-patched-in-grub2-update-your-distros-now 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ibm-launches-fully-homomorphic-encryption-fhe-toolkit-for-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.cyberciti.biz/open-source/linux-commands-to-know-the-system/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/programming-languages-sysadmin 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/shred-command-securely-delete-files.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/best-open-source-web-servers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/limit-file-upload-size-in-nginx/ 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/Har-Kuun/OneClickCDN 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-rudder-system-auditing-tool-on-ubuntu-2004/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/openshift-terminating-state 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/latest-ipfire-linux-firewall-adds-security-updates-support-for-more-hardware 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/jobs-in-kubernetes/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/resource-limits-in-kuberenetes/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.volt.com/en-US/job/data-center-technician-ii/J3W2GJ77LRVN4YFDCFC?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/15-inch-touch-panel-pc-builds-on-raspberry-pi-cm3/ 
''LINK:'' https://thenextweb.com/dd/2020/07/13/linux-kernel-will-no-longer-use-terms-blacklist-and-slave/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/. Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (64)
* stephenm (39)
* MajB (28)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (2)
* Eleison23 (2)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug  3 03:59:46 2020 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 98187.63

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <stephenm> I'm here

 04:02 <stephenm> +1

 04:02 <MajB> Hi guy

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> I will to be sure

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News is somewhat short and out of order.

 04:04 <stephenm> Mozilla Firefox 79 Is Now Available for Download with New Password Export Feature

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/mozilla-firefox-79-is-now-available-for-download-with-new-password-export-feature

 04:04 <stephenm> From a dream to reality: How Linux changed my life

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/linux-changed-my-life

 04:04 <stephenm> KDE Plasma 5.20 Bringing this Enormous Feature for Wayland

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/07/kde-plasma-5-20-wayland/

 04:04 <stephenm> 7 New Feature Changes Coming to Fedora 33 Release

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtoday.com/infrastructure/7-new-feature-changes-coming-to-fedora-33-release-200724043504.html

 04:04 <stephenm> BootHole and Seven Other Vulnerabilities Patched in GRUB2, Update Your Distros Now

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/boothole-and-seven-other-vulnerabilities-patched-in-grub2-update-your-distros-now

 04:04 <stephenm> IBM Launches Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) Toolkit for Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/ibm-launches-fully-homomorphic-encryption-fhe-toolkit-for-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> 10 Linux commands to know the system

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.cyberciti.biz/open-source/linux-commands-to-know-the-system/

 04:05 <stephenm> Which programming languages are useful for sysadmins?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/programming-languages-sysadmin

 04:05 <stephenm> Using the Shred Command to Securely Delete Files in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/shred-command-securely-delete-files.html

 04:05 <stephenm> The 6 Best Open Source Web Servers

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/best-open-source-web-servers/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Limit File Upload Size in Nginx

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/limit-file-upload-size-in-nginx/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to set up a CDN node for your websites with only one command using OneClickCDN

 04:05 <stephenm> https://github.com/Har-Kuun/OneClickCDN

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Rudder System Auditing Tool on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-rudder-system-auditing-tool-on-ubuntu-2004/

 04:06 <stephenm> OpenShift tip: Resolve a terminating state issue

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/openshift-terminating-state

 04:06 <stephenm> Latest IPFire Linux Firewall Release Adds Security Updates, Support for More Hardware

 04:06 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/latest-ipfire-linux-firewall-adds-security-updates-support-for-more-hardware

 04:06 <stephenm> Jobs in Kubernetes

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/jobs-in-kubernetes/

 04:06 <stephenm> Resource Limits in Kuberenetes

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/resource-limits-in-kuberenetes/

 04:06 <stephenm> Back to toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks man

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:07 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:07 <toddc> are there any questions please ask?

 04:08 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> A police officer sees a man driving around with a pickup truck full of penguins. He pulls the guy over and says: "You can't drive around with penguins in this town! Take them to the zoo immediately."

 04:09 <toddc> The guy says OK, and drives away.

 04:09 <toddc> The next day, the officer sees the guy still driving around with the truck full of penguins, and they're all wearing sun glasses. He pulls the guy over and demands: "I thought I told you to take these penguins to the zoo yesterday?"

 04:09 <toddc> The guy replies: "I did ... today I'm taking them to the beach!"

 04:10 <toddc> Login: yes

 04:10 <toddc> Password: Don't have one

 04:10 <toddc> Password is incorrect

 04:10 <toddc> Login: yes

 04:10 <toddc> Password: incorrect

 04:10 <toddc> The error is located between the keyboard and the chair

 04:11 <Eleison23> export USER=1d10+

 04:11 <toddc> ClamAV VirusScan -- "Windows found: Remove it? [Y,N]"

 04:11 <stephenm> Y

 04:11 <MajB> Y

 04:11 <toddc> How do you make Windows faster? --- Throw it harder!

 04:11 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 43 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:12 <toddc> Data Center Technician II in Mesa, AZ at Volt  also entry and software dev

 04:12 <toddc> https://jobs.volt.com/en-US/job/data-center-technician-ii/J3W2GJ77LRVN4YFDCFC?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> 15-inch touch panel PC builds on Raspberry Pi CM3

 04:12 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/15-inch-touch-panel-pc-builds-on-raspberry-pi-cm3/

 04:13 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:13 <toddc> Linux kernel will no longer use terms ???blacklist??? and ???slave???

 04:13 <toddc> https://thenextweb.com/dd/2020/07/13/linux-kernel-will-no-longer-use-terms-blacklist-and-slave/

 04:13 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <toddc> Training info

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:14 <MajB> 06 August, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour -  https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 13 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 13 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000,  https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:15 <MajB> Meet with Linux users.  Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:15 <MajB> 15 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projec

 04:15 <MajB> ts, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> 27 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn about Linux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:16 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:16 <MajB> None

 04:16 <toddc> we need some???   0????

 04:16 <MajB> Yes

 04:16 <markthomas> But some of the members are much older.

 04:16 <toddc> FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:16 <MajB> Like me

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:18 <MajB> North Phoenix Pi and Linux User Group https://www.meetup.com/Phoenix-Linux-Meetup-Group/

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:18 <MajB> Meeting on 22 August 1-3:45 pm.  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Passeo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  Presentation on what to do if your computer will not boot and a hands on guided practice installation of Ubuntu and Linux Mint for newer members to give them practice in conducting an installation and the steps that are required immediately afterward.

 04:19 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:19 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:20 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:20 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:20 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:21 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
