{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #91 for the week April 20, April 26.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Ninety First Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-April 29, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday May 3, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the April 26, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09April26

johnc4510 began the meeting by asking Jazzy_Jeff to introduce himself:  "Hello, I am Jeff and I live in Phoenix.  I have been using Ubuntu for 2 years now.  I am 43." Team members welcomed Jazzy_Jeff to the team.

johnc4510 then gave some announcements:

* Don't forget Ubuntu Open Week starting Monday and running thru Friday...the schedule of sessions is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek .  Mark Shuttleworth's Q&A session is Thursday. It's always a highlight of Open Week.  Open Week starts at the beginning of each new release cycle to help new folks learn about the community.

* Every release the Canonical store offers a limited edition t-shirt. Unfortunately it isn't offered at the US store. If you areinterested it's here: http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=490&osCsid=43b936cf29386524cf187123f511ef89 .  US shop is here: https://usshop.ubuntu.com/ but no limited edition shirts there.  Cheaper shipping though.

* There is now an Ubuntu Gaming Team in Launchpad. Goals are to improve FOSS gaming and development. They are hoping to eliminate the argument against switching to Ubuntu because it doesn't run most popular games. Launchpad Gaming team: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-gaming Ubuntu Gaming team wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GamingTeam/ .  I'm not a big gamer, but that could help sway folks to make the switch.

* Ubuntu Podcast #25 is available: http://ubuntupodcast.net/2009/04/23/ubuntu-podcast-episode-25-dustin-kirkland/

* Full Circle Magazine #24 is available: http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-24

johnc4510 then talked about the Release Parties.  There were only 2 people at the Phoenix Party due to illness and people being out of town.  Tucson wasn't much better.  There were 3 and johnc4510.  So, we need to reboot and find a better way.  johnc4510 has also been looking at some of the other release parties.  Most of the bigger ones offer a talk or two and demos, which might draw some of the other geeks maybe.  Tucson definitely needs a better place too.  We need to make a better effort.  There was also had a guy from U of A at the party yesterday and he had some ideas for better student interaction, a place he thought would be in the main stream of traffic for the university.

tyche put together a new flyer that johnc4510 felt was more attractive.  It's just a rough template right now, http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/3441797261/ .  The idea was that we could join with system 76 and they would print the flyers for free.  If we can get it done we should go for that for the install fest.  We need to find out how much lead time we need for them.  tyche and johnc4510 will check into this and try to get something going.  kennymc0 suggested that we should pick the place and date and all that stuff now so that we have enough time to get in touch with system 76 get the fliers and get them handed out or at least have a date and place by next meeting and find out what we need to from system 76.  It was then decided that the Phoenix Install Fest would be:

Saturday, May 30, 2009
From 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM
University of Advancing Technology
2625 W Baseline Rd, Tempe

We'll plan a Tucson event for a week or two after that.  That would give more time to get the Tucson one planned since the Phoenix one in essence is most of the way planned already.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:37 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
