{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 06 Jul at 04:01 &mdash; 04:35 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2015/ubuntu-us-az.2015-07-06-04.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/repair-grub-2-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/836851-how-to-backup-files-in-linux-with-the-command-line/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/latest-windows-10-build-has-some-cool-linux-features-485793.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/14x 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/psensor-monitors-hardware-temperature-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/desktopos/microsoft-joins-the-linux-foundation/ 
''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2015/07/02/new-sharing-features-in-firefox/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/desktopos/linux-mint-17-2-rafaela-cinnamon-released/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/two-factor-authentication-with-owncloud/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/15/6/automate-time-consuming-tasks 
''LINK:'' http://techthrob.com/2015/06/how-to-ssh-to-multiple-machines-simultaneously/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/small-business/it-skills-gap-negatively-impacting-businesses.html 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2015/6/gaining-perspective-its-digital-education-challenge 
''LINK:'' http://www.esecurityplanet.com/network-security/can-data-infrastructure-vendors-stop-hackers.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/hardware/kinoma-hd-linux-powered-hdmi-stick/ 
''LINK:'' http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/070115/open-source-history-what-weve-learned-so-far#slide-0-field_images-77691 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxtoday.com/infrastructure/the-document-foundation-announces-libreoffice-4.4.4.html 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2015/07/looking-at-the-cracker-hacker-economy/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-rugged-iot-gateway-runs-linux-on-quark/ 
''LINK:'' http://opensource.com/life/15/7/interview-henrik-ingo-mongodb 
''LINK:'' http://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/ubuntu-linux-lands-on-intel-compute-stick.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.techradar.com/us/news/computing/how-to-set-up-your-raspberry-pi-in-mac-os-x-1297858 
''LINK:'' http://blog.docker.com/2015/06/docker-machine-0-3-0-deep-dive/ 
''LINK:'' http://blogs.csc.com/2015/06/28/one-world-one-container-open-container-project/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.unixmen.com/setup-apache-cassandra-nosql-database-ubuntu-15-04/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/firefox-39-arrives-after-a-three-day-delay-485932.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/firefox-39-arrives-after-a-three-day-delay-485932.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/virtualbox-5-0-rc3-brings-large-file-transfer-between-linux-and-windows-host-486041.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/desktopos/openssh-6-9/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/desktopos/openmandriva-lx-2014-2-the-scion/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/article/2942612/open-source-tools/qanda-zipcar-founder-robin-chase-on-open-source-and-the-collaboration-economy.html 
''LINK:'' http://blog.bbqaddicts.com/recipes/bacon-explosion/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam and http://www.reddit.com/r/arizona/comments/33tjao/calling_ubuntu_users/
''LINK:'' http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.phxlinux.org/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2015/07/09/59/30|31|32/plug-east-meeting.html?Itemid=1&filter_reset=1 
''LINK:'' http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/blog/scale-14x-registration-now-open 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/blog/scale-14x-call-papers-opens-june-10 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_a (141)
* xHans (20)
* toddc (9)
* MajB (5)
* stephenm (4)
* collie (3)
* meetingology (3)
* PirateP (2)
* wipmonkey (2)
* pavlos (1)
* hobbet1 (1)
* wmack1 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:01 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul  6 04:01:01 2015 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:01 <meetingology> 

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <toddc> +

 04:01 <Ron_a> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <collie> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <pavlos> +1

 04:01 <hobbet1> +1

 04:01 <Ron_a> Join us on http://bbb.azloco.net if using firefox please ask for help to  add flash support to your system

 04:01 <Ron_a> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1 Star Date 93112.35

 04:01 <PirateP> +1

 04:02 <Ron_a> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <Ron_a> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <Ron_a> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <Ron_a> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <Ron_a> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:03 <Ron_a> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <wmack1> +1

 04:03 <Ron_a> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <wipmonkey> +1

 04:03 <Ron_a> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> hi wipmonkey

 04:04 <wipmonkey> Yo

 04:04 <Ron_a> lets start with the news!!

 04:04 <Ron_a> LINUX  NEWS

 04:04 <Ron_a> The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try! Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:04 <Ron_a> How to repair your Grub 2 on Ubuntu

 04:04 <Ron_a> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/repair-grub-2-ubuntu/

 04:05 <Ron_a> How to Backup Files in Linux With Rsync on the Command Line

 04:05 <Ron_a> http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/836851-how-to-backup-files-in-linux-with-the-command-line/

 04:05 <Ron_a> Cox to Double ‘Ultimate’ Speeds

 04:05 <Ron_a> http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744

 04:06 <Ron_a> Latest Windows 10 Build Has Some Cool Linux Features

 04:06 <Ron_a> http://news.softpedia.com/news/latest-windows-10-build-has-some-cool-linux-features-485793.shtml

 04:06 <Ron_a> Scale 14 January 21-24, 2016 Pasadena Convention Center Registration for SCALE 14x is now open

 04:06 <Ron_a> http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/14x

 04:06 <Ron_a> Psensor: A Graphical Hardware Temperature Monitoring Tool for Linux

 04:07 <Ron_a> http://www.tecmint.com/psensor-monitors-hardware-temperature-in-linux/

 04:07 <Ron_a> Microsoft will join the Linux Foundation

 04:07 <Ron_a> http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/desktopos/microsoft-joins-the-linux-foundation/

 04:07 <Ron_a> New Sharing Features in Firefox

 04:07 <Ron_a> https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2015/07/02/new-sharing-features-in-firefox/

 04:08 <Ron_a> Linux Mint 17.2 Rafaela Cinnamon released

 04:08 <Ron_a> http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/desktopos/linux-mint-17-2-rafaela-cinnamon-released/

 04:08 <Ron_a> Two Factor Authentication for ownCloud

 04:08 <Ron_a> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/two-factor-authentication-with-owncloud/

 04:08 <Ron_a> 6 time-consuming tasks you can automate with code

 04:09 <Ron_a> https://opensource.com/business/15/6/automate-time-consuming-tasks

 04:09 <Ron_a> SSH To Multiple Machines Simultaneously with DSH

 04:09 <Ron_a> http://techthrob.com/2015/06/how-to-ssh-to-multiple-machines-simultaneously/

 04:09 <Ron_a> IT skills gap

 04:10 <Ron_a> http://www.eweek.com/small-business/it-skills-gap-negatively-impacting-businesses.html

 04:10 <Ron_a> Digital education presents new challenges and opportunities for IT

 04:10 <Ron_a> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2015/6/gaining-perspective-its-digital-education-challenge

 04:10 <Ron_a> Can Data Infrastructure Vendors Stop Hackers?

 04:10 <Ron_a> http://www.esecurityplanet.com/network-security/can-data-infrastructure-vendors-stop-hackers.html

 04:11 <Ron_a> Microsoft joins the Linux Foundation, Microsoft Joins the R Consortium

 04:11 <Ron_a> Kinoma HD Linux powered HDMI stick

 04:11 <Ron_a> http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/hardware/kinoma-hd-linux-powered-hdmi-stick/

 04:11 <Ron_a> The role of CIO in the Internet of Everything – Chief Strategy Officer?

 04:11 <Ron_a> Open Source History: What We've Learned So Far

 04:12 <Ron_a> http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/070115/open-source-history-what-weve-learned-so-far#slide-0-field_images-77691

 04:12 <Ron_a> The Document Foundation announces LibreOffice 4.4.4

 04:12 <Ron_a> http://www.linuxtoday.com/infrastructure/the-document-foundation-announces-libreoffice-4.4.4.html

 04:12 <Ron_a> Looking at the Cracker Hacker Economy

 04:13 <Ron_a> http://fossforce.com/2015/07/looking-at-the-cracker-hacker-economy/

 04:13 <Ron_a> Compact, rugged IoT gateway runs Linux on Quark

 04:13 <Ron_a> http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-rugged-iot-gateway-runs-linux-on-quark/

 04:13 <Ron_a> NoSQL and the next generation of big data

 04:13 <Ron_a> http://opensource.com/life/15/7/interview-henrik-ingo-mongodb

 04:14 <Ron_a> Ubuntu Linux Lands on Intel Compute Stick

 04:14 <Ron_a> http://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/ubuntu-linux-lands-on-intel-compute-stick.html

 04:14 <Ron_a> How to set up your Raspberry Pi in Mac OS X

 04:14 <Ron_a> http://www.techradar.com/us/news/computing/how-to-set-up-your-raspberry-pi-in-mac-os-x-1297858

 04:15 <Ron_a> Docker Machine 0.3.0 Deep Dive

 04:15 <Ron_a> http://blog.docker.com/2015/06/docker-machine-0-3-0-deep-dive/

 04:15 <Ron_a> One world, one container: Open Container Project

 04:15 <Ron_a> http://blogs.csc.com/2015/06/28/one-world-one-container-open-container-project/

 04:15 <Ron_a> How to setup Apache Cassandra NoSql Database with Ubuntu 15.04

 04:16 <Ron_a> http://www.unixmen.com/setup-apache-cassandra-nosql-database-ubuntu-15-04/

 04:16 <Ron_a> Firefox 39 Arrives After a Three-Day Delay

 04:16 <Ron_a> http://news.softpedia.com/news/firefox-39-arrives-after-a-three-day-delay-485932.shtml

 04:16 <Ron_a> http://news.softpedia.com/news/firefox-39-arrives-after-a-three-day-delay-485932.shtml

 04:17 <Ron_a> VirtualBox 5.0 RC3 Brings Large File Transfer Between Linux and Windows Hosts

 04:17 <Ron_a> http://news.softpedia.com/news/virtualbox-5-0-rc3-brings-large-file-transfer-between-linux-and-windows-host-486041.shtml

 04:17 <Ron_a> OpenSSH 6.9

 04:18 <Ron_a> http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/desktopos/openssh-6-9/

 04:18 <Ron_a> OpenMandriva Lx 2014.2 “The Scion”

 04:18 <Ron_a> http://www.itrunsonlinux.com/desktopos/openmandriva-lx-2014-2-the-scion/

 04:18 <Ron_a> Q&A: Zipcar founder Robin Chase on open source and the collaboration economy

 04:18 <Ron_a> http://www.itworld.com/article/2942612/open-source-tools/qanda-zipcar-founder-robin-chase-on-open-source-and-the-collaboration-economy.html

 04:19 <Ron_a> Because I think everyone loves Bacon

 04:19 <Ron_a> http://blog.bbqaddicts.com/recipes/bacon-explosion/

 04:19 <Ron_a> TEAM NEWS

 04:19 <Ron_a> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:19 <Ron_a> MajB has updated the new members guide on Ubuntu forums AZ page thank him please!

 04:20 <Ron_a> He also reached out to New Mexico and California teams to  see if we help each other and tackle some projects together as a group. Or support user that do not have a local Ubuntu loco.

 04:20 <toddc> +1

 04:20 <stephenm> thx MajB

 04:20 <Ron_a> California Loco has asked if we can asst with Scale 14 on the Ubuntu booth.

 04:20 <Ron_a> It is that Time again to get AzLoCo re-approved as a Team again for another two years. MajB has started the renewal application at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-validationApplication2015

 04:20 <MajB> And I don't get no soup.

 04:20 <Ron_a> We must appear before the loco council on or before September 17 2015 to stay as a approved team Please look over the application and help us get all the details correct and add your testimonial at the   bottom. Once we are ready I will setup a meeting with the loco council. The more members that can attend the online meeting the better the chance we have to get reapproved.

 04:21 <toddc> ok you can have soup now!

 04:21 <Ron_a> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam and http://www.reddit.com/r/arizona/comments/33tjao/calling_ubuntu_users/

 04:21 <Ron_a> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:21 <MajB> Thank you, but I've already eaten.

 04:21 <Ron_a> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.  See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:21 <Ron_a> JOB list

 04:21 <toddc> toddc smuggles some soup and a fork to MajB

 04:21 <Ron_a> Linux/Unix Engineer https://jobs.insight.com/

 04:22 <Ron_a> Senior Middleware Engineer

 04:22 <Ron_a> jwhitesides@smci.com

 04:22 <Ron_a> 36 current canonical Jobs today http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:22 <Ron_a> CyberSponse  Sr. Systems Engineer http://cybersponse.com/careers

 04:23 <Ron_a> 5 Google Fiber jobs in phoenix AZ  https://www.google.com/about/careers/search#t=sq&q=j&li=10&jl=33.4483771%253A-112.0740373%253APhoenix%252C+AZ%252C+USA%253AUS%253AUnited+States%253A33.69549652570098%253ALOCALITY&

 04:23 <Ron_a> Local Motors Chandler Az Dev Ops Engineer (Linux Systems http://localmotors.recruiting.com/dev-ops-engineer-linux-systems-admin/job/5180998

 04:23 <Ron_a> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data) http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:23 <Ron_a> Many tech Jobs at Aetna https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGWebHost/searchresults.aspx?SID=^PSb5zRhkS2CV_slp_rhc_GQClJFxLarlidMCKIABKIre3iFSYImwMXOSgCxOMPoMZZMZV2AK

 04:23 <Ron_a> Systems Engineer http://stretchinternet.com/careers/

 04:24 <Ron_a> Systems Administrator https://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/37325.html

 04:24 <Ron_a> Systems Administrator Scottsdale https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592

 04:24 <Ron_a> Systems Administrator http://stretchinternet.com/careers/

 04:24 <Ron_a> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:25 <Ron_a> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:25 <Ron_a> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:25 <Ron_a> PLUG East Meeting

 04:25 <Ron_a> When  Thu, July 9, 7pm – 9pm Where Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226 (map) Description What to expect: - 6:30 - mingling/networking and last minute setup - 7:00 - Formal meeting starts with announcements and other plug business - 7:15 - Presentation(s) - 9:00 - Clean up and CAT (Chat About Technology) at a local restaurant. (We sit around and talk about Linux and other geeky stuff over f

 04:25 <Ron_a> West side Ubuntu Hour

 04:26 <Ron_a> WhenWed, August 5, 7pm – 9pm WhereStarbucks Coffee 13706 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona (map) DescriptionStop to see us or learn about Ubuntu linux or open source or just to hang out a while. This a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source.

 04:26 <Ron_a> Linux Installfest

 04:26 <Ron_a> When Sat, July 18, 10am – 4pm Where University of Advancing Technology: 2625 W Baseline,Tempe, AZ 85283 (between 48th and Fry's) (map) Description*Who:* Anyone interested in Linux. *Who* Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install on almost any version of Linux on your computer router server or Raspberry PI or???or fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class *What:* We can inst

 04:26 <Ron_a> We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We meet the 1st and 3rd Saturday of every month from 10 AM until 4 PM unless we cancel or reschedule due to a holiday. Please see the calendar at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28  for more information We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. *What to bring:* You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. m

 04:27 <Ron_a> Anyone interested in learning more about open source or Linux is invited to an open workshop!

 04:27 <Ron_a> We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer router or all most any device that can run on Linux.

 04:27 <Ron_a> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  is Thursday June 23th. 2014 7 MST , 6PM to 7 PM

 04:27 <Ron_a> Schlotzsky's Cafe 3900 East Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista AZ 85635 Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your computer

 04:27 <Ron_a> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:28 <Ron_a> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:28 <Ron_a> Thursday July 23 at 7PM is the 2nd Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:28 <Ron_a> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:28 <Ron_a> New Members this week Wecome stephenm everyone please say Hi.

 04:29 <Ron_a> Linux Training

 04:29 <MajB> New member?

 04:29 * stephenm bows

 04:29 <Ron_a> http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744

 04:29 <toddc> welcome ?#!

 04:29 <Ron_a> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts

 04:29 <PirateP> #! ?

 04:30 <Ron_a> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:30 <Ron_a> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:30 <Ron_a> Snappy Open House

 04:30 <Ron_a> When Tue, July 7, 2pm – 3pm UTC Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net (map) Juju Office Hours When Thu, July 9, 8pm – 9pm Where#juju on irc.freenode.net (map)

 04:30 <Ron_a> Description Join members of the Juju team during our office hours, where we make ourselves available to answer questions, fill you in on what’s going on in the land of Juju, and walk you through anything you might need help for.

 04:31 <Ron_a> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:31 <xHans> Ron_a: ja, danke

 04:31 <Ron_a> PLUG EVENTS

 04:31 <xHans> July east side meeting is this Thursday

 04:31 <xHans> http://www.phxlinux.org/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2015/07/09/59/30|31|32/plug-east-meeting.html?Itemid=1&filter_reset=1

 04:31 <Ron_a> All yours xHans

 04:31 <xHans> Planned topics are Subsurface diving software, using GIMP to color correct pictures from diving and vi

 04:32 <xHans> July FLOSS Stammtisch is 2 weeks from Tuesday

 04:32 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave suite 1, Mesa, AZ, 85210

 04:32 <xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:32 <xHans> 19:00 until at least 22:00

 04:32 <xHans> SCaLE has moved to Pasadena in January

 04:32 <xHans> new location, same great Free Software conference

 04:32 <xHans> SCaLE registration already open

 04:32 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/blog/scale-14x-registration-now-open

 04:32 <xHans> SCaLE cfp already open

 04:32 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/blog/scale-14x-call-papers-opens-june-10

 04:32 <xHans> the software defined radios talk was rescheduled due to speaker inavailability

 04:32 <xHans> currently it is scheduled for August

 04:33 <xHans> on a personal note, I'm glad to see the presentation about Subsurface as that project was important to Larry

 04:33 <xHans> and that's it, danke

 04:34 <Ron_a> Thaank you xHans

 04:34 <collie> itte

 04:34 <Ron_a> OTHER  LUG EVENTS

 04:34 <collie> *bitte xHans

 04:34 <xHans> :)

 04:34 <Ron_a> Lugy (Prescott users group)  Tue, July 14, 6:30pm – 9:30pm  Prescott Brewing Company 130 West Gurley Street Prescott, Arizona 86301

 04:34 <Ron_a> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:35 <Ron_a> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:35 <stephenm> night all

 04:35 <MajB> Did anyone attend the West side Ubuntu Hour on the 1st?

 04:35 <Ron_a> #endmeeting

 04:35 <xHans> Tschuessle

 04:35 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
