{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Please note that next weeks meeting is canceled due to laborday
<wmack> +1
<TuxMann> +1
* shubes (~shubes@tacs.shubes.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> Star Date 91254.6
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
* Rich_ (6cafa3f6@gateway/web/freenode/ip.108.175.163.246) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<programmer317> +1
<Rich_> +1
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/170648/10-commands-included-in-chrome-oss-hidden-crosh-shell/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/08/19/lastpass-supports-immediate-syncing-extends-secure-notes/
<Dazed_75> SDL 2.0 has been released http://steamforlinux.com/?q=en/node/320
<Dazed_75> Intel Haswell Laptop (System 76 Gazelle) impact when running XMir
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=system76_gazelle_xmir&num=1
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/linux-reaches-out-to-hobbyist-developers-7000019529/
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/08/i-need-linux-distro-that-is-more.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20130818062840940/HardDiskUtilities.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.techdirt.com/articles/20130814/17501024181/microsoft-uses-dmca-to-block-many-links-to-competing-open-office.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://fds-team.de/cms/articles/2013-08/pipelight-using-silverlight-in-linux-browsers.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Whos-Afraid-of-Linux-Malware-78748.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxaria.com/howto/4-tricks-to-speed-up-ssh-connections?lang=en
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/369600/linux-offers-real-diversity-desktop
<Dazed_75> http://linuxaria.com/pills/automate-your-common-tasks-on-linux-with-autokey?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Online Developer Conference http://uds.ubuntu.com/
<Dazed_75> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-1308
<Dazed_75> Crossover 12.5 released http://steamforlinux.com/?q=en/node/323
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/window-maker-unity-old-guys
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/08/interesting-facts-about-debian-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/5-useful-linux-command-line-tricks-for-beginners/
<Dazed_75> http://lifehacker.com/disable-ads-on-youtube-by-enabling-a-youtube-experiment-1171802208
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/worms-and-linux?page=0,0
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/369810/android-really-linux-distribution
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/features/can-open-source-save-health-care
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/08/how-to-password-protect-folder-on-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/170659/chromecast-more-than-web-pages-4-types-of-files-you-can-view-in-chrome/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/08/22/ubuntu-edge-smartphone-falls-far-short-of-its-32-million-funding-target/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/08/ubuntu-edge-fails-to-meet-mutli-million-dollar-goal-wont-be-made
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/qa-8-practical-examples-of-grep-command-in-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://ghostbar.co/2013/08/21/starting-raspberry-without-display/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/mobile-telepresence-robot-runs-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=system76_gazelle_haswell&num=1
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/operating-systems/370104/first-rule-choosing-desktop-linux-distribution-user-know-thyself
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxis.org/ help site for getting started with GNU/Linux (Debian 7.1)
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/08/xubuntu-1310-saucy-salamander-not.html
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/all-you-wanted-to-know-about-rm-command-in-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-devede-3-23-on-ubuntu-13-10-13-04-12-10-12-04-linux-mint-15-14-13-and-elementary-os-0-2-luna/
<Dazed_75> http://blog.xen.org/index.php/2013/08/22/learning-xen-converting-existing-non-xen-project-images-for-use-in-xen/
<Dazed_75> X.Org Foundation loses its 501(c)(3) tax status
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQ0MzU
<Dazed_75> http://www.eweek.com/networking/nginx-plus-moves-open-source-web-server-forward.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/ubuntu-12-04-3-lts-precise-pangolin-has-been-released/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-bleachbit-0-9-6-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-debian-and-elementary-os/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-xnconvert-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-elementary-os-debian-fedora-opensuse-mageia-and-others/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/canonical-might-recommend-the-64-bit-ubuntu-13-10-saucy-salamander-instead-of-the-32-bit-one/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/dvd-styler-2-5-2/ How to install on Ubuntu 13.10, 13.04, 12.10 and Linux Mint 15, 14
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-cinnamon-1-8-8-on-the-latest-ubuntu-versions/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-gnome-classic-gnome-fallback-on-ubuntu-13-10-13-04-12-10-12-04/
<Dazed_75> ... and thats all from Apache Junction.  I hope everyone found SOME piece of news useful
<toddc> Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<programmer317> cd
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<wmack> applause for Dazed_75 clapclapclap..
<toddc> change directory?
<toddc> Lots Of Ubuntu Mir Changes Expected Next Week
<programmer317> sorry.   wrong window.
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQzNzY
<toddc> duh :)
<erroric> +1 late
<scott_ev> oops
<scott_ev> +1
<toddc> Latest Nvidia/Nvidia Optimus Drivers for Ubuntu/Linux Mint/other Ubuntu derivatives
<toddc> http://www.noobslab.com/2013/08/latest-nvidianvidia-optimus-drivers-for.html
<toddc> Ubuntu derivatives: 5 of the best Ubuntu-based distros
<toddc> http://www.techradar.com/news/software/operating-systems/ubuntu-derivatives-5-of-the-best-ubuntu-based-distros-1170314
<toddc> Install Adobe Reader 9 in Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.unixmen.com/install-adobe-reader-9-in-ubuntu/
<toddc> Ubuntu Edge Campaign Admits $32 Million Goal Was 'Crazy'
<toddc> http://www.inc.com/eric-markowitz/ubuntu-edge-campaign-32-million-was-crazy.html
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc>  over to Scott_ev
<scott_ev> ah, thanks
<scott_ev> I know some of you are taking steps toward applying for Ubuntu membership.  I'll make this as plain as I can - if you aren't contributing to Ubuntu you won't be accepted.  Working locally with your LoCo helps, yes, but it's just not enough.  Generally thay are looking for consistent contributions for at least 6 months.
<scott_ev> When I decided to get serious I started helping with the Ubuntu Weekly News.  The UWN is always looking for people to help.  Earlier today I contacted them and I'll be writing summaries again.  They said there is room for summary writers right now.  Most of the work on the UWN is done on Saturdays and Sundays and can be done on your time since everything is done in Google Docs.
<scott_ev> They'll email out links to articles that need to be summarized in Friday night then you'd write a summary and post it.  You can contact the team at #ubuntu-news or by email at editor.ubuntu.news@ubuntu.com
<scott_ev> Here are some links to help if you want to be involved with the UWN:
<scott_ev> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Join
<scott_ev> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/StyleGuidelines
<scott_ev> https://docs.google.com/document/d/18ZbtFHQq6uMj7iuRLd11VH8V5Uc_FA0IfgiRUcbMbQk/edit?pli=1
<scott_ev> There are several opportunities to get involved in something that will qualify you for membership - just keep in mind that they generally require 6 months of contributions before they'll approve you for membership.  Keep in mind, though, that everything and anything you do locally is documentable and will help.  When you look at my wiki - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/j.scott.gwin - you'll be looking at a
<scott_ev> wiki that really made the Membership Council comment.  It sounded like they hadn't seen one with that much stuff in it before.
<scott_ev> My point is that I did a variety of things; most of them local, and everything counted.  Another thing that helped was that I had, at the time, around 10,000 karma points from my work on bugs.  That's something you can do on your own time too.  Another way to contribute is to answer questions in the Ubuntu forums and document your work and/or just include a link to your responses.
<scott_ev> If you're a developer join a dev team and contribute there.  Any upstream contributions help, but they are looking more for downstream contributions directly to Ubuntu
<scott_ev> If any of you ask me for a Testamonial I'll be glad to help - just send me a link to your wiki and tell me what you've done.  I'm just starting to get involved again after a near 2-year 'vacation' so I may not be that familiar with your contributions.  It's be better if I write them a little closer to your application
<scott_ev> Here are links about Membership:
<scott_ev> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership
<scott_ev> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu
<scott_ev> That is all for tonight
<toddc> thanks scott_ev
<scott_ev> I'll send it to the email list
<toddc> We have canceled the following meetings due to holidays
<toddc> Meetings
<toddc> September 1 Meeting due to the labor day holiday
<toddc> October 13 due to Columbus Day and
<toddc> November 10 meeting due to veterans day weekend holiday?
<toddc> Ubuntu Hour
<scott_ev> Columbus day?
<toddc> yes that is a holiday now
<toddc> November 28 Ubuntu hour due to Thanksgiving
<toddc> December Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas
<scott_ev> man, false history counting as a federal holiday?
<scott_ev> pfft
<toddc> Team renewal is coming up and we will need help to get ready
<toddc> if you would like to help check with tuxmann Dazed-75 or myself
<toddc> we will helping other's to become full Ubuntu members and getting the team ready for renewal.
<toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplicationrenewal
<toddc> We had a great meeting Saturday to work on personal  wiki's and PGP
<scott_ev> when is the team up for renewel?
<toddc> keys. It started slow but by the end of the day we had 95% worked out
<toddc> I had a lot of fun and it was much easier in a group event
<toddc> nov 13
<scott_ev> k
<toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership
<toddc> Dazed-75 has made a great start see
<toddc> https://docs.google.com/a/azloco.com/file/d/0B5GupdVHIIh_Slh5eUJCTWo4MWM/edit?usp=sharing
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Operations Developer
<toddc> devjobs@logos.com
<toddc> Operating systems Engineer 4 Wellsfargo
<toddc> https://employment.wellsfargo.com/psp/PSEA/APPLICANT_NW/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM.HRS_CE.GBL
<toddc> Impact Tech has several local openings
<toddc> http://www.go-impact.com/IT/join_our_team.html
<toddc> Entry Level PC Techs
<toddc> Call Jason 949-230-1192 for a Interview
<toddc> RUNS LINUX
<toddc> Linux open source Quadcopter is here
<toddc> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WBUVYZkODI&feature=youtu.be&t=1m40s
<toddc> 180.00
<toddc> Android App Pick of the week
<toddc> CheapCast is an app that aims to emulate the ChromeCast Dongle
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=at.maui.cheapcast
<toddc> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc> karen-5
<toddc> Nobody-MCC
<toddc> say hi to them if you see them in here
<toddc> TUCSON Ubuntu Hour
<toddc> Tucson ubuntu is on hold for the time being
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> the next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday September 7  and Saturday September 21 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline
<toddc> Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more infoubuntu wiki toddcole see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> November 2 installfest is canceled due to the school using the classroom
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<toddc> Thursday September 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
* [R] has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> slofgren has arranged for a donation to the team of two Dell 2950 servers that are fully loaded
<toddc> but we still need new home for them if anyone has ideas?
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> Weekly Ubuntu Webcast Tuesday  with Jono Bacon 10 AM
<scott_ev> send me the specs for the servers, OK?
<toddc> kk
<toddc> xhans are you here? and would you like to do the Plug news?
<xHans> sure
<toddc> cool
<xHans> two weeks from Thursday is the big data logging topic
<xHans> http://phxlinux.org/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/123-plug-topic-for-9-12.html
<xHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/b/118370136707822714534/events/cq089psnra2kfpmgf78hechgv5o
<xHans> did ASULUG's Installfest get mentioned?
* xHans didn't see it
<xHans> WHEN: September 7th at 1:00PM
<xHans> WHERE: BYENG210
<xHans> WHAT: Installfest! with Capture the Flag Competition!
<scott_ev> cool
<xHans> they have a sponsor paying for pizza
<toddc> no
<xHans> unfortunately, that's essentially the same time as our next Installfest
<scott_ev> can I reserve a Meat Lovers?
<xHans> that's what they get for not running it past my non-existent scheduling secretary
<scott_ev> bastages
<xHans> please help me get the work out about Rashid's big-data logging talk on the 12th
<xHans> and that's it from me for tonight
<toddc> thanks xHans
<xHans> bitte
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
* xHans goes back to writing globbing exercises :)
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
