{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 15 Sep at 03:58 &mdash; 04:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2014/ubuntu-us-az.2014-09-15-03.58.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/top-linux-myths-dispelled-1.html 
''LINK:'' https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/open-and-libre-office-projects-should-reunite 
''LINK:'' http://wptavern.com/opentickets-an-open-source-event-management-and-ticket-sales-platform-built-on-wordpress-and-woocommerce 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/80988.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.iodigitalsec.com/simple-ready-to-roll-linux-backup-script/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.raspi.today/battborg-power-your-raspberry-pi-with-almost-any-kind-of-battery/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Touch-Is-an-OS-with-a-Heart-in-World-of-Mindless-Drones-458324.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.computerworld.com/article/2605093/laid-off-from-job-man-builds-tweeting-toilet.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux.com/learn/linux-certifications/787483-how-to-prepare-for-linux-certification- 
''LINK:'' http://www.maketecheasier.com/mastering-xargs-command-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Stephen-Hawking-Talks-About-the-Linux-Based-Intel-Connected-Wheelchair-Project-458539.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/beginners-guide-setting-ssh-linux-testing-setup/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/787800-how-to-build-a-linux-media-server 
''LINK:'' https://clusterhq.com/blog/state-zfs-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTc4Njk 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/d/open-source-software/libreoffice-cash-code-strategy-tests-open-source-ethic-250254 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2014/09/chrome-os-can-now-run-android-apps-no-porting-required/#p3 
''LINK:'' http://jupiter.ninja/owncloud/public.php?service=files&t=a782d24212751716f75f7cf43f60ca1c 
''LINK:'' http://xmodulo.cotm/2014/09/harden-apache-web-server-mod_security-mod_evasive-centos.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux.com/news/featured-blogs/200-libby-clark/787161-how-amazon-web-services-uses-linux-and-open-source 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/enable-anonymous-account-for-proftpd-in-centos/ 
''LINK:'' http://integrate.com/company/careers 
''LINK:'' https://trueability.com/jobs/5xkfvg7?utm_source=CL-ITP&utm_medium=OINT-GoDaddy&utm_campaign=JBFirst 
''LINK:'' https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/itus/iguardian-the-home-internet-security-system?ref=nav_search 
''LINK:'' http://www.opbyte.it/grsync/ 
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/u/0/106398898073454924098/posts/gvkZqNM452u 
''LINK:'' http://www.meetup.com/PhoenixRedHatSoftwareUserGroup/events/202336622/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (122)
* FernHans (13)
* stephenm (7)
* MajB (4)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack2 (2)
* markthomas (2)
* pavlos (1)
* BobTucson (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:58 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:58 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 15 03:58:54 2014 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:58 <meetingology> 

 03:58 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <toddc> hi markthomas

 03:59 <MajB> evening markthomas

 04:00 <markthomas> howdy.

 04:00 <toddc> Hi Ron_A

 04:00 <stephenm> evening markthomas

 04:00 <Ron_A> Hi Todd

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> evning Ron_A

 04:00 <wmack2> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Good evening

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 92305.23

 04:00 <MajB> evening Ron_A

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in HTTP://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is HTTP://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats HTTP://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Yes,  But some of us cannot talk.

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership HTTP://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> HTTP://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal HTTP://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> HTTP://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:02 <toddc> HTTP://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:02 <toddc> Thanks to turbidtux for the news.

 04:03 <toddc> Top Linux Myths Dispelled

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/top-linux-myths-dispelled-1.html

 04:03 <toddc> 'Open and Libre Office projects should reunite'

 04:03 <toddc> https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/open-and-libre-office-projects-should-reunite

 04:03 <toddc> OpenTickets: An Open Source Event Management and Ticket Sales Platform Built on WordPress and WooCommerce

 04:03 <toddc> http://wptavern.com/opentickets-an-open-source-event-management-and-ticket-sales-platform-built-on-wordpress-and-woocommerce

 04:03 <toddc> Springseed Cultivates Note-Taking Simplicity

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/80988.html

 04:04 <toddc> Simple Ready to Roll Linux Backup Script

 04:04 <BobTucson> +1

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.iodigitalsec.com/simple-ready-to-roll-linux-backup-script/

 04:04 <toddc> Power your Raspberry Pi with almost any kind of battery

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.raspi.today/battborg-power-your-raspberry-pi-with-almost-any-kind-of-battery/

 04:04 <toddc> Ubuntu Touch Is an OS with a Heart in a World of Mindless Drones

 04:04 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Touch-Is-an-OS-with-a-Heart-in-World-of-Mindless-Drones-458324.shtml

 04:05 <toddc> Laid off from job, man builds tweeting toilet

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.computerworld.com/article/2605093/laid-off-from-job-man-builds-tweeting-toilet.html

 04:05 <toddc> How to Prepare for Linux Sysadmin Certification

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.linux.com/learn/linux-certifications/787483-how-to-prepare-for-linux-certification-

 04:05 <toddc> Perform Multiple Operations in Linux with the ‘xargs’ Command

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.maketecheasier.com/mastering-xargs-command-linux/

 04:06 <toddc> Stephen Hawking Talks About the Linux-Based Intel Connected Wheelchair Project

 04:06 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Stephen-Hawking-Talks-About-the-Linux-Based-Intel-Connected-Wheelchair-Project-458539.shtml

 04:06 <toddc> Beginner’s Guide To Setting Up SSH On Linux And Testing Your Setup

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/beginners-guide-setting-ssh-linux-testing-setup/

 04:06 <toddc> How to Build a Linux Media Server

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/787800-how-to-build-a-linux-media-server

 04:07 <toddc> ZFS On Linux is Production Ready, says Richard Yao

 04:07 <toddc> https://clusterhq.com/blog/state-zfs-on-linux/

 04:07 <toddc> X.Org Server 1.16 Lands Officially In Ubuntu 14.10

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTc4Njk

 04:07 <toddc> LibreOffice cash-for-code strategy tests open source ethic to build LibreOffice for android

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.infoworld.com/d/open-source-software/libreoffice-cash-code-strategy-tests-open-source-ethic-250254

 04:07 <toddc> Chrome OS can now run Android apps, no porting required

 04:07 <toddc> http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2014/09/chrome-os-can-now-run-android-apps-no-porting-required/#p3

 04:08 <toddc> Howto Install Gnome 3.12 on an existing Ubuntu Setup.

 04:08 <toddc> http://jupiter.ninja/owncloud/public.php?service=files&t=a782d24212751716f75f7cf43f60ca1c

 04:08 <toddc> How to harden Apache web server with mod_security and mod_evasive on CentOS

 04:08 <toddc> http://xmodulo.cotm/2014/09/harden-apache-web-server-mod_security-mod_evasive-centos.html

 04:08 <toddc> How Amazon Web Services Uses Linux and Open Source

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.linux.com/news/featured-blogs/200-libby-clark/787161-how-amazon-web-services-uses-linux-and-open-source

 04:09 <toddc> Enable Anonymous Account for Proftpd Server in RHEL/CentOS 7

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.tecmint.com/enable-anonymous-account-for-proftpd-in-centos/

 04:09 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:09 <toddc> Pearson Publishing has donated a free Official Ubuntu Book to the Loco Team use. We have two copys if anyone would like to borrow them Thanks to Pearson publishing.

 04:10 <toddc> Ubuntu 14.04 DVD's are In stock and ready to pass out carry some with you!!

 04:10 <toddc> We have started a team project board to list projects that could/should be done for team HTTP://www.azloco.org/node/184

 04:10 <toddc> if you pick one please leave a comment and status and ask for help

 04:10 <toddc> JOB list

 04:10 <toddc> DevOps Engineer

 04:11 <toddc> http://integrate.com/company/careers

 04:11 <toddc> 45 current canonical Jobs this week  and they are adding more each day

 04:11 <toddc> HTTP://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <toddc> Linux Systems Administrator @ godaddy.com

 04:11 <toddc> https://trueability.com/jobs/5xkfvg7?utm_source=CL-ITP&utm_medium=OINT-GoDaddy&utm_campaign=JBFirst

 04:11 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:11 <toddc> iGuardian – The Home Internet Security System by Itus Networks

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/itus/iguardian-the-home-internet-security-system?ref=nav_search

 04:12 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:12 <toddc> Grsync is used to synchronize folders, files and make backups.

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.opbyte.it/grsync/

 04:12 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:12 <toddc> we have started adding users to the Owncloud server talk to wmack or toddc for accounts

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:13 <toddc> Installfest

 04:13 <toddc> will be Saturday September 20 at Gangplank 260 S Arizona Ave, Chandler, AZ, from 10 am to 4 pm

 04:13 <toddc> Park across the street in the chandler parking garage.

 04:13 <toddc> This open for all for chat and linux projects like router and Raspberry PI and almost any linux project For more information see calender at HTTP://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:13 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:13 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  Thu, September 25, 5:30pm – 6:30pm

 04:13 <toddc> Sierra Vista Public Library (foyer) 2600 East Tacoma St. Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:13 <toddc> see HTTP://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:14 <toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:14 <toddc> Thursday September 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame in Tempe southern and McClintock

 04:14 <toddc> HTTP://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:14 <toddc> and

 04:14 <toddc> open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or HTTP://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:14 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be October 01 7pm – 9pmStarbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA HTTP://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:15 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:15 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:15 <toddc> There were 5 people at the last event

 04:15 <toddc> LINUX TRAINING

 04:16 <toddc> Linux Intro Course Available Online for Free from edX and The Linux Foundation

 04:16 <toddc> HTTP://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free more classes have been added and more dates

 04:16 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/

 04:16 <toddc> LFD320 Linux Kernel Internals and Debugging

 04:16 <toddc> 15 Sep » 19 Sep - Virtual

 04:16 <stephenm> They have a good intro for amateur admins at edX

 04:16 <toddc> LFS220 Linux System Administration

 04:17 <toddc> 22 Sep » 25 Sep - Virtual

 04:17 <toddc> we have several members that are taking the courses

 04:17 <toddc> ubuntu on-air

 04:17 <toddc> HTTP://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:17 <toddc> HTTP://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:18 <toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net

 04:18 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:18 <toddc> When Tue, September 16, 8am – 9pm AZ local time

 04:18 <stephenm> Whats happening on the 22?

 04:19 <toddc> nothing that I know of

 04:19 <toddc> FernHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:19 <stephenm> The virtual class you're talking about toddc

 04:20 <toddc> linux ed class starts on the 22nd

 04:20 <toddc> LFS220 Linux System Administration

 04:20 <stephenm> OK I might be taking something else from them because I alright started a course.  That might be their paid class

 04:20 <toddc> 22 Sep » 25 Sep - Virtual

 04:21 <FernHans> toddc: yup

 04:21 <FernHans> the Free Software Stammtisch is this Tuesday

 04:21 <FernHans> we're still at Iguana Macks this month

 04:21 <FernHans> it's looking like it will work out to stay there

 04:21 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/106398898073454924098/posts/gvkZqNM452u

 04:22 <FernHans> Next month's east side meeting will have a topic on Sensu monitoring framework

 04:22 <FernHans> November's east side meeting will have a topic on Privoxy, a non-caching web proxy with advanced filtering capabilities for enhancing privacy

 04:22 <FernHans> December's east side meeting will be our annual end of year party

 04:22 <FernHans> This Wednesday is the next Red Hat Software Users Group meeting

 04:22 <FernHans> All about Open Source with The Fedora Project's Robyn Bergeron

 04:22 <FernHans> Robyn was recently the Fedora project leader and has been involved in Free Software at many levels

 04:22 <FernHans> http://www.meetup.com/PhoenixRedHatSoftwareUserGroup/events/202336622/

 04:23 <FernHans> and that's it for this week

 04:23 <toddc> thanks FernHans  for all the other events

 04:23 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:24 <wmack2> thanks todd!

 04:24 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:24 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
