{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 06 May at 04:00 &mdash; 04:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-05-06-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/4/what-developer-journal 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/mark-shuttleworth-sees-increased-demand-for-enterprise-ubuntu-linux-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/toradex-spins-a-distro-for-embedded-linux-newbies/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-icecast-media-streaming-server-on-ubuntu-1804/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/plotting-linux-kmplot 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/goodbye-shadowman-red-hat-changes-its-logo/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-edit-config-files-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/apache-hooks-up-with-github/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/lsof-command-examples-linux-geeks/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/find-and-delete-empty-directories-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/automatically-delete-clean-up-tmp-directory-folder-contents-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-copy-files-and-directories-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/how-to-kill-a-process-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/04/how-to-mount-bitlocker-encrypted.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-clear-the-dns-cache/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/5/python-black 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-open-web-analytics-on-debian-9/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-shell-script-to-monitor-disk-space-usage-and-send-email/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/red-hat-virtualization-4-3-is-at-the-starting-gate/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-tensorflow-on-debian-9/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-memcached-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://hire.withgoogle.com/public/jobs/hiringsolvedcom/view/P_AAAAAAFAABIDOcdMSyMtqF 
''LINK:'' https://www.seclore.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/fanless-mini-tower-runs-linux-mint-on-up-to-5ghz-octa-core-i9-9900k/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Telegram-Provides-Nuclear-Option-to-Erase-Sent-Messages-85916.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (60)
* stephenm (59)
* MajB (37)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon May  6 04:00:40 2019 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 96942.75

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Happy Cinco de Mayo!

 04:01 <MajB> Rah

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <stephenm> News starts from basic Linux, computer stuff then goes on from there.

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> What is a developer journal?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/4/what-developer-journal

 04:03 <stephenm> This is a good idea and something I sorta started then stop. But it is a good idea.

 04:03 <stephenm> Mark Shuttleworth sees increased demand for enterprise Ubuntu Linux desktop

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/mark-shuttleworth-sees-increased-demand-for-enterprise-ubuntu-linux-desktop/

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux is getting onto the desktop and people need support, who knew.

 04:03 <stephenm> Toradex spins a distro for embedded Linux newbies

 04:03 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/toradex-spins-a-distro-for-embedded-linux-newbies/

 04:04 <stephenm> Seems like an OK distro but I didn't have anything to test it on.

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Icecast 2 Media Streaming Server on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-icecast-media-streaming-server-on-ubuntu-1804/

 04:04 <stephenm> Plotting on Linux with KmPlot

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/plotting-linux-kmplot

 04:04 <stephenm> This is pretty interesting and would had been useful when I was in HS back in the early 2000s

 04:05 <stephenm> Goodbye, Shadowman: Red Hat changes its logo

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/goodbye-shadowman-red-hat-changes-its-logo/

 04:05 <stephenm> I'll miss shadow man, he was cool.  But at least they are keeping the hat red.

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Edit Config Files in Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-edit-config-files-in-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Vim to write scripts, Nano to edit

 04:05 <stephenm> Apache ahooks up with GitHub

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/apache-hooks-up-with-github/

 04:06 <stephenm> 18 Quick lsof command examples for Linux Geeks

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechi.com/lsof-command-examples-linux-geeks/

 04:06 <stephenm> Some of the commands are interesting

 04:06 <stephenm> Find and Delete Empty Directories on the Linux Command Line

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/find-and-delete-empty-directories-linux.html

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Automatically Delete Or Clean Up /tmp Folder Contents In Linux?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/automatically-delete-clean-up-tmp-directory-folder-contents-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Copy Files and Directories in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-copy-files-and-directories-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> A Guide to Kill, Pkill and Killall Commands to Terminate a Process in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/how-to-kill-a-process-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Mount BitLocker-Encrypted Windows Partitions On Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/04/how-to-mount-bitlocker-encrypted.html

 04:07 <stephenm> I guess if you put enough work into something, anything is crackable.

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Clear the DNS Cache

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-clear-the-dns-cache/

 04:07 <stephenm> Format Python however you like with Black

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/5/python-black

 04:08 <stephenm> How To Create SSH Alias In Linux https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-create-ssh-alias-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install Open Web Analytics on Debian 9

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-open-web-analytics-on-debian-9/

 04:08 <stephenm> Linux Shell Script To Monitor Disk Space Usage And Send Email

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-shell-script-to-monitor-disk-space-usage-and-send-email/

 04:08 <stephenm> Red Hat Virtualization 4.3 is at the starting gate

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/red-hat-virtualization-4-3-is-at-the-starting-gate/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install TensorFlow on Debian 9

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-tensorflow-on-debian-9/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install Memcached on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-memcached-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:09 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to you toddc

 04:09 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:09 <MajB> None so far

 04:09 <stephenm> There is a LinuxFest in Irving, TX at the end of May if anyone wants to show up :D

 04:10 <toddc> cool nice for a change

 04:10 <toddc> stephenm: are you going?

 04:10 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <stephenm> ya I'm going to see if I can get off work on that Friday and also go Saturday.  Would like it to be Saturday and Sunday but eh

 04:11 <toddc> stephenm: let us know how it goes and any ideas that could help us

 04:11 <stephenm> I will

 04:11 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:11 <toddc> several new articles thanks markthomas

 04:12 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:12 <toddc> ok that time

 04:12 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:12 <toddc> Why do they call it hyper text?

 04:12 <toddc> Too much JAVA

 04:13 <toddc> Why did the developer go broke?

 04:13 <toddc> Because he used up all his cache

 04:13 <toddc> Q. What creature has the best aptitude for engineering ?

 04:13 <MajB> Beaver

 04:13 <toddc> A. The spider ??? It has its own website.

 04:13 <toddc> MajB may have a bit of trouble tonight I heard he was going to thow his computer out the window so he may be sitting on the roadside typing tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> Just the mic

 04:14 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:14 <toddc> Canonical has 57 open positions

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <toddc> Full-stack Software Engineer

 04:14 <toddc> https://hire.withgoogle.com/public/jobs/hiringsolvedcom/view/P_AAAAAAFAABIDOcdMSyMtqF

 04:14 <toddc> Onsite Technical Consultant

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.seclore.com/careers/

 04:15 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:15 <toddc> Fanless mini-tower runs Linux Mint on up to 5GHz octa-core i9-9900K

 04:15 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/fanless-mini-tower-runs-linux-mint-on-up-to-5ghz-octa-core-i9-9900k/

 04:15 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> Telegram Provides Nuclear Option to Erase Sent Messages

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Telegram-Provides-Nuclear-Option-to-Erase-Sent-Messages-85916.html

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:16 <MajB> 09 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires

 04:16 <MajB> 18 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwar

 04:16 <MajB> e.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 23 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 01 June, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  Location TBA.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with

 04:16 <MajB> theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <MajB> 06 June,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:17 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <toddc> MajB: do you have them handy?

 04:18 <MajB> Yes

 04:18 <MajB> I will cover them with the other LUG events

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 09 May 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:19 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 16 May 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:19 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:19 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 21 May  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things

 04:19 <MajB> tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 26 May 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 07 June 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 08 May 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 25 May 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:20 <MajB> And back to you toddc

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:21 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:21 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:21 <MajB> I have nothing else

 04:21 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:21 <stephenm> night all

 04:21 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:21 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
