{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> +1
* Rich__ (c757e5ab@gateway/web/freenode/ip.199.87.229.171) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<Dazed_75> +1
<Dazed_75> Hiya Rich__
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<Rich__> +1
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<Rich__> How goes things?
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Some of us are in   http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/     tonight if you want to talk or see us!
<Dazed_75> Pretty Good Rich.  We wondered if we should have not met on Mothers Day
<toddc> Rich__:  great how are you this evening?
<toddc> Happy Mothersday!!! have you hugged your MAMA? :)
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> 12.04 is here!
* [R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Alternate Search Engines That Respect Your Privacy
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/113513/5-alternative-search-engines-that-respect-your-privacy
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> How to Get Hulu and Amazon Video on XBMC
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/113491/how-to-get-hulu-and-amazon-video-on-xbmc
<toddc> I have been using DuckDuckGo for almost a year
<Dazed_75> Precise Pangolin: Ubuntu Grows Up
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/75057.html
<Dazed_75> New Hampshire Requires State Agencies to Use Open Source Software and Data Formats
<Dazed_75> http://www.nhliberty.org/bills/view/2012/HB418
<toddc> Nice move New Hampshire, Az should be so lucky
<Dazed_75> First EA Games Arrive in the Ubuntu Software Center (but read the end of the article)
<Dazed_75> http://www.thepowerbase.com/2012/05/first-ea-games-arrive-in-the-ubuntu-software-center/
<Dazed_75> How to Connect to a VPN in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/connect-to-a-vpn-in-ubuntu/2012/05/07
<Dazed_75> 11 Tips for Navigating the New Gmail Interface
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/11-tips-for-navigating-the-new-gmail-interface/2012/05/06
<Dazed_75> DayFolder Automatically Organizes Your Cluttered Ubuntu Desktop
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/dayfolder-automatically-organizes-your-cluttered-ubuntu-desktop/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu to Ship on 5% of All PCs Sold Next Year
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/ubuntu-to-ship-on-5-of-all-pcs-sold-next-year/
<Dazed_75> GUI CyanogenMod Compiler Tool for Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/gui-cyanogenmod-compiler-tool-for-ubuntu/
<toddc> I want to try that
<Dazed_75> New Ubuntu for Android Video Demo Appears Online
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/new-ubuntu-for-android-video-demo-appears-online/
<Dazed_75> How to Add Unity Progress Bars to Firefox
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/how-to-add-unity-progress-bars-to-firefox/
* cc11rocks (~cc11rocks@ip24-251-49-54.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Featured in BBC News Website
<Dazed_75> http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-17916879
<cc11rocks> +1
<toddc> hi cc11rocks !
<cc11rocks> Hello
<cc11rocks> Sorry I'm late
<Dazed_75> GIMP 2.8 Stable Finally Available for Download
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/gimp-28-stable-finally-available-for.html
<toddc> np just starting
<Dazed_75> Install GIMP Plugin Registry for GIMP 2.8 in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/install-gimp-plugin-registry-for-gimp.html
<Dazed_75> How to Get Dodge Windows and Minimize on Click for Unity in Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/how-to-get-dodge-windows-and-minimize.html
<Dazed_75> How to Install Ubuntu 12.04 on Non-PAE Capable Hardware
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/how-to-install-ubuntu-1204-on-non-pae.html
<Dazed_75> Simple Way to Test That Hibernate Will Work and to Enable Hibernate in Ubuntu Precise
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/simply-way-to-enable-hibernate-feature-in-ubuntu-precise/
<cc11rocks> I've probably seen all of these :P...I've been checking on about 10 different sites every day...A lot of my freetime has been going to Linux news/research/etc
<Dazed_75> Two Methods to Upgrade from 11.10 to 12.04 and One for 10.04 to 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/heres-two-method-that-is-helping-ubuntu-user-to-upgrade-ubuntu-11-1010-04-to-ubuntu-12-04-lts/
<Dazed_75> Quick Tip: Change System Proxy Settings via Command Line in Ubuntu Precise
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/quick-tips-change-system-proxy-settings-via-command-line-in-ubuntu-precise/
<Dazed_75> Rosegarden 12.04, an Audio and MIDI Sequencer and Musical Notation Editor for Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.rosegardenmusic.com/wiki/dev:12.04
<Dazed_75> DesktopLinuxReviews.com Reviews Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/2012/05/09/ubuntu-12-04/
<Dazed_75> Funny and/or Useless Commands
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/10-funny-and-useless-linux-command/2012/03/22
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/10-more-funny-andor-useless-linux-commands/2012/05/10
<Dazed_75> LibreOffice 3.4 Guides Available for Both Purchase and Free
<Dazed_75> http://iloveubuntu.net/libreoffice-34-writer-guide-available-both-purchase-and-free-download
<Dazed_75> https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Documentation/Publications
<Dazed_75> Making a PDF Anyone Can Edit (A Hybrid PDF)
<Dazed_75> http://webmink.com/2012/05/07/making-hybrid-pdfs/
<Dazed_75> LibreOffice Video
<Dazed_75> http://webmink.com/2012/02/19/libreoffice-video/
<Dazed_75> and thats all I have for tonight
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc> I have a couple more to add!
<toddc> Dell aims Ubuntu Linux laptop at developers
<toddc> http://news.techworld.com/mobile-wireless/3356785/dell-aims-ubuntu-linux-laptop-at-developers/
<toddc> The Perfect Server - Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (nginx, BIND, Dovecot, ISPConfig 3)
<toddc> http://www.howtoforge.com/perfect-server-ubuntu-12.04-lts-nginx-bind-dovecot-ispconfig-3
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> I just got my Rasberry PI and tried to set it up at the event Saterday and it seems I have a defective one so it it will be a while longer before we have one to play with :(
<cc11rocks> Dang
<toddc> We now have 12.04 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 Adrenaline or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Systems Administrator (Scottsdale)
<toddc> pwpdb-3012155149@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> Server Provisioning Technician (North Scottsdale)
<toddc> knbrw-3009525508@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> NOC Engineer III
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=1333951&t=1
<toddc> Infrastructure Engineer III
<toddc> http://www.svb.com/careers/search/?fuseaction=mExternal.showJob&rid=1164
<cc11rocks> toddc : Any way you guys could ship me one?
<toddc> System Engineer
<toddc> michaelmoore0091@gmail.com
<rudgan> Hello guys - is there going to be a install fest next saturday ?
<toddc> yes email me at toddc@azloco.com your addresss :)
<Dazed_75> rudgan: Yes there is a Server emphasis Installfest
<toddc> yes there will be a server installfest saterday
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday May 17 will be the first Ubuntu hour at Extreame Bean at southern and McClintock  South east Mall area. We have had several people contact me about events and offer to start other Ubuntu Hours in Bullhead and Kingman and Tucson
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<rudgan> Oh yea - if anyone is interested... there is a UNIX system Admin position at CVS - its 3rd shift position
<toddc> cool I will add it to my list thanks
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is June 2  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<Dazed_75> PLUS the Server Emphasis one next Saturday of course
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so we are also thinking about a room change in the future. The last several events were at or near standing room only.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
* anne0895 (~anne@ip98-165-228-182.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> hi anne0895  welcome!
<anne0895> hi^^
<Dazed_75> Hitas
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<cc11rocks> Hello anne0895
<toddc> Server Installfest will be Saturday May 19 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<anne0895> hey cc11rocks
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> We are planning to attend the LUGY meeting in Prescott on June 11 at 7pm
<toddc> I am planning on a carpool for those interested leaving at Az Mills Mall at 4PM
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday May 15 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<cc11rocks> LUGY? Linux User Group ___
<toddc> prescott Linux user group
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> http://www.lugy.net/
<toddc> short meeting tonight
<Rich__> Is anyone here using cyanogenmod?
<toddc> yes I am
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
