{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Anybody else here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Failure is not an option -- it comes bundled with Windows.
<Dazed_75> Being a holiday, IS there anyone else here?
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> 18 Days till 12.04
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> Backup Your Linux System with Back In Time
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/110138/how-to-back-up-your-linux-system-with-back-in-time
<Dazed_75> 10 Useful Extensions to LibreOffice
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/201204-useful-extensions-for-libreoffice/
<Dazed_75> KDE 4.8.2 Fixes a Number of Bugs
<Dazed_75> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTA4Mjc
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu in South African Schools
<Dazed_75> http://mybroadband.co.za/news/columns/43737-ubuntu-in-south-african-schools.html
<Dazed_75> Howto Easily Automount Windows NTFS Partition in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>    http://maketecheasier.com/easily-automount-windows-ntfs-partition-in-ubuntu/2012/04/06
<Dazed_75> Here Comes The Nightingale to Linux
<Dazed_75>    http://maketecheasier.com/here-comes-the-nightingale-linux/2012/04/05
<Dazed_75> GNOME 3.4 Review and Hands-on
<Dazed_75>    http://maketecheasier.com/gnome-3-4-review-and-hands-on/2012/04/04
<Dazed_75> How to Make Unity 2D Launcher Icons Smaller with a Script
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/how-to-change-unity-2d-launcher-icon-size-with-a-script/
<Dazed_75> Howto Record and Share Terminal Screencasts Quickly
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/how-to-record-and-share-terminal-screencasts-quickly/
<Dazed_75> Task Management App 'Nitro' Debuts on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/task-management-app-nitrotasks-debuts-on-ubuntu/
<Dazed_75>    http://nitrotasks.com/?q=omg
<Dazed_75> Why Tans Must Die (clearly an opinion piece)
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/why-tabs-must-die/
<Dazed_75> First Novel Hits Ubuntu Software Center
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/first-novel-hits-ubuntu-software-center/
<Dazed_75> 15 New Wallpapers Land on 12.04
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/15-new-wallpapers-land-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<Dazed_75> Linux Tycoon - A Simulation Game for Distro Dreamers
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/could-you-create-the-next-ubuntu/
<Dazed_75> Smarten Up Your Desktop with This Conky * Wallpaper Combo
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/smarten-up-your-desktop-with-this-conky-wallpaper-combo/
<Dazed_75> How Linux is Built [video]
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/video-how-linux-is-built/
<Dazed_75> Gloobus Preview Update Brings GTK3 and Ubuntu 12.04 Support, and More
<Dazed_75>    http://www.webupd8.org/2012/04/gloobus-preview-update-brings-gtk3-and.html
<Dazed_75> Bumblebee Workaround for Nvidia Optimus on 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/04/gloobus-preview-update-brings-gtk3-and.html
<Dazed_75> Termsaver: Pretty Cool Text Based Screensaver, Try It in 12.04
<Dazed_75>    http://ubuntuportal.com/termsaver-pretty-cool-text-based-screensav
* adrenaline_ +1
<Dazed_75> Easy Way to Create a PDF Printer in Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75>    http://ubuntuportal.com/easy-way-to-create-pdf-printer-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<Dazed_75> Quick Tip: How to Change Network Card Speed and Duplex in Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75>    http://ubuntuportal.com/quick-tips-how-to-change-network-card-speed-and-duplex-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<toddc> thank Dazed_75 for the news !
<Dazed_75> thats it from me
<toddc> Canonical’s Ubuntu System Management Service Landscape become default in Ubuntu 12.04
<toddc> http://ubuntuguide.net/canonicals-ubuntu-system-management-service-landscape-become-default-in-ubuntu-12-04
<toddc> Debian/Ubuntu: Making a Package Repository on Your LAN
<toddc> http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/articles/debianubuntu_making_package_repository_your_lan
<toddc> fun idea for the installfest?
<toddc> Canonical Metal As A Service (MAAS) Tool To Launch With Ubuntu 12.04 Beta 2
<toddc> http://www.crazyengineers.com/canonical-metal-as-a-service-maas-tool-to-launch-with-ubuntu-12-04-beta-2-2029/
<toddc> Ubuntu Cloud Summit May 8 2012 Oakland Ca
<toddc> http://uds.ubuntu.com/cloud-summit/
<toddc> Thanks to Scott_ev for straighting out the email list we now have  100% control of all team services
<toddc> adrenaline we are in BBB
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> 12.04  cd's  have been ordered and should be here  around may 5th
<toddc> If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Network Administrator
<toddc> http://practicemax.iapplicants.com/ViewJob-225397.html
<toddc> Web-Hosting Tech Support (Level II - III)
<toddc> http://www.arvixe.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> We will be moving several events around as part of changes in the server and regular installfest
<toddc> and we will announce more after we check the schedule at UAT for rooms
<toddc> Dazed_75 would like to add more info at this time?
<toddc> We will also be trying to stream all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc>  Yesterday's installfest went very well. It was not a large turn out but we have a great time and kept busy with several projects and had a very good time talking and testing and several new people showed up for help and to help it was nice to see every one
<toddc> last week We even got to see a Prescott lug member that Dazed_75 and I Met last year when we went up there
<toddc> so we need to plan another trip up there soon   http://www.lugy.net/ they meet on the 2nd Tuesday
<toddc> thinks of a good month and lets get a group together and go up there again and show support
<toddc> current thoughts are to drive up there 05/08/12  anyone interested?
<xHans> toddc: for your job list, I know of two places looking for interns. I believe there are positions for developers and sysadmins, must be current student
* sun_devil (~devildog@ip68-106-2-117.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<adrenaline_> Post em xHans
<toddc> cool would you like to add them or contact me/
<toddc> welcome sun_devil
<sun_devil> Thanks, my name is Eric
<xHans> adrenaline: I'll put up info when I ferret out more specifics
<adrenaline_> roger that
<adrenaline_> I Eric
<xHans> toddc: I'll send when I get the details
<adrenaline_> Hi Eric
<Dazed_75> Welcome Eric.  WOuld you like to into yourself?
<Dazed_75> Introduce
<Dazed_75> Sorry for my typing skills
<sun_devil> I am Eric and just wanted to hear the conversation
<Dazed_75> OK, you are welcome to do that
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Yesterday we had a great event and had three new users show up and  total of 11 as I recall
<adrenaline_> Hi Eric, I am Mike it is nice to meet you
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<sun_devil> Hi Mike
<toddc> Big news with a little prodding adrenaline will now be the server team leader so if you need to schedule server time access etc he will be your contact. Please be patent till he gets his feet wet as we are still
<toddc> listing  server inventory specs and putting in a process and documentation system.
<toddc> This week I got access to team servers that are located in Tempe at One Neck IT
<toddc> we have a half rack provided by Devry as a co-location trade. Seem we are only one that currently using it and will be forming plans and ideas for projects in the near future.
<toddc> Server wiki is    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server adrenaline gets this page too
<toddc> I suppose we should  vote on team Server Leader all approve +1 all disapprove -1
<toddc> +1
<adrenaline_> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> adrenaline is voted as server team leader :)
<toddc> thanks to Eric for updating the azlocbbb.banditti.com stie to 0.8-3 it really works great with a lot of new features but will need a web designer to complete the upgrade and customize the API's so we need a volunteer if someone would like to take it on please let me know
* adrenaline_ bows
<toddc> then falls on his head :)
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Ubuntu Algorithm Class Fri, April 13, 5pm – 6pm
<toddc> Where#ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode
<adrenaline_> :)
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> ETA for my raspberry PI is 4/23 and as soon as it shows we will be setting up a few events test/break it in and see what it can do!  Any and all ideas for projects are welcome
<toddc> how about a picture mounted in rack with the caption raspberry powered data center?
<toddc> ubuntu training is UTC time!!!!!!
<toddc> xHans would you like to take the floor?
<xHans> soitanly
* xHans does a modern dance interpretation of the jazz standard >>Stairway to Heaven<<.
* adrenaline_ likes
<xHans> PLUG west side meeting is this Thursday
<xHans> Tucker Wolfe will talk about resume writing
<Dazed_75> East Side?
<xHans> *hint, hint* Tucker is a recruiter at a tech company that is hiring :)
<xHans> Dazed_75: yeah, that one :)
<xHans> east side meeting this Thursday
<xHans> Brian will cover more how to for graphics tools such as Inkscape, Blender and th
<xHans> e GIMP
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2012/04/12/21/-/plug-east-meeting.html?Itemid=1
<xHans> Dazed_75: only off by one letter...
<Dazed_75> :)
<xHans> the Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
<xHans> and that's all the news there isn't
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<Dazed_75> xHans, Isn't there a presentation about AI at the East Side meeting as well?
<sun_devil> How many Plugs does AZ have?
<toddc> 1
<xHans> Dazed_75: that was last month
<Dazed_75> 8 in my car
<adrenaline_> But we have more events than just plugs sun_devil
<toddc> Phoenix linux user group
<adrenaline_> We have server/desktop install fests
<Dazed_75> aaah, sory.  thought I read it on the PLUG calendar
<xHans> sun_devil: PLUG has several events every month
<sun_devil> Mostly Tempe?
* adrenaline_ learns something new on every one of them
<xHans> sun_devil: there's also the AZLoCo ( this mtg ), some of the events are from both groups together
<xHans> sun_devil: and then there's ASULUG
<toddc> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/ azloco does most events together with plug
<Dazed_75> I will need to talk to the steering committee about the installfests changes we are planning
<xHans> sun_devil: and then the Free Software Stammtisch, http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<sun_devil> I like the installfests, I always go home with more knowledge.
<xHans> sun_devil: most of the PLUG stuff has now moved a bit east of Tempe, but used to be mostly in Tempe
<toddc> http://azloco.com/ has a calender of events
<xHans> Installfests are great
<sun_devil> East as in Mesa?
<adrenaline_> Shubes did a good presentation this weekend at the install fest about his VMWare server.
<Dazed_75> aye, at MCC
<xHans> sun_devil: well, I believe we're now in Tempe ( Installfest ) and Mesa ( east side mtg ) and then the Stammtisch is in Gilbert
<xHans> oh and devel is also in Tempe
<toddc> University of Advancing Technology: 2625 W Baseline,Tempe, AZ 85283(South side of Baseline Road west of I-10, just east of 48th street). We are in room 208.
<sun_devil> I missed the serverfest, did not know they would talk about VMWare servers
<toddc> current location for installfests
<adrenaline_> Stammtish is worth the drive, but I mostly say that because I live blocks away lol
<adrenaline_> VMware is also a server
<sun_devil> ok
<adrenaline_> Some of it was over my head but some of it wasn't it was all interesting and I learned something new so it was all worth it
<sun_devil> Wow
<toddc> adrenaline what would you like for a username @azloco.com?
<adrenaline_> mikea
<toddc> kk
<adrenaline_> if it is available
<sun_devil> Where's Larry
<Dazed_75> xHans: I just looked at the PLUG site where I saw the announcement about the AI talk and you it was actually 2/9 when I missed.  But it has not scrolled off the front page yet
<Dazed_75> I (Larry) am here
<Dazed_75> or did you mean where I live?  Apache Junction
<xHans> Dazed_75: yeah, I emailed Brian again asking for this month's topic to be added
<sun_devil> I figured your east valley
<xHans> we've had it for weeks, but still not on the site :(
<Dazed_75> sun_devil: Yup kinda far east :)
<sun_devil> Further out then me, we are on Power, east Mesa
<Dazed_75> Ironwood and 60
<sun_devil> You can see the flat iron
<xHans> sun_devil: you out at the polytech campus?
<sun_devil> Nope, Tempe ASU alum
<xHans> ah, OK
<sun_devil> Polytech is interesting and have looked around the campus
<xHans> got to see lots of it when I visited the makerfaire because we couldn't figure out how to leave...
<sun_devil> xHans, makerfaire?
<sun_devil> Iam really out of Mesa CC and taking as many tech classes as I can, mostly Linux
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
