{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===

<pre>
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:00:03] <johnc4510>	ok, lets get started then
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:00:06] <tyche>	+1
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:00:11] <kennymc0_laptop>	+1
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:00:17] <banditti>	=2
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:00:26] <kennymc0_laptop>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:00:33] <johnc4510>	first, we try to let new folks introduce themselves
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:00:43] <johnc4510>	banditti: please  just a line or two
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:00:53] <johnc4510>	btw banditti started all this
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:00:57] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:01:04] <kennymc0_laptop>	started all what?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:01:09] <johnc4510>	the team
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:01:14] <kennymc0_laptop>	ah cool
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:01:18] <banditti>	Tis true and johnc4510 picked it up and is not a sloth like I am
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:01:24] <gunxfight>	haha
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:01:25] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:01:29] <DesertPenquin>	well thank you banditti
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:01:43] <banditti>	Most of the time Sunday is family day, but I have to work, so multitasking
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:01:52] <johnc4510>	banditti: is also vorians brother in law
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:02:15] <tyche>	Oh THAT'S how you got involved with vorian.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:02:17] <banditti>	and with that johnc4510 has completed my couple of lines
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:02:21] <banditti>	whew ....
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:02:24] <johnc4510>	ok, well, it's great to have you around banditti
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:02:25] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:02:43] <johnc4510>	calimer-: could you intro yourself please
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:02:57] <tyche>	banditti: You're still welcome to drop in here, even if you ARE the cause of it all.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:03:00] <johnc4510>	just a line or two please
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:03:07] <banditti>	thank you.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:03:11] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:03:22] <calimer->	sure, I'm from NY, I sub for a school district, teach game design at the college level and HS, and work on game projects on the side
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:03:34] <gunxfight>	awesome
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:03:34] <johnc4510>	cool
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:03:40] <banditti>	where in NY?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:03] <tyche>	My old stomping ground - Schenectady
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:09] <kennymc0_laptop>	cool
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:11] <calimer->	near albany
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:15] <banditti>	I lived in Troy, worked in Albany
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:15] <calimer->	yeah schenectady
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:29] <calimer->	the HS afters chool program I do is for catholic high in troy
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:33] <johnc4510>	too many vowels
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:35] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:40] <gunxfight>	haha true
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:04:42] <banditti>	emma willard?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:03] <calimer->	no it is called catholic high, emma is the all girl school
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:14] <johnc4510>	man that banditti gets around
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:18] <johnc4510>	hee hee
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:21] <gunxfight>	hah
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:21] <kennymc0_laptop>	seems like it
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:21] <gunxfight>	a
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:28] <johnc4510>	ok, welcome calimer-
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:34] <gunxfight>	welcome
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:36] <calimer->	wooo thanks
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:37] <johnc4510>	next is gunxfight i think
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:42] <johnc4510>	if you would please
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:46] <gunxfight>	i'm not new
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:48] <gunxfight>	:(
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:53] <johnc4510>	oh, k
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:54] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:57] <gunxfight>	haha
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:05:57] <tyche>	Yea, but you're helpful.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:07] <gunxfight>	i was at the installfest and the mesa release party
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:08] <calimer->	and my main project now is http://kids.platinumarts.net :)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:11] <tyche>	johnc4510: He did a lot at the installfest, helping people
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:14] <johnc4510>	i didn't remember intro-ing you
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:16] <calimer->	as tyche and others prob know
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:30] <gunxfight>	ya you did a while back
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:35] <johnc4510>	yeah i talked with him after he did an install of a box
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:38] <johnc4510>	in channel
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:43] <johnc4510>	gunxfight: kk
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:43] <tyche>	Yep
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:45] <johnc4510>	sorry
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:47] <gunxfight>	yeah when i was on rondo's username
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:54] <gunxfight>	its ok
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:06:55] <johnc4510>	is that all the new folks then
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:07:03] <johnc4510>	rondo that was it
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:07:08] <tyche>	pr0nGuy?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:07:21] <johnc4510>	pr0nGuy: have you introduced yourself yet?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:07:39] <johnc4510>	i'm gun(xfight) shy now
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:07:41] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:07:41] <kennymc0_laptop>	we tried to have him introduce himself last week but he wasnt here
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:07:45] <gunxfight>	haha
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:07:48] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:07:59] <johnc4510>	ok, moving on then
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:08:17] <johnc4510>	first , a great job to all on the installfest
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:08:20] <johnc4510>	!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:08:25] <johnc4510>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Installfest
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:08:29] <kennymc0_laptop>	:)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:08:33] <johnc4510>	pics there ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^6
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:08:46] <gunxfight>	yeah!
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:08:49] <gunxfight>	that installfest was awesome
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:08:51] <johnc4510>	a big success as far as i'm concerned
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:08:58] <kennymc0_laptop>	you should have put the picture that i took of the blue screen of death saying that's what we were saving people from
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:09:00] <kennymc0_laptop>	hee hee
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:09:03] <johnc4510>	and we'll make the next one even better
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:09:09] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:09:28] <johnc4510>	so, any thoughts on how to make the next one better?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:09:29] <gunxfight>	Kennymc: did you see both computers had bsod right next to each other
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:09:50] <johnc4510>	i have one
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:10:06] <gunxfight>	hans from plug mentioned something about a script tyche might know more about
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:10:08] <johnc4510>	we need to find a better way to get the news out to the public
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:10:14] <johnc4510>	oh
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:10:18] <johnc4510>	tyche: script?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:10:29] <johnc4510>	from hans
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:10:37] <tyche>	Not that I know of.  I wasn't in on that discussion.  We'll have to ask him.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:10:42] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:10:56] <tyche>	Unless gunxfight was talking about the branding idea.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:10:56] <gunxfight>	i don't really remember but it was something about makeing firefox's homepage a help page by us?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:11:05] <gunxfight>	yeah that might be it
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:11:12] <tyche>	Yea, that was part of the branding idea
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:11:14] <johnc4510>	hey that's a dandy idea
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:11:25] <gunxfight>	and we should have it more centrally located
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:11:35] <banditti>	central to what?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:11:40] <gunxfight>	everything
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:11:45] <gunxfight>	peoria is the west side
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:11:54] <johnc4510>	someone, paul928_ ? maybe suggested a disk with our own team branding for the theme
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:00] <gunxfight>	we need it in tempe or east pheonix
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:06] <kennymc0_laptop>	if my school wasnt being retarded right now i might have been able to get us in there
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:10] <johnc4510>	or maybe at ASU
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:17] <gunxfight>	ya i was thinking asu
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:18] <johnc4510>	that's tempe thought  right?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:23] <gunxfight>	we could talk to asulug about it
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:32] <gunxfight>	yes ASU is in tempe
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:32] <johnc4510>	are they active?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:42] <kennymc0_laptop>	dont know i havent checked with them
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:46] <gunxfight>	i'm not really sure, i just heard about them today really
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:49] <johnc4510>	last time i look they didn't have much going on
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:49] Join	enigmastrat has joined this channel (i=3fe2328e@gateway/web/ajax/mibbit.com/x-5148b33546c6a9c2).
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:12:59] <enigmastrat>	hey guys
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:00] <tyche>	enigmastrat: Hey
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:00] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: welcome
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:03] <DesertPenquin>	have we taken a poll to actually see who lives east side or west side?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:10] <gunxfight>	we should find a way to talk to someone at ASU about it next time
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:12] <tyche>	Not really
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:20] 	 * johnc4510 says team owes enigmastrat a big cheer for hosting the installfest
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:24] <johnc4510>	w00t
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:25] <gunxfight>	that would be an awesome idea desertpenquin
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:27] <johnc4510>	w00t
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:28] <paul928>	johnc4510, I didn't suggest the  branded cd, but I like the idea
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:41] <tyche>	>>>CHEER<<<<
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:49] <enigmastrat>	no problem guys
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:50] <gunxfight>	w00t
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:54] <enigmastrat>	glad to have you there
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:13:57] <tyche>	That was Hans that suggested it.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:01] <johnc4510>	someone did and it's something to think about along with the firefox idea
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:01] <kennymc0_laptop>	>>>>CHEER EVEN LOUDER<<<<
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:09] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Installfest
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:11] <johnc4510>	pics
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:18] <enigmastrat>	cool
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:24] <gunxfight>	i don't think we have any of him :(
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:30] <DesertPenquin>	who do I send the mail to request corrections on some pic info?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:37] <tyche>	we do, but it's very distant.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:41] <gunxfight>	you can edit it yourself
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:46] <johnc4510>	DesertPenquin: me or tyche
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:46] <DesertPenquin>	cool
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:46] <gunxfight>	i did earlier
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:50] <tyche>	He was sitting at the table, manning the lan party
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:14:53] <johnc4510>	that's true
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:15:28] <johnc4510>	so the next release is in oct
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:15:29] <gunxfight>	so my brother goes to ASU i could try to get him to talk to some people but he's kinda lazy
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:15:38] <johnc4510>	probably about the same time of month
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:15:45] <johnc4510>	gunxfight: great
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:00] <johnc4510>	gunxfight: i thought, "cattle prod"
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:01] <banditti>	how much space do we need?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:08] <gunxfight>	haha
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:17] <johnc4510>	oh enought for 20-30 maybe
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:18] <gunxfight>	we only had 4 tables at this installfest
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:18] <tyche>	gunxfight: The last time I heard that about somebody's brother, the brother ended up joining the team.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:27] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:33] <gunxfight>	haha
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:41] <kennymc0_laptop>	what you talking about me now tyche?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:43] <gunxfight>	idk why my brother hasn't joined the team actally
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:45] <johnc4510>	it needs a hard wired net connection too
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:46] <tyche>	Of course.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:16:59] <gunxfight>	thats easy to get at ASU
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:17:00] <kennymc0_laptop>	thought so
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:17:07] <johnc4510>	gunxfight: high voltage cattle prod
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:17:13] <johnc4510>	we could use him
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:17:33] <gunxfight>	okay, i'll talk to him, and i'll send ASUlug a msg about it
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:17:41] <tyche>	Thanks
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:17:45] <gunxfight>	no problem
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:17:50] <johnc4510>	i really think asu could be a great place, considering all the students to draw on
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:17:58] <gunxfight>	i agree
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:18:13] <johnc4510>	they might be more receptive to open source technology
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:18:15] <johnc4510>	maybe
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:18:28] <johnc4510>	anyway, those are all good thoughts
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:18:36] <kennymc0_laptop>	yes they are
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:18:37] <gunxfight>	yeah but at the same time there are a lot of tech guys who hate linux
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:18:52] <johnc4510>	and we'll try to implement them before the next release
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:18:55] <johnc4510>	now
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:18:57] <kennymc0_laptop>	that is true and we can bring cattle prods for them
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:18:57] <johnc4510>	moving on
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:02] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:03] <gunxfight>	like at my school the computer teacher hates me because i use ubuntu and install it on computers at school lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:03] <banditti>	the mac guys who drive jetta's?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:12] <johnc4510>	really
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:14] <gunxfight>	Banditti: yes, those guys
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:14] <johnc4510>	bummer
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:20] <gunxfight>	yeah but screw them
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:24] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:25] <banditti>	pass
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:30] <johnc4510>	agreed
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:31] <tyche>	Hee hee
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:41] <kennymc0_laptop>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:19:57] <johnc4510>	ok, now we have some down time after just doing the release party and the installfest
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:20:01] <johnc4510>	but
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:20:11] <banditti>	t
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:20:14] <johnc4510>	there are things we need to work on
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:20:16] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:20:25] <johnc4510>	1.team approval
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:20:49] <johnc4510>	this is mainly me getting of my a** and getting the wiki pages up to date
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:20:51] <johnc4510>	but
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:21:14] <johnc4510>	when i submitt, we'll need team members to attend the approval proccess
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:21:23] <johnc4510>	so please keep that in mind
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:21:36] <kennymc0_laptop>	where would we have to attend
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:21:52] <johnc4510>	the proccess has just changed a little and i'll have to find out all the facts
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:21:57] <kennymc0_laptop>	ok
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:21:59] <johnc4510>	in a channel
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:22:07] <tyche>	Probably in channel, I would think
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:22:09] <gunxfight>	what would we have to do?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:22:09] <kennymc0_laptop>	just let me know the time and where to go and ill try to be there
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:22:19] <DesertPenquin>	me too
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:22:21] <johnc4510>	it use to be the -meeting channel and will probably be the same
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:22:23] <tyche>	Ditto ^^^^^
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:22:31] <gunxfight>	i'll be there
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:22:33] <johnc4510>	with a new group doing the approvals
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:22:48] <johnc4510>	the CC  community council use to do it
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:23:08] <gunxfight>	what would we have to do?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:23:09] <johnc4510>	now we have a new loco council who just does team approvals
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:23:20] <johnc4510>	we've done most of it
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:23:22] <kennymc0_laptop>	that's a better way imo
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:23:31] <gunxfight>	i agree kenny
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:23:41] <johnc4510>	i just need to update the wiki pages and submit our application to the council
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:23:58] <kennymc0_laptop>	ah well what are you waiting for then
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:23:59] <kennymc0_laptop>	ROFL
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:24:04] <gunxfight>	yeah get going
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:24:05] <johnc4510>	this will probably happen shortly
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:24:05] <gunxfight>	haha
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:24:28] <gunxfight>	if it is gonna take a lot of time you could assign certain parts to different people
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:24:31] <gunxfight>	to make it easier on you
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:24:33] <johnc4510>	ok, the next item we need to think about is the barcamp later this yr
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:24:34] <kennymc0_laptop>	if you need help with anything dont hesitate to ask though
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:24:44] <johnc4510>	some of you know about, and some don't
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:25:10] <johnc4510>	i have proposed hosting a barcamp in phoenix for around sept or oct of this yr
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:25:15] <johnc4510>	kennymc0_laptop: k
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:25:29] <gunxfight>	what is barcamp?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:25:38] <johnc4510>	barcamp is a foss type conference
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:25:54] <johnc4510>	tyche: could you get a link to the barcamp page please
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:25:55] <johnc4510>	for me
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:26:03] <gunxfight>	oh i think i've read about it somewhere on the loco site
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:26:21] <johnc4510>	it's a conference where speakers give talks on open source
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:26:30] <johnc4510>	different segments
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:26:43] <tyche>	http://barcamp.org/BarCamp
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:26:43] <johnc4510>	like security, desktop, servers etc
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:26:54] <johnc4510>	tyche: thx
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:27:09] <johnc4510>	now, my idea is to bring the state lugs in on this
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:27:21] <gunxfight>	good idea
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:27:26] <tyche>	And from wikipedia:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BarCamp
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:27:32] <johnc4510>	we have a start with xhans from the plugaz group
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:27:42] <johnc4510>	he is hot on this idea
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:27:48] <johnc4510>	and wants to help
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:27:51] <kennymc0_laptop>	yep
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:27:59] <kennymc0_laptop>	he helped with promoting the install fest too
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:27:59] <johnc4510>	but we need any other state lugs too
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:28:03] <johnc4510>	yep
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:28:13] <kennymc0_laptop>	i know delug is no more
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:28:19] <gunxfight>	sad
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:28:22] <johnc4510>	so, we need to check the activity of the ASULug
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:28:33] <johnc4510>	and i'll work on the tucson folks
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:28:39] <johnc4510>	there are a couple here
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:28:53] <johnc4510>	not very active but maybe we can draw some interest
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:28:58] <johnc4510>	now
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:18] <johnc4510>	this is a big thing, and needs a _lot_ of planning
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:22] <johnc4510>	organization
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:26] <johnc4510>	volunteers
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:28] <johnc4510>	etc
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:40] <johnc4510>	we also need to secure sponsors
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:41] <kennymc0_laptop>	yeah i think we should work on getting a place _now_
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:41] <DesertPenquin>	and some funding might not hurt too
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:51] <tyche>	I volunteer to be the BS artist in the corner.  Hee hee
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:55] <kennymc0_laptop>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:29:58] <johnc4510>	like in phoenix, google has an office
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:03] <johnc4510>	about a yr old
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:18] <banditti>	i will wear stretchy pants   .... just for fun
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:19] <johnc4510>	google is a active sponsor of open source events
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:22] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:26] <gunxfight>	i love google
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:28] <gunxfight>	haha
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:34] <johnc4510>	but we could use others too
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:37] <DesertPenquin>	dont forget about GoDaddy too
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:52] <johnc4510>	note: this event is not just about ubuntu
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:30:59] <johnc4510>	it about open source
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:31:19] <johnc4510>	but it provides a chance to promote open source in AZ
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:31:28] <kennymc0_laptop>	which is a very good thing
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:31:32] <johnc4510>	and as a by product, Ubuntu
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:31:39] <johnc4510>	my idea
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:31:44] <johnc4510>	is to have booths
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:31:49] <johnc4510>	an Ubuntu booth
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:32:03] <johnc4510>	and if the lugs want to support another distro  great
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:32:16] <gunxfight>	could we have our own booth?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:32:21] <johnc4510>	so, how does this sound to you guys
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:32:23] <johnc4510>	gunxfight: yep
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:32:27] <gunxfight>	sounds awesome
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:32:34] <tyche>	Sounds great
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:32:35] <kennymc0_laptop>	sounds like a great idea
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:32:49] <DesertPenquin>	sounds great but I do think we need a time and place to be able to pitch to the lugz and sponsors
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:32:59] <gunxfight>	thats true
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:33:21] <johnc4510>	ok, now, i don't want to even start this unless you folks are going to get behind this
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:33:31] <kennymc0_laptop>	ill be behind it
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:33:34] <gunxfight>	me too
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:33:34] <johnc4510>	it's a huge project
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:33:38] <johnc4510>	huge
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:33:40] <johnc4510>	!!!!
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:33:41] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:01] <johnc4510>	it will take from now until it happens to make it happen
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:02] <kennymc0_laptop>	isnt that going to be close to the time of the next release too?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:03] <gunxfight>	we should take a vote and see how many people could help out
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:13] <tyche>	+1
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:14] <johnc4510>	kennymc0_laptop: close
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:17] <kennymc0_laptop>	+1
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:19] <gunxfight>	+1
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:26] <johnc4510>	+1
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:28] <DesertPenquin>	+1
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:50] <johnc4510>	it's a start
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:54] <banditti>	+1
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:34:58] <johnc4510>	cool
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:13] <kennymc0_laptop>	there could also be a message sent out on the mailing list asking for help with this
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:19] <johnc4510>	we'll have to prod and poke anyone we can to help on this
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:24] <johnc4510>	kennymc0_laptop: yep
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:32] <DesertPenquin>	now if we could just wrap a scifi/comic convention in with it I'd be on cloud nine
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:40] <johnc4510>	this will be in the newsletter for a start
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:40] <kennymc0_laptop>	ROFL
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:42] <gunxfight>	haha
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:44] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:49] <gunxfight>	we should also make a wiki page for this
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:35:53] <tyche>	Hmmm, interesting idea
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:36:05] <kennymc0_laptop>	i think we should have an extra email sent out just about this in case if people just ignore it
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:36:10] <kennymc0_laptop>	just a thought
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:36:21] <johnc4510>	ok, well, we'll make a start of it then, and don't get mad at me when i start pushing lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:36:24] <johnc4510>	rofl
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:36:30] <johnc4510>	kennymc0_laptop: kk
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:36:30] <pr0nGuy>	tyche johnc4510: Are you guys still around?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:36:35] <johnc4510>	yes
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:36:44] <pr0nGuy>	okay, I was busy packing
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:36:51] <johnc4510>	np
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:04] <pr0nGuy>	I don't have very much actually to pack
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:12] <johnc4510>	we are talking about having a barcamp conference later in the yr
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:19] <pr0nGuy>	What is that?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:26] <tyche>	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BarCamp
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:27] <johnc4510>	open source conference
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:32] <johnc4510>	tyche: thx
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:34] <johnc4510>	again
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:35] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:37] <kennymc0_laptop>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:57] <johnc4510>	ok, i wanted this to be kind of informal tonight and it has been
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:37:59] <pr0nGuy>	I would dig that
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:17] <johnc4510>	i wanted to thx all for the installfest and all the hard work
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:24] <johnc4510>	also the release party too
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:26] <pr0nGuy>	Would it be a small shindig at someone's domicile?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:27] <kennymc0_laptop>	np
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:33] <johnc4510>	pr0nGuy: no
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:36] <johnc4510>	big event
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:49] <calimer->	oh yeah I still gotta set up that profile thing
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:49] <pr0nGuy>	johnc4510: Word?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:52] <johnc4510>	you all did a _GREAT_ job
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:38:56] <gunxfight>	huge!!! (as johnc said)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:39:14] <pr0nGuy>	gunxfight: Frickin' HUGE!
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:39:22] <gunxfight>	yes
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:39:31] <johnc4510>	i also wanted to get the barcamp idea off the ground if possible and it seems like we have
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:39:34] <banditti>	plethora of largeness
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:39:35] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:39:57] <johnc4510>	big Thx to enigmastrat again for his help on the installfest
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:40:11] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: you need to hang out more here   hee hee
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:40:12] <kennymc0_laptop>	very big thx
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:40:13] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:40:29] <tyche>	Yea, enigmastrat.  We couldn't have pulled it off without your help.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:40:35] <johnc4510>	ok, now, does anyone have anything they want to discuss?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:41:04] <johnc4510>	ok, next wk, i should have more news about team approval
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:41:10] <kennymc0_laptop>	ok
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:41:11] <tyche>	Well, I still think pictures of me should be pulled off the wiki page.  We don't want to scare people away.
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:41:15] <DesertPenquin>	kenny and I talked about maybe having a voice team meeting sometime
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:41:16] <tyche>	Hee hee
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:41:41] <johnc4510>	big welcome to the new folks too, banditti and calimer- :)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:41:49] <johnc4510>	you're always welcome
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:41:54] <calimer->	thnx :D
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:41:59] <gunxfight>	ya and don't forget to come back
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:13] <johnc4510>	if that's it then, i'll adjourn the meeting
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:16] <enigmastrat>	Sorry I was distracted again....
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:17] <johnc4510>	thx guys
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:21] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: np
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:22] <banditti>	thank you so very much
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:23] <enigmastrat>	You are all very welcome!
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:35] <gunxfight>	i have a question
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:38] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: come hang out more if you have time
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:42] <johnc4510>	gunxfight: shoot
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:45] <johnc4510>	so to speak
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:46] <tyche>	ROFL
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:46] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:42:53] <gunxfight>	will we be speaking at the barcamp?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:02] <banditti>	you
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:09] <banditti>	and johnc
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:11] <gunxfight>	we as in our loco
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:12] <johnc4510>	well, if you have some expertize   sure
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:15] <enigmastrat>	I'll try to make time
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:21] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: great
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:22] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:27] <johnc4510>	if you can
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:51] <gunxfight>	if we got that thing hans and tyche were talking about going we could introduce that
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:43:55] <johnc4510>	i won't be presenting, but i might be hosting
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:44:11] <johnc4510>	the theme and firefox
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:44:12] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:44:24] <johnc4510>	gunxfight: ^^^^^^
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:44:28] <gunxfight>	yes
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:44:48] <gunxfight>	because that would be a good idea for not only us but all the loco's
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:44:50] <johnc4510>	if we had it ready we might do cds to hand out
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:44:54] <gunxfight>	just as hans was saying
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:44:58] <johnc4510>	right
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:45:03] <gunxfight>	awesome
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:45:06] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun May 18 2008] [21:45:23] <johnc4510>	ok, meeting adjourned, thx everyone
</pre>

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
