{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 02 September – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees (2 new)
* 4 installs 
* 1 wifi repair 
* 1 server access issue resolved
* 03 September – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2003%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 07 September – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed software in Electronics/Circuits for MCC
* Discussed various BIOS mfg with regard to EFI
* Talking points on automotive software (Tesla, yocto)
* Unsuccessfully attempted to reformat an SSD (bad controller)
* 10 September – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 9 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2010%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 16 September – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Restored a single file from a system backup
* Attempted to create a  multi-system bootable thumb drive
* Installed Kali on a USB flash drive.
* Set up open WRT guest wifi network
* 17 September – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2017%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 24 September - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 11 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2024%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 28 September - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees
* Discussed the presentation that was given at the UA South (Cyber Security Law and Regulation Trends) on 27 September.
* Discussed the installation of Ubuntu on a member's new machine.  His 11 year old son did the installation.
* Discussed a member's drone project and his anticipated use of a Raspberry Pi to film activities.
* Discussed the manning requirements and advertising needs for the upcoming Installfest (28 October).
* Discussed some basic differences between Linux and Microsoft Windows e.g. the file system and the UFW.
* 28 September - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Discussed Virtualbox vs Proxmox and Thunderbird emails and BBB vs Owncloud installs
