{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc_> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxmann> +1
<toddc_> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<_erroric> +1
<toddc_> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc_> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc_> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc_> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc_> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc_> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc_> lets start with the news!!
<toddc_> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc_> over to Dazed_75 for the news and welcome back!
<Dazed_75> Extra Extra : in the interest of timeliness
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Community Survey
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/ubuntu-community-survey-raring
<Dazed_75> Canonical promotes Ubuntu for Microsoft Azure cloud
<Dazed_75>     http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/canonical-promotes-ubuntu-microsoft-azure-cloud
<Dazed_75> Open source desktop publishing with Scribus
<Dazed_75>     http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/os-scribus/index.html?ca=drs-
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Gnome obtains official status recognition
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxlibrary.org/ubuntu-gnome-obtains-official-status-recongnition/
<Dazed_75> Canonical axes Ubuntu discs for non-LTS releases
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/canonical-ditching-ubuntu-cdsdvds-for-non-lts
<Dazed_75> Jolicloud Desktop comes to Ubuntu - and here is how to install it
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/jolicloud-your-new-favourite-ubuntu-de
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu One Music Store to be removed from Rhythmbox in 12.04, 12.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/ubuntu-one-music-store-ditch-confirmed
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Button tweaked
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/clockwise-ubuntu-logo-button
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu website undergoes subtle revamp
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/ubuntu-website-gets-subtle-revamp
<Dazed_75> Fix: Google Chrome can't be installed in 13.04 due to missing libudevo dependency
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/04/fix-google-chrome-cant-be-installed-in.html
<Dazed_75> Get Ubuntu Touch feeling on the Unity desktop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/04/get-ubuntu-touch-feeling-on-unity.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Touch Betas are ready for testing
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/ubuntu-touch-betas-are-ready-for-testing-7000014281/
<Dazed_75> How to install the BURG boot loader in Ubuntu 13.04 & Linux Mint
<Dazed_75>     http://www.unixmen.com/how-to-install-burg-boot-loader-in-ubuntu/
<Dazed_75> Gnome 3.8 takes a step backward with Classic Mode
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxadvocates.com/2013/04/gnome-38-takes-step-backwards-with.html
<Dazed_75> How to use open source Radeon UVD on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM1NDk
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=amd_opensource_uvd&num=1
<Dazed_75> 10 best Ubuntu 13.04 features - from Social Lens to window snapping
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/new-ubuntu-13-04-features (pretty sad IMHO)
<Dazed_75> What are the desktop environments that use less resources on Linux?
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/article/what-are-the-desktop-environments-that-use-less-resources-on-linux?lang=en
<Dazed_75> and thats it from AJ
<toddc_> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toddc_> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc_> Open source is taking over the software world, survey says
<toddc_> http://www.pcworld.com/article/2035651/open-source-is-taking-over-the-software-world-survey-says.html
<toddc_> Benchmarks Of The New ZFS On Linux: EXT4 Wins
<toddc_> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM1NTA
<toddc_> JOB LIST
<toddc_> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<toddc_> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<toddc_> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc_> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc_> Systems/Infrastructure Engineer
<toddc_> wkqxh-3718691037@job.craigslist.org
<toddc_> Resource Technical Management
<toddc_> http://www.resource-technical.com
<toddc_> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc_> clay-j-knight
<toddc_> Android App Pick of the week
<toddc_> rootmetrics
<toddc_> http://www.rootmetrics.com/app/
<toddc_> Subway Surfers a good game for for the whole family
<toddc_> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.kiloo.subwaysurf
<toddc_> Linux App of the week
<toddc_> Dead Cyborg Episode 2 from Steam
<toddc_> http://www.deadcyborg.com/
<toddc_> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc_> Thursday April 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc_> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc_> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc_> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc_> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday May 4 and Saturday May 18 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc_> Tagose planning and development meeting on May 11 10 am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc_> For more info see
<toddc_> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc_> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc_> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc_> Client Sensor Service Discussion
<toddc_> Mon, April 22, 6pm – 7pm GMT
<toddc_> ubuntu deveopment hang out tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
<toddc_> Jono Bacon O&A wedsday 7-8 pm GMT
<toddc_> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc_> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc_> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc_> other events
<toddc_> Estrella Mountain LUG Meeting Wednesday, March 27, 2013  6:30PM
<toddc_> http://lug.estrellamountain.edu/
<toddc_> CentOS Dojo at Phoenix, 10th May 2013
<toddc_> http://wiki.centos.org/Events/Dojo/Phoenix2013
<toddc_> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc_> Developer Meeting Thursday May 2  7-9pm
<toddc_> University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<Dazed_75> I'd like to see more input from people about installing on a Windoes 8 machine.  I could not even get it to run in VirtualBox on W8 yesterday
<toddc_> The developer group is adding bar code reading features to cheese
<toddc_> Plug East side meeting Thursday May 09  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc_> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday May 21 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc_> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc_> we are also adding a team G+ account to notify us of events please add announce@azloco.com to you G+ accounts
<toddc_> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc_> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
