{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #82 for the week February 16, February 22.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Eighty Second Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-February 25, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday March 1, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

NEW TEAM WEBSITE: http:www.azloco.com

As of yesterday, our new team website is live. If you are a registered team member of the Ubuntu Arizona Team in Launchpad, you can have an account. You can request an account by emailing me at johnc4510@ubuntu.com We will set you up with an account and a temporary password, and email that information back to you. You can change your temporary password in your user profile after you log in the first time.

Our website has lots of information and links for you to use. Registered members will be able to make use of the team blog section. We also have a team calendar to keep up to date on team events.

We hope you'll take the time to visit our new site and look around to see what's offered. The team has worked very hard to make it not only a place for Ubuntu resources and news, but an attractive and team oriented site that you can be proud of. Let us know what you think, and start getting involved.

==== Summary of the February 22, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09February22

Johnc4510 began the meeting with some announcements:

* Mark Shuttleworth has announce the code name for Ubuntu 9.10 will be Karmic Koala.  Server: Ubuntu aims to keep free software at the forefront of cloud computing by embracing the API's of Amazon EC2, and making it easy for anybody to setup their own cloud using entirely open tools.  The desktop will have a designer's fingerprints all over it - we're now beginning the serious push to a new look. Brown has served us well but the Koala is considering other options.

* Jaunty Alpha 5: Jaunty Alpha 5, is scheduled for next Thursday, February 26.  We're getting closer to April and the release.

* This is a biggie!!!!!!!!!  Kenny made Ubuntu member on Thursday.  He did a great job at the interview, and I know he appreciated the big team turnout as much as I did.  And the board noticed.  (Kenny thanked everyone for their help.)

* Don't forget to take a look at the latest issue of the UWN: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue130.  Great issue this week, full of _everything_ Ubuntu.

* Someone said to me that they thought our team had the most Ubuntu Members of any US team.

johnc4510 then called on scott_ev for some information on Kubuntu bug squishing:

After the meeting where kennymc0 got membership, vorian came into our channel.  He asked if anyone wanted to help and get started toward membership.  He's a MOTU and works heavily with Kubuntu packaging.  (johnc4510 added that he had also been the Team mentor).  They are just now really starting to branch Kubuntu bugs away from Ubuntu, and they need help.  There's great opportunity in KDE to show skill and a desire to help and get things in order to become an Ubuntu member.  If you want to know more in detail, get with me after the meeting.

johnc4510 mentioned that we've tried to stir up interest in bugs before with no luck...however i would still like to see us get started with the bugjam events.  The biggest problem we have is we have no one that really knows the ins and outs of bug work.  So, I'm going to make a suggestion.  I think if scott_ev would get active in this area, then maybe he could point us in the right direction, and maybe we could make a start.  scott_ev responded that he'll start to post things in the forum and maybe a column on the website.  johnc4510 replied that once the website is up we should start using it for that too.  He told scott_ev that he'll be able to use the blog page for that.  If it works out we can talk about an event and a page dedicated to bugs.  So, we seem to have an interest, but we need you to get us started and give us a direction.  That will get you a great start toward membership, too.

johnc4510 then turned the meeting over to kennymc0 to make announcements for xHans and PLUG.

* PLUG westside meeting this Wednesday.  At the westside meeting xHans will be talking about the California Conference he just went to:  SCaLE.
* They have an installfest next Saturday, at UAT.  One of their monthly install fests.
* See http://plug.phoenix.az.us/node/105 for further information.

Next, johnc4510 said he'd been approached by someone on the Utah loco team about getting together here in AZ.  A meet-up, so to speak.  They would come here.  He suggested Phoenix.  So, we'll see what happens with that.  johnc4510's contact said he would try to get Jono Bacon and/or Jorge to come too.  So we might have some big Canonical folks show up.  Jono is the community manager for Ubuntu and works for canonical.  This would be a casual event, I think.  So it would be a great little event and a feather in our cap, I think.

johnc4510 then moved on to the new website, http://12.159.65.82/drupal/.  We've done some more to complete the site.  He hopes to have it up on Monday.  He's looking to see about the blog in several areas:
 1. We need to get the feed aggregated to the team planet.
 2. He's looking at how to aggregate members existing blogs to the blog section.  tyche and johnc4510 already have Word``Press blogs and it would be easier to feed the team blog from those so we don't have to do both, or lose content buy migrating to the team blog only.  kennymc0 and johnc4510 will look into it on Monday morning.  Sometime in the future, we may put Word``Press on the server and migrate our blogs to it.
 3. Once the site is live, we'll activate everyone who has registered for an account.  Anyone who is on the Team in Launchpad can get an account.
 4. We now have a Google calendar on the website.  You can add it to your personal Google page easily.  At the bottom right of the calendar is a "+Google calendar" button.  Click on that on it will add our calendar feed to your Google personal page.
 5. Registered user or not, we want input from anyone visiting the site.  Only registered users can post without an administrator approving the comment.  Also, posting to the front page is somewhat restricted for now.  Only administrators can post on the front page.  But administrators can also promote something to the front page.  We did this to regulated what is on the front page.  If you have something you think is front page worthy, you can ask one of us.
 6. We also installed a module for stats on the site.  Only site administrators can see the stats, but we'll keep everyone informed.

If you want an account, go ahead and register.  We just won't approve it until the site goes live, hopefully first of the week.  Then we'll go in a mass approve everyone.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:48 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
