{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #58 for the week July 28, August 3, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Fifty Eighth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-August 6, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday August 10, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the August 3, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:09 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08August03

Do to the low turnout for the meeting, johnc4510 decided to keep it informal.

The name for the Open Source conference has been decided.  ABLE Conf, meaning either Arizona Business Liberty Expo or Arizona Business Liberty Experience.  johnc4510 asked slofgren about the status of the wiki and calendar for the conference.  slofgren admitted that he'd had some problems with installing it due to security issues and personal conflicts.  He said that he'd be trying again this week.

johnc4510 and xHans then talked about a presentation that johnc4510 would like to give on community.  XHans felt that the topic deserved more than one speaker. xHans was all for it, and felt that johnc4510 would be able to do it.  In discussion, the topic was amplified to social and community building, and support.  From johnc4510's point of view, it would be about bringing all the Linux User Groups and the Teams together.

kennymc0 and azteech were given the information for joining the conference mailing list.  kennymc0 had had problems with previous attempts, but was successful this time.  azteech said that he'd try when the storm was over.

johnc4510 announced that he would be in Missouri from Aug.14th - Sept.4th, but would be in channel during that period.

xHans then made some announcements:

1. PLUG-devel is Thursday. http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/506

2. As johnc4510-laptop already mentioned, the Free Software conference is now named ABLE Conf. It's Saturday, 2008Sep20 at UAT. We'll be looking for more volunteers starting sometime this week.

3. We need to fill the online OpenOffice.org class through MCC. Any suggestions on how to promote it? Any contacts for marketing the class?  johnc4510 suggested Gutsy Geeks, and xHans said that he was waiting to hear back from Michael.  johnc4510 offered to blog about it, and xHans gave him the URL to the information (http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/BPC110.html).  It's a great opportunity to get an OOo class in, so we need to fill it. Failing to fill it will likely mean it'll be years before we can try it again.

4. Aside from my shell scripting class we should soon have listings of lots more Free Software classes for the fall semester. There will be posts to PLUG discuss and the PLUG web site in the near future. Classes at least at MCC, EMCC, PVCC and SCC.  johnc4510 asked if they were online classes, and xHans replied that most are not online classes.

johnc4510 and xHans then discussed the possibility of creating podcasts of the keynote address and talks at the conference.  johnc4510 felt that it might be difficult, with several talks going on at once.  It was further suggested that the conference might be somewhat ad hoc, but xHans insisted that the outward facing portion should be well organized.  The conference will be held at the University of Advanced Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Road, Tempe, AZ 85283-1056.  That's the south side of Baseline, between South Pointe Parkway and 48th Street.  (Map:  http://tinyurl.com/5coqrs - Street View is available at that link.)

The meeting was adjourned at 9:56 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
