{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #27 for the week December 3 - December 9.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Twenty-Seventh Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-December 12, 2007
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday December 16, 2007  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the December 9, 2007 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

There were no new members.

There were no announcements.

As our first order of business, we had talked some last week about an install fest (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoRunningInstallfests).  johnc4510 had done some research since then, and began to feel that we would be unable to do one alone, due to our lack of experience and knowledge.  He proposed that we work with local LUGs who did have such experience.  This would have the advantage of getting the LUGs involved with us as well as an install fest advocating for Ubuntu.  This suggestion was warmly received.  johnc4510 will put out some feelers among the LUGs, to see who would be willing to help, and to aim toward an install fest in February or March.  He will also post this to the Team mailing list, in order to generate further interest and ideas.

The next order of business was the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Education|Education Committee]]</nowiki>.  johnc4510 and tyche could use some help with listing useful programs.  The basic programs for Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon have been listed on the appropriate pages, and they are looking for applications that people find useful, and are listed in the repositories.  These may also include such things as Envy that have been developed to help users install various device drivers and codecs.  A discussion with SloggerKhan followed the request that focused on the type of information needed by the Education Committee.  It was determined that what was needed was:
## The name of the application.
## The home-page URL of the application.
## A brief description of the application.
## The type of application that it is.
Any help that one would like to give would be appreciated.  Send emails to johnc4510-cox@ubuntu.com or tyche@cox.net.  Don't worry about formatting, they can handle that when they get the information.

The next order of business was the Team server.  johnc4510 put up the link to the home page (http://12.159.65.83/) for anyone who hasn't seen it yet.  enigmastrat has done the graphic and HTML coding, and johnc4510 has worked on the content, but he's looking for further information and ideas.

The meeting was then opened up to general discussion.  tyche mentioned that people see the [Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue69 Ubuntu Weekley Newsletter].  In particular, there are 3 Ubuntu evaluation videos that show Ubuntu installation from the viewpoint of a new user.  He then added that aside from the fact that johnc4510_ worked his fingers to the bone reviewing them, they are very good videos.  johnc4510 commented that he might even link them from the server page.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:36 PM

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

