{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #90 for the week April 13, April 19.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Eighty Ninth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-April 22, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday April 26, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the April 19, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09April19

johnc4510 began the meeting by asking jurelex to introduce himself:  "I'm from Peru, I live in Phoenix since 2000. I have a small computer rapair shop and also a small web design studio." Team members welcomed jurelex to the team.

johnc4510 then gave some announcements:

* Ubuntu 9.04 Release Candidate is out. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2009-April/000121.html Final release will be next Thursday.

* Ubuntu 9.04 RC for ARM is out too. I don't know too much about this, but tyche informs me it's a release specifically aimed atthe Babbage development board for netbooks. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-April/000562.html .  tyche added, "I don't know about for netbooks.  Looking back at it, it looks like it's for embedded use."

* The next Packaging Training Session will be about Package testing: piuparts and VMs, and it will be led by Daniel T Chen. It is scheduled for: 23rd April, 00:00 UTC, and it will take place in #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net. http://ubuntupackaging.wordpress.com/2009/04/17/packaging-training-session-update/ . Training sessions are irc led discussion of the listed topics.  Everyone is free to join in and learn.  More information available at the link.

I ordered our shipit bulk 9.04 cds this week. As soon as I get confirmation, it will be 2 wks. until order arrives. Maybe a bit less. It was about 10 days last time.  400 assorted CDs:  Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Server, same as last time.  So, as soon as i receive confirmation we can start planning the installfests with hans and hopefully ASU, too.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/JauntyEvents .  All the info for the release parties is there.

johnc4510 didn't have a lot more, and thought we might discuss who's using the RC and what problems.  Minor problems were talked about, and improvements over the last release were discussed.

johnc4510 then asked for PLUG announcements from xHans.

* Free Software Stammtisch in Tempe is this Tuesday.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch and http://www.LuftHans.com/node/1521 .

* PLUG west side is this Wednesday http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/356 .  Still waiting on bio and abstract on the talk, which is about getting involved.  I'm also looking for a presentation on a product that runs GNU/Linux or a company that sells such a product.

* Jaunty release party at Red Seven Thursday night.  http://www.RedSevenLinux.com/events/

* Installfest and Jaunty release party this Saturday.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/112 .  Moving over to Boulders on Broadway about 17:00.  http://www.BouldersOnBroadway.com/

* There's a Girls in IT seminar this Friday morning for early teen girls.  I've arranged for us to give out Ubuntu CDs and get some info about women in Free Software into one of the presentation.

* We'll have an Open``Street``Maps presentation next month for PLUG and a weekend mapping party event.

johnc4510 then opened up the channel to cross-talk, there being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:43 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
