{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> +1
<ericcc_> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<Rich_> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> hi Rich_
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<Rich_> hi
<toddc> Everyone say hi to kai__
<ericcc_> hi kai__
<toddc> Kai__ how long have you been using linux?
<Rich_> hi kai
<Dazed_75> Hya kai
<kai__> hey!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<kai__> I have been using linux off and on for about 6 years now.
<toddc> no novice then!!
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<adrenaline_> +1
<Dazed_75> Unattended Linux Wakeup, Backup, Shutdown (Parts 0-5)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/reviews/7207/1/    Computer case
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/tutorials/7212/1/    Backup server & headless admin
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/tutorials/7230/1/    NIC and motherboard support
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/tutorials/7307/1/    Refine rsync, passwordless auth
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/tutorials/7308/1    Master plan, cron wakeups
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/tutorials/7308/1    Rsync backup script
<Dazed_75> Using openssl to encrypt messages and files
<Dazed_75>     http://how-to.linuxcareer.com/using-openssl-to-encrypt-messages-and-files
<Dazed_75> Unity Tweak Tool 0.0.2 brings new features
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Unity-Tweak-Tool-0-0-2-Brings-New-Features-322984.shtml
<Dazed_75> Valve starts promoting Steam for Linux to Windows users
<Dazed_75>     http://www.geek.com/articles/games/valve-starts-promoting-steam-for-linux-to-windows-users-20130121/
<Dazed_75> Linux now has "double" the market share of Windows :)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.tomshardware.com/news/linux-windows-microsoft-android-ios,20220.html
<Dazed_75> Linux & Windows 8: So far the penguin is ahead
<Dazed_75>     http://fossforce.com/2013/01/linux-windows-8-so-far-the-penguin-is-ahead/
<Dazed_75> Lenovo, Linux, and the coming of the Chromebooks
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/77123.html
<Dazed_75> How to test the new LibreOffice without losing your current install (Linux)
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/install-the-new-libreoffice-without-losing-your-current-install/2013/01/19
<kai__> toddc Still not nearly an expert though
<Dazed_75> Use SubSonic to stream your media anywhere
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/subsonic-stream-your-media-from-anywhere/2013/01/18
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu will NOT be switching to a rolling release model
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/01/ubuntu-not-switching-to-rolling-release-model
<Dazed_75> Unity Reboot Launcher to quickly reboot to any installed OS
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/unity-reboot-launcher-to-quickly-reboot.html
<Dazed_75> Unity Revamped PPA is back for Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/unity-revamped-ppa-is-back-for-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> Linux Planet is a tutorials resource
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxplanet.com/tutorials
<Dazed_75> Get Linux: the perfect (?) way for Windows users to find and download the distro you want
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/01/23/get-linux-the-perfect-way-to-find-and-download-the-distro-you-want/
<Dazed_75> Regular Expressions Cheat Sheet
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/regular-expressions-cheat-sheet/2013/01/23
<Dazed_75> That is not a very thorough cheat sheet but better than nothing
<Dazed_75> How to generate a new sources list for Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/generate-new-sources-list-for-ubuntu/2013/01/22
<Dazed_75> Half-Life 1 and Counter-Strike games now available for Linux [Steam]
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/half-life-and-counter-strike-games-now.html
<Dazed_75> Leafpad: A simple and light weight alternative to Gedit
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/leafpad-lightweight-alternative-to-gedit/2013/01/24
<Dazed_75> How to add your own custom color in LibreOffice
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/add-custom-color-in-libreoffice/2013/01/24
<Dazed_75> How to automate document conversion with unoconv
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/automate-document-conversion-with-unoconv/2013/01/26
<Dazed_75> ... and that's all folks
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> I hope to have our main web server back up in a few days at least until and permanent location is found.
<toddc> no word yet from uor old colocation yet
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings tofill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> xHans?
<toddc> Linux System Administrator
<toddc> jobs@ebocom.net
<toddc> Systems Administrator Unix Linux and Windows
<toddc> alignjobs@gmail.com
<toddc> Sr. UNIX Administrator
<toddc> http://azcourts.hrmdirect.com/employment/job-opening.php?req=65279&#job
<toddc> Data Center Tech-3pm-Midnite; Carpathia Hosting
<toddc> http://www.carpathiahosting.com/data-center-technician-phoenix-az
* ArchFan9x (~AndChat24@wsip-24-249-177-197.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc> Adam Cantrell (roopurt5)
* ArchFan89 has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
<toddc> Alison Sutherland
<toddc> Tyler Dinsmoor
<toddc> please say hi and welcome them if you see them around
<toddc> linux app of the week
<toddc> wee chat
<toddc> http://weechat.org/
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday January 31 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is Febuary 2  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> Thank adrenaline for fixing BBB again!!!
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on February 9 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday February 16 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> FREE UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Tuesday, January 29
<toddc> 3:00 pm Introduction to Ubuntu Development
<toddc> 4:00 pm Getting Started with Ubuntu Development
<toddc> 5:00 pm Introduction to Patch Systems
<toddc> 6:00 pm Working with Upstreams
<toddc> 6:30 pm [On Air] Inttroduction to One Hundred Paper Cuts
<toddc> 7:00 pm Ubuntu App Developer Tools
<toddc> Wednesday, January 30
<toddc> 3:00 pm How to write apps for Ubuntu
<toddc> 4:00 pm Ubuntu App Reveiw Process Explained
<toddc> 5:00 pm [On Air] Finding Memory Leaks
<toddc> 6:00 pm Testing with Autopilot
<toddc> 7:00 pm Unity Integration
<toddc> Thursday, January 31
<toddc> 3:00 pm Automated Testing in Ubuntu
<toddc> 3:30 pm Automated Testing Technologies
<toddc> 4:00 pm Syncing your app's data with u1db
<toddc> 5:00 pm Interacting with Debian's Bug Tracking System
<toddc> 5:30 pm Building Ubuntu Images
<toddc> 6:00 pm The Ubuntu Nexus 7 Images
<toddc> 6:30 pm You can fix bitesize too!
<toddc> 7:00 pm Developers Round table
<toddc> Ubuntu offers free online training several time a year
<toddc> use the program Lernid or #ubuntu-clasroom in IRC freenode
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> xHans are you here?
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Developer Meeting Thursday Febuary 7
<toddc> University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday Febuary 14  7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center But we may have a new location so stay tuned
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday Febuary 19 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> vi improved touch
<toddc> vi for android
<adrenaline_> interesting
<toddc> and gmtp for linux users
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
