{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #92 for the week April 27, May 3.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Ninety Second Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-May 6, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday May 10, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the May 3, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:03 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09May03

There being no new members to introduce, johnc4510 started the meeting with some announcements:

* Karmic Koala Open for Development. The release schedule for Karmic is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicReleaseSchedule. The first milestone is expected to take place mid-May, and cessation of automatic syncs with Debian around the end of August.

* Ubuntu Open Week finished up last Friday, and as usual, it was a great 5 days of sessions geared toward helping the community get involved. The list of prominent Ubuntu community members hosting sessions was, as always, impressive. You can find the logs of all the Ubuntu Open Week Sessions here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek just scroll down the page to "The Timetable" header and click on any session title to read the logs.  You should check out Mark Shuttleworth's Q&A session logs.  I also did a open week session and it's listed in the logs.  First time I had done one...it was fun, and tyche helped me out with questions.

johnc4510 then talked about his applying for the System 76er Lo``Co program. As soon as that's approved, we can submit our flyer for printing. He added their link to our website. They had a script you can add that displays their icon which is also a hotlink. http://azloco.com/ .  He also suggested looking over the specifications for the new System76 netbook:  http://system76.com/product_info.php?cPath=28&products_id=92 .  tyche suggested that it might even be better than the Dell Mini 9.

johnc4510 then introduced the flyer we've dabbled with so far, http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/3441797261/ , and asked for suggestions.  Jeff_Martin suggested that we put the URL for System76 on the flier, too.  johnc4510 admitted that there are still people he needs to contact about participation.  The intention is to have System76 print up the fliers for us, so timing is a factor.

johnc4510 got a call from the delivery company.  The shipment of CDs should be in his hands Monday.  xHans thanked johnc4510 for the CDs of Intrepid Ibex that we let him have.  He said that they went over well.

johnc4510 then asked xHans for any PLUG announcements:

* The PLUG devel meeting is this Thursday night at UAT.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/562

* The PLUG security hackfest this Saturday at UAT.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/656

* Next week's PLUG East side meeting is on Open``Street``Maps.  Cloudmade's regional person will be in to do the presentation.  She'll also be hosting a street mapping party over the weekend.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/119 .  I think the Arizona Geocaching group will be joining us for those.

calimer then asked to add a couple of announcements:

* First thing is Sand``Box has a facebook group now.  http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=75607847110

* Second we recently released an RPG that my afterschool club worked on, and displayed it at RPI college which is a big one around here at a game festival and vicarious visions was really impressed with it.  [Ed note:  RPI is Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, located near Schenectady, Albany and Troy, New York.]  And our project in my opinion was significantly better than a vast majority of the entries.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:40 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
