{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:01]	toddc	+1
[21:01]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
[21:01]	toddc	BigBlueButton only works on some installs of unity (not mine) so if someone knows the fix
[21:01]	toddc	please let me know what I missed
[21:02]	toddc	Let's start with the news till everyone gets here and we have a lot of news tonight!!!!
[21:02]	toddc	anyone here? Or is every one on their way back from SCALE?
[21:02]	toddc	I was hoping on a report on SCALE
[21:02]	toddc	How To Install Unity 5.0 In Ubuntu 11.10
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.muktware.com/articles/3214/how-install-unity-50-ubuntu-1110
[21:03]	toddc	Canonical Maps out Ubuntu Strategy at CES
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.datamation.com/open-source/canonical-maps-out-ubuntu-strategy-at-ces.html
[21:03]	toddc	Did Microsoft Just Kill Ubuntu Tablets?
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.muktware.com/news/3217/did-microsoft-just-kill-ubuntu-tablets
[21:03]	toddc	Hands-on with Ubuntu TV, above and under the hood
[21:03]	toddc	http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/news/2012/01/hands-on-with-ubuntu-tv-above-and-below-the-hood.ars?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss
[21:04]	toddc	Ubuntu to move to rapid release Firefox for 10.04 and 10.10
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Ubuntu-to-move-to-rapid-release-Firefox-for-10-04-and-10-10-1406353.html
[21:04]	toddc	XBMC running on Raspberry Pi
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.raspberrypi.org/archives/571
[21:04]	toddc	Tame the Ubuntu 11.10 Unity interface with MyUnity
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.computeractive.co.uk/ca/download-review/2135473/tame-ubuntu-1110-unity-interface-myunity
[21:05]	toddc	Infographic: Linux lovers love big data
[21:05]	toddc	http://gigaom.com/cloud/survey-says-linux-lovers-love-big-data/
[21:05]	toddc	TEAM NEWS
[21:05]	toddc	If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
[21:05]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:06]	toddc	Firmware Engineer (Henderson, NV )
[21:06]	toddc	job-9dens-2804795733@craigslist.org
[21:06]	toddc	Systems Administrator / Perl Developer at DesertNet (Tucson, Arizona)
[21:06]	toddc	http://foundation.gyrobase.com/gyrobase/site/features
[21:06]	toddc	Systems Engineer (Linux) (Mesa, AZ)
[21:06]	toddc	www.ivedasolutions.com .
[21:06]	toddc	TEMPE INSTALLFEST
[21:07]	toddc	Azloco/plug installfest is January 28 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from
[21:07]	toddc	Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
[21:07]	toddc	these are a lot of fun attend if you can and meet us!
[21:07]	toddc	The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:08]	toddc	xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:09]	toddc	PLUG EVENTS
[21:09]	toddc	plug installfest is this weekend 01/28 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
[21:09]	-->|	SlickMcRunFast (~mark@174-17-238-8.phnx.qwest.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:10]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:10]	toddc	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
 </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
