{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 16 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-09-16-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-dma-ypf 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-clone-sports-1-84ghz-intel-cherry-trail-processor/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/9/open-source-cloud-security 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/huawei-selling-matebook-laptops-with-linux-preinstalled-to-consumers-in-china/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.nextgov.com/analytics-data/2019/09/pentagon-needs-make-more-software-open-source-watchdog-says/159832/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/pinetime-linux-smartwatch/ 
''LINK:'' http://techrights.org/2019/09/14/proprietary-software-giants-as-friends/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcareer.com/are-application-servers-dying-a-slow-death 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/kali-linux-ethical-hacking-os-switches-to-linux-5-2-now-supports-oneplus-7-527239.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/working-on-linuxs-nuts-and-bolts-at-linux-plumbers/ 
''LINK:'' http://techrights.org/2019/09/12/microsoft-goes-after-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-etherpad-on-debian-9/ 
''LINK:'' https://devconnected.com/how-to-list-users-and-groups-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/onf-open-sources-stratum-basis-for-its-next-gen-sdn-stack/2019/09/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/mysql-remote-access/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.org/threads/use-an-ssh-key-to-log-into-a-remote-server.25105/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/9/linux-mainframes-part-1 
''LINK:'' https://devconnected.com/input-output-redirection-on-linux-explained/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/install-automad-cms-with-nginx-and-lets-encrypt-ssl-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/unknown-worlds-are-dumping-the-linux-version-of-natural-selection-2.15007?module=articles_full&title=unknown-worlds-are-dumping-the-linux-version-of-natural-selection-2&aid=15007 
''LINK:'' https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2019/05/17/an-introduction-to-linux-virtual-interfaces-tunnels/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-replace-gnome-screensaver-with-xscreensaver-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/09/how-to-delete-files-older-or-newer-than.html 
''LINK:'' http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/274809/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-setup-sftp-chroot-jail-on-linux-google-cloud/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/9/introduction-virtual-machine-manager 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-pip-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-shell-script-to-monitor-user-creation-send-email/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-show-running-queries-mysql-mariadb/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/18/plug-security/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (66)
* MajB (54)
* xHans (16)
* toddc (5)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 16 04:00:03 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at  https://azloco.net/b/rex-ukj-yfp if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> bbb is up and working for me!

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> Working for me as well

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> https://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-dma-ypf

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> OK I got news this week and it's longer than my last news gathering.

 04:03 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi clone sports 1.84GHz Intel Cherry Trail processor

 04:03 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-clone-sports-1-84ghz-intel-cherry-trail-processor/

 04:03 <stephenm> 4 open source cloud security tools

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/9/open-source-cloud-security

 04:03 <stephenm> Huawei selling MateBook laptops with Linux preinstalled

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/huawei-selling-matebook-laptops-with-linux-preinstalled-to-consumers-in-china/

 04:03 <stephenm> The Pentagon Needs to Make More Software Open Source, Watchdog Says

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.nextgov.com/analytics-data/2019/09/pentagon-needs-make-more-software-open-source-watchdog-says/159832/

 04:04 <stephenm> Meet PineTime: A $25 Linux Smartwatch in Making

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/pinetime-linux-smartwatch/

 04:04 <stephenm> Proprietary Software Giants Tell Open Source ‘Communities’ That Proprietary Software Giants Are ‘Friends’

 04:04 <stephenm> http://techrights.org/2019/09/14/proprietary-software-giants-as-friends/

 04:04 <stephenm> This is a bad beginning

 04:04 <stephenm> We are looking for real world GNU/Linux stories!

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcareer.com/are-application-servers-dying-a-slow-death

 04:05 <stephenm> This might be the wrong link, I will check in a few minutes

 04:05 <stephenm> Kali Linux Ethical Hacking OS Switches to Linux 5.2

 04:05 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/kali-linux-ethical-hacking-os-switches-to-linux-5-2-now-supports-oneplus-7-527239.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> Working on Linux’s nuts and bolts at Linux Plumbers

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/working-on-linuxs-nuts-and-bolts-at-linux-plumbers/

 04:05 <stephenm> Watch Out, Linus Torvalds: Microsoft Bought Tons of Git Repositories and Now It Goes After Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> http://techrights.org/2019/09/12/microsoft-goes-after-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Etherpad on Debian 9

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-etherpad-on-debian-9/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To List Users and Groups on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://devconnected.com/how-to-list-users-and-groups-on-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> ONF Open Sources Stratum

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/onf-open-sources-stratum-basis-for-its-next-gen-sdn-stack/2019/09/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Allow Remote Connections to MySQL Database Server

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/mysql-remote-access/

 04:06 <stephenm> Use an SSH key to log into a remote server

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.org/threads/use-an-ssh-key-to-log-into-a-remote-server.25105/

 04:06 <stephenm> How Linux came to the mainframe

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/9/linux-mainframes-part-1

 04:07 <stephenm> Input Output Redirection on Linux Explained

 04:07 <stephenm> https://devconnected.com/input-output-redirection-on-linux-explained/

 04:07 <stephenm> Install Automad CMS with Nginx and Let's Encrypt SSL on CentOS 7

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/install-automad-cms-with-nginx-and-lets-encrypt-ssl-on-centos-7/

 04:07 <stephenm> Unknown Worlds are dumping the Linux version of Natural Selection 2

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/unknown-worlds-are-dumping-the-linux-version-of-natural-selection-2.15007?module=articles_full&title=unknown-worlds-are-dumping-the-linux-version-of-natural-selection-2&aid=15007

 04:07 <stephenm> An Introduction to Linux Virtual Interfaces: Tunnels

 04:07 <stephenm> https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2019/05/17/an-introduction-to-linux-virtual-interfaces-tunnels/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to replace Gnome Screensaver with Xscreensaver on Ubuntu

 04:07 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-replace-gnome-screensaver-with-xscreensaver-on-ubuntu/

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Delete Files Older Or Newer Than N Days Using find (With Extra Examples)

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/09/how-to-delete-files-older-or-newer-than.html

 04:08 <stephenm> Printing in Debian 10: CUPS isn't in the default desktop if you forget to check the box during installation

 04:08 <stephenm> http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/274809/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Setup SFTP Chroot Jail on Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-setup-sftp-chroot-jail-on-linux-google-cloud/

 04:08 <stephenm> An introduction to Virtual Machine Manager

 04:08 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/9/introduction-virtual-machine-manager

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install pip on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-pip-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:08 <stephenm> Bash Script to Send a Mail About New User Account Creation

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-shell-script-to-monitor-user-creation-send-email/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Check Queries Running on MySQL/MariaDB Server

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-show-running-queries-mysql-mariadb/

 04:09 <stephenm> OK that's all the news I have for tonight

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> now to check that url

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <stephenm> nvm that's right url

 04:10 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> 02 November 2019 AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop Canceled because of a UAT campus wide event.  No alternative venue is available at this time.

 04:10 <MajB> 28 November 2019 Tempe Ubuntu Hour canceled because of a conflict with Thanksgiving.

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 58 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 60 new jobs and a total of 132 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are 18 new jobs and a total of 49 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:11 <MajB> 26 September,  Presentation on Why you should switch to a Linux Operating System, 1730-1830, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  A presentation on Linux aimed primarily at the Microsoft users to induce them to switch to a free computer operating system for their personal computers.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 September,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 03 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 05 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:12 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 10 October,  Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 10 October,  Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 19 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:13 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:14 <toddc> yes on phx ubuntu hour it was just me

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:15 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is this Tuesday at 19:00

 04:15 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa

 04:15 <toddc> I can hear you but it says I am

 04:15 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch/

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:15 <xHans> Next month there is a job networking event before Stammtisch

 04:15 <xHans> PLUG's security meeting is this Thursday at 19:00

 04:15 <xHans> Topic: passiveDNS For fun and Profit (part2)

 04:15 <xHans> Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler

 04:15 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:15 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/18/plug-security/

 04:16 <xHans> SeaGL talk acceptances and declines have gone out

 04:16 <xHans> check your email if you submitted a talk

 04:16 <xHans> Still waiting for decisions from from Ohio Linux Fest

 04:16 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:16 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:16 <xHans> bitte

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 22 September 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 04 October 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 09 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Why you should switch to a Linux Operating System Presentation on 26 September 1730-1830, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ.  A presentation on Linux aimed primarily at the Microsoft users to induce them to switch to a free computer operating system for their personal computers.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 28 September 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.  

 04:18 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:18 <stephenm> night all

 04:18 <stephenm> .quit

 04:18 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
