{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 13 Jun at 03:59 &mdash; 04:27 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-06-13-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/linux-foundation-certified-system-administrator-gustavo-franklin-nobrega 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/why-microsoft-is-turning-into-an-open-source-company/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-record-your-terminal-session-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/add-users-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/7-open-source-devops-products-and-their-channel-impact#slide-0-field_images-94651 
''LINK:'' http://www.cio.com/article/3079055/internet-of-things/open-source-and-iot-a-match-made-for-the-enterprise.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.electronicsweekly.com/news/online-course-targets-open-source-sdn-development-2016-06/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxpitstop.com/install-btrfs-tools-on-ubuntu-linux-to-manage-btrfs-operations/ 
''LINK:'' http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/container-and-microservices-myths-red-hat-perspective 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/how-automate-web-application-testing-docker-and-travis 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/NEWS/LINUX-LEADER-BDALE-GARBEE-TOUTS-POTENTIAL-HPES-NEWEST-OPEN-SOURCE-PROJECT 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/hewlett-packard-enterprise-and-docker-partner-for-the-containerized-data-center/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/googles-quantum-computer-inches-nearer-after-landmark-performance-breakthrough/ 
''LINK:'' https://virtualizationreview.com/articles/2016/06/07/vmware-unveils-new-version-of-integrated-openstack-product.aspx 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.picmonic.com/pages/careers/software-developer/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.qtsdatacenters.com/company/careers 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/install-ubuntu-1404-dual-boot-mode-windows-8-81-uefi/ 
''LINK:'' https://turtl.it/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.qlcplus.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (79)
* stephenm (34)
* MajB (27)
* xHans (10)
* Dennisk (4)
* meetingology (3)
* DonG__ (2)
* MXs_ (1)
* wmack (1)
* nhasian (1)
* AZ_Fox (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun 13 03:59:30 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <DonG__> Hi MajB

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <mark91> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <MXs_> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <DonG__> +1

 04:00 <Dennisk> +1

 04:00 <AZ_Fox> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 94050.8

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> First I would like to take a moment for those killed and injured in florida last night

 04:01 <nhasian> +1

 04:01 <toddc> and send our support

 04:02 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> Also next week the meeting will be run by Ron_A

 04:03 <toddc> who is absent tonight!

 04:03 <MajB> HooRah

 04:04 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:04 <stephenm> The news beginning from novice to expert.  Add any comments to the topics at hand.

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux Foundation Certified System Administrator: Gustavo Franklin Nobrega

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/linux-foundation-certified-system-administrator-gustavo-franklin-nobrega

 04:04 <stephenm> Why Microsoft is turning into an open-source company

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/why-microsoft-is-turning-into-an-open-source-company/

 04:04 <stephenm> This still confuses me

 04:04 <stephenm> How to record your terminal session on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-record-your-terminal-session-on-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Very important

 04:05 <stephenm> The Complete Guide to “useradd” Command in Linux – 15 Practical Examples

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/add-users-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> 7 Open Source DevOps Products and Their Channel Impact

 04:05 <stephenm> http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/7-open-source-devops-products-and-their-channel-impact#slide-0-field_images-94651

 04:05 <stephenm> Open source and IoT: A match made for the enterprise

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.cio.com/article/3079055/internet-of-things/open-source-and-iot-a-match-made-for-the-enterprise.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Online course targets open source SDN development

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.electronicsweekly.com/news/online-course-targets-open-source-sdn-development-2016-06/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Install Btrfs Tools And Manage BTRFS Operations

 04:05 <stephenm> http://linuxpitstop.com/install-btrfs-tools-on-ubuntu-linux-to-manage-btrfs-operations/

 04:06 <stephenm> Container and Microservices Myths: The Red Hat Perspective

 04:06 <stephenm> http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/container-and-microservices-myths-red-hat-perspective

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Automate Web Application Testing With Docker and Travis

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/how-automate-web-application-testing-docker-and-travis

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Leader Bdale Garbee Touts Potential of HPE's Newest Open Source Project

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/NEWS/LINUX-LEADER-BDALE-GARBEE-TOUTS-POTENTIAL-HPES-NEWEST-OPEN-SOURCE-PROJECT

 04:06 <stephenm> Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Docker partner for the containerized data-center

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/hewlett-packard-enterprise-and-docker-partner-for-the-containerized-data-center/

 04:06 <stephenm> Google's quantum computer inches nearer after landmark performance breakthrough

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/googles-quantum-computer-inches-nearer-after-landmark-performance-breakthrough/

 04:07 <stephenm> VMware Unveils New Version of Integrated OpenStack Product

 04:07 <stephenm> https://virtualizationreview.com/articles/2016/06/07/vmware-unveils-new-version-of-integrated-openstack-product.aspx

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news for this week y'all

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm for another job well done

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <toddc> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> can we assume that July 02 we should cancel the installfest as most many will be out of town for the weekend?

 04:08 <MajB> Well I will definitely be out of town.

 04:09 <toddc> should we vote and if I get the cahance to leave town would someone like to run the event?

 04:09 <MajB> That is a good assumption.  Just go ahead and cancel.

 04:09 <toddc> safe to cancel then?    cancelled!

 04:09 <MajB> We have plenty of time to get the word out

 04:10 <toddc> yes

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> let us know if you want to work on  one of the team projects

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> One OS to rule them all,One OS to find them.

 04:11 <toddc> One OS to call them all,And in salvation bind them.

 04:11 <toddc> In the bright land of Linux,

 04:11 <toddc> one linux but how many distro's and versions?? :)

 04:12 <MajB> In excess of 350

 04:12 <toddc> Job List all local and verified each week

 04:12 <toddc> Software Developer and Technical Support Specialist and Java dev

 04:12 <toddc> https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/

 04:12 <toddc> Sr. Software Developer

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.picmonic.com/pages/careers/software-developer/

 04:12 <toddc> Data Center Technician I (DCO Tech)

 04:13 <toddc> http://www.qtsdatacenters.com/company/careers

 04:13 <toddc> 34 current canonical Jobs today

 04:13 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:13 <toddc> Beginners Guide To Install Windows 10 With Ubuntu

 04:13 <toddc> https://itsfoss.com/install-ubuntu-1404-dual-boot-mode-windows-8-81-uefi/

 04:14 <toddc> windows runs linux!! I would have never thought

 04:14 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:14 <toddc> Turtl lets you take notes, bookmark websites, and store documents

 04:14 <toddc> https://turtl.it/

 04:14 <toddc> a great note taking tool

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> QLC+ is a free software to control DMX or analog lighting systems like moving heads, dimmers, scanners etc.

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.qlcplus.org/

 04:15 <toddc> good tool to automate a house or light a stage

 04:15 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:16 <toddc> we will be working on the new team server at the next installfest

 04:16 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:17 <MajB> 18 June, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.

 04:17 <MajB> All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking a

 04:17 <MajB> 23 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:17 <MajB> 23 June, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:17 <MajB> 02 July, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  CANCELLED.

 04:18 <MajB> 07 July, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:18 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:18 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:18 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:19 <toddc> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:19 <toddc> When Tue, June 14 24, 8-9am

 04:19 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:19 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:19 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:19 <xHans> a week from Tuesday is this month's Free Software Stammtisch

 04:19 <xHans> this month we will have a follow up to games night @ PLUG by inviting everyone to bring in Free Software related games for use at Stammtisch

 04:19 <xHans> we will also be having kids night @ Stammtisch starting at 18:00

 04:19 <xHans> please bring the entire family to enjoy and evening at Stammtisch

 04:20 <xHans> Family and Gaming Night @ 18:00 - https://plus.google.com/events/clakfrfu00lfedj9jbnla5b7j2s

 04:20 <xHans> Stammtisch @ 19:00 - https://plus.google.com/events/cdnbcpsl2taasnopbon8nkc03h8

 04:20 <xHans> next month's PLUG presentation will be resume writing and software defined networking

 04:20 <xHans> September is cloud computing

 04:20 <xHans> that's it, thanks for continued cross-group cooperation!

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and plug events

 04:20 <toddc> Dennisk did you have any other events to add or talk about?

 04:21 <Dennisk> There was a landmark Summit at the internet part time in San Francisco which included many of the pioneers of the internet the goal is to decentralize the web and make it self archiving.

 04:21 <Dennisk> See decentralize the web. Net

 04:22 <toddc> Thank you for added info

 04:22 <toddc> MajB has some news from CLUG and other LUGS

 04:22 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:22 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:22 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 14 June 6:30-9:30 pm.  the Barley Hound, 234 S. Cortez St., Prescott, AZ.

 04:22 <Dennisk> That SB Internet Archive damn speech to text.

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 June 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 26 June 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:23 <toddc> Dennisk: that would be too easy!

 04:23 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 01 July 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:24 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 July 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista, AZ.

 04:24 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 July 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa, AZ.

 04:25 <MajB> The Lugy location is a new one.  I have no information on the Flagstaff start up

 04:25 <MajB> That is all I have.

 04:25 <toddc> I need to swing by and check on Sunland it has been a while

 04:25 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:25 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:26 <MajB> The Linux group is meeting through the Summer according to Boyd

 04:26 <toddc> Ubicon/linux conf?  think about it!

 04:27 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:27 <toddc> last installfest was close to a record attendence

 04:27 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:27 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
