{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 02 April - Linux installfest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG
* 15 attendees
* 2 installs
* 3 repairs
* 03 April - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense.
* 11 members were present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2003%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 07 April - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 8 attendees (2 new people)
* Discussion on various distros including Void Linux
* Josh did troubleshooting on Mint, pale moon browser
* Discussion on mobile carriers and their unlimited plans
* Discussion on the possibility of an Installfest at U of A in Tucson 
* Discussion on who will be attending the CactusCon (May 6-7, 2016) 
* 10 April - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 10 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2010%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 16 April - Linux installfest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG
* 16 attendees.
* 3 installs, 2 successfully completed.
* Repaired cell phone.
* Attempted repair on a Raspberry pi.
* Re-flashed a router.
* Backed up data on an android phone.
* Conducted a one on one introduction to Linux lesson for a new Linux user.
* Conducted a trouble shooting session for a private network.
* 17 April - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 14 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2017%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 24 April - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 11 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2024%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 28 April - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Finalized the plans for the Information Booth that we will be setting up in conjunction with the Cochise Linux User Group at the West End Fair on 7 May.  We will have a dress rehearsal on Saturday the 30th of April at 3 pm. to insure everything is on hand and everything fits within the canopy.  The location assignments will be emailed on Sunday 1 May.
* Discussed the AZLOCO release party for Ubuntu 16.04 on the 14th of May.  So far 3 of us will be driving up to Chandler to participate in the frivolous gaiety.  There may be an additional 2.
* Discussed problems that have arisen installing the new Ubuntu 16.04 release.  No solutions to the USB flash drive problem yet although there are work arounds.
* 28 April - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 14 attendees (3 new people)
* Discussed Own Cloud issues. smb issues, and BBB flash issue.
* Issued email and web log ins to Team members.
* Compared several computer specs.
* Discussed possible new Team projects for future use. 

 
