{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> +1
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.04 CD's are in, get with me to help Distribute them
<toddc> Thanks everyone that showed up Tuesday, WE ARE A UBUNTU  APRROVED TEAM AGAIN
<toddc> for the next two years!! YEA!!!
<toddc> HP cancels webOS:(
<Dazed_75> Woot
<Dazed_75> And that is now officially a word of English
<toddc> Why Intel & Canonical Should Make A Deal for Ubuntu MeeGo
<toddc> http://www.christopherprice.net/why-intel-canonical-should-make-a-deal-for-ubuntu-meed-1819.html
<toddc> Natty Narwhal netbook: The ultimate network administrator toolkit
<toddc> http://www.itworld.com/data-centerservers/192873/natty-narwhal-netbook-ultimate-network-administrator-toolkit
<toddc> Linux is 20 years old!!!   but can it drink now?
<Dazed_75> Is anyone besides Tod and I here?
<toddc> Any Ideas on how to get more members to attend meetings or participate more?
* xHans is here
<toddc> thoughts are go to less meetings 1-2 per month or use the mailing list more??
<Dazed_75> Welcome
<toddc>  :) I feel better than
* isz_id is here...as well
<xHans> debian turned 18 this week: http://www.debian.org/News/2011/20110816
<toddc> 52 Days till 11.10 will be released
<toddc> Sept 17 2011 at heatsynclabs we will be hosting a software freedom day event more to follow
<toddc> I now have access to set up azloco.com email address so if you would like one please contact me!
<toddc> At toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> ITIL, Six Sigma, and Cobit best practices and quality management processes linux admin www.stratus.com
<Dazed_75> Todd stutters sometimes
<toddc> Linux Administrator with RHEL and SUSE experience Scottsdale Az  Asad@midcom.com
<toddc> several jobs are availible at Limelight networks
<toddc> http://www.limelightnetworks.com/content-delivery-company/careers/
<toddc> SRP has a posting on their website for a Sr. Linux Admin
<toddc> https://www.srp.apply2jobs.com/ProfExt/index.cfm?fuseaction=mExternal.showJob&RID=4565&CurrentPage=1
<toddc> PHP Developers
<toddc> http://www.linkedin.com/news?viewArticle=&articleID=704077059&gid=130132&type=member&item=66246515&articleURL=http%3A%2F%2Fisostech.theresumator.com%2Fapply%2F27hoE5%2FPHP-Developer.html%3Fsource%3DLINK&urlhash=RDow&goback=.gde_130132_member_66246515
<toddc> http://www.phoenixinternet.net
<toddc> AdOn Network http://www.viralblog.com/online-marketing/the-future-of-online-advertising-explained/
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thanks to Shane Lofgren for getting both the azloco.com and test.azloco servers up to 10.04
<toddc> this is a bit of work so thank him if you see him in the channel.  He will also be updating  the Drupal soon so any Ideas to update the site please let us know.  We do hope to add our big blue button server
<toddc> to it as a user access from azloco.com
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated.  So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
<toddc> http://test.azloco.com/ipxe/ now has a ROM-o-matic Ipxe image for a Ipxe project that Dazed_75 abd bj0 are working on. Stay tuned for more info
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is next weekend 7/30 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from
<toddc> Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<Dazed_75> Once again, the PXE server will be running at the Installfest next week.  Please stop by for a demonstration of LAN booting.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> No classes this week
<Dazed_75> It works quite well and can be used to try out different distros
<toddc> September  9 at 9.30 am Q and A with Amanda Brock in #ubuntu-clasroom or Lernid
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Sept 17 2011 at heatsynclabs we will be hosting a software freedom day event more to follow
<toddc> xHans would you like to do the plug events?
<Dazed_75> or say the proposals for SFD?
<xHans> sure
<xHans> you already covered the Installfest, which is PLUG and AZLoCo working together
<xHans> PLUG developer meeting is a week from Thursday
<xHans> the following Thursday is the PLUG east side meeting. One of the topics for that will be identi.ca
<xHans> classes at the community colleges are starting last week and this week
<xHans> http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=linux&subject_code=any&all_classes=true&terms[]=4116&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&instructors=
<xHans> if the class started last week and you're interested, please contact the instructor about getting in
<xHans> the MySQL class at MCC did fill up!
<toddc> cool
<isz_id> any overrides?
<xHans> that link is for MCC, but it's a page where you can choose other colleges
<xHans> isz_id: I'm not sure, that's up to Phil. you've got his email address from the PLUG discuss list, so contact him to see if you can get in
<xHans> as already mentioned, Software Freedom Day is coming up in less than a month
<xHans> we're planning an event at HeatSyncLabs this year, please let me toddc or Dazed_75 know if you'd like to help
<xHans> we want to showcase Free Software and some physically interactive stuff with the help of HSL
<Dazed_75> I think we both plan on being there so just a question of what we might do
<xHans> bbiab
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<Dazed_75> All I really have to add is that SLUG is having a mtg Tuesday to plan this season out
<toddc> should also thank Banditti for putting BBB back up for us to use!
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
