{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #62 for the week August 25, August 31, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Sixty Second Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-September 3, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ArizonaTeam

* Next meeting: Sunday September 7, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the August 31, 2008 meeting ====

tyche called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08August31

tyche began by announcing that johnc4510 would not be available for the meeting because his mother's brother had just died.  johnc4510 was on the way to Dallas.

Second, tyche had attempted, unsuccessfully, to either recreate or convert the AZ Team logo to an SVG file.  This is needed for the banner.

tyche then asked Fern``Hans to report on the ABLEconf meeting that had just taken place.  http://www.ABLEconf.com/

1. johnc4510 was going to fill in the organizers page for us, http://www.ABLEconf.com/organizers, so now we need someone else to fill in.  FernHans will work to create the appropriate list of orgs, but we need someone to create links and hopefully add logos.

2. We now have a call for papers, that and the announcement need to go out.  http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2008Phx/Promotion.  Please add groups and media outlets that are missing from that page.  If you can be the person responsible for contacting the group/media please put yourself as the contact.  Alternatively, if you know someone who can be the contact, please contact them and ask them to sign up.  Contact persons need to please sign up for the promo-announce mailing list:  http://lists.ableconf.com/listinfo.cgi/promo-announce-ableconf.com.  Getting the word out and getting presentation proposals are our top priorities.

3. We will also be posting sponsorship information.

Tyche then stated that for the strictly AZ side of this, I need someone with SVG experience to work on the team Logo.  Also, princess| hasn't gotten back to me about the status of the banner, and I hope to hear from him soon.  And finally, my wife and I both feel very strongly about what has happened with johnc4510's family, and offer our condolences.  Members of the team also expressed their condolences.  Fern``Hans did likewise, both on his own behalf and that of PLUG.

Fern``Hans then gave the announcements for PLUG:

1. Devel meeting is Thursday.  It is at Adtron, which is about Broadway and 48th Street.

2. the Install``Fest was moved back from yesterday and will now be this coming Saturday, 10:00 to 16:00.  Links and maps on the PLUG site, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/.

3. There is also an Install``Fest the weekend after ABLEconf.  We'll need extra support that weekend just in case we pull people in from ABLEconf.  tyche added that we can mention this at ABLEconf, for those who come to the conference and get disks, but don't want to try to install themselves.  Fern``Hans mentioned that johnc4510 had brought up the Lo``Co cosponsoring some of our Install``Fests, we'll plot on that once he's had some time for family.  We need to have Install``Fest flyers and a poster at ABLEconf.  tyche suggested that something to remember is that Fern``Hans and PLUG have helped us out with our first (and successful) install``fest.  It's only appropriate that we support him.  Fern``Hans added that we're all the same community.

Finally, tyche asked that you all think about how you can support the ABLEconf effort, and volunteer what you can do.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:23 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
