{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 04 May – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 5 attendees
* Discussed linux-firmware package and dependencies
* Worked on a proxmox (pve4) test server
* Tested port forwarding on zentyal (worked on 4.2, failed on 5.0)
* Configured openvpn on a new laptop
* Discussed rolling back updates and system restore
* 06 May – Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* Conducted Zental firewall forwarding and testing
* Retrieved data from a failing laptop hard drive and copied it to a new hard drive
* Updated Zental server
* Conducted command line training
* Discussed container and virtualization technology
* Updated WEEWX weather station
* Discussed Linux bluetooth usage
* Tested a mobile network kit to make it transportable
* Conducted Training on the Big Blue Button
* 06 May – West End Fair Information Booth (Conducted in conjunction with the Cochise Linux User Group in Sierra Vista AZ)
* 10 AZLOCO & CLUG personnel attended to man the booth
* 1500-2000 people attended the Fair
* Approximately 3 dozen individuals stopped by and expressed an interest or asked questions
* Information flyers for AZLOCO and CLUG were passed out
* 07 May – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2007%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 14 May - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2014%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 20 May - Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 22 attendees
* Successfully conducted 8 installations: 6 Ubuntu 16.04, 1 Centos, and 1 Mint 18.1 (dual boot with Microsoft Windows 10)
* Repaired a non-responsive keyboard
* Conducted training on a Turnkey Linux file server
* Assisted an attendee set up a remote editing GIT-Hub account
* 21 May - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2021%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 25 May - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 11 attendees, 2 new people.
* Discussed the upcoming installfest (15 July).
* Discussed installing Ubuntu or one of its “flavors” on an XP desktop for one of the new people. Details will be ironed out for the actual installation at a later date.
* Distributed Ubuntu information to the new people and discussed the concept of Free and Open Source Software.
* 25 May - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 9 attendees, 2 new people
* Discussed programming in C, testing camera streams, and up-coming events 
* 28 may - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2028%2C%202017%20Meeting
