{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #45 for the week April 28, May 5.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Forty Fifth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-May 7, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday May 11, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the May 5, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 8:59 PM

johnc4510 began with the introduction of new members.  fde and pr0nGuy were not available.  Hipstor was at the Phoenix release party and met some of us there.  He is having major trouble installing mythbuntu onto Hardy Heron.  Desert``Penquin said he is John and live in Sun City. He is from Detroit and been here 8 years now. He is currently back in school trying to figure out what he wants to be in life. It was great to meet you at the party and he hopes to get more involved as we go forward.

Next, johnc4510 announced that the pictures of the Hardy Heron Release Party were posted at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/HardyReleaseParties.  He thanked everyone who helped make the release parties a success.  And a special bit of thanks to kennymc0_laptop and tyche for their work in Phoenix.

We have install fests coming up on May 17.  See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Installfest for information on them.

ianmcorvidae has an idea to combine a signing party with the installfests.  ianmcorvidae said, "I can only speak for Tucson, of course, but myself and some folks unaffiliated with this group would like to do a keysigning (PGP, Thawte Web of Trust, CACert), and thought that doing it paired with the installfest could raise awareness of both.  There aren't many people in this group who use PGP/GPG much less any of the S/MIME variants, but it seems like this could draw more people, which is always preferable."  tyche asked, "How do they sign keys?  Especially if they don't have their computer there?"  ianmcorvidae responded, "signing keys is typically done in person, and the idea is you make sure the person is who they (and their key) says they are and that they have control, and then you sign it at home (usually)."  Information on gpg/pgp keys and keysigning can be found at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GnuPrivacyGuardHowto.  [ed. note:  The caff program, mentioned on that page, is installed through Synaptic.  Look for a program called signing-party, which contains it and a number of other OpenPGP related tools.]  ianmcorvidae said that he would send an email to the mailing list with information on the preliminaries needed for keysigning.

The Phoenix installfest is pretty well set up.  johnc4510 mentioned that a location for the Tucson installfest was still needed.  tyche suggested that Tucson could always join the Phoenix installfest.  Current information on the installfests can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Installfest.  soldats mentioned that for all the phoenix people who never saw the flier, it is on the forums on the installfest flier section for the latest flier (http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63605&d=1206333507).  johnc4510 stressed that getting fliers out for the installfest is even more important than it was for the Hardy release party, since we are trying to attract non-users.  Possible places to put fliers are:
* grocery store cork boards
* computer shops
* libraries
* public places
* churches
* coffee shops
* even put them up on lamp posts and street lights [ed. note: local ordinances may apply]
* also don't be afraid to hand them out at work if you can
* friends
* neighbors
* johnc4510 even suggested that tyche should try insane asylums. [ed. note:  I believe he was being humorous.]

We next discussed the materials that would be needed at the installfest.  For example:
* install disks - a good mix might be: 10 ubuntu, 3 ubuntu 64bit, 1 alternate install cd.
* Extra CAT5 cables, for people without wireless
* a cart or something to help people bring in equipment, ie desktop boxes
* a camera for lots of pictures
* signs
* hand-outs or brochure that tell about our team and include our wiki page, email list sign up page, and launchpad page, a short paragraph on what we do, and irc channel info.  Should also say how we are here to support new users etc.
For the Phoenix location, enigmastrat said there will be tables with power strips and LAN plugs as well as wireless

The meeting was adjourned at 10:02 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

