{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #73 for the week November 24, November 30.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Seventieth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-December 3, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday December 7, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the November 30, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08November30

johnc4510 then began an informal meeting:

* First off, thanks to all for your patience.  I've been overwhelmed lately.  Sorry, but family first.  Mom's doing better, but she has a bit to go yet.

The team then began a discussion of what to do about the install fest.  A number of suggestions were made, and questions raised.  It was determined that there will be no point release for Intrepid Ibex (see http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/15141).  One suggestion was that we still have 8.04 disks available, and that we should offer those.  It was decided that we would shoot for January 17, 2009, as a date for the install fest.  johnc4510 will be getting hold of ASU and U of A about holding the install fest at their facilities.

Luft``Hans then added announcements:

* There are no developer meetings for December and January, so no meeting this Thursday.
* A week from Thursday is our annual end of year party, we suggest bringing friends and family.  More info will be up at http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/.
* The Hackfest will be the following Saturday, but is completely online this month.  Next month's Hackfest should be a good guest speaker, but I don't know if it's all been confirmed.
* There will still be Stammtische on both sides of town in December.
* There will be no west side meeting and the normal Installfest will not take place.
* Those interested in planning the next ABLEconf should please join its discussion list as there will be a call for local committee this week.

Luft``Hans then thanked the team for encouraging cross-group participation.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:50 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
