{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Some of us are in   http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/     tonight if you want to talk or see us!
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Linux: "Good evening Mr. Gates, I will be your server this evening."
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> Six Ways to Speed Up Your Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/115797/6-ways-to-speed-up-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> How to Quickly Encrypt Removab;e Storage Devices with Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/115955/how-to-quickly-encrypt-removable-storage-devices-with-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> How to Encrypt Your Home Folder AFTER Installing Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/116032/how-to-encrypt-your-home-folder-after-installing-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> How to Disable Home Folder Encryption AFTER Installing Home Folder Encryption on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/116179/how-to-disable-home-folder-encryption-after-installing-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Raytheon Delivering Linux to Navy UAV Groundstations
<Dazed_75>     http://www.suasnews.com/2012/06/16529/raytheon-delivering-linux-to-navy-uav-ground-stations/
<Dazed_75> Mark Shuttleworth Recommends Windows Azure
<Dazed_75>     http://www.muktware.com/3677/mark-shuttleworth-highly-recommends-windows-azure
<Dazed_75> Install Scrollout F1 Anti=Spam Firewall On Ubuntu Server in 30 Minutes
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/install-scrollout-f1-anti-spam-firewall-on-ubuntu-in-30-minutes
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.10 Alpha 1 Released
<Dazed_75>     http://www.muktware.com/3675/ubuntu-1210-first-alpha-released
<Dazed_75>     http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/ubuntu-12-10-quantal-quetzal-alpha-1-released.html
<Dazed_75> Samsung Plunges $500K into Linux Foundation
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/06/07/samsung_linux_investment/
<Dazed_75> How to Use LightDM instead of MDM in Linux Mint 13
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/how-to-use-lightdm-instead-of-mdm-in.html
<Dazed_75> How to Help Spread "Download for Ubuntu" App Buttons
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/how-to-help-spread-download-for-ubuntu-app-buttons
<Dazed_75> Beatbox Music Player Adds New Artist overview. Unity Quicklist
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/beatbox-music-player-adds-new-artist-overview-unity-quicklist
<Dazed_75> Fanless Linux Mint PC Goes on Sale
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/fanless-linux-mint-pc-goes-on-sale
<Dazed_75> Three Extra Games Added to the Humble Indie Bundle
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/humble-indie-bundle-v-adds-3-extra-games
* spinrage (~spinrage@ip24-251-242-254.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Canonical's Computex Booth is a Thing of Beauty
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/canonical-computex-booth-is-a-thing-of-beauty
<spinrage> +
<spinrage> +1
<Dazed_75> Firefox 13 Goes Stable
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/firefox-13-goes-stable-adds-speed-dial-new-homepage
<Dazed_75> How to Install VMware Player in Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/how-to-install-vmware-player-in-ubuntu.html
<toddc> hi spinrage!
<Dazed_75> Flowblade: A Cool, Non-Linear Video Editor for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/flowblade-cool-non-linear-video-editor.html
<Dazed_75> How to Get a List of Open Windows on the Unity Panel
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/how-to-get-list-of-open-windows-on.html
<Dazed_75> jfbchat: Simple and Powerful Facebook Chat Client for Ubuntu/Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/jfbchat-simple-and-powerful-facebook-chat-client-for-ubuntulinux.html
<Dazed_75> How to Access VirtualBox Shared Folder from Ubuntu 12.04 Guest Machine
<Dazed_75>     http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/how-to-access-virtualbox-shared-folder-from-ubuntu-12-04-guest-machine.html
<Dazed_75> Lightspark 0.5.7 Released: FOSS Alternative for Flash Player
<Dazed_75>     http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/lightspark-0-5-7-released-free-and-open-source-alternative-flash-player.html
<Dazed_75> Use Linux to Rejuvenate Old Computers
<Dazed_75>     http://linux-news.org/index.php/2012/06/09/use-linux-to-rejuvenate-old-computers/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.10 will Have OpenJDK7
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-12-10-Will-Have-OpenJDK-7-274559.shtml
<Dazed_75> and that's it for me.  Any thing to add Toddc?
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc> I have a couple more to add!
<toddc> German court rules against Microsoft in Motorola patent fight
<toddc> http://www.themeshreport.com/2012/05/german-court-rules-against-microsoft-in-motorola-patent-fight/
<toddc> Netflix announces Open Connect CDN
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Netflix-announces-Open-Connect-CDN-1612094.html
<toddc> Microsoft starts supporting Linux on its Azure cloud
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Microsoft-starts-supporting-Linux-on-its-Azure-cloud-1612613.html
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> none!!!
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Security Operations Center
<toddc> http://hire.jobvite.com/j/?cj=ooJfWfw2&s=Craigslist
<toddc> Linux Systems Administrator (Phoenix Az )
<toddc> Laura McKee
<toddc> Technical Recruiter
<toddc> Office Direct #423-591-7412
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> June 17 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extream Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> Extreame
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is July 7  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<Dazed_75> the Ubuntu Hour is at 7pm
<toddc> yes good catch
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so we are also thinking about a room change in the future. The last several events were at or near standing room only.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday June 16 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Ubuntu Training Days
<toddc> June 23-24 on IRC freenode #ubuntu-classroom or just install Lernid       See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
<toddc> free classes
<toddc> OTHER EVENTS
<toddc> We are planning to attend the LUGY meeting in Prescott on June 12 at 7pm
<toddc> I am planning on a carpool for those interested leaving at Az Mills Mall at 4PM
<toddc> this Tuesday
<toddc> I am allowing a bit of extra time to get there but if if you want to go we could
<toddc> leave a bit later if needed
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us
<toddc> FernHans
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday June 14 7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc> plug server emphasis installfest is June 16 10-4PM  at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday June 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
