{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
20:58 < johnc4510> who's here please? +1
20:58 < scott_ev> +1
20:58 < johnc4510> tim__: hang around for the meeting
20:59 < scott_ev> SlickMcRunfast: things are ok here.  I just got my first acupuncture treatment tonight
20:59 < johnc4510> tyche: ping
20:59 < tim__> yes
20:59 < scott_ev> my knees feel better
20:59 < johnc4510> azmike: ping
20:59 < tyche> johnc4510: pong.
20:59 < johnc4510> hey bud
20:59 < kennymc0_> +1
20:59 < johnc4510> :)
20:59 < tyche> johnc4510 and all:  I may have to drop out of the meeting at a moment's notice.
20:59 < johnc4510> dasunsrule321: ping
20:59 < johnc4510> word: ping
20:59 < scott_ev> azmike: was here a bit ago.  I sent him to do a dmesg
20:59 < tyche> Paula came home sick.  VERY sick.
20:59 < scott_ev> tyche: crap
21:00 < johnc4510> tyche: k, wish her well
21:00 < tyche> I do have it logged, though.
21:00 < johnc4510> for all of us
21:00 < tyche> I will
21:00 < johnc4510> kk, np
21:00 < tyche> I definitely will
21:00 < johnc4510> take care of her
21:00 < tyche> Of course.
21:00 < tyche> That's what I do.
21:00 < johnc4510> she more important than you  hee hee
21:00 < johnc4510> :)
21:00 < tyche> Yep.  No contest.  :-D
21:01 < johnc4510> ok, let's get going. the rest can enter as they come in
21:01 < johnc4510> being easter it maybe slow tonight
21:01 < johnc4510> understandable
21:01 < johnc4510> ok, tim__ is new member here tonight
21:02 < tim__> I'm in Tucson , s/e side
21:02 < johnc4510> tim__: we usually ask new folks to introduce themselves
21:02 < johnc4510> a couple of general lines
21:02 < johnc4510> if you could please
21:02 < johnc4510> :)
21:02 < johnc4510> tim__: i'm on west side
21:02 < scott_ev> name, rank, serial number
21:02 < johnc4510> near starr pass
21:02 < tim__> I'm new to irc, but not so new to ubuntu.
21:03 < johnc4510> great, irc isn't that hard
21:03 < tyche> We can help with IRC, no problem.  Welcome to AZ Team
21:03 < johnc4510> how long have you been using Ubuntu?
21:03 < tim__> 9 mnths
21:03 < johnc4510> yes. welcome
21:03 < johnc4510> ah good
21:04 < johnc4510> we're here to help in any way
21:04 < johnc4510> irc, or ubuntu
21:04 < tim__> almost exclusive now
21:04 < johnc4510> or anything else we can
21:04 < johnc4510> just ask
21:04 < johnc4510> great
21:04 < johnc4510> :)
21:04 < tim__> thx
21:04 < johnc4510> so i take it you're having a good experience with Ubuntu
21:04 < tim__> Very. I love it
21:05 < johnc4510> great...again welcome
21:05 < tim__> started with 8.04
21:05 < johnc4510> :)
21:05 < johnc4510> ok, lets get going
21:05 < johnc4510> 1st, aztech emailed me and visited the other day in channel
21:06 < johnc4510> he's had some problems
21:06 < johnc4510> but
21:06 < johnc4510> will try to participate where he can
21:06 < johnc4510> it was good to talk with him again
21:06 -!- You're now known as kennymc0
21:06 < johnc4510> so watch for him in channel
21:06 < scott_ev> k
21:06 < johnc4510> he's been a member for a long time
21:07 < kennymc0> yep
21:07 < johnc4510> Announcements
21:07 < johnc4510> .
21:07 < kennymc0> uh oh
21:07 < johnc4510> Steve Langasek reports that we are less than a week away from the Release Candidate for Ubuntu 9.04, Jaunty Jackalope. Proposed date for the Release Candidate is April 16, 2009. The archive is now frozen and will not thaw again before release. Uploads to universe should again follow the guidelines described here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2008-April/025259.html  Next Thursday is RC date.
21:07 < johnc4510> .
21:07 < johnc4510> w00t
21:07 < johnc4510> .
21:08 < kennymc0> yay
21:08 < johnc4510> release candidate is one from final release
21:08 < johnc4510> .
21:08 < johnc4510> Ubuntu 7.10, Gutsy Gibbon, will reach end of life on Saturday, April 18th, 2009. It has been supported for the past 18 months, but following April 18th will no longer receive Ubuntu Security Notices or Updates. Note that upgrades to version 8.10 and beyond are only supported in multiple steps, via an upgrade first to 8.04 LTS, then to 8.10. Instructions and caveats for the upgrade may be found at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUp
21:08 < johnc4510> .
21:08 < johnc4510> for anyone using gutsy still, no more updates or security
21:09 < johnc4510> you need to upgrade or do a fresh install
21:09 < johnc4510> .
21:09 < johnc4510> The next Open Week takes place from Monday April 27th - Friday May 1st on IRC in #ubuntu-classroom. Ubuntu Open Week is a week of IRC tuition and Q+A sessions all about getting involved in the rock-and-roll world that is the Ubuntu community. The session are organized for the beginning of a new release cycle to help new contributors get involved. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
21:09 < johnc4510> Tentative Schedule for Open Week here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek/Prep
21:09 < johnc4510> .
21:10 < johnc4510> these sessions are a great way to find out about the other teams of Ubuntu
21:10 < johnc4510> dev, bugs, media, etc
21:10 < scott_ev> bu!bugs
21:10 < scott_ev> !bugs
21:10 < ubot4> If you find a bug in Ubuntu or any of its derivatives, please file a bug report at: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu  -  Bugs in/wishes for the bots can be filed at http://launchpad.net/ubuntu-bots
21:10 < johnc4510> they are usually given by the team leaders
21:10 < johnc4510> .
21:11 < johnc4510> The next testing day will be on Monday, April 13, 2009. The team will be smoke testing any *buntu desktop of your choice. The goals on the day will be to test the installer and applications on the CD as well as those you download from repositories and use regularly. The team will be looking for any regressions or breakages in these packages and reporting faults to launchpad. Join them on #ubuntu-testing on the freenode network. Go to htt
21:11 < johnc4510> .
21:11 < johnc4510> another great way to get involved
21:11 < johnc4510> .
21:12 < johnc4510> New issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #137 is out today. Read it here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue137
21:12 < johnc4510> ok, that's it on the announcements
21:12 < johnc4510> on to team stuff
21:12 < johnc4510> .
21:12 < kennymc0> john an announcment back you missed the address
21:12 < kennymc0> just got htt
21:12 < johnc4510> Jeff Martin has been added as an admin on the team server. With slofgren busy with other things at the moment, Jeff was good enough to step in and help us out in this area. Thx Jeff
21:12 < kennymc0> hurray jeff
21:13 < tyche> Congratulations, jeff
21:13 < johnc4510> if you need an ssh account, or access to the test server, you can now contact jeff, me or slofgren
21:13 < johnc4510> .
21:13 < johnc4510> Need more members blogging on the team site please :) http://azloco.com/ Anyone needing an account please contact myself, tyche or kennymc0
21:14 < johnc4510> tim__: http://azloco.com/ is our team website
21:14 < johnc4510> we have our own servers
21:14 < kennymc0> i've been going in every couple of days and approving people that are on our team launchpad page that have tryied to register on the site
21:14 < johnc4510> that we admin ourselves
21:14 < xHans> where's info on the release parties?
21:14 < tim__> ok
21:14  * xHans doesn't see links on the site :(
21:15 < johnc4510> kennymc0: you have a new one: lenkalove
21:15 < johnc4510> lol
21:15 < johnc4510> you think that's spam
21:15 < johnc4510> ?
21:15 < johnc4510> lol
21:15 < kennymc0> i havent checked today
21:15 < kennymc0> checked yesterday
21:15  * slofgren looks around
21:15 < kennymc0> wasnt there then
21:15 < johnc4510> SlickMcRunfast: hey bud
21:15 < johnc4510> ooops
21:15  * kennymc0 shoves slofgren in the middle of the meeting
21:16 < SlickMcRunfast> ?
21:16 < johnc4510> slofgren: evening
21:16 < slofgren> hmm
21:16 < scott_ev> slofgren: welcome bud
21:16 < slofgren> howdy all
21:16 < johnc4510> :)
21:16 < johnc4510> glad to see ya
21:16 < slofgren> thanks
21:16 < slofgren> glad to be had
21:16 < johnc4510> ok, i brought the jaunty planning wiki page up to date
21:16 < johnc4510> Jaunty Planning: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/JauntyEvents
21:16 < johnc4510> from our last meeting
21:17 < johnc4510> look it over and make sure i got everything right please
21:17 < johnc4510> :)
21:17 < johnc4510> scott_ev: have you been emailing the lugs to let them know about the event??
21:17 < johnc4510> lug coordinator
21:17 < johnc4510> :)
21:18 < tyche> johnc4510: You left out of Phoenix that the install fest is at UAT
21:18 < johnc4510> ah
21:18 < johnc4510> k
21:18 < scott_ev> I contacted zack at asulug
21:18 < johnc4510> great, any answer?
21:19 < scott_ev> yeah, he said thanks for letting him know and he would get the info out
21:19 < johnc4510> tim__: you know where silver mine subs is
21:19 < johnc4510> k great
21:19 < tim__> yes I work very close
21:19 < johnc4510> great
21:19 < kennymc0> tyche: the phoenix install fest is at boulders on broadway after the plug install fest
21:19 < johnc4510> btw, another old member is soldats...he's been in channel recently
21:19 < johnc4510> tucson guy
21:19 < scott_ev> kennymc0: that's a release party
21:20 < tyche> kennymc0: Nope.  That's the release party at Boulders.
21:20 < kennymc0> that's what i meant
21:20 < johnc4510> kennymc0: yeah, i should have put UAT on there though
21:20 < johnc4510> my mistake
21:20 < johnc4510> thx tyche
21:20 < kennymc0> ok
21:20 < johnc4510> :)
21:20 < kennymc0> blah
21:20 < kennymc0> cant type
21:20 < johnc4510> i'll add it
21:20 < johnc4510> lol
21:21 < johnc4510> ok, i'm going to inform tfug and TCS via email this wk
21:21 < kennymc0> do we have any fliers to hand out?
21:21 < johnc4510> we don't
21:21 < kennymc0> we probalby should have some
21:21 < johnc4510> unless we alter the old ones
21:21 < kennymc0> pretty sure tyche is very good at that sort of thing
21:21 < scott_ev> johnc4510: I'll trty to contact slug
21:22 < johnc4510> kennymc0: go to the forums thread and find the old one and give us a link please
21:22 < johnc4510> if you would
21:22 < johnc4510> scott_ev: k
21:22 < johnc4510> and jeff is handling the Kingman event
21:22 < scott_ev> I wonder where matthew is
21:23 < johnc4510> don't know
21:23 < johnc4510> ok, so...installfest
21:23 < kennymc0> still looking for the old flier
21:23 < johnc4510> we really can't make too many plans until i find out about the bulk cd shipments
21:23 < johnc4510> i've been asking, and so have other team leaders
21:23 < kennymc0> ok here it is http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=740610
21:24 < johnc4510> jono says he's working on it
21:24 < johnc4510> kennymc0: thx
21:24 < xHans> please also add info for the release parties as well as the monthly Installfest to your calendar :)
21:24 < scott_ev> Jono needs to step up
21:24 < kennymc0> i dont think we need the actual cds to make plans. we can still plan for the event and plan to make a few cds just in case we dont get the bulk shipment in time
21:24 < kennymc0> which is most likely going to be the case
21:25 < kennymc0> just my 2 cents worth
21:25 < johnc4510> xHans: Evening and we will
21:25 < kennymc0> and for the install fest we can hand out the old cds still
21:25 < johnc4510> kennymc0: we can take a cd or a usb for the new release and let folks use them if they need it
21:25 < kennymc0> there are a lot of people that steer clear of anything but an LTS
21:25 < xHans> if the CDs don't show up, then we can do it again next month and title it something like, "This time with CDs...and feeling"
21:25 < johnc4510> but don't burn a bunch of cds
21:26 < slofgren> kennymc0: for good reason
21:26 < kennymc0> i know slofgren
21:26 < xHans> yeah, LTS release needs big media event release parties
21:26 < johnc4510> kennymc0: yep
21:26 < slofgren> ubuntu drops the off in quality inbetween LTS versions
21:26 < scott_ev> hmmm
21:27 < johnc4510> xHans: you have announcements...fingers could use a breat
21:27 < johnc4510> break
21:27 < johnc4510> lol
21:27 < kennymc0> they try to put all the shiny stuff in so that they can get us to debug it for the next lts
21:27 < xHans> johnc4510: ok
21:27 < kennymc0> :)
21:27 < scott_ev> I've been sticking to *.10 releases
21:27 < xHans> Avondale Free Software Stammtische this week on Wednesday
21:27 < xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch
21:27 < xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5498
21:27 < xHans> Tempe Free Software Stammtische next week on Tuesday
21:27 < xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/node/1521
21:27 < xHans> so, they are not back to back this month :)
21:28 < xHans> despite what I might have announced elsewhere...
21:28 < xHans> West side meeting a week from Wednesday
21:28 < johnc4510> tim__: xhans is our LUG friend from Phoenix who keeps us up to date on their goings on
21:28 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/356
21:28 < xHans> Red Seven Jaunty release party is a week from Thursday on the 23rd
21:28 < xHans> http://www.RedSevenLinux.com/events/
21:28 < johnc4510> :)
21:28 < xHans> monthly Installfest and Jaunty release party for Phoenix a week from Saturday on the 25th
21:28 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/112
21:28 < slofgren> will be an interesting release
21:28 < xHans> PLUG chairman blog entry for the release parties
21:28 < slofgren> I hope you get high turn out
21:28 < xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5659
21:29 < xHans> I've requested that the PLUG Installfest calendar event get updated with info on the release party
21:29 < johnc4510> k
21:29 < xHans> that's it for this week
21:30 < johnc4510> xHans: THX
21:30 < johnc4510> .
21:30 < johnc4510> ok, for future consideration
21:30 < xHans> I still haven't gotten confirmation that we can have upstairs at Boulders On Broadway, but we can still make the location work even if that falls through
21:30 < johnc4510> system 76 will print flyers for free for member teams
21:30 < johnc4510> xHans: k
21:30 < xHans> cool
21:30 < johnc4510> http://knowledge76.com/index.php/76er_Program
21:31 < xHans> system 76++
21:31 < johnc4510> we would have to have the template done in advance
21:31 < xHans> but does that make them system 77?
21:31 < scott_ev> 78
21:31 < johnc4510> nah
21:31 < johnc4510> just a sponsor of the event
21:31 < johnc4510> like if red seven did it for plug or us
21:32 < johnc4510> it would save us having to expend our personal paper and ink to get it done
21:32 < johnc4510> thoughts?
21:32 < johnc4510> good bad ??
21:32 < johnc4510> lol
21:32 < tyche> I'd have to look at what they have to offer.
21:33 < johnc4510> yeah
21:33 < johnc4510> i think it's worth looking into
21:33 < tyche> I'd heard about the plan, earlier, when we were working on the UWN.
21:33 < tyche> I'd heard about the plan, earlier, when we were working on the UWN.
21:33 < johnc4510> just to see
21:33 < tyche> Yep
21:33 < johnc4510> k
21:33 < tyche> I'll take a look when I have some time, and let you know tomorrow.
21:34 < scott_ev> it would require more advanced planning than we normally have
21:34 < johnc4510> hmmm, seems like there was something else but that's all in my notes
21:34 < johnc4510> tyche: scott_ev yeah
21:34 < johnc4510> ok, a big welcome to tim__ thx for coming...you're welcome it hang here anytime...we do :)
21:35 < tim__> thx
21:35 < johnc4510> np
21:35 < tyche> Just try not to make it by the neck.
21:35 < johnc4510> :)
21:35 < johnc4510> lol
21:35 < johnc4510> ok, it know one else has anything??
21:35 < slofgren> welcome tim__
21:35 < scott_ev> welcome tim
21:35 < tim__> Hi
21:35 < johnc4510> ok, we're adjourned then....thx everyone :)
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
