{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 19 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-04-19-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/4/math-game-linux-commands   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/low-cost-wifi-and-lora-gateway-add-on-offers-flexible-configuration-options/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/04/default-debian-wallpapers-gallery/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/linux/looking-centos-replacement-start-here   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/system76-unveils-cosmic-as-their-gnome-based-desktop-environment-for-pop_os-linux   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/journey-developer-subscription   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/charting-the-path-to-a-successful-it-career/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/4/linux-cheat-sheets   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/4/load-balancing   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/04/display-keystrokes-and-mouse-clicks-in.html   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/locate-command-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/set-hostname-in-fedora-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/4/context-switching-git   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-display-linux-commands-cheatsheets-using-eg/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-test-website-loading-speed-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/4/systemd-resolved   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/features/features/getting-started-with-php-security   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/tcpdump-part-3   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/04/13/kubernetes_plays_by_same_rules/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:13)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (54)
* stephenm (42)
* meetingology (2)
* Eleison23 (1)
* gnewbie (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:05 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <gnewbie> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> News is kinda short this week but has some good articles.

 04:02 <stephenm> Play a fun math game with Linux commands

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/4/math-game-linux-commands

 04:02 <stephenm> Low-cost WiFi and LoRa gateway add-on offers flexible configuration options

 04:02 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/low-cost-wifi-and-lora-gateway-add-on-offers-flexible-configuration-options/

 04:02 <stephenm> List of All Default Debian Official Wallpapers [HD Gallery with Download Links]

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/04/default-debian-wallpapers-gallery/

 04:03 <stephenm> Looking for a CentOS Replacement? Start Here

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/linux/looking-centos-replacement-start-here

 04:03 <stephenm> System76 Unveils COSMIC as Their GNOME-Based Desktop Environment for Pop!_OS Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/system76-unveils-cosmic-as-their-gnome-based-desktop-environment-for-pop_os-linux

 04:03 <stephenm> My Journey into Linux System Administration

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/journey-developer-subscription

 04:03 <stephenm> Charting the Path to a Successful IT Career

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/charting-the-path-to-a-successful-it-career/

 04:04 <stephenm> 3 essential Linux cheat sheets for productivity

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/4/linux-cheat-sheets

 04:04 <stephenm> A beginner's guide to load balancing

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/4/load-balancing

 04:04 <stephenm> Display Keystrokes And Mouse Clicks In Screencasts Using KmCaster

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/04/display-keystrokes-and-mouse-clicks-in.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install and Use locate Command in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/locate-command-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Set or Change Hostname in Fedora Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/set-hostname-in-fedora-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> 4 tips for context switching in Git

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/4/context-switching-git

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Display Linux Commands Cheatsheets Using Eg

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-display-linux-commands-cheatsheets-using-eg/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Test Website Loading Speed in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-test-website-loading-speed-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Resolve systemd-resolved name-service failures with Ansible

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/4/systemd-resolved

 04:05 <stephenm> A Linux Admin's Getting Started Guide to Improving PHP Security

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/features/features/getting-started-with-php-security

 04:05 <stephenm> 6 advanced tcpdump formatting options

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/tcpdump-part-3

 04:06 <stephenm> In the enterprise, Kubernetes has to play by the same rules as other platforms

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/04/13/kubernetes_plays_by_same_rules/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to you MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:07 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 141 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are 158 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 27 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 22 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 01 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:09 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 02 May, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> 06 May,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 13 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 13 May, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 15 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your

 04:10 <MajB> personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 16 May, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 27 May, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:10 <MajB> Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 https://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:13 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 24 April 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:14 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:14 <MajB> Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
