{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 October – Linux installation-festival/Linux workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 13 attendees, 3 new people
* 3 installs
* 1 server repair
* 3 computer repairs
* Updated & tested installfest server
* 02 October - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 12 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2002%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 06 October - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees, one new person
* Setup a openvpn network
* Installed a OSX/Ubuntu  16.04 dual boot
* Helped remap KB alt key, 
* Showed 1 person ssh example
* Setup 1 azloco email account
* 09 October - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 9 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2009%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 15 October - Linux installation-festival/Linux workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 17 attendees
* 5 installs
* Several projects discussed/worked on
* 16 October – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 11 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2016%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 23 October – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 9 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2023%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 27 October - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed attendance at other AZLOCO and LUG events around the state.
* Discussed the use of MultSystem.  How to set it up and how to use it.
* Discussed hardware shortfalls for the upcoming Sierra Vista Installfest on 28 January 2017 and who can fill the shortfalls.
* There was some light hearted discussion about the Xenia Xerus T-shirt and how the squirrel looks like an origami squirrel.
* 27 October - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Discussed VPN's, Zentyal servers, Samba 4 login issues, and DDOS attacks this week.
* 30 October - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 11 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2030%2C%202016%20Meeting  
