{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
* NeoNetNinja (~JoeUbuntu@gateway/tor-sasl/neonetninja) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> BigBlueButton only works on some installs of unity (not mine) so if someone knows the fix
<toddc> please let me know what I missed
<toddc> 50 Places Linux is Running That You Might Not Expect
<toddc> http://www.focus.com/fyi/50-places-linux-running-you-might-not-expect/
<toddc> Remastersys discontinued, forked to Relinux. Here is a Howto:
<toddc> http://www.howtoforge.com/creating-your-own-distributable-ubuntu-dvd-relinux
<toddc> How Ubuntu 12.04 is Trying to Drop Power Usage
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTA0OTU
<toddc> Ubuntu HUD Opinion Piece(s)
<toddc> http://www.muktware.com/articles/3249/ubuntu-hud-solving-problem-doesnt-exist
<toddc> How to Play with Unity Keyboard Shortcuts Overlay in Ubuntu 12.04
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/how-to-play-with-unity-keyboard-shortcuts-overlay-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<toddc> Ubuntu 12.04 Adds New Unity Configuration Options
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/how-to-play-with-unity-keyboard-shortcuts-overlay-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<toddc> Gnome Components Clarification for Ubuntu 12.04
<toddc>      
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/gnome-components-version-clarifications
<toddc> 12.04 Alpha 2 Arrives for Testing
<toddc>      
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Ubuntu-12-04-LTS-Alpha-2-arrives-for-testing-1427722.html
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/ubuntu-1204-lts-precise-pangolin-alpha.html
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/unity-52-released-with-multi-monitor.html
<toddc> OpenShot 1.4.1 Released
<toddc> http://www.linuxnov.com/openshot-1-4-1-has-been-released-whats-new-download/
<toddc> KDE Plasma Tablet Announced (video demo here too)
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/spark-kde-plasma-active-tablet-200/
<toddc> 10 of the Best Unity Lenses & Scopes for Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/10-unity-lenses-scopes/
<toddc> Should CompizConfig-Settings-Manager be Removed from the Ubuntu Repos?
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/should-ccsm-be-purged-from-the-ubuntu-repos/
<toddc> How to Change the Unity Dash Color in 11.10
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/how-to-change-the-unity-dash-color-in-ubuntu-11-10/
<toddc> Final GIMP 2.6 Series Update Arrives
<toddc>      
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Final-GIMP-2-6-series-update-arrives-1427300.html
<toddc> Thank you Dazed-75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
<toddc> if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know?
<toddc> We have had interest in a Tucson ubuntu hour so I will update when I have more info
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Linux System Administrator (Aliso Viejo)
<toddc> pzerr-2831390939@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> Applications Software Developer
<toddc> wamsq-2830957945@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> Senior System Administrator - VMware
<toddc> npnnk-2828823361@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Eric will doing a presentation at the next Installfest February 18 at UAT
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Tucson installfest plans are underway with a preferred date of  April 7 at U of A pending U of A
<toddc> availability that day
<NeoNetNinja> +1
<toddc> xHans are you around today?
<xHans> yup
<toddc> can you do the plug and ableconf new ?
<toddc> news
<xHans> sure
<xHans> PLUG east side meeting this Thursday at 19:00
<xHans> Chris will cover the rise of A.I., Brian will continue his mini graphics demos with GIMP's resynthesizer plugin
<xHans> you already mentioned the Installfests
<xHans> the Free Software Stammtisch will be a week from Tuesday at 19:00
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<Dazed_75> Isn't Stammtische on 2/21?
<xHans> er, two weeks from Tuesday
<xHans> Dazed_75: yes
<xHans> was off by one :)
<xHans> that same night there will be an in person ABLEconf planning meeting at 18:00, also at Iguana Macks
<xHans> additionally, we've decided to start having weekly remote meetings on Wednesday evenings
<xHans> I don't know if we decided to go for 18:00 or 19:00
<xHans> I believe we're plannning on using a conference bridge so only phone is necessary
<xHans> toddc, Dazed_75: is the BBB instance available Wednesday nights if we decide to go that direction?
<Dazed_75> Should be available
<toddc> yep np
<xHans> that's what I thought, but I wanted to verify before we made any specific plans
<xHans> that's it from me for this week
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and ABLEconf.org
<xHans> we should be full at the PLUG east side meeting as Chris will be bringing his class
<Dazed_75> Note: there is also a Security Hackfest at Makerbench on the 11th per the plug calendar (3-6pm)
<Dazed_75> Thx xHans
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and ABLEconf.org
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<Dazed_75> Anything from the Tucson contingent?
<xHans> hmm, there's also a mini maker faire on the 18th
<xHans> https://technology.asu.edu/makerweek/minimakerfaire
<NeoNetNinja> Yeah, waiting to hear back from a contact at the UofA...
<toddc> you made it
<NeoNetNinja> Trying to get an actual LAN
<NeoNetNinja> :)
<NeoNetNinja> yep :)
<Dazed_75> cool
<NeoNetNinja> will follow up tomorrow ish
<Dazed_75> hopefully with unrestricted WAN access (internet)
<NeoNetNinja> yes, exactly
<toddc> it would help but if not we will be fine
<Dazed_75> yep
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<NeoNetNinja> toddc: thanks for doing what you do :) U Rock!
</pre> block.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
