{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Reminder 2 Days to Valentine's Day Feb 14 Do not forget!!!!
<toddc> How to Share Wireless Connection via Ethernet Cable in Ubuntu
<toddc> http://blog.arvixe.com/how-to-share-wireless-connection-via-ethernet-cable-in-ubuntu-to-any-device/
<toddc> Ubuntu 12.04 ARM Performance Becomes Very Compelling
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1204_omap4460&num=1
<toddc> Install Linux Mint’s New Cinnamon Desktop on Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/103691/install-linux-mints-new-cinnamon-desktop-on-ubuntu/
<toddc> Running Simple Groupware On Nginx (LEMP) On Debian Squeeze/Ubuntu 11.10
<toddc> http://www.howtoforge.com/running-simple-groupware-on-nginx-lemp-on-debian-squeeze-ubuntu-11.10
<toddc> How to Customize Ubuntu's MOTD
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/104708/how-to-customize-ubuntus-message-of-the-day
<toddc> Easily Monitor System Resources in Ubuntu with Indicator Multiload
<toddc> (11.04 and later)
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/easily-monitor-system-resources-in-ubuntu-with-indicator-multiload/
<toddc> 12.04 Privacy Controls & Minor Appearance Tweaks
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/privacy-controls-minor-ui-tweaks-land-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/notifyosd-to-use-same-colour-as-dash.html
<toddc> Kubuntu Will be Strictly Community Sponsored When Canonical Drops
<toddc> Funding After 12.04
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/canonical-withdraw-financial-support-from-kubuntu/
<toddc> Ubuntu One Online Notes Feature to be Dropped 2/28/2012
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/ubuntu-one-notes-feature-written-off/
<toddc> Mark Shuttleworth Explains Ditching Launcher Dodge in 12.04
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/mark-shuttleworth-explains-dodge-ditch-decision-in-precise/
<toddc> 12.04 Older Hardware Test
<toddc>      
<toddc> http://www.unixmen.com/201202-ubuntu-12-04-precise-pangolin-older-hardware-test/
<toddc> Official Ubuntu Business Desktop Remix
<toddc>      http://www.ubuntu.com/business/desktop/remix
<toddc> http://www.muktware.com/news/3296/ubuntu-means-business-announces-business-desktop-remix
<toddc> 12.04 Precise Pengolin Support Added to Ubuntu Tweak
<toddc>      
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/ubuntu-tweak-adds-ubuntu-12-04-support/
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/ubuntu-tweak-061-released-with-support.html
<toddc> A More "Classic Gnome" Session Lands in Ubuntu 12.04 Precise Pengolin
<toddc>      http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/more-classic-gnome-session-lands-in.html
<toddc> VirtualBox Ubuntu 12.04 (Guest) Fixes
<toddc>      http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/virtualbox-ubuntu-1204-guest-fixes.html
<toddc> Thank you Dazed-75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
<toddc> if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know?
<toddc> We now have 11.10 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Information Security Analysts
<toddc> luke@samuelbranchps.com
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Server Installfest Saturday February 18 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> Eric will doing a presentation at the next Installfest February 18 at UAT
<toddc> and I am working on a buddy to do a presentation on android custom roms and installs and roots
<toddc> there will be a schedule change starting in March
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is February 25  at UAT 9am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Tucson installfest plans are underway with a preferred date of  April 7 at U of A pending U of A
* Rich_ (adf62322@gateway/web/freenode/ip.173.246.35.34) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> availability that day
<xHans> toddc: can we ask Eric to do his presentation at 10:00 or 11:00?
<toddc> I will email him andd and request that time
<xHans> danke
<xHans> hmm, make that just 11:00
<Dazed_75> Welcome Rich.  Do we know who you are?
<toddc> I also have a notice from Lisa on the Security/hackfest
<toddc> this really cool
<xHans> forgot I'll be in another part of town. hmm, then again, whichever works best for him
<toddc> We are hosting a worldwide hackfest of the STACS systems
<Rich_> Thanks.  I was at the last installfest.
<toddc> (municipal and military) developed by Solomon courtesy of Dean Franks. You
<toddc> can participate via wan and we will offer 2 Target Prizes for anyone who
<toddc> We are hosting a worldwide hackfest of the STACS systems
<Dazed_75> Aaaah, welcome again then
<toddc> (municipal and military) developed by Solomon courtesy of Dean Franks. You
<toddc> can participate via wan and we will offer 2 Target Prizes for anyone who
<toddc> can successfully provide a file from either device.  I will provide more
<toddc> information as we get closer to March 2nd Saturday including target ip
<toddc> addresses.  The event is hosted by Solomon and MakerBench.com in Tempe.  I
<toddc> will video stream and video the full event including Dean's presentation
<toddc> which will kickoff 4 days of open wan hackfest STACS targeting.
<toddc> I heard tell there is a 500.00 in prize money
<toddc> xHans we need to contact them for ableconf
<toddc> xHans over to you! :)
<xHans> contact MakerBench?
<toddc> I will have contact info in a day or two
<xHans> ok
<xHans> ABLEconf planning conference call every Wednesday at 19:00
<toddc> ( I lost the card but know where to get one)
<xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/Planning/
<xHans> is it David?
<xHans> ABLEconf planning in person meeting is a week from Tuesday @ 18:00
<xHans> Iguana Macks in Chandler, the hour before the Stammtisch
<xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/Planning/
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday @ 19:00
<xHans> Iguana Macks in Chandler, the hour after the ABLEconf meeting
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> ABLEconf is all day on March 24th at UAT in Tempe
<xHans> Free Software for Free Enterprise business and technology conference
<xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/
<xHans> that's it from me for tonight
<Oda> 3 people for a meeting, now 4
<xHans> a positive growth trend :)
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and ABLEconf.org
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<xHans> bitte, thanks for helping coordinate between the groups and tracking the Installfest stuff for both groups
<Dazed_75> xHans: Did you notice  http://www.ubuntu.com/business/desktop/remix
<toddc> np happy to :)
<xHans> Dazed_75: I saw news of it, but hadn't yet looked at it
<Dazed_75> Thought you MIGHT have some interest
<xHans> someone from the LoCo want to cover it for either ABLEconf or PLUG or both?  :)
<Dazed_75> Maybe for a PLUG meeting.  I can't go to ABLEconf
<xHans> only 32 bit?
<toddc> I can ask around and or ask next week in the meeting and may get some interest from the email list
<xHans> yer other thing is 3 days, certainly you can take one off for ABLEconf  :)
<toddc> has anyone asked eric about cancelling to server installfest during ABLEconf?
<Dazed_75> Yes, looks like only 32 bit for now but I expect 64 will follow
<Dazed_75> Eric already cancelled his installfest for that day
<xHans> I have not
<xHans> ah, see he's ahead of us :)
<toddc> ok  I will update the calender
<toddc> need to know :)
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<xHans> :)
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<Dazed_75> I guess I should try to update Erics dates on the PLUG cal as well
<toddc> and welcome rick!!!! :)
<Rich_> The netbook you loaded Ubunto into for me is working flawlessly.
<toddc> Cool glad to hear it but them linux is usually a lot more stable !:)
<toddc> then :)\
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
