{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #70 for the week October 27, November 2.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Seventieth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-November 5, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday November 9, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the November 2, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08November2

johnc4510 began the meeting with 2 interlinked discussions.  The first discussion was about Ubuntu 8.10, Intrepid Ibex, having some major and critical problems.   The second discussion was about the lack of availability of U of A and ASU for the November 16 installfest.  The result was that the installfest has been postponed to December 7, from 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm, possibly, or whenever Intrepid Ibex is stable enough to be successfully installed.

Problems with Ubuntu 8.10 range from erratically moving or unresponsive mouse/cursor to the inability to even boot the LiveCD into a desktop (the system dumps the computer into busybox with an initramfs error.  These problems are "show stopper", critical problems for which no solution has been found on the forums or Launchpad, despite many people reporting them (as of the time of the meeting about 4 pages of the busybox problem existed on the forums).  It is inadvisable for our Team to attempt an installfest under these conditions, as it would make both us and Ubuntu look bad to new users, and would reflect very poorly on the reputation of Ubuntu and Canonical as developers of a distribution.  johnc4510 will be discussing this with the release team and possibly with Canonical during the next week in an effort to find solutions to the problems.

The problem of the Universities not being available can be overcome.  Alternative dates can be pursued.  xHans has even suggested that we hold the installfest in conjunction with PLUG and other Linux User Groups.  This would improve the possibility of our success by teaming us up with more experienced people.  This is something that would be very beneficial to us, and allow us to learn as well as do, and we will be in communication with xHans and PLUG about the possibility.  But we need an installable distribution to begin with, which brings us back to problem #1.

johnc4510 then asked xHans to make his announcements:

* PLUG developer meeting this Thursday night.
* PLUG east side a week from Thursday night.  Anyone want to do a presentation on new features in Intrepid?  Intrepid being borked is a valid part of the presentation.  Let me know if someone wants to do the presentation.
* Anyone want to do the Intrepid presentation for the west side meeting in a few weeks?
* The security lab is this coming Saturday.  We filled it up last month.  This month we'll be in a larger room.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:42 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
