{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #72 for the week November 9, November 16.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Seventieth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-November 19, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday November 23, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the November 16, 2008 meeting ====

tyche called the meeting to order at 9:06 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08November16

tyche made the following announcements:

* johnc4510 hasn't shown up for the meeting tonight.  I don't know what's keeping him away, but I hope everything's all right with him and his mom.  This was met with agreement from other team members.
* As we discussed last week, the Install Fest has been postponed.  I haven't heard any further word about the situation with it, either with locations or with cures for what ails Intrepid.  So, that's still on hold.

tyche then added an announcement for xHans:

* On behalf of xHans, I'd like to announce that the Free Software Stammtisch (Avondale) will be November 19, Wednesday, at Buffalo Wings and Rings.  More information can be found at:  http://plug.phoenix.az.us/node/574.  There's even a link to a Google map for those that are interested.

tyche then asked slofgren for a report on the new server.  slofgren reported that it's ready, and awaiting information on installation.  He is waiting for information on the contact at DeVry, to make arrangements.  kennymc0 and Mauricio offered to assist slofgren when the time comes.

There being no other questions or comments, the meeting was adjourned at 9:17 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
