{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 03 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:20 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-02-03-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-encrypt-linux-partitions-with-veracrypt-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/bash-break-continue/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/heres-ubuntu-touch-running-on-the-pinephone 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/open-source-productivity-tools 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/hybrid-developer-future-industry-trends 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/resolving-router-problems 
''LINK:'' https://devconnected.com/how-to-amend-git-commit-message/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.esecurityplanet.com/products/cloud-security-companies.html 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-6-4-officially-released-heres-whats-new 
''LINK:'' https://www.datamation.com/artificial-intelligence/top-machine-learning-services-in-the-cloud.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2020/01/7-best-linux-distros-for-programmers.html 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-show-password-asterisks-in-the-debian-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/furybsd/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/bash-select/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/snowflake-is-the-linux-ssh-gui-you-didnt-know-you-needed/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/bash-break-continue/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/colourised-disk-space-usage-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/how-linux-stores-manages-user-passwords/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/iptables 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-apache-spark-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-install-perl-modules-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecrobust.com/wireguard-is-now-in-linus-wireguard-is-merged-with-linux-5-3-kernel/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/monitor-and-stress-test-your-linux-gaming-pc-with-gtkstresstesting.15854?module=articles_full&title=monitor-and-stress-test-your-linux-gaming-pc-with-gtkstresstesting&aid=15854 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-encrypt-linux-partitions-with-veracrypt-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-set-up-nginx-server-blocks-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/nmap-troubleshooting 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/email-problems 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/exploring-containers-lxc 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/install-apache-php-mysql-on-freebsd-12/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (63)
* Ron_A (44)
* MajB (31)
* toddc (11)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* programmer317 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <Ron_A> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb  3 04:00:08 2020 UTC.  The chair is Ron_A. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <programmer317> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date  97689.79

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:03 <Ron_A> toddc will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <toddc> How to Encrypt Linux partitions with VeraCrypt on Debian 10

 04:03 <toddc> https://vitux.com/how-to-encrypt-linux-partitions-with-veracrypt-on-debian-10/

 04:03 <toddc> Bash break and continue

 04:03 <toddc> https://linuxize.com/post/bash-break-continue/

 04:04 <stephenm> sprru O

 04:04 <toddc> Here???s Ubuntu Touch Running on the PinePhone ??? Video

 04:04 <stephenm> sorry I'm late, watching a money

 04:04 <stephenm> movie

 04:04 <toddc> https://9to5linux.com/heres-ubuntu-touch-running-on-the-pinephone

 04:04 <toddc> over to stephenm

 04:04 <Ron_A> hello stephenm

 04:04 <MajB> Hi stephenm

 04:04 <stephenm> 4 open source productivity tools on my wishlist

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/open-source-productivity-tools

 04:05 <stephenm> evening

 04:05 <stephenm> What 2020 brings for the developer, and more industry trends

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/hybrid-developer-future-industry-trends

 04:05 <stephenm> Resolving stubborn router problems

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/resolving-router-problems

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Amend Git Commit Message

 04:05 <stephenm> https://devconnected.com/how-to-amend-git-commit-message/

 04:05 <stephenm> Top Cloud Security Companies

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.esecurityplanet.com/products/cloud-security-companies.html

 04:05 <stephenm> oh ya and +1

 04:06 <stephenm> LibreOffice 6.4 Officially Released, Here's What's New

 04:06 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-6-4-officially-released-heres-whats-new

 04:06 <stephenm> Top Machine Learning Services in the Cloud

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.datamation.com/artificial-intelligence/top-machine-learning-services-in-the-cloud.html

 04:06 <stephenm> 7 Best Linux Distros For Programmers

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2020/01/7-best-linux-distros-for-programmers.html

 04:07 <stephenm> How to show Asterisks in the Debian Terminal when entering a Password

 04:07 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-show-password-asterisks-in-the-debian-terminal/

 04:07 <stephenm> Meet FuryBSD: A New Desktop BSD Distribution

 04:07 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/furybsd/

 04:07 <stephenm> Bash Select (Make Menus)

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/bash-select/

 04:07 <stephenm> Snowflake is the Linux SSH GUI you didn't know you needed

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/snowflake-is-the-linux-ssh-gui-you-didnt-know-you-needed/

 04:07 <stephenm> This has nothing to do with politic

 04:07 <stephenm> Bash break and continue

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/bash-break-continue/

 04:08 <stephenm> Discus - Show Colourized Disk Space Usage in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/colourised-disk-space-usage-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How Linux Stores and Manages User Passwords

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/how-linux-stores-manages-user-passwords/

 04:08 <stephenm> Sysadmin tools: How to use iptables

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/iptables

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install Apache Spark Cluster Computing Framework on Debian 10

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-apache-spark-on-debian-10/

 04:09 <stephenm> How To Install Perl Modules On Linux

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-install-perl-modules-on-linux/

 04:09 <stephenm> WireGuard is now in Linus Tree! WireGuard'

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.tecrobust.com/wireguard-is-now-in-linus-wireguard-is-merged-with-linux-5-3-kernel/

 04:09 <stephenm> Monitor and stress-test your Linux gaming PC with GtkStressTesting

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/monitor-and-stress-test-your-linux-gaming-pc-with-gtkstresstesting.15854?module=articles_full&title=monitor-and-stress-test-your-linux-gaming-pc-with-gtkstresstesting&aid=15854

 04:09 <stephenm> How to Encrypt Linux partitions with VeraCrypt on Debian 10

 04:09 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-encrypt-linux-partitions-with-veracrypt-on-debian-10/

 04:10 <stephenm> I'm between either Veracrypt or Luks because I know Luks better

 04:10 <stephenm> How to Set Up Nginx Server Blocks on CentOS 8

 04:10 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-set-up-nginx-server-blocks-on-centos-8/

 04:10 <stephenm> Basic network troubleshooting in Linux with Nmap

 04:10 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/nmap-troubleshooting

 04:10 <stephenm> Common Linux email problems and how to fix them

 04:10 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/email-problems

 04:10 <stephenm> Exploring simple Linux containers with lxc

 04:10 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/exploring-containers-lxc

 04:11 <stephenm> After reading this I don't know if I like Docker better or LXC, thoughts?

 04:11 <stephenm> How to Install FAMP Stack (Apache / MySQL / PHP) on FreeBSD 12

 04:11 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/install-apache-php-mysql-on-freebsd-12/

 04:11 <toddc> LXC

 04:11 <stephenm> That's all the news that I have tonight, back to whoever is leader tonight

 04:11 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm and toddc!

 04:11 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:11 <stephenm> welcome

 04:11 <toddc> LXD even better

 04:11 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:12 <Ron_A> MajB has the list of Canceled meetings and events.

 04:12 <stephenm> ya but toddc what about the inventory that docker has, does LXC even have the same thing?

 04:12 <MajB> There are none

 04:12 <toddc> thare are no cancelled events or meetings

 04:12 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:12 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:12 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:12 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:12 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:13 <Ron_A> That's what I love about GUIs:

 04:13 <Ron_A> They make simple tasks easier, and complex tasks impossible.

 04:13 <Ron_A> -- John William Chambless

 04:13 <Ron_A> Misspeled?  Imposable.  My modem is erorr corecting.

 04:13 <Ron_A> I'm only a sysadmin.

 04:13 <Ron_A> What do you expect me to do - something useful?!?

 04:14 <Ron_A> current canonical Jobs today

 04:14 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:14 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:14 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> 06 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 13 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 13 February, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:15 <MajB> 15 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:15 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> 27 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:16 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 13 February 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:18 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 18 February  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of th

 04:18 <MajB> ings tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:19 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 20 February 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:19 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 23 February 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 07 February 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave and Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 12 February 6-7:30 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 22 February 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Back to you Ron_A

 04:19 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:20 <Ron_A> El jeffe do you have anything to add?

 04:20 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:20 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:20 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:20 <Ron_A> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
