{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Yorokobi> +1
<Dazed_75> 1
<Rich__> +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> err, +1
<adrenaline> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> +_+--=
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> start with the news
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> McDonalds menu board runs ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/02/ubuntu-spotted-on-displays-at-mcdonalds.html
<toddc> Dell, Ubuntu Team for Updated Linux Cloud Platform
<toddc> http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Linux-and-Open-Source/Dell-Ubuntu-Team-for-Updated-Linux-Cloud-Platform-429036/
<toddc> Ubuntu Powered Display Spotted at a Gas Pump in Colorado
<toddc> http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2011/12/ubuntu-powered-display-spotted-at-gas.html
<toddc> How to Work with the Network from the Linux Terminal
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/108511/how-to-work-with-the-network-from-the-linux-terminal-11-commands-you-need-to-know
<toddc> How to Backup Ubuntu the Easy Way
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/108869/how-to-back-up-ubuntu-the-easy-way-with-dj-dup
<toddc> How to Resolve a No Sound Problem on Ubuntu 12.04 (and older)
<toddc> http://www.unixmen.com/2012003-howto-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu/
<toddc> Whoops, a Big Problem for Wayland GTK+
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTA3Mjg
<toddc> Vinux 3.0.2 Released: An Ubuntu based OS for the Visually Impaired
<toddc> http://linux4everybody.blogspot.in/2012/03/vinux-302-has-been-released-ubuntu.html
<toddc> Brasero, Gedit, Remmina, Totem, Rythmbox, K3b and Empathy Get Quicklist Support
<toddc> http://www.muktware.com/articles/3401/default-ubuntu-apps-receive-unity-quicklist-support
<toddc> http://www.muktware.com/articles/3417/rhythmbox-and-empathy-get-quicklist-support
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/ubuntu-12-04-quicklists/
<toddc> Ubuntu 12.04 Multi-Monitor Launcher Behaviour Decided
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/ubuntu-12-04-multi-monitor-to-be/
<toddc> Latest Humble Bundle Bring New Games to Linux
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/latest-humble-bundle-brings-4-new-games-to-linux/
<toddc> FS Icon Theme for Ubuntu Gets Expanded, Updated
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/fs-icon-theme-for-ubuntu-get-expanded-updated/
<toddc> How to Never Miss an Ubuntu Notification
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/how-to-never-miss-an-ubuntu-notification-again/
<toddc> Video of a Users First Time with Ubuntu 11.10
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/video-a-users-first-time-with-ubuntu-11-10/
<toddc> Gnome Shell 3.4 Might Make It Into the 12.04 Repositories
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/gnome-shell-34-might-make-it-in-ubuntu.html
<toddc> New Unity Spread Design for Ubuntu 12.10
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/new-unity-spread-design-for-ubuntu-1210.html
<toddc> Switch Gmail Icons back to Text Labels
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/109102/switch-gmail-icons-back-to-text-labels
<toddc> How to Adjust Aize of Unity 2D Launcher and Icons
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/how-to-adjust-size-of-unity-2d-launcher-and-icons/
<toddc> https://plus.google.com/105507097221940492572/posts/1P7HzjK6mL9
<toddc> NVIDIA Tegra 3 Makes For Fast Ubuntu On ARM
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTA3MjQ
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> I spent the last 3 days at the Computer Technology Conference 
<toddc> over to Dazed_75
<Dazed_75> They had about 140 attendees, 28 presentations, about a dozen vendors and some other sponsors.
<Dazed_75> It was a good time and my Linux is Easy presentation went over well.
<Dazed_75> I handed out abount 35 Ubuntu disks and got several onvites to speak elsewhere (mostly for next fall).
<Dazed_75> Any questions about it?
<adrenaline> What was your presentation on?
<adrenaline> Oh wait haha I read that funny
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Network Administrator
<toddc> http://practicemax.iapplicants.com/ViewJob-225397.html
<Dazed_75> I also did one on Video Editing using OpenShot
<toddc> Web-Hosting Tech Support (Level II - III)
<toddc> http://www.arvixe.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> I saw shall in the IRC yesterday but missed talking to her
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is February 25  at UAT 9am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline ##Rd
<adrenaline> Nice she must have figured something out lol
<toddc> yep I wonder if she will be there Sat?
<Dazed_75> We may have several people showing up for the installfest so would be happy to have an extra volunteer or two
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<adrenaline> I will be there
<toddc> Thanks adrenaline
<toddc> thanks to Eric for updating the azlocbbb.banditti.com stie to 0.8-3 it really works great with a lot of new features but will need a web designer to complete the upgrade and customize the API's so we need a volunteer if someone would like to take it on please let me know
<Dazed_75> adrenaline: great!  Looking forward to seeig you there
<toddc>  I have been contacted by DeVry and should soon be able to access our servers at DeVry in the near future and
<toddc> determine their future and options
<toddc> xHans are you around?
<xHans> yuppers
<xHans> PLUG devel a week from Thursday will be Metaprogramming with Ruby
<toddc> new for us?
<xHans> PLUG east side the following week will be resume writing tips from a tech recrui
<xHans> ter with openings to fill
<toddc> news
<xHans> that would be them :)
<toddc> cool
<toddc> that it?
<xHans> that's it for tonight
<xHans> I'll likely be out next week
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
<toddc> ok thanks I will keep that in mind and get notes
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<adrenaline> Is anybody here planning on attending the devel meeting/s?
<toddc> still looking for ideas to test on rasberry when/if it gets here
<adrenaline> I liked your idea about the TV plus xbmc
<toddc> adrenaline: I have been to a few but normally only if I remember
<[R]> toddc: how much esd it takes to kill it
<toddc> esd?
<[R]> electro static discharge
<toddc> ahh that might be a issue!
<toddc> good point
<adrenaline> you can really only do that test once if you do it right
<toddc> how would one test that safely? might need to think that through a bit
<[R]> you dont
* SlickMcRunFast (~mark@174-17-238-8.phnx.qwest.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<[R]> because if you do it right, you've killed it
<Rich__> Hold it in front of you when the police are about to taze you.
<toddc> ETA is still 4/23 so we have a bit to figure that out---might need to think about a metal case
<toddc> owww tazing a PI
<[R]> plastic is probably better
<adrenaline> run around in socks on a shag carpet then go touch it
<toddc> foil lined cardboard
<toddc> :(     :(
<[R]> so i told my dad i was going to get a cat
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<[R]> and he was like "whos going to take care of it"
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<adrenaline> I installed Xubuntu 64 bit today so far it is trouble free. So far worked out of the box. I have only had to change the boring themes
<adrenaline> Oh ya and I installed it on a USB thumb drive
<toddc> for portable use?
<adrenaline> Well really for class, but it is so fast I will probably keep it around and use it for that
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
