{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

03 March – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed data base management
05 March – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* Attempted to repair Big Blue Button software
* Discussed replacements options for Big Blue Button
* Discussed possible location options for future physical events when such events become an option
06 March – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2006%2C%202022%20Meeting
10 March – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* We will be updating or installing Ubuntu 20.04 on four of the Warrior Healing Center’s Operations Center computers on Saturday, 12 March.  Volunteers were requested to be there at 1000.
* Ubuntu 22-04 is scheduled to be released on 21 April 2022.
* Briefly discussed PWAs (Progressive Web Applications)
* A member asked if there were any 8 Gb DDR-3 RAM sticks available in our spare parts boxes. He was given what he needed.
* A member asked how he could change the size of the icons in Ubuntu.  That can be done by choosing settings and then appearance.  Select the size that you want from there.
* Briefly discussed mlocate and netplanner
* Gene presented an update on his power wall project.
10 March – Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed the most recent FireFox update (98.0)
* Discussed cloud based operating systems
* Briefly discussed Ubuntu Pro
12 March - Community Assistance project
* 4 attendees
* Set up three computers with Ubuntu 20.04.4 installed for the Warrior Healing Center in their Operations Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista AZ
19 March - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Discussed various backup applications available for Linux operating systems
* Attempted to set up Grsync for an attendee
* Discussed various ways to recover data from a computer that had been in a house fire and has possible smoke and heat damage to the hard drive.
* Re-installed an RTL8821ce wireless card driver for an attendee when a kernel update apparently left it corrupted/damaged.
20 March – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2020%2C%202022%20Meeting
24 March - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed Keypass XC
