{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> +3?
<xorrito> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<xorrito> (BBB is crashing as soon as i join audio)
<toddc> Some us will be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see us.
<toddc> xorrito: 1 sec I have the patch
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Linux... better than a sports drink... it doesn't make you crash after an hour.
<xorrito> lol
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> Last week I talked to Todd about maybe shortening the news and we both thought maybe I should.  But I found that hard to do.  I wonder if any readers could give me some feedback about it.
* spinrage (~spinrage@ip24-251-242-254.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<spinrage> +1
<Dazed_75> How to Change Notifications Position in Cinnamon
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/how-to-change-notifications-position-in.html
<Dazed_75> Fix MP4 Playback Bug in Ubuntu 12.04 {gstreamer bug affecting totem, minitube, etc)
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/fix-mp4-playback-in-ubuntu-1204.html
<toddc> xorrito: go to http://www.macromedia.com/support/documentation/en/flashplayer/help/settings_manager04.html
<Dazed_75> Use Mencoder to Make Videos in Slow Motion
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/use-mencoder-to-make-videos-in-slow.html
<Dazed_75> How to Disable Ubuntu's Guest Session from Log In Screen
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117994/how-to-disable-ubuntus-guest-session-account
<Dazed_75> How to Downgrade Packages on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117929/how-to-downgrade-packages-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> How to Stream Videos and Music Over the Network Using VLC
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118075/how-to-stream-videos-and-music-over-the-network-using-vlc
<toddc> enter all tabs the show azlocobbb.bandtti.com and chang to allow
<toddc> assumming you are usein firefox
<Dazed_75> GWOffice: A Nice Application That Brings Your Google Drive To Your Desktop
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/gwoffice-a-nice-application-that-brings-your-google-drive-to-your-desktop/
<xorrito> (chrome)
<Dazed_75> WINE 1.5.8 Improves Windows CODECs and Other Things
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Wine-1-5-8-Improves-Windows-Codecs-279006.shtml
<xorrito> I started using Gwoffice! is very nice
<toddc> not sure then flash on linux acts weird
<Dazed_75> Why Google and Ubuntu Don't Say Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/why-google-and-ubuntu-dont-say-linux-7000000221/
<Dazed_75> Linux Gamers are Fewer than Too Few
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/linux-gamers-fewer/
<Dazed_75> DrWright for Ubuntu Schedules Regular Work Breaks
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/drwright-for-ubuntu-schedules-regular-breaks-from-working
* azmerge (~azmerge@2001:470:d:14a:49f7:f2dd:9a7f:859b) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> How to Upgrade to the Latest VLC Release in Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/how-to-upgrade-to-the-latest-vlc-release-in-ubuntu-12-04
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Logo Crop Circles Appear in Italy
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/ubuntu-shaped-crop-circles-appear-in-italy
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu App Showdown Producing a Number of RSS Clients
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/ubuntu-app-showdown-rise-of-the-rss-clients
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/a-quick-look-at-more-awesome-ubuntu-appshowdown-apps-in-development
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/07/monitor-network-usage-with-download.html
<Dazed_75> Y-PPA Manager 0.0.9.7 Released To Manage PPAs in Your Software Sources
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/07/y-ppa-manager-0087-released.html
<Dazed_75> Unity News Lens Gets Local news With Geo-Location, More
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/07/unity-news-lens-gets-local-news-with.html
<Dazed_75> Disable Global Menu AutoHide Behaviour in Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/07/disable-global-menu-autohide-behaviour.html
<Dazed_75> Easy Way to Disable / Enable Auto Mount for Media on Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/07/quick-tips-easy-way-to-disable-auto-mount-on-ubuntu-12-04-lts.html
<Dazed_75> The 'less' Command with Some Options You May Not Remember
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/less-command.html
<Dazed_75> Some Small Tricks with 'ffmpeg'
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/some-small-tricks-with-ffmpeg.html
<Dazed_75> What is AppArmor and How Does It Secure Your System
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118222/htg-explains-what-apparmor-is-and-how-it-secures-your-ubuntu-system
<Dazed_75> https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/serverguide/apparmor.html
<Dazed_75> How to Create Your Own AppArmor Rules
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118328/how-to-create-apparmor-profiles-to-lock-down-programs-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Monitor Hardware Temperature in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/07/monitor-hardware-temperature-in-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> ... and that is the news from my side
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc> I have a couple more to add!
<toddc> Create your own QR codes in Ubuntu with Qreator
<toddc> http://www.computeractive.co.uk/ca/download-review/2188172/create-qr-codes-ubuntu-qreator
<toddc> Official Ubuntu 12.04 LTS getting started guide published
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Official-Ubuntu-12-04-LTS-getting-started-guide-published-1631226.html
<toddc> ARM Wrestling: Fedora 17 vs. Ubuntu Linux
<toddc> Ubuntu wins!!!!
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=fedora17_arm_wrestling&num=1
<toddc> Be part of the Ubuntu Apps Sprint
<toddc> http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/2012/06/be-part-of-the-ubuntu-apps-sprint/
<toddc> Be part of the Ubuntu Apps Sprint
<toddc> http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/2012/06/be-part-of-the-ubuntu-apps-sprint/
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> System Administrator
<toddc> NOC Services Technician (T1)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit/?id=1560271
<toddc> Cloud/Data Engineer - Luxury Resort in TUCSON
<toddc> www.miravalresorts.com
<toddc> I.T Consultant/ System Engineer
<toddc> eng7-12@clickcomputerservices.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc>  we had great installfest yester-day we helped 6-7 regulars plus me!!!!
<toddc> we also started to build the new server Thanks to Dewayne and Justin and Don
<toddc> and hope next Saterurday to load it and maybe install it ---see below
<toddc>  and [R] and bjp revived my phone. Thanks guy's
<toddc> f you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> nice new blog on azloco http://azloco.com/blog
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on Saturday July 14 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> this event was cancelled but we are going to meet and build a new team server.  Join us if you can. Sse below
<toddc> Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday July 21 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> July 14 we have Special Build event . We are planning on a team VM server. All are welcome to join and help and debug before we install it at the Data center.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Introduction to the Ubuntu Development World for Beginners
<toddc> Wed, July 11, 8pm – 9pm
<toddc> Where#ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net
<toddc> our time
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> FernHans
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest has a new home
<toddc> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/meetings/20-linux-security-hackfest/87-linux-security-hackfest-has-a-new-home.html
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday July 12 7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc> plug server emphasis installfest is July 21 10-4PM  at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday July 17 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd
<toddc> Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> xorrito: you do have flash installed/
<xorrito> openjdk
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<xorrito> it worked before!
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
