{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

01 September – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
03 September – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Worked on Christmas Light Project
* Discussed attempts to limit user band width
* Upgraded the Team Own Cloud server
04 September – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2004%2C%202022%20Meeting
08 September - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed why printing some web site pages occasionally cut off part of the page.  It is probably due to the internal configuration of the website.  There is nothing wrong with the computer or the operating system
* Discussed some desktop environments and suggested desktop environments be a topic for a presentation at the next meeting.
* One installation of Ubuntu 22.04.1 was completed.
* Discussed the possible installation of a 32 bit OS on some old computers that a member had acquired.
* Discussed how to install a second OS on a computer with Ubuntu already installed.
08 September Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* Canceled because of Big Blue Button equipment failure
17 September – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 3 attendees
* Repaired the Big Blue Button team server
* Discussed the advisability of repairing and upgrading old laptops with DDR2 RAM for donation and whether they can provide a good user experience for people new to Ubuntu and Linux
* Started working on the layout of a new banner for AZLOCO
18 September - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2018%2C%202022%20Meeting
22 September - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed networking
