{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxxmann> +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<Ron_A> =1
<wmack> +1
<Yawnnie> +1
<Ron_A> +1
<toddc> Star Date 91465.39
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
* Rich__ (6cafa4a6@gateway/web/freenode/ip.108.175.164.166) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<Rich__> +1
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> http://hackaday.com/2013/11/02/raspberry-pi-becomes-a-universal-translator/
<Dazed_75> http://www.daveconroy.com/turn-raspberry-pi-translator-speech-recognition-playback-60-languages/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/174985/not-all-viruses-are-viruses-10-malware-terms-explained/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/174419/how-to-reuse-your-old-wi-fi-router-as-a-network-switch/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/175114/amazing-secret-monitor-how-to-trick/
<Dazed_75> http://www.engadget.com/2013/11/06/google-profile-photos-android-calls/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/bug-free-linux-40
<wolsen> +1
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/ubuntu-launches-openstack-interoperability-lab-7000022843/
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/red-hat-wants-to-be-openstacks-big-dog-7000022829/
<Dazed_75> http://www.techdirt.com/blog/wireless/articles/20131101/15353825101/patent-troll-shell-company-owned-microsoft-apple-launches-massive-patent-attack-android.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/10/25/installation-and-disk-partitioning-guide-for-ubuntu-13-10/ NOTE: Not a bad article to describe the automated methods, but it states there are better ways without giving any details
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/381593/valves-steamos-will-not-be-based-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://blogs.dailynews.com/click/2013/10/31/installed-whisker-menu-xfce/
<Dazed_75> http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/linux-tips/ubuntu-linux-tips/install-cairo-dock-3-3-2-in-ubuntu-13-10/
<Dazed_75> http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/linux-tips/ubuntu-linux-tips/install-everpad-2-5-6-in-ubuntu-13-10/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/11/how-to-configure-keyboard-layouts-in-kde.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/10/how-to-configure-keyboard-layouts-in-unity-gnome3-kde.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-box-pcs-take-linux-to-extremes/
<Dazed_75> http://l3net.wordpress.com/2013/11/03/debian-virtualization-lxc-debootstrap-filesystem/
<Dazed_75> http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/openwfd-aims-bring-wireless-display-streaming-tablets-pho
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/run-automated-scripts-ssh/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/transfer-files-securely-using-scp/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/date-time-missing-ubuntu-1310/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/ubuntu-touch-toolbar-design-change
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/debian-8-0-switches-xfce-default
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/11/avant-window-navigator-gets-new.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/11/google-calendar-indicator-020-released.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/11/topfeed-fancy-feed-widget-for-your.html
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/11/07/amazons-new-graphical-cloud-helps-make-desktops-obsolete/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-14-04-LTS-to-Have-New-GNOME-Style-Apps-397479.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/fedora-red-hats-community-linux-turns-10-7000022895/
<Dazed_75> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTUwNTY
<Dazed_75> http://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/steam-for-linux-has-its-first-birthday-today.2678
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/11/measure-packets-per-second-throughput-high-speed-network-interface.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/175083/htg-explains-do-non-windows-platforms-like-mac-android-ios-and-linux-get-viruses/
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntugenius.wordpress.com/first-stop-for-newbies/
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/11/canonical-abused-trademark-law-to-target-a-site-critical-of-ubuntu-privacy/
<Dazed_75> https://fixubuntu.com/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Mark-Shuttleworth-Apologizes-for-the-Trademark-Infringement-Letter-Sent-to-Fixubuntu-com-398583.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://opensource.com/life/13/11/dave-crossland-history-future-open-source-fonts
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/11/monitor-system-temperature-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-13-10-Hit-by-Annoying-Unity-Freezing-Bug-397907.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/11/install-brackets-in-ubuntu-via-ppa-open.html
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/11/08/google-takes-control-of-chrome-extensions-chrome-web-store-a-must-for-windows/
<Dazed_75> Nvidia dropping 32-bit Linux support for CUDA
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTUwODg
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/media-streaming-box-supports-widi-and-miracast/ OK, so where is Linux as a WiDi transmitter?
<Dazed_75> http://stop.zona-m.net/2013/11/shall-we-waste-twelve-more-years-promoting-free-office-suites-instead-of-open-office-formats/
<Dazed_75> Old news, but ... http://xmodulo.com/2013/11/write-raspberry-pi-image-sd-card.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/low-end-laptopsthe-rise-of-the-chromebook-7000022991/
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/382088/was-gimp-right-leave-sourceforge
<Dazed_75> http://fossforce.com/2013/11/poll-phone-pc-different-interfaces/
<Dazed_75> and that's it from AJ
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 lots of good information in there!
* [R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> I have a few more to add
<toddc> Booting Ubuntu on the Asus Transformer Book T100
<toddc> http://liliputing.com/2013/10/booting-ubuntu-asus-transformer-book-t100.html
<toddc> Interesting facts about Ubuntu Linux
<toddc> http://xmodulo.com/2013/10/interesting-facts-ubuntu-linux.html
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> Tuesday I will again be going to the Lugy Meeting in prescott
<toddc> I will leave Az Mills at 5:00 PM if anyone would like to ride along
<toddc> see http://www.lugy.net/ for more information
<toddc> over to ZzzTuxmann
<tuxxmann> We had a great installfest at PVCC and we had about 27 people show up according to their records.
<xHans> woohoo
<wmack> great!!
<toddc> +1
<tuxxmann> They were very happy with our turnout & look forward to another successful turnout for december or january.
<Ron_A> wish I would have been there
<tuxxmann> We did have one class from PVCC come in and watch us install Ubuntu be installed. We also had some previous people come back and have upgrades performed.
<tuxxmann> It was definitely very successful!!!
<toddc> thanks ZzzTuxMann
<xHans> outstanding
<toddc> and all those that helped out
<toddc> Install-fest was full again at UAT last week stop by this Saturday if you have time.
* Rich__ has quit (Ping timeout: 250 seconds)
<toddc> I am planning on testing a new location for the Tempe Ubuntu hour
<toddc> and may be there on November 26 but I need to talk to the manager yet.
<toddc> and will let you know when and where
<tuxxmann> We should know by the end of this week if we have another installfest that occurs in december or not.
<toddc> We have canceled the following meetings and events due to holidays or ??
<toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour Nov 28 canceled due to Thanksgiving
<toddc> December Tempe Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas and I may be still sleeping off the 25th.
<toddc> JOB list
<toddc> LimeLight in Tempe is looking for a MySQL DBA remote is OK
<toddc> Contact xHans for more info
<toddc> Logos Operations Developer Logos Bible Software
<toddc> devjobs@logos.com
<toddc> HIRING System Sage (Level IV Tech) (Las Vegas)
<toddc> http://www.ondemandassessment.com/verify/apply/BDyRyvR/nwPTwPa
<toddc> Level III Field Engineer / Systems Engineer (Tempe)
<toddc> http://www.greenloopsolutions.com/contact/
<toddc> Runs LINUX
<toddc> Robotics CEO: 12-Year-Old Whiz As Smart As Ph.Ds
<toddc> http://news.yahoo.com/blogs/this-could-be-big-abc-news/robotics-ceo-12-old-wiz-smart-ph-ds-194012375.html?vp=1
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST
<toddc> The next Azloco/plug installfests are Saturday November 16  and Saturday December 7 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> There is also a TechPHX at the UAT the same day and we have offered to open the doors
<toddc> but I have not heard back yet!
<toddc> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> the November Ubuntu hour is canceled due to thanksgiving the next Tempe Ubuntu hour is
<toddc> Thursday December 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Wednesday December 4th  7pm – 9pm
<toddc> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
<toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<toddc> There were 8-9 people at November's event this has started out as a great event.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> Weekly Ubuntu Webcast Tuesday  with Jono Bacon 11:00 AM
<toddc> Jono Bacon Q&A every Wednesday 12:00 Noon
<toddc> Juju Charm School: Chef/Puppet Integration Wednesday 9-11 AM
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> over to xHans for the plug dates and events
<xHans> danke
<xHans> PLUG east side meeting this Thursday
<xHans> The presentation will be on SaltStack by Michael March
<xHans> He is one of the original 7 PLUG members and hosted PLUG's first Installfest
<xHans> http://phxlinux.org/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/78-plug-topic-for-11-14.html
<xHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/b/118370136707822714534/events/chtcir6p7laaeqg7j65l77mvf3s
<xHans> Maker summit is the same day during the day
<xHans> http://makersummit.eventbrite.com/
<xHans> congrats and thanks again from PLUG for the successful new Installfest at PVCC!
<xHans> and that's it for this week
<toddc> thanks xHans
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<tuxxmann> thanks xHans for helping to set that up. It has gone very smooth.
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<tuxxmann> adios all!
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
