{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
* wmack (~wmack@ip98-165-94-49.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<tuxmann> +1
<toddc> +1!!!!!!!
<Dazed_75> +1
<wmack> +1
<toddc> Star Date 91350.36
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<m__> +1
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<pjdamws> +1
<toddc> m__ wave
<m__> Hi all... I am new.
<toddc> welcome again m__
<scott_ev> hello m__
<scott_ev> +1
<m__> Hi scott_ev
<toddc> lets start with the news
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!!!!!
<toddc> !!!!
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/172680/danger-why-you-shouldnt-buy-cheap-third-party-batteries-for-laptops-or-smartphones/
<Dazed_75> http://opensource.com/education/13/9/coursefork-education-tool
<Dazed_75> http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/ubuntu-1310-ubuntu-touch-launch-date-oct-17
<Dazed_75> GhostBSD 3.5 (based on FreeBSD 9.2) supports LXDE, MATE, Openbox & Xfce
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQ2Njc
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/penguins-in-space-asteroid-mining-and-linux-7000020989/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Touch-Screenshot-Tour-The-Road-So-Far-385145.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://l3net.wordpress.com/2013/09/21/how-to-build-a-debian-livecd/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/quick-tips/format-exfat-in-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/valve-announce-steamos
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/valve-is-releasing-it-own-linux-system-for-gaming-called-steamos/
<Dazed_75> http://store.steampowered.com/livingroom/SteamOS/
<Dazed_75> http://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/valve-has-announced-the-steamos-built-on-linux.2459
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/World-With-New-Limits-The-Coming-End-of-Moores-Law-79015.html
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/htop-interactive-process-monitor/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/09/synchronize-files-between-two-servers.html
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/GNOME-3-12-Will-Integrate-Systemd-Zimbra-Wayland-Port-385510.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/nautilus-gksu/ Add "Open as Administrator" to Nautilus Right Click menu
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Canonical-Makes-the-Search-in-Ubuntu-13-10-Completely-Anonymous-385199.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/09/nvidia-seeks-peace-with-linux-pledges-help-on-open-source-driver/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Beautify-You-Linux-Desktop-with-Pacifica-Icons-385877.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/09/access-vnc-remote-desktop-web-browser.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/schooltool-advanced-school-management-information-system/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/advanced-search-tool-for-linux/2013/09/24
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/ZevenOSs-Neptune-Distro-Linux-the-Way-You-Want-It-79035.html
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/embedded-terminal-a-gedit-plugin/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/172810/take-a-secure-desktop-everywhere-everything-you-need-to-know-about-linux-live-cds-and-usb-drives/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/26/vlc-media-player-adds-hardware-decoding-support-rebuilds-audio-core/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-based-underwater-robot-goes-faster-longer/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/26/vlc-media-player-adds-hardware-decoding-support-rebuilds-audio-core/
<Dazed_75> http://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/are-we-witnessing-the-decline-of-ubuntu-1.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/mount-amazon-s3-in-ubuntu/2013/09/26
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/26/linux-desktop-environment-gnome-3-10-now-available/
<Dazed_75> http://www.eweek.com/developer/gnome-3.10-updates-the-open-source-linux-desktop.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/10-best-features-gnome-3-10
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/09/how-to-install-gnome-310-in-ubuntu-1310.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.thetechgoggles.com/2013/09/why-should-you-choose-linux-desktop.html
<Dazed_75> X.Org DR13 (Direct Rendering) improvements are nearly done
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQ2OTk
<Dazed_75> X.Org GLX is being re-written
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQ2OTY
<Dazed_75> http://dot.kde.org/2013/09/25/frameworks-5
<Dazed_75> http://www.eweek.com/security/mozilla-pushes-security-forward-for-firefox-browsers-and-firefoxos.html
<Dazed_75> http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/linux-tips/fedora-linux-tips/install-task-coach-1-3-32-in-fedora-19-18-and-17/
<Dazed_75> http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/linux-tips/ubuntu-linux-tips/install-task-coach-1-3-32-in-ubuntu-13-10/
<Dazed_75> http://fossforce.com/2013/09/death-browser-plugin-good-thing/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/172929/ubuntu-13.10-with-unity-ui-final-beta-now-available-for-download/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/27/vet-unsafe-websites-with-wot-2-0-out-now-for-chrome-safari-and-firefox/
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/375142/should-linux-users-consider-buying-mac
<Dazed_75> http://www.wired.com/wiredenterprise/2013/09/github-office/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/self-destruct-features-gmail/2013/09/28
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/hide-unity-launcher-ubuntu-13-04/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/both-raspbian-and-noobs-installer-have-been-updated/
<Dazed_75> ... and thats all from Apache Junction.  I hope everyone found SOME piece of news useful
<toddc> Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> Top 15 Useful Ubuntu Apps For Daily Use
<toddc> http://www.efytimes.com/e1/fullnews.asp?edid=115894
<toddc> Google's Driverless Cars are using a Lightly Customized Ubuntu!
<toddc> http://www.techdrivein.com/2013/09/google-driverless-cars-are-using-modified-ubuntu.html
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> Installfest
<toddc> Even tho we moved to a bigger room we were still very full at the last installfest at UAT.
<toddc> Thanks to xHans and Tuxmann we will be adding a third event at Paradise Valley Community College.
<toddc> We are still in talks and working out plans but hope to announce in the next week with time and location information. Thanks to Tuxxmann and all his hard work because he will be running it!!
<toddc> tuxmann: any comments?
<toddc> We have canceled the following meetings due to holidays
<toddc> Meetings
<tuxmann> he is driving
<toddc> np I assumed and posed likewize
<toddc> October 13 due to Columbus Day and
<toddc> November 10 meeting due to veterans day holiday?
<toddc> Ubuntu Hour changes are
<toddc> November 28 Ubuntu hour due to Thanksgiving
<toddc> November 28 Ubuntu hour due to Thanksgiving
<toddc> December Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> LimeLight in Tempe is looking for a MySQL DBA remote is OK
<toddc> Contact xHans for more info
<toddc> Hardware (NOC) Technician for Phoenix NAP  T1 and 2 levels
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=6533461&t=1
<toddc> Runs LINUX
<toddc> the new beagle bone for home automation
<toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/home-automation-device-runs-linux-on-beaglebone/
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> Mini Tube record you tube with out using flash
* spinrage1 (~yaaic@ip68-110-85-252.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> http://flavio.tordini.org/minitube
<toddc> no new members this week
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday October 5  and Saturday October 19 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
* tuxmann has quit (Ping timeout: 256 seconds)
<toddc> November 2 installfest is canceled due to the UAT school needing the classroom
<toddc> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday October 24 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi
<toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Wednesday October 2, 7pm – 9pm
<toddc> Barnes and Noble 13719 West Bell Road Surprise AZ 85374 623-544-4435
<toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other uses and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<toddc> I am planning to attend this one as well.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> Weekly Ubuntu Webcast Tuesday  with Jono Bacon 10 AM
<toddc> App Design Clinic every Wednesday 1-2PM
<toddc> Jono Bacon Q&A every Wednesday 7-8pm
<toddc> Juju Charm School: Chef/Puppet Integration every other Friday 5-6 pm
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> I would like to look at team t-shirts again
<toddc> that is all I have xhans are you here?
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday October 10  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday October 15 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
