{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<wmack> +1
<toddc> Star Date 91503.69
<Rich_> +1
<BobTucson> +1
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<adrenaline_> +1
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<TuxMann> +1
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<BobTucson> me
<toddc> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your-self
<BobTucson> Tucson, gotta linux store
<BobTucson> make, sell and service linux boxes
<toddc> one day I will make down there to see you
<Dazed_75> Very cool BobTucson
<BobTucson> ty
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<smccarthy2> BobTucson: where is that store ?
<smccarthy2> +1
<BobTucson> 3049 s. kinney rd, down from old tucson studios
<adrenaline_> sweet BobTucson
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> Top 8 Linux performance monitoring tools (click arrows at bottom to turn pages)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/magazines/nseditions/2013/Oct13_Edition/linux.php
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/lightworks-for-linux-beta-updated
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-teamviewer-8-teamviewer-9-beta-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-debian-pear-os-elementary-os-crunchbang-and-kwheezy/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-bleachbit-1-0-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-debian-centos-fedora-opensuse-and-derivates/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/11/18/crack-out-the-champagne-raspberry-pi-sales-hit-the-two-million-mark/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxaria.com/article/arkos-build-your-cloud-with-a-raspberry-pi?lang=en
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/11/15/dell_sputnik_3_linux_laptop/
<Dazed_75> http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/unix-command/rbash/ though they do not say why
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-for-TV-Is-Not-Dead-Canonical-Still-Working-on-It-400590.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/canonical-dev-dont-use-linux-mint-online-banking-unsecure
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/linux-mint-responds-ubuntu-developers-security-claims
<Dazed_75> http://segfault.linuxmint.com/2013/11/answering-controversy-stability-vs-security-is-something-you-configure/
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/383286/does-linux-mint-need-better-security
<Dazed_75> http://www.itwire.com/business-it-news/open-source/62354-ubuntu-dev-media-slammed-over-security-comment
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-git-1-8-4-3-on-ubuntu-14-0413-1013-0412-1012-04-linux-mint-16151413-pear-os-87-and-elementary-os-0-2/
* BobTucson_ (4b92865b@gateway/web/freenode/ip.75.146.134.91) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/11/screencasting-and-video-editing-using.html
<Dazed_75> Clang's C++ Modernizer is becoming more useful
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTUxODM
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/11/15/stealthy_linux_backdoor/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/11/18/482-of-the-top500-supercomputers-run-linux-and-chinas-tianhe-2-is-the-fastest/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/11/21/green500-list-top-10-are-all-powered-by-nvidia-tesla-gpus-and-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/features/linux-is-the-platform-for-robotics
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/pipes-redirection-for-linux-command-line/
* BobTucson has quit (Ping timeout: 250 seconds)
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/household-brands-ubuntu-phone-tablets
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/3-useful-gedit-plugins-for-programmers/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Features/Free-Culture-in-Evolution-Openclipart-and-The-Open-Font-Library
<Dazed_75> http://openclipart.org/ and http://openfontlibrary.org/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/173366/ask-htg-how-can-i-get-the-old-gmail-compose-window-back/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtoforge.com/running-owncloud-5.0-on-nginx-lemp-on-debian-wheezy
<Dazed_75> http://dougvitale.wordpress.com/2013/11/18/using-truecrypt-on-linux-and-windows/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/11/manage-linux-server-gui.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/ubuntu-touch-emulator-released
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/how-to-get-pidgin-working-with-gtalk/
<Dazed_75> http://blog.meetthegimp.org/ now has episode 195 and support materials
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/ubuntu-14-04-will-not-be-using-mir-as-default-for-stability-reasons/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/11/20/are-web-service-providers-encrypting-their-data/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.org/threads/tcp-ip-protocol-network-time-protocol-ntp.4912/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.org/threads/partition-tables.4895/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/11/configure-raspberry-pi-first-time.html
<Dazed_75> http://ninite.com/linux/ and click on the "What's This" link
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/173101/how-to-enjoy-dead-simple-raspberry-pi-setup-with-noobs/
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/11/21/github_password_probing_reveal/
<Dazed_75> http://www.openlogic.com/wazi/bid/324755/Manage-Linux-services-with-Webmin
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-webmin-1-6-3-on-ubuntu-13-04-12-10-12-04-debian-wheezy-squeeze/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/disable-hangout-history/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/canonical-aims-to-port-ubuntu-touch-apps-to-the-ubuntu-desktop-versions/
* BobTucson (4b92865b@gateway/web/freenode/ip.75.146.134.91) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/newsImage/Ubuntu-14-04-LTS-to-Get-Stunning-Icon-Theme-and-They-re-Not-Flat-402712-7.png/
<adrenaline_> WB BobTucson
<Dazed_75> http://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-munich-rejected-steve-ballmer-and-kicked-microsoft-out-of-the-city/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Search-and-Read-Books-from-Calibre-s-Library-in-Ubuntu-13-10-with-Unity-Calibre-Scope-402765.shtml
* BobTucson__ (4b92865b@gateway/web/freenode/ip.75.146.134.91) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/11/convert-video-animated-gif-image-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/protocols-and-their-relevance/
<Dazed_75> and that's it from AJ
<Dazed_75> I hope everyone saw SOMETHING of use
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 lots of good information in there!
<toddc> I have a few more to add
* BobTucson___ (4b92865b@gateway/web/freenode/ip.75.146.134.91) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> discuss.ubuntu.com Coming Soon a replacement for the forums and more
<toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209
<toddc> I already got us a homepage there
* BobTucson_ has quit (Ping timeout: 250 seconds)
<toddc> turbid tux added a few
* BobTucson___ has quit (Client Quit)
<toddc> How to live without Google
<toddc> http://securityspread.com/2013/08/04/live-google/
<toddc> Huge horde of droids whacks code box GitHub in password-guess attack
<toddc> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/11/21/github_password_probing_reveal/
* BobTucson-moofed (4b92865b@gateway/web/freenode/ip.75.146.134.91) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> Sneaky New Linux Attack Discovered in the Wild
<toddc> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/Sneaky-New-Linux-Attack-Discovered-in-the-Wild?utm_source=&utm_campaign=Linux_Update_48_Free_Culture_in_Evolution_2013-11-19&utm_medium=email
<toddc> Cybersecurity Bill Offered Up as Amendment to NDAA
* BobTucson has quit (Ping timeout: 250 seconds)
<toddc> http://reason.com/blog/2013/11/22/cybersecurity-bill-offered-up-as-amendme
* BobTucson__ has quit (Ping timeout: 250 seconds)
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> We have canceled the following meetings and events due to holidays or ??
<toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour Nov 28 canceled due to Thanksgiving
<toddc> December Tempe Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas and I may be still sleeping off the 25th.
<toddc> JOB list
<toddc> Splunk Consultant traveling up to 80% IT operations and
<toddc> Vmware background.
<toddc> send resumes to lori.eddlemon@effect-tech.com
<toddc> LimeLight in Tempe is looking for a MySQL DBA remote is OK
<toddc> Contact xHans for more info
<toddc> Sr. Software Engineer - Big Data, NoSQL, Hadoop
<toddc> lori.eddlemon@effect-tech.com
<toddc> Sr HTML5/Javascript/CSS Engineer
<toddc> lori.eddlemon@effect-tech.com
<toddc> Logos Operations Developer Logos Bible Software
<toddc> devjobs@logos.com
<toddc> jobs.schwab.com, search for Unix, choose associate - Unix system administrator, here in Phoenix.
<toddc> Runs LINUX
<toddc> Safeplug say hello to Safeplug, Pogoplug’s $49 Tor-in-a-boSx for anonymous surfing
<toddc> http://gigaom.com/2013/11/21/say-hello-to-safeplug-pogoplugs-49-tor-in-a-box-for-anonymous-surfing/
<toddc> https://pogoplug.com/safeplug
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> The faster Android emulator
<toddc> http://www.genymotion.com
<toddc> NEW MEMBERS THIS WEEK
<toddc> nydia
<toddc> jlgull
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST
<toddc> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday December 7 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> NORTH INSTALL-FEST
<TuxMann> We have been working with PVCC and we've submitted paperwork to host the installfest every 4th saturday from January to April. We're waiting for final approval from the college. We don't have a december 7th installfest at PVCC. We have asked but it's at the end of the semester which makes it difficult.
<toddc> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> the November Ubuntu hour is canceled due to thanksgiving the next Tempe Ubuntu hour is
<toddc> Thursday December 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com should be a lot of new toys to show off!
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Wednesday December 4th  7pm – 9pm
<toddc> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
<toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find
<toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<toddc> There were 8-9 people at November's event this has started out as a great event.
<toddc> should we vote on BobTucson-moofed holding a Tucson ubuntu hour?
<BobTucson-moofed> me?
<toddc> that is one for and none against
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<BobTucson-moofed> anytime after jan
<toddc> ok we hold you to that!!
<BobTucson-moofed> byob
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> is there any other way/
<toddc> Weekly Ubuntu Webcast Tuesday  with Jono Bacon 11:00 AM
<toddc> Jono Bacon Q&A every Wednesday 12:00 Noon
<toddc> Juju Charm School: Chef/Puppet Integration Wednesday 9-11 AM
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> like the Tucson ubuntu hour!
<toddc> :)
<toddc> xhans are you here? and would you like to do the Plug news?
<BobTucson-moofed> we can do it, gotta lounge
<toddc> xHans ping
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday December 12  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday December 17 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd
<toddc> Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<TuxMann> Good night everyone.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
