{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


02 September - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
04 September - Virtual Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Discussed the pros and cons of dual boot vs virtualization.
* Conducted a trouble shooting session for a guest with a video problem on a desktop with a NVIDIA video card.
* Walked a guest through the installation of Ubuntu-restricted-extras and adding the repositories for updates for Canonical partners software.
* Instructed a guest how to add the repositories for Canonical partners software to the update list.
05 September - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2005%2C%202021%20Meeting
09 September - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees
* Discussed Oracle’s Virtual Box vs Dual Booting
* Discussed Advertising for Ubuntu Hour
* Discussed “Our Introduction to Different Linux Distributions Project”
* A guest who was given a donated computer discussed his experiences dealing with Ubuntu for the first time.
09 September - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed what to do when you end up with a grub> prompt
18 September - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees (1 new person)
* Conducted a troubleshooting session for xfce window title display vs composting conflict
* Discussed a Pinebook pro donation
* Discussed Wifi card recommendation
* Purisum camera issue
19 September - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2019%2C%202021%20Meeting
23 September - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed Canonical support for Ubuntu versions 14.04 and 16.04 which have reached EOL
* Discussed Team re-verification which will occur in December of this year
 
