{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #93 for the week May 4, May 10.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Ninety Third Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-May 13, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday May 17, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the May 10, 2009 meeting ====

tyche called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09May10

tyche started the meeting with introductions of new members:

hobbet1 started the introductions: "My real name is Frank I am new to Ubuntu I want to learn more and then I would like to get my neighborhood more and help them with it for kids if that makes sense."

dennisk then added his introduction: "Along with der.hans I teach Linux at MCC's Downtown campus."

hobbet1 and dennisk were both welcomed to the team

tyche then made some announcements:

* You all know that johnc4510 was going on vacation.  He did.  The last word I heard from him was that he should be in Joplin, Misouri Saturday afternoon.  However, Joplin had been hit with a massive storm that knocked out power to 60,000 customers, and his sister was one of them - so he might not be able to connect with us.  I'm sure he will contact us as soon as power is restored.  His brother-in-law has a generator, but that's reserved for things like the refridgerator, and can't be spared for a laptop computer.  So, they may be a bit uncomfortable, but I'm sure they're all right.  In the mean time, some announcements from the UWN:

* The Bug``Squad will hold it's first monthly meeting this Tuesday, May 12, 2009, at 16:00 UTC in IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting. The proposed agenda for the meeting can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meeting .  Everyone is invited to discuss how to improve the Team and actions.  Topics that you feel important can be added to the agenda.  Due to time factors, some topics may not be addressed at this meeting.  It is also possible that, if the meeting runs over, it may be moved to #ubuntu-bugs.  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-news-team/2009-May/000541.html

* After 54 mini-releases, Dustin Kirkland is finally releasing version 2.0. This new version brings more stability, new features, and better performance thanprevious versions. It is also now ready for general usage.  This release also renames the project from 'screen-profiles' to 'byobu', a Japanese term for decorative, multi-panel screens that serve as folding room dividers.  http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/05/byobu-20-released-project-formerly.html

* Blogger Bharat Balegere fromg Agni``Pulse.com covers why Ubuntu is a failure in India. These are: GRUB Boot loader does not have an aesthetic appeal, Login screen-users are required to type in their username, Desktop-the refresh option is missing, default login sound, default wallpaper, default audio driver  is weak, totem movie player sucks, right click send to options are missing, silverlight-moonlight, safely remove USB drive or Unmount Volume.  Bharat Balegere gives details about each of these 10 reasons, and hopes that developers will read and use his suggestions, so that he will have more success spreading Ubuntu to his friends. http://agnipulse.com/2009/05/10-reasons-why-ubuntu-is-a-big-failure-in-india/

tyche then asked xHans for any PLUG announcements:

* I was going to plug dennisk's summer class, but it looks like he already filled it, talk to him if you want an override.  http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=linux&all_classes=true&terms[]=4094&terms[]=4095&institutions[]=MCC04&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&subject_code=any&instructors=

* PLUG's east side meeting is Thursday with a presentation from Cloud``Made on Open``Street``Map. Hurricane is flying in for the weekend. She'll cover OSM for the meeting, then is throwing a mapping party for Saturday and Sunday.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/119 and http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/766

* Matthew``MPP is throwing a weekly Blender``CAD event on Sundays.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/771

* At MCC we will have a few graduates with their degrees in Linux Networking this Friday.

* both Stammtische are the following week, so a week from Tuesday and a week from Wednesday.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:16 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
