{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 02 October - Introduction To Linux presentation by Rex Bouwense at the Sunsites AZ Branch Library.
* 5 attendees
* Conducted a slide presentation in the library meeting room.
* Discussed what is a Linux operating system and what it includes, why you should use a Linux operating system, and the advantages and disadvantages of using one.
* 04 October - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed participation in Cactus Con, https://www.cactuscon.com/ (annual Hacker & Security Conference in AZ)
* Conducted an exercise to resize partition and filesystem in a VM
* Discussed the Big Hack: tiny chips inside servers to infiltrate US Companies
* 06 October – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 20 attendees
* Configured 2 network cameras for a security system.
* 3 installations of Ubuntu on laptops
* Restored LXC container to PROXMOX server for the Team’s Next Cloud
* Configured an 8-node odroid
* Conducted instruction on how to use SSH on a laptop
* Configured Arch Linux 
* Conducted instruction on terminal commands
* Updated root certificates on laptop
* 07 October – AZLOCO Team weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2007%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 14 October – AZLOCO Team weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2014%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 20 October - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 16 attendees
* Fixed teamserver where dnsmasq would not start after network being online
* Discussed variadic functions in C with examples
* Configured OpenVPN on a laptop
* Helped update a 18.04 system & explained PPA's 
* Connected/tested a 3.5 inch touch screen on a raspberry pi
* Tried (without success) to flash a Netgear router that was 'bricked'
* Tested relays used to control drip system using a raspberry pi
* 21 October - AZLOCO Team weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2021%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 25 October - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 13 attendees
* Discussed the 3 November installfest manning requirements and signed people up for times to insure that each period will be properly manned.
* Discussed the search engine DuckDuckGo and the use of Privacy Badger in FireFox.
* Discussed the Linux Mint Release note that required user action if the home directory is installed encrypted.  Swap is configured improperly.  See https://www.linuxmint.com/rel_tara_cinnamon.php.  This action is required in all three Linux Mint releases; Cinnamon, xfce, and Mate.
* Discussed a problem with a non-functional DVD burner on a Toshiba laptop.  Member was advised to bring the laptop to a function for further investigation.
* Discussed BroadCom chip drivers and how to determine which one is required.
* Distributed Ubuntu SWAG and Linux and FOSS information to the new attendee.
* 25 October - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees
* Conducted a demonstation of plugins for vim, used like an IDE
* Installed/configured pfSense on VirtualBox
* Discussed writing a custom USB device driver
* Troubleshoot a printing issue (apparmor blocked cupsd)
* 28 October - AZLOCO Team weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2028%2C%202018%20Meeting
