{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #32 for the week January 7 - January 13.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Thirty-Second Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 16, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday January 20, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

==== Summary of the January 13, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

There were no new members to introduce.

johnc4510 began the meeting with 6 announcements:

1. '''Hardy Alpha 3 Released''' - Alpha 3 is the third in a series of milestone CD images that has been released during the Hardy development cycle. Alpha 3 includes several new features that are ready for large-scale testing. Pre-releases of Hardy are *not* encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent breakage. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/.  You can go to that address to download the iso.

2. '''Ubuntu 7.10 Desktop Course''' - There are 10 lessons in total. The course is modular - 2 days if all lessons are covered, however, topics and lessons can be selected as required. There are 2 versions of the course: an Instructor Guide, and a student guide. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-training-support/2007-December/000077.html.  The course material is free.

3. '''KDE 4.0''' - Packages are available for 7.10 and the development Hardy version. KDE4 installs to /usr/lib/kde4 and can be installed alongside your existing KDE 3, see: http://kubuntu.org/announcements/kde-4.0.php. If you want to test KDE 4 without installing packages, try the Live CD: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/gutsy/kde4/.

4. '''Hug Day(Jan. 16,2008)''' - The second Hug Day of the new year, on Wednesday, January 16th, will be targeting OpenOffice.org. There are currently 300 new bug reports regarding OpenOffice.org and Hug Day will be focusing on reducing that number. The list of targeted bugs and tasks is posted at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20080116. The goal is to deal with all of the bugs on that list. So on 16 January 2008, in all timezones.

5. '''Help Design the New Launchpad Logo!'''

The Launchpad Logo Community Design Contest.

* What: Design a new logo for Launchpad
* When: Now through 31 March 2008
* How: See http://help.launchpad.net/logo for more details and official rules
* Prize: Winner will receive an Ubuntu Messenger Bag https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/launchpad-users/2008-January/002957.html

6. '''Tutorial of the Week''' - The tutorial of the week for Jan. 7, 2008 is PmDematagoda's explanation of the Magic SysRq keys -- and how to use them to recover your system, if it becomes unresponsive. Learn about the key sequences, and how to safely use them, in the tutorial. http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t617349

The first order of business was the team approval process.  We need to discuss where we need to go during 2008.  Goals, projects to consider, etc.

1. We need to do two install fests.<<BR>>
2. We need to finish up approval process and submit.<<BR>>
3. We need to have a few get togethers, including a statewide meetup.

johnc4510 then called for any other suggestions.  posingaspopular suggested that we go to conferences.  In particular, he suggested a barcamp. (See:  http://barcamp.org/ and http://barcampchicago.com/).  These are mostly a get together with presentations and improptu discussion on open source and ubuntu, etc.  posingaspopular suggested get some good sponsors (talk to Ohio team about this, their sponsors list for ubucon08 is rocksolid), invite the lugs and you're good to go.  Make sure the wifi is up and running and hackaway.  It's not a 100% Ubutnu event, but more hacking in general. The point though is that the loco will help lead this.  johnc4510 felt that, due to the amount of planning, we should pencil it in for the last half of 20008.  John thought barcamp would be an ideal time to have a state wide meeting. He thought the possibility of drawing non-participating team members to attend bar camp would be the perfect opportunity to entice members to participate.

Next, johnc4510 discussed install fests.  He felt that 2 a year would be reasonable, and that they should be held about a month after the releases.  Since Hardy Heron is due in April, and the next one in October, johnc4510 felt that we might be able to do install fests in May and November.  jsounder felt that a bit later might be preferrable, since it would give more time for the bugs to be worked out of the new release.  The tentative times for the install fest, then, would be about 6 weeks after release, or mid June and mid December.

The possible ways that more localized meet-ups could be done was left to the discretion of Tucson and Phoenix.  Further discussion was tabled until the next meeting.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:47 PM

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

