{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

{{{
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddc	+1
[21:01]	dennisk	+1
[21:01]	Eric-A	+1
[21:01]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	spinrage	+1
[21:01]	toddc	Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:01]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
[21:02]	toddc	but my flash is messed up so I can only type in there ATM
[21:02]	toddc	News
[21:03]	toddc	http://zareason.com is planning on selling a open source 10 in tablet will dual core ARM
[21:03]	toddc	playterm.org is a great place to see terminal recordings and learn the correct commands
[21:03]	toddc	The Perfect Server - Ubuntu 11.10 [ISPConfig 3]
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.howtoforge.com/perfect-server-ubuntu-11.10-ispconfig-3
[21:03]	toddc	system load Indicator
[21:03]	toddc	http://askubuntu.com/questions/30334/list-of-application-indicators/37914#37914
[21:03]	toddc	Ubuntu 11.10 Review : I take it back. Unity is cool.
[21:03]	toddc	http://lunduke.com/?p=1985
[21:04]	toddc	great reveiw from The Linux Action Show Host
[21:04]	toddc	Now there's a list of Ubuntu-Certified Computers
[21:04]	toddc	liliputing.com/2011/10/now-theres-a-list-of-ubuntu-certified-computers.htm
[21:04]	toddc	Ubuntu One Sync App Released for Windows
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/?p=21165
[21:05]	toddc	Add a ‘Force Quit’ Applet to Ubuntu’s Unity Launcher
[21:05]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/10/force-quit-applet-unity-launcher/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28OMG%21+Ubuntu%21%29
[21:05]	toddc	it works and I do use the force quit more that I would like to!
[21:06]	toddc	Oneiric 11.10 is now released and ready
[21:06]	toddc	I now have access to set up azloco.com email address so if you would like one please contact me!
[21:06]	toddc	At toddc@azloco.com
[21:06]	toddc	TEAM NEWS
[21:06]	toddc	We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
[21:06]	|<--	SlickMcRunFast has left freenode (Quit: Leaving.)
[21:06]	toddc	if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know? Dennisk is arranging one at
[21:06]	toddc	the xtream bean in Tempe dates and time to follow
[21:07]	toddc	we should have cd's in 2-3 weeks for 11.10
[21:07]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:07]	toddc	In-house IT Specialist (N. Phoenix) Linux based
[21:07]	toddc	job-b6mza-2644977618@craigslist.org
[21:07]	toddc	Systems Administrator (All Phoenix)
[21:07]	toddc	job-emy6w-2641369639@craigslist.org
[21:08]	toddc	UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:08]	toddc	A whole lotta classes the week at Ubuntu classroom from biginner to expert
[21:08]	toddc	all this week see http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/classroom.html for more info
[21:08]	toddc	and use IRC freenode #ubuntu-classroom and #ubuntu-classroom-chat or install lernid
[21:08]	toddc	program to participate.
[21:08]	toddc	get with me if you need help but these classes are real good and free free free
[21:09]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:09]	toddc	We are planning a 11.10 Release party for the October 29 installfest
[21:09]	cakeaz	Sorry I am back late
[21:09]	toddc	xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:09]	cakeaz	I am new
[21:09]	xHans	got a couple things
[21:10]	xHans	ABLEconf in person meeting Tuesday at 18:00, Iguana Macks in Mesa
[21:10]	toddc	welcome cakeaz please tell us a bit about your self
[21:10]	xHans	ABLEconf CFP going out today or tomorrow
[21:10]	xHans	Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday at 19:00, also Iguana Macks in Mesa
[21:10]	cakeaz	Well first of all i live in surprise
[21:10]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:10]	cakeaz	i am in LPIC training for school level 1 & 2 and DBA training for MySQL
[21:10]	xHans	classes starting this week at the community colleges
[21:11]	xHans	cakeaz: welcome
[21:11]	cakeaz	thank you
[21:11]	xHans	where are you taking classes?
[21:11]	cakeaz	i am 9 weeks into training at Phoenix Computer Academy
[21:11]	cakeaz	its a 9 month course
[21:12]	cakeaz	i do 10 hours of class time each week and 10-15 hours of lab work
[21:12]	cakeaz	so much to take in... its a bit overwhealming
[21:12]	cakeaz	but I am catching on
[21:13]	cakeaz	i thought I might join you all in here to give me some additional resources and perhaps make some new friends
[21:13]	xHans	ok, good luck with it
[21:13]	toddc	welcome to the group and please ask if you have any questions
[21:13]	xHans	user groups are also a good place to ask questions
[21:13]	cakeaz	ty
[21:13]	xHans	toddc: that was all the news from me tonight
[21:14]	cakeaz	most of you all are east valley?
[21:14]	toddc	we have a lot of helpful people here and a lot of training so let us know
[21:14]	spinrage	hey cake, i'm ather attendee of the meeting.
[21:14]	toddc	most are in the east side ATM but it shifts from side to side
[21:15]	cakeaz	hello
[21:15]	cakeaz	ahh good to know
[21:15]	xHans	strongest participation seems to be east valley, but Phoenix groups have people all over the metro area and the LoCo has people all over the state
[21:15]	Eric-A	East Valley rawks,,,,,,,,
[21:15]	toddc	cakeaz: check out out calender of events http://azloco.com/node/28
[21:16]	cakeaz	well i have 5 years exp working helpdesk internal support at ST Micro before being laid off
[21:16]	cakeaz	got my feet wet in HP-UX
[21:16]	cakeaz	and thats what got me interested in pursuing more for a career as a systems admin
[21:17]	toddc	you have the basics then
[21:17]	cakeaz	yes
[21:17]	cakeaz	class is teaching primarly for Centos
[21:17]	cakeaz	but i have 4 other builds i am working on my home pc via virtual box
[21:18]	dennisk	Not surprising
[21:18]	cakeaz	fedora ubuntu and opensuse
[21:18]	toddc	check out the online classes and the server installfests and and after the new year we be doing more security classes again
[21:18]	cakeaz	excellent
[21:18]	cakeaz	i look forward to i
[21:18]	cakeaz	it
[21:19]	toddc	for quick help there is usually someone here to help
[21:19]	xHans	cakeaz: check 2wire and PetSmart for west valleyish tech jobs
[21:19]	cakeaz	i am not looking for work currently
[21:19]	toddc	due being out of town that is about all I have dennisk did you have anything?
[21:19]	xHans	ok
[21:20]	cakeaz	the school i am in is paid for by the DES through the TAA program
[21:20]	xHans	TAA?
[21:20]	dennisk	Hans said it. Classes start at MCC tomorrow.
[21:20]	cakeaz	if i start working i will have to pay for it myself and its quite expensive
[21:20]	spinrage	cake, i live up near deer valley airport.
[21:20]	cakeaz	Federal Trade Assistance Act
[21:20]	cakeaz	my job was moved overseas
[21:20]	xHans	ah
[21:21]	cakeaz	extended unemployment benifits basicly which includes up to $20k of re-employment training.
[21:21]	toddc	note we have been wanting to get a ubuntu hour started up there! hint hint
[21:21]	Eric-A	that sucks
[21:21]	xHans	could that training be done at a community college?
[21:21]	cakeaz	its paying for this class and unemployment during
[21:21]	cakeaz	its a very comprehensive class lots of hands on
[21:22]	cakeaz	very small class of only 5 people
[21:22]	xHans	not trying to convince you to mover, rather trying to find out if we should contact DES about our classes
[21:22]	cakeaz	so lots of face time with our professor
[21:23]	cakeaz	its a Linux/Mysql admin class
[21:23]	cakeaz	9 weeks in so far
[21:23]	toddc	I need to unload car so I will be back later see every one later
[21:23]	xHans	that's a lot to teach in 9 weeks
[21:24]	cakeaz	its a 9 month course hans
[21:24]	cakeaz	i am only 9 weeks in
[21:24]	Eric-A	later todd
[21:24]	xHans	oops, internal unit mismatch
[21:24]	cakeaz	finishing up in april-may of 12
[21:24]	xHans	9 months is more reasonable
[21:24]	cakeaz	yes
[21:25]	xHans	especially if you're experimenting on your own
[21:25]	cakeaz	9 weeks would be ridic
[21:26]	dennisk	Good luck, cakeaz. Gotta run.
[21:26]	dennisk	bye all
[21:26]	<--|	dennisk has left #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:26]	Eric-A	gotta run also, see ya'll later
[21:26]	cakeaz	i look forward to the 28th
[21:27]	cakeaz	i will have to bring my laptop up
[21:27]	|<--	Eric-A has left freenode (Remote host closed the connection)
[21:27]	cakeaz	perhaps bring a classmate or 2
[21:27]	xHans	cakeaz: if you have time and want to cross town, come to Stammtisch Tuesday night
[21:27]	cakeaz	I am not sure i can make tues night
[21:28]	cakeaz	heavy class load during the week
[21:28]	cakeaz	can deff do sat
[21:28]	cakeaz	thats an awfuly long drive for a short meeting in the worst traffic
[21:29]	xHans	yeah, didn't think it was likely
[21:29]	xHans	having made that drive, it's 50 miles one way
[21:29]	cakeaz	and funds are tight on my current budget
[21:29]	cakeaz	sorry
[21:29]	xHans	no prob
[21:29]	cakeaz	i would love to but its just not feasable for me atm
[21:30]	xHans	I let people know there are things out there, they decide if they can participate
[21:30]	cakeaz	nice, thank you.
[21:31]	cakeaz	i have a long history of personal pc usage dating back 25 years
[21:31]	cakeaz	just only recently been doing it for a living
[21:32]	xHans	now's a good time to start, lots of jobs in the industry
[21:32]	cakeaz	i have taken quite a liking to linux
[21:32]	cakeaz	love the granularity of it compared to windows
[21:33]	cakeaz	its a bit more high maint to start off and the amount of control is truly dizzying
[21:33]	xHans	link for ABLEconf meeting Tuesday night: http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/102
[21:33]	cakeaz	but so far i am enjoying the challenge
[21:34]	xHans	I think it's lower maintenance to start since I don't have to spend lots of time updating to eliminate zero day holes and updating anti-virus, etc
[21:34]	cakeaz	i tried contacting folks at the PLUG website but never got any responses
[21:35]	cakeaz	i am glad i stubled upon you all.
[21:35]	cakeaz	i found someone talking about you all in the craigslist linux forums
[21:35]	cakeaz	checked out your website and saw you had an IRC meeting for tonight.
[21:36]	cakeaz	been many years since i had IRC installed. had to dust it off
[21:37]	cakeaz	takes me back to the days i was in the GCC high tech centers on the old WYSE terminals in the pods
[21:39]	cakeaz	what do you do for work Hans do you mind if i ask?
[21:39]	xHans	cakeaz: did you join the PLUG mailing list?
[21:40]	cakeaz	I emailed them but never got a response
[21:40]	xHans	is the PLUG chairman
[21:40]	xHans	emailed where?
[21:40]	cakeaz	on the plug website
[21:40]	cakeaz	i tried contacting 2 months ago back in august
[21:40]	cakeaz	i guess almost 3 months ago
[21:41]	xHans	do you know which email address?
[21:41]	cakeaz	i think i finaly got accepted to the linked in page last month but there has not been much activity on there
[21:41]	xHans	the only contact info that should be on the web site is for the mailing lists and those are self-subscribing
[21:41]	xHans	well, there should also be info about our IRC channel
[21:42]	cakeaz	i am not sure
[21:43]	xHans	actually, I see a contact@, not sure where that goes
[21:43]	cakeaz	i used the contact us link
[21:43]	cakeaz	and entered my name and email address
[21:43]	cakeaz	never recieved any corespondance
[21:43]	cakeaz	the Inquires about PLUG
[21:45]	xHans	hmmm, no idea where that goes
[21:45]	xHans	will take some wet noodles to ABLEconf/Stammtisch Tuesday night for interrogating our web guy
[21:45]	cakeaz	well that is what i did
[21:45]	cakeaz	haha
[21:45]	xHans	ok, thanks for letting me know
[21:46]	cakeaz	i was refered to PLUG by a gentleman from the Apollo group
[21:46]	cakeaz	i did a phone interview with him one time and he seemed very nice and knowledgeable
[21:46]	xHans	cool
[21:46]	xHans	who was it?
[21:46]	cakeaz	said he refers all his admins to plug
[21:47]	cakeaz	i am trying to remember
[21:47]	xHans	most excellent
[21:47]	xHans	Ryan?
[21:47]	cakeaz	it was back in july
[21:47]	cakeaz	i remember he works in a dept where they do buildout from start to finish for sales i believe
[21:48]	cakeaz	they maintain all their own stuff
[21:48]	cakeaz	sepperate from the NOC/SOC
[21:48]	xHans	interesting, will have to ask around
[21:49]	cakeaz	it might have been ryan
[21:50]	xHans	I need to call him anyway, just need to remember to ask him about that group
[21:51]	cakeaz	do you work in IT?
[21:51]	xHans	yup
[21:52]	xHans	I also teach the GNU/Linux classes over at Mesa Community College, which is why I wanted to know if we can get DES to send some people our way
[21:52]	cakeaz	It has to be approved through Arizona Heat
[21:52]	xHans	Arizona Heat?
[21:53]	cakeaz	which http://www.ade.az.gov/arizonaheat/default1.asp
[21:54]	cakeaz	this is what you are looking for
[21:54]	cakeaz	http://azppse.state.az.us/
[21:54]	cakeaz	i believe all the Community colleges are in there
[21:55]	cakeaz	how in depth is your gnu linux class at MCC?
[21:55]	xHans	we have 4 main classes and several electives
[21:56]	xHans	the main classes give you 16 weeks of sysadm, then also 8 weeks of scripting and 8 weeks of security
[21:57]	xHans	for you, you'd look at Randy Larson's program at Estrella Mountain Community College as that's only pretty far away rather than really far away
[21:57]	scott_ev	damn, I forgot again. someone needs to call me
[21:57]	scott_ev	...
[21:58]	cakeaz	what shall we call you?
[21:58]	cakeaz	late for dinner?
[21:58]	cakeaz	
[21:58]	scott_ev	inconsistent
[21:58]	cakeaz	xHans
[21:58]	cakeaz	http://www.ade.az.gov/arizonaheat/Courses/Program_list_filtered.asp?returnP=2&County=Maricopa&category=&city=Phoenix&Ptype=Training%20Program
[21:58]	cakeaz	thats a list of all the current programs on the TAA list
[22:01]	xHans	hmm, we don't seem to be listed, will have to follow up on this
[22:01]	xHans	thanks for the info!
[22:02]	xHans	hmm, I think that's Phoenix only
[22:02]	cakeaz	its maricopa county
[22:02]	cakeaz	wait you are right
[22:02]	cakeaz	i did do a phx filter
[22:03]	cakeaz	http://www.ade.az.gov/arizonaheat/Courses/Program_list_filtered.asp?returnP=2&category=&county=Maricopa&Ptype=Training%20Program
[22:04]	cakeaz	thats for all of maricopa county
[22:04]	xHans	searching Mesa institutions from your 2nd link didn't show us
[22:04]	xHans	still waiting for that last link to work
[22:04]	cakeaz	its a bit slow
[22:06]	cakeaz	here is MCC
[22:06]	cakeaz	http://www.ade.az.gov/arizonaheat/Providers/provider_information.asp?returnP=2&County=Maricopa&category=&city=&ID=549&Ptype=Training%20Program
[22:07]	xHans	ok, lots of MCC stuff including the Cisco certs, but not the GNU/Linux stuff, will have to follow up on that
[22:07]	cakeaz	thats all the courses they list
[22:07]	cakeaz	yeah they do not list it
[22:07]	xHans	gonna have to get that fixed
[22:07]	cakeaz	http://www.ade.az.gov/arizonaheat/feedback.asp?sEmailAddr=lpalmer@mesacc.edu
[22:08]	cakeaz	thats your contact person
[22:08]	cakeaz	this is the resource we are given at the unemployment office
[22:08]	cakeaz	for school and resources
[22:08]	xHans	ok, good to know
[22:09]	cakeaz	so if you are not listed then you are missing out
[22:09]	xHans	thanks for all that
[22:09]	xHans	yeah
[22:09]	xHans	ok, gotta do some chores and then prep for $dayjob
[22:09]	cakeaz	it was nice chatting with you
[22:10]	cakeaz	look forward to seeing you on the 28th
 }}}
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
