{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 30 Jul at 04:00 &mdash; 04:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-07-30-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.newelectronics.co.uk/electronics-technology/an-introduction-to-using-linux-on-embedded-single-board-computers/175767/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/top-10-reasons-to-be-at-the-premier-open-source-event-of-the-year-register-now-to-save-150/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/sysadmin-cert/2018/7/open-source-certification-preparing-exam 
''LINK:'' https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2018/07/23/5-reasons-you-should-switch-from-windows-to-linux-right-now/#4e16abc1777b 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/7/darpa-drops-35-million-posh-open-source-hardware-project 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/open-source-research-agreement 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-friendly-apollo-lake-panel-pc-is-ready-to-shake-rattle-and-roll/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/tech-jargon 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/evolution-package-managers 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-change-timezone-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux 
''LINK:'' https://dev.to/srebalaji/useful-tricks-you-might-not-know-about-git-stash-117e 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/11-ways-not-get-hacked 
''LINK:'' https://www.polydesmida.info/BASHing/2018-07-27.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/setting-timer-systemd-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/07/how-to-mount-onedrive-in-linux-using.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-odoo-11-on-ubuntu-16-04-with-nginx-as-a-reverse-proxy/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/progress-your-image 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://seagl.org/news/2018/06/04/CFP-open.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.papercall.io/devopsday-phoenix-2018 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactuscon.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (65)
* stephenm (40)
* xHans (11)
* toddc (4)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul 30 04:00:05 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <stephenm> seems more quite these days

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <toddc> hello wmack

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> The news is kinda short with simple stuff and the more expert.

 04:03 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> An introduction to using Linux on embedded single-board computers

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.newelectronics.co.uk/electronics-technology/an-introduction-to-using-linux-on-embedded-single-board-computers/175767/

 04:03 <stephenm> Top 10 Reasons to be at the Premier Open Source Event of the Year | Register Now to Save $150

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/top-10-reasons-to-be-at-the-premier-open-source-event-of-the-year-register-now-to-save-150/

 04:03 <stephenm> Open Source Certification: Preparing for the Exam

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/sysadmin-cert/2018/7/open-source-certification-preparing-exam

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Reasons You Should Switch From Windows To Linux Right Now

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2018/07/23/5-reasons-you-should-switch-from-windows-to-linux-right-now/#4e16abc1777b

 04:04 <stephenm> DARPA Drops $35 Million on “Push Open Source Hardware” Project

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/7/darpa-drops-35-million-posh-open-source-hardware-project

 04:04 <stephenm> New research agreement opens up for universities and companies

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/open-source-research-agreement

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux-friendly Apollo Lake panel PC is ready to shake, rattle, and roll

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-friendly-apollo-lake-panel-pc-is-ready-to-shake-rattle-and-roll/

 04:05 <stephenm> Tech jargon: The good, the bad, and the ugly

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/tech-jargon

 04:05 <stephenm> The evolution of package managers

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/evolution-package-managers

 04:05 <stephenm> How to change timezone on Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic Beaver Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-change-timezone-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> Useful tricks you might not know about Git stash

 04:05 <stephenm> https://dev.to/srebalaji/useful-tricks-you-might-not-know-about-git-stash-117e

 04:05 <stephenm> 11 Ways (Not) to Get Hacked

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/11-ways-not-get-hacked

 04:06 <stephenm> Question marks that aren't really question marks

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.polydesmida.info/BASHing/2018-07-27.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Setting Up a Timer with systemd in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/setting-timer-systemd-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Mount OneDrive In Linux Using Rclone (Supports Personal And Business Accounts)

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/07/how-to-mount-onedrive-in-linux-using.html

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Odoo 11 on Ubuntu 16.04 with Nginx as a Reverse Proxy

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-odoo-11-on-ubuntu-16-04-with-nginx-as-a-reverse-proxy/

 04:06 <stephenm> Progress with Your Image

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/progress-your-image

 04:07 <stephenm> Alright that's the news for this week.  Back to you MajB.

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome MajB and toddc

 04:07 <Ron_A> good stuff stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> you're welcome Ron_A

 04:08 <MajB> Ubuntu in Space  https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/07/cimon-astronaut-ai-runs-ubuntu

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 46 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are a total of 158 Linux administrator jobs, 43 of which are new listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are a total of 51 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <xHans> Sierra Vista ++

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:12 <MajB> 02 August,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 04 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:12 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 04 August, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free softw

 04:13 <MajB> are. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:14 <MajB> 18 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:14 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 23 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:15 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:15 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:15 <xHans> PLUG's next east valley meeting is a week from Thursday

 04:15 <xHans> Ed will cover Tech Debt

 04:15 <xHans> SeaGL cfp closes tonight at midnight Seattle time

 04:15 <xHans> reviewers are in #SeaGL if you would like help with a proposal

 04:15 <xHans> http://seagl.org/news/2018/06/04/CFP-open.html

 04:15 <xHans> DevOpsDays Phoenix is Tuesday, 2018Oct23

 04:16 <xHans> cfp closes Tuesday

 04:16 <xHans> https://www.papercall.io/devopsday-phoenix-2018

 04:16 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:16 <MajB> Thanks xHans

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 03 August 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:17 <MajB> 04 August, CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free softw

 04:17 <MajB> are. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 08 August 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 08 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 August 1-3:30 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 26 August 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:19 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:19 <MajB> CactusCon

 04:19 <MajB> September 28-29 at the Mesa Convention Center

 04:19 <MajB> https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:19 <MajB> 263 N Center St

 04:19 <MajB> Mesa, AZ 85201

 04:19 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:20 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <Ron_A> good meeting MajB

 04:20 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:20 <MajB> Thanks Ron_A

 04:21 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
