{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

﻿
Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #22 for the week October 28 - November 4, 2007.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Twenty-Second Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-November 7, 2007
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday November 11, 2007  9:00PM  
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the November 4, 2007 meeting ====

Johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:03 PM with, “Hi all and welcome to our team meeting, lets get started”

Our usual first order of business was new members.  We had one oldtimer-newcomer. NorahAura had joined the team shortly after it had formed, but this was the first time that she'd made it into #ubuntu-arizona for a meeting.  She has always been interested in FOSS, but wasn't completely satisfied with the Desktop solutions until this year.  She first became aware of Ubuntu a couple of years ago, tried the live cd, but wasn't too impressed.  She tried it again early this year and was very pleased.  She built an ubuntu-only pc in April of this year, have upgraded to Fiesty, then Gusty. [Ed. Note:  This would be about the time she joined the Team.] We welcome NorahAura to the Team, and invite her to join us in the channel any time.

Next order of business was the Education Committee.  br24 wasn't available to make a report, though johnc4510 mentioned that tyche and jsonders have been feeding new info to him for the Ed team page.

Next was the Server Team.  johnc4510 has recruited NorahAura and enigmastrat to work with slofgren on the server team.  Since  NorahAura and enigmastrat were both at the meeting, johnc4510 felt it was a good time to talk about what we want on the main server page.  Various things were suggested, including:  Team logo and slogan, links like the team wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam and ubuntu forum link: http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php, and a table of contents or index of the pages.  The purpose of the main page was also questioned.  Various proposals were suggested including:  support and advertisement of the Team, as well as links to lead people into other areas, like membership, education and the LUGS in the state. Oh, and of course the Newsletter page.  It was suggested that it be something like a launchpad/portal for the Team.  Ways to design the page were also discussed, such as using css, javascript, and/or php.  enigmastrat has offered the Team space on a server of his for use either for the Team site, or as a playground to be able to develop our skills.  Some discussion was also made of using Java, but there was also the idea of keeping the main page as simple as possible.  johnc4510 suggested that he would like to see the Arizona Team template different from the Ubuntu template.  He felt it should reflect the State of Arizona.  johnc4510 said that he would like the team page to have some kind of theme or picture representative of the state, such as the Grand Canyon or Sedona, or whatever.  Tyche offered the Team any of the photos he'd taken on a trip to Red Rocks (Sedona), Arizona.  enigmastrat suggested that he would like to make some changes to a design he had posted (see:  http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=47724&d=1193290395).  Other additional suggestions were made about where to add the Team logo and slogan, and to lose the vine decoration in the design.  The question was also raised as to whether to put the design under the Creative Commons Copyright License.  Further ideas were suggested for how to modify the design, and enigmastrat offered to make the changes and post them to the Arizona Team forum for suggestions and approval.  To add your comments, suggestions and constructive criticism, please see:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=604087.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:59 PM with thanks to all who offered suggestions and help.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

