{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 04 April - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees
* Conducted an installation of Ubuntu 18.04 on a laptop
* Disseminated information on IRC and Linux
* Attempted (unsuccessfully) to recover a Micro SD
* Discussed the Yocto Project for Internet of Things and embedded devices
* Successfully created a script to insert PS 2 mouse mod after suspend/resume
* 07 April - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2007%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 11 April - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the Installfest scheduled for 04 May.
* Discussed the comparison of POP OS  18.04 and Ubuntu 18.04
* Discussed IEEE Fort Huachuca Excutive Committee decision on 04 April to create a IEEE Computer Society and we have been asked to assist.  They will piggy back on our activities so as not to duplicate efforts.
* Discussed the LinkedIn presentation scheduled for 23 April at the University of Arizona South.
* Discussed the relative pros and cons of doing an upgrade to a newly released version of Ubuntu or a fresh install.
* 20 April – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees (one new individual)
* 3 servers repair/assistance
* Conducted a Discussion of the Big Blue Button server
* Conducted a demonstration of a Raspberry Pi clone
* 21 April – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2021%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 25 April - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* Troubleshot NextCloud login/certificate
* Reconfigured Big Blue Button server
* Discussed how to migrate containers in Proxmox
* Repaired the link to the AZLOCO ircstats page
