{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Dazed_75> BTW, Toddc has arrived so not late
<TuxMann> +1
<wmack> +1
<nhasian> +1
<scott_ev> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Star Date 91312.06
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<scott_ev> is this Sheldon's Log?
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<brewmaster619> me
<toddc> welcome
<brewmaster619> thx
<scott_ev> nice to have a new nic
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<scott_ev> no
<scott_ev> start with brewmaster619 telling us a little
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!---no?
<Dazed_75> This email is distributed to three groups with members at all experience levels.
<Dazed_75> Remember: these links point to beginner AND advanced topics.  So pick and chose those that seem right for you and maybe try a few that are a bit of a stretch.  Just don't let any of it intimidate or frustrate you!
<gnewbie> +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> Mir now has DPMS power management support
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQ1Njg
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/06/how-to-tail-multiple-files-at-once-in-linux.html
<Dazed_75>     NOTE: The install worked but I cannot get the command to work (LT) as described.  However it did work when I surrounded each file name or ping command (with its argument) in single quotes.  Once it also gave an error message relating to mailcheck when I used sudo and an explanation how to avoid that problem following which it worked.  Still, it seemed too useful for a few users to not mention the tool.
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/06/how-to-monitor-power-usage-in-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20130906100150984/Presentations.html Linux presentation software
<Dazed_75> http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/190911/ PCLinuxOS Magazine - Windows Migration Issue
<Dazed_75>     NOTE: Very interesting stuff here.  While focused somewhat on PCLinuxOS, it covers a wide variety of Desktops, customizations, and strategies.  On page 110 is the best argument I have ever seen against the *buntu way of having no password for root and using sudo whenever elevated privileges are required.
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/5-great-online-image-editors/2013/09/07
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/intel-remove-xmir-support-in-xorg-video-driver
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/linux-news-canonical-has-a-backup-plan-for-intels-refusal-to-support-mir/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/ubuntu-touch-improves-system-updating
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/171980/how-to-prepare-a-computer-tablet-or-phone-before-selling-it/
<Dazed_75> http://opensource.com/government/13/9/government-cloud-blueprint (but pertinent to all)
<Dazed_75> http://www.eweek.com/blogs/first-read/the-truth-about-the-open-cloud-what-really-matters.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/tutorials/how-safe-is-your-network-kali-tutorial
<Dazed_75> http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/single-user-mode/ (Red Hat and CentOS)
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/virtualbox-4-2-18-has-been-released/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/send-encrypted-emails-in-thunderbird/2013/09/09
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/ubuntu-appears-in-mercedes-benz-self-driving-car-promo
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/09/dropbox-uploader-012-released-bash.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-audacity-2-0-4-on-ubuntu-13-10-13-04-12-10-12-04-linux-mint-15-14-13-and-elementary-os-0-2-luna/
<Dazed_75> http://www.wired.com/wiredenterprise/2013/09/docker/1 (all computers as one giant machine)
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Features/Defragmenting-Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/09/linux-popularity-among-enterprise-users.html
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Kali-Linux-1-0-5-Is-the-Perfect-Distro-for-NFC-Hackers-381311.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/install-nessus-on-ubuntu/ (vulnerability scanner)
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/operating-systems/372109/linux-best-operating-system
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/audacity-2-0-4-released
<Dazed_75> http://www.thepowerbase.com/2013/09/audacity-2-0-4-released-brings-fractions-equation/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/09/how-to-create-encrypted-zip-file-on-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/quick-tips/disable-apport-in-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/encryption-on-the-internet/2013/09/09 (Beginners)
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/canonical-launch-ubuntu-voice-initiative
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/task-warrior-command-line-based-task-manager/
<Dazed_75> http://blog.lastpass.com/2013/09/lastpass-and-nsa-controversy.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/mass-effect-composer-ubuntu-14-04-start-up-sounds
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/11/the-trouble-with-relying-on-passwords-for-security/
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/09/11/configuration_management/ and "continuous delivery"
<Dazed_75> http://www.thepowerbase.com/2013/09/rhythmbox-hits-3-0-goes-gtk3-magic-carpet-ride/
<Dazed_75> http://blog.smartbear.com/open-source/how-to-turn-your-pile-of-code-into-an-open-source-project/
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/09/oracle-java-7-update-40-7u40-released.html
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/gnome-network-tools-gui-for-common-network-utilities/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-fotoxx-13-09-2-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-elementary-os-and-debian/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-darktable-1-2-3-on-ubuntu-13-10-13-04-12-10-12-04-linux-mint-15-14-13-and-elementary-os-0-2-luna/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/172202/ask-htg-do-you-really-have-to-pay-for-ringtones/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.org/threads/new-implementation-of-a-log-structured-file-system-nilfs.4547/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/05/how-to-check-what-services-are-enabled-on-boot-in-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQ1ODU VMware WS 10 new features
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/quick-tips/test-internet-connection-speed-from-terminal
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/spotlight-like-tool-coming-to-pear-os-other-distros
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Open-Source-Is-Woven-Into-the-Latest-Hottest-Trends-78937.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-plex-media-server-0-9-8-6-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-elementary-os-fedora-and-centos/
<Dazed_75> http://pcaro.es/p/hermit/ a font for programmers, by a programmer
<Dazed_75> http://netrunner-mag.com/?p=3195 Best XFCE distro of 2013
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/06/how-to-set-up-vpn-over-ssh-in-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/differences-between-mbr-and-gpt/2013/09/13
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/09/how-to-disable-recursive-search-in.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/achieving-continuous-integration-drupal
<Dazed_75> http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/jedit/
<Dazed_75> http://www.jedit.org/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/06/how-to-count-the-number-of-open-network-connections-on-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/ubuntu-12-04-lts-cds-munich-windows-xp
<Dazed_75> ... and thats all from Apache Junction.  I hope everyone found SOME piece of news useful
<toddc> Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<scott_ev> dizzamn
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> Monday, Sept, 9th there is a meeting being held by the SWSPF (SouthWest Security Professionals Forum) at UAT from 6-9pm
<toddc> SUSE Linux Days 2013 Road Tour: Phoenix, October 10, 2013
<toddc> Hyatt Regency Phoenix
<toddc> 122 North 2nd Strett
<toddc> Phoenix, Arizona 85004
<toddc> United States
<toddc> Event Details
<toddc> Ubuntu 13.10 (Saucy Salamander), Beta 1 preview: Mir, Unity 7, kernel 3.11
<toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/ubuntu-13-10-saucy-salamander-beta-1-preview-mir-unity-7-kernel-3-11-7000020226/
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> There were 9 people at the west side Ubuntu hour last week
<xHans> Monday, Sept 9th was, not is, at least for this year :)
<toddc> ok
<toddc> the last Installfest was wall to wall again and we are hoping to move to a bigger Room for the next event and we will be working to get more UAT students involved thru the schools internal media sources.
<toddc> we are planning on being in room 245 behind elevator
<toddc> We have canceled the following meetings due to holidays
<toddc> Meetings
<toddc> November 10 meeting due to veterans day holiday?
<toddc> November 28 Ubuntu hour due to Thanksgiving
<toddc> December Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas
<toddc> Team renewal is coming up and we will need help to get ready
<toddc> if you would like to help check with tuxmann Dazed-75 or myself
<toddc> we will helping other's to become full Ubuntu members and getting the team ready for renewal.
<toddc> we do have the application ready at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplicationrenewal2013
<toddc> LimeLight in Tempe is looking for a MySQL DBA remote is OK
<toddc> Contact xHans for more info
<toddc> Linux Administrator For The Fountain Group
<toddc> http://www.ziprecruiter.com/job/Linux-Administrator/69d1eb6e/?source=craigslist
<toddc> Hardware (NOC) Technician for Phoenix NAP
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=6533461&t=1
<toddc> Runs LINUX
<toddc> http://www.indiegogo.com/projects/piper-smart-elegant-security-and-home-automation
<toddc> Piper: Smart, elegant, security and home automation
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> EVERNOTE note keeping systen
<toddc> https://evernote.com/
<toddc> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc> wmack-y
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday September 21  and Saturday October 5 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> November 2 installfest is canceled due to the UAT school needing the classroom
<toddc> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday September 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Wednesday October 2, 7pm – 9pm
<toddc> Barnes and Noble 13719 West Bell Road Surprise AZ 85374 623-544-4435
<toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other uses and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> slofgren has arranged for a donation to the team of two Dell 2950 servers that are fully loaded
<toddc> but we still need new home for them if anyone has ideas?
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> Weekly Ubuntu Webcast Tuesday  with Jono Bacon 10 AM
<toddc> App Design Clinic every Wednesday 1-2PM
<toddc> Jono Bacon Q&A every Wednesday 7-8pm
<toddc> Juju Charm School: Chef/Puppet Integration every other Friday 5-6 pm
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> xhans are you here? and would you like to do the Plug news?
<scott_ev> I have a question
<xHans> a couple things
<toddc> go ahead scott_ev
<scott_ev> when does brewmaster619 introduce him/her self?
<brewmaster619> sson
<toddc> we have been leetting people off the hook latley
<scott_ev> ah
<toddc> xHans to you
* Yawnnie (~Yawnnie@184.101.19.4) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
* xHans takes the spotlight back :)
<xHans> This Tuesday at 18:00 there is a tech resume workshop at the Stammtisch
<xHans> it starts an hour before the normal Stammtisch time
<xHans> Iguana Macks 1371 N. Alma School Rd Chandler, AZ 85224
<xHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/events/cm98qtinh7bn7cl4kjj7e6m7hkc
<xHans> This Tuesday at 19:00 we have our regular Free Software Stammtisch as well
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch
<xHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/events/cbl7gklc7mqefvmhibjin9s2640
<xHans> and that's it for this week
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
