{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 September - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2001%2C%202019%20Meeting.
* 05 September – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 5 attendees
* Conducted troubleshoot of ipfire server using tethering
* Moved servers (irc-stats, weather, nextcloud) to DMZ
* Cactus Con 2019 registration is open now, https://www.cactuscon.com/
* 07 September - AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest
* 14 attendees
* 6 installs (5 Ubuntu, 1 Xubuntu)
* Distributed install media and information on Linux, Ubuntu, AZLOCO, and CLUG to the new individuals. 
* Many questions on Linux in general and Ubuntu specifically were answered.
* 07 September - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest
* 28 attendees
* 9 installs (9 Ubuntu)
* 1 IPFire install
* 6 PC repairs
* 12 September - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the after action report of the Computer Repair/Installfest held on 07 September 2019 and the progress of repair the computers on hand.
* Discussed our new association with the Warrior Healing Center which is the set up of their computer lab for veterans (which is completed).
* Discussed the purpose of clouds and how they work.
* 12 September - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
* 15 September - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2015%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 21 September - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest
* 12 attendees
* 1 install (Xubuntu)
* IPFire repair
* 4 PC application installs/repair
* 26 September - Presentation on Why You Should Switch to Linux by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* The presentation was given to individuals at the Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ.
* Information on AZLOCO, CLUG, and Ubuntu were available for distibution.
* 26 September - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Converted a Thunderbird account from POP to IMAP
* Installed 18.04 on a laptop
* Discussed XY plotters 
