{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 08 Dec at 04:03 &mdash; 04:36 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2014/ubuntu-us-az.2014-12-08-04.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' http://www.geek.com/news/a-ubuntu-phone-will-finally-go-on-sale-next-year-1610437/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxtechi.com/standard-input-output-error-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux.com/news/software/applications/797378-10-open-source-security-software-tools 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2014/12/a-devuan-and-a-two/?w3tc_note=flush_all 
''LINK:'' http://www.computerworlduk.com/blogs/open-enterprise/closed-source-woes-3584746/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/check-memory-usage-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/nov/13/gchq-assault-privacy-illegality-net-blackmail-surveillance 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux.com/learn/linux-certifications/797534-where-to-find-a-sysadmin-job 
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/why-our-linux-training/blogs/lftstaff/804-10-good-reasons-to-learn-linux 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/brewing-machine-hops-to-it-with-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2014/12/04/opera-26-released-install-it-on-linux-mint-17-1-and-ubuntu-14-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/14/11/five-humanitarian-open-source-projects 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/14/12/using-owncloud-integrate-dropbox-google-drive-gnome 
''LINK:'' http://www.serverwatch.com/server-trends/linux-container-adoption-set-to-grow-rapidly.html 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Meet-Mutate-a-Spotlight-Alternative-for-Ubuntu-Systems-That-s-Blazing-Fast-466386.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-foundation-finds-enterprise-linux-growing-at-windows-expense/ 
''LINK:'' http://comptechconf.com and have invited PLUG to attend
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://cybersponse.com/careers 
''LINK:'' http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://localmotors.recruiting.com/user-interface-developer/job/4979799 
''LINK:'' http://i.imgur.com/uuDavKm.png 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Telegram-Desktop-Native-App-for-Linux-Is-Simply-Awesome-466474.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/100-off-linux-foundation-certification-for-ubuntu-users/1915 
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.phxlinux.org/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/109-plug-meeting-on-12-11.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.SpokesOnSouthern.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley 
''LINK:'' https://reg.socallinuxexpo.org/reg6/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (145)
* xHans (28)
* MajB (3)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (2)
* collie (1)
* Rich_ (1)
* Tuxmann (1)
* wmack (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:03 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec  8 04:03:45 2014 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:03 <meetingology> 

 04:03 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:03 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:04 <Tuxmann> +1

 04:04 <toddc> +1

 04:04 <MajB> +1

 04:04 <wmack> +1

 04:04 <Rich_> +1

 04:04 <collie> +1

 04:04 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:04 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:04 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:04 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:04 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:05 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:05 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:05 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:05 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:05 <toddc> lets start with the news!!

 04:05 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:06 <toddc> the news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:06 <toddc> Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:06 <toddc> A Ubuntu Phone will finally go on sale next year

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.geek.com/news/a-ubuntu-phone-will-finally-go-on-sale-next-year-1610437/

 04:06 <toddc> Working with Standard Input, Output & Error in Linux

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.linuxtechi.com/standard-input-output-error-in-linux/

 04:06 <toddc> 10 Open Source Security Tools from Google, Facebook, Netflix and Cisco

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.linux.com/news/software/applications/797378-10-open-source-security-software-tools

 04:07 <toddc> A Devuan and A-two???

 04:07 <toddc> http://fossforce.com/2014/12/a-devuan-and-a-two/?w3tc_note=flush_all

 04:07 <markthomas> +1

 04:07 <markthomas> Sorry I'm late.

 04:07 <toddc> np glad you made it

 04:07 <toddc> You Can't Trust Closed-Source Code - Germany Agrees

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.computerworlduk.com/blogs/open-enterprise/closed-source-woes-3584746/

 04:07 <toddc> 10 'free' Commands to Check Memory Usage in Linux

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.tecmint.com/check-memory-usage-in-linux/

 04:08 <toddc> Eben Moglen addresses gov'ts leaning on telecomms for surveillance

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/nov/13/gchq-assault-privacy-illegality-net-blackmail-surveillance

 04:08 <toddc> Where to Find a SysAdmin Job

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.linux.com/learn/linux-certifications/797534-where-to-find-a-sysadmin-job

 04:08 <toddc> 10 Good Reasons To Learn Linux

 04:08 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/why-our-linux-training/blogs/lftstaff/804-10-good-reasons-to-learn-linux

 04:09 <toddc> Brewing machine hops to it with Linux

 04:09 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/brewing-machine-hops-to-it-with-linux/

 04:09 <toddc> Opera 26 released. Install it on Linux Mint 17.1 and Ubuntu 14.10

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2014/12/04/opera-26-released-install-it-on-linux-mint-17-1-and-ubuntu-14-10/

 04:09 <toddc> 5 open source projects making the world better you should know

 04:09 <toddc> https://opensource.com/life/14/11/five-humanitarian-open-source-projects

 04:10 <toddc> Using ownCloud to integrate Dropbox, Google Drive, and more in Gnome

 04:10 <toddc> https://opensource.com/life/14/12/using-owncloud-integrate-dropbox-google-drive-gnome

 04:10 <toddc> Linux Container Adoption Set to Grow Rapidly

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.serverwatch.com/server-trends/linux-container-adoption-set-to-grow-rapidly.html

 04:10 <toddc> Meet Mutate, a Spotlight Alternative for Ubuntu Systems That's Blazing Fast

 04:10 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Meet-Mutate-a-Spotlight-Alternative-for-Ubuntu-Systems-That-s-Blazing-Fast-466386.shtml

 04:10 <toddc> Linux Foundation finds enterprise Linux growing at Windows' expense

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-foundation-finds-enterprise-linux-growing-at-windows-expense/

 04:11 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:11 <toddc> Thank adrealine and wmack for updating azloco.org and adding users and rebuilding BBB

 04:11 <toddc> Canceled meetings

 04:11 <toddc> 12/28 (Christmas weekend)

 04:12 <toddc> Several members are planning to give talks at the Computer Technology Conference. http://comptechconf.com

 04:12 <toddc> February 19 20 21 We will holding the Linux Installfest at the eventt that week-end and Scale is that week-end also but If anyone would like to give a talk or presentation or assist let us know.

 04:12 <toddc> We have ordered a ubuntu conf pack so that we will have some swag to hand out and we will be running a booth also.

 04:12 <toddc> http://comptechconf.com and have invited PLUG to attend

 04:13 <toddc> I have requested money from Ubuntu community to cover booth fees and should know soon on that. Thanks to programmer317 for the assistance with this.

 04:13 <toddc> the booth will need to be staffed Thursday Friday and Saturday.

 04:13 <toddc> For those presenting CTC would like a Picture a topic and a overveiw

 04:13 <toddc> to be used for promoting your presentations. Most time slots are full  and first come for best times.

 04:14 <toddc> We have had a donation of 200+dvd's with sleeves so we should be able to make lots of dvd's for all the events ( another project)

 04:14 <toddc> We have s team project board to list projects that could/should be done for team http://www.azloco.org/node/184

 04:14 <toddc> if you pick one please leave a comment and status and ask for help

 04:14 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:14 <toddc> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.

 04:15 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:15 <toddc> JOB list

 04:15 <toddc> 34 current canonical Jobs today

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:15 <toddc> several jobs at Cybersponce

 04:15 <toddc> http://cybersponse.com/careers

 04:16 <toddc> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data)

 04:16 <toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:16 <toddc> User Interface Developer at Local Motors

 04:16 <toddc> http://localmotors.recruiting.com/user-interface-developer/job/4979799

 04:16 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:16 <toddc> The new Nicholas Cage movie “Dying of the light” shows a scene where the romanian doctor Iulian Cornel is interrogated in his office, and as you can see from the screenshots he uses Ubuntu with the Ambiance theme.

 04:17 <toddc> http://i.imgur.com/uuDavKm.png

 04:17 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:17 <toddc> Telegram Desktop Native App for Linux Is Simply Awesome

 04:17 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Telegram-Desktop-Native-App-for-Linux-Is-Simply-Awesome-466474.shtml

 04:18 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:18 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:18 <toddc> EVENTS

 04:18 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:18 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  Thursday December 18. 2014 17:30 - 18:30 MST , 5:30pm – 6:30pm

 04:19 <toddc> Sierra Vista Public Library (foyer) 2600 East Tacoma St. Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:19 <toddc> Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your

 04:19 <toddc> personal computer and the FREE software that is available as an

 04:19 <toddc> alternative to Microsoft Windows and other software that you must buy.

 04:19 <toddc> see https://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:19 <toddc> Tempe Installfest

 04:20 <toddc> Plug/Loco installfest is Saturday December 20 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 206/207 this month 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the

 04:20 <toddc> front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:20 <toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:20 <toddc> Thursday December 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock

 04:21 <toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:21 <toddc> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:22 <toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:22 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be Jannuary 07 7pm – 9pm at Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA   http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:22 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:22 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:22 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:23 <toddc> Mark

 04:23 <toddc> please say hi if you see him

 04:23 <toddc> he may be lurking tonight

 04:23 <toddc> LINUX TRAINING

 04:23 <toddc> $100 off Linux Foundation Certification for Ubuntu Users

 04:24 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/100-off-linux-foundation-certification-for-ubuntu-users/1915

 04:24 <MajB> Is that his nic?

 04:24 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/

 04:24 <toddc> MajB: no he did not list his nick on LP yet

 04:24 <toddc> LFS520 OpenStack Cloud Architecture and Deployment

 04:24 <toddc> 08 Dec » 11 Dec - Virtual

 04:24 <toddc> LFD211 Introduction to Linux for Developers

 04:25 <toddc> 08 Dec » 09 Dec – Virtual

 04:25 <toddc> LFS220 Linux System Administration

 04:25 <toddc> 08 Dec » 11 Dec – Virtual

 04:25 <toddc> LFS230 Linux Network Management

 04:25 <toddc> 15 Dec » 18 Dec - Virtual

 04:25 <toddc> LFD331 Developing Linux Device Drivers

 04:25 <toddc> 15 Dec » 19 Dec - Virtual

 04:26 <toddc> Ubuntu On-Air

 04:26 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:26 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:26 <toddc> one on writing and met the engineering team

 04:27 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:27 <toddc> other than CTC Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:27 <toddc> OTHER  LUG EVENTS

 04:28 <toddc> The Sunland Linux Users Group (SLUG) will meet in the SVECC computer lab at 6 PM on Wednesday, December 10.

 04:28 <toddc> Lugy (Precott users group)

 04:28 <toddc> Tue, December 9, 6:30pm – 9:00pm

 04:28 <toddc> will meet at Bills grill 333 S Montezuma St, Prescott, AZ

 04:28 <toddc> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:30 <toddc> PLUG EVENTS

 04:30 <toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday December 11 7-9 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226 Misc presentations and chat about linux and open source projects.

 04:31 <toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday December 16 at Social Box 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224 7PM till ??  A Social event to hang out talk, eat and learn and ask questions about linux and open source.

 04:31 <toddc> And SCALE is comming up soon

 04:31 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:31 <xHans> Stammtisch will NOT be at Social Box

 04:32 <toddc> correct

 04:32 <xHans> toddc: sorry, was off reading about Germany not trusting proprietary software :)

 04:32 <xHans> December's east side meeting will be our annual end of year party

 04:32 <xHans> this year will be the last cheesecake, Oma has to stop making them

 04:32 <xHans> http://www.phxlinux.org/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/109-plug-meeting-on-12-11.html

 04:32 <MajB> I love it when a plan comes together.

 04:32 <toddc> np do we know where it will be yet?

 04:32 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is moving. The new Iguana Macks didn't work out :(

 04:32 <xHans> It will be at Spokes on Southern for December, near Southern and McClintock

 04:33 <xHans> toddc: ^ :)

 04:33 <xHans> http://www.SpokesOnSouthern.com/

 04:33 <xHans> 1470 E Southern Ave, Tempe, AZ 85282

 04:33 <toddc> np updating notes

 04:33 <xHans> The manager reached out to us to make sure we have a reservation

 04:33 <xHans> the Spokes on Southern building used to be a Streets of New York

 04:33 <xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

 04:33 <xHans> In January, we will move to Boulders on Southern provided it is open by then

 04:33 <xHans> it's scheduled to open this month, but not in time for us to be certain of a reservation for Stammtisch

 04:33 <xHans> 1010 W Southern Ave Mesa, AZ 85210

 04:33 <xHans> the Boulders on Southern building used to be an RT O'Sullivan's

 04:34 <xHans> both are owned by the local guy who started and owns Boulders on Broadway

 04:34 <xHans> SCaLE registration is open, use PLUG code for discount

 04:34 <xHans> the conference is 2015Feb19-22, note that is Thu - Sun, in Los Angeles

 04:34 <xHans> reserve your hotel room as well

 04:34 <xHans> https://reg.socallinuxexpo.org/reg6/

 04:34 <xHans> let me know if you'd like to volunteer to help with SCaLE

 04:34 <xHans> as toddc mentioned, SCaLE is the same weekend as the Computer Technology Conference here in town

 04:34 <xHans> SCaLE cfp is open, but closes in 3 days on the 10th

 04:35 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp

 04:35 <xHans> let me know if you'd like help with a proposal

 04:35 <xHans> that's it for tonight, looking forward to the new location for Stammtisch

 04:36 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and plug events

 04:36 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:36 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
