{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

02 January – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2002%2C%202022%20Meeting
06 January – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
13 January – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the Joker malware.  How to recognize it and how to get rid of it if you have it.
* Discussed the preparations for the Installfest on Saturday.
* Repaired a member’s laptop which would not boot.
13 January – Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
15 January – AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* 2 installs (2 Ubuntu 20.04.3)
* Updated 10 computers  (8 Ubuntu 20.04, 1 Lubuntu 20.04, 1 Linux Mint 19.3
15 January – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees (2 new people)
* Discussed Landscape and Batman software
* Connected remotely with a concurrent AZLOCO/CLUG installfest in Sierra Vista, AZ via Big Blue Button
16 January – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2016%2C%202022%20Meeting
27 January – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed HIPPA requirements
* Discussed various hardware available to repair donated computers
