{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

04 April – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Tested the SNAP NextCloud server
06 April – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* Discussed return to physical events in the Phoenix metropolitan area
* Discussed the SNAP version of NextCloud server
* Discussed Ubuntu Pro and security
* Assisted in the install of a VM for an attendee
* Assisted in the install of several Microsoft Windows applications in WINE for an attendee.
07 April – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2007%2C%202024%20Meeting
11 April – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Discussed the upcoming Installfest to be held 18 May.
* Discussed the pros and cons of ink jet printers vs laser jet printers.
* A member asked if there was a video player that would play at different speeds (2x, 4x, 8x etc). He was directed to MPlayer (which is in the Ubuntu repositories).
* A member asked if anyone had contacted Buena HS STEM to see if they might want computers with Ubuntu already installed on them. That has not been done but will be done in the future.
11 April - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed Virtual Box, NextCloud, and the soon to be released Ubuntu 24.04.
20 April – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* Discussed the upcoming release of Ubuntu 24.04 and expected changes
* Repaired a PF Sense router
* Gave a new person an on line tour of ProxMox, IP Fire, and Virtual Box.
21 April – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2021%2C%202024%20Meeting
25 April – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed general Linux topics
