{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 23 Oct at 03:59 &mdash; 04:19 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-10-23-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azYY 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/10/3-tools-help-you-remember-linux-commands 
''LINK:'' https://www.popsci.com/switch-to-linux-operating-system 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/surprise-announcement-changes-container-landscape-at-dockercon-eu 
''LINK:'' https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/10/severe-flaw-in-wpa2-protocol-leaves-wi-fi-traffic-open-to-eavesdropping/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/10/tips-secure-your-network-wake-krack 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/image-processing-linux 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/linus-torvalds-says-targeted-fuzzing-is-improving-linux-security/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/10/eclipse-and-iot 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/introducing-cri-o-10 
''LINK:'' https://insights.hpe.com/articles/how-to-implement-cloud-native-computing-with-kubernetes-1710.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/event/elce/2017/10/running-android-top-linux-graphics-stack 
''LINK:'' https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-install-and-configure-latest-version-of-ansible-on-ubuntu-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-linux-will-never-be-the-same-after-version-17-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.hireart.com/jobs/162bcacf/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist#sthash.oN3sUVoI.dpbs 
''LINK:'' https://www.shutterflyinc.com/jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.samsungmobilepress.com/stories/samsung-dex's-expanding-ecosystem-pushes-the-possibilities-of-the-smartphone 
''LINK:'' https://www.wired.com/2016/08/linux-took-web-now-taking-world/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://my.fsf.org/lp-call-for-sessions 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (58)
* MajB (30)
* stephenm (30)
* xHans (13)
* Ron_A (5)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (1)
* az_fox (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 23 03:59:37 2017 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 03:59 <Ron_A> +1

 03:59 <MajB> +1

 03:59 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azYY

 04:00 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <stephenm> I'm here

 04:01 <MajB> Hi stephenm

 04:01 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <Ron_A> Hello stephenm

 04:01 <toddc> Hi

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:02 <stephenm> 3 Tools to Help You Remember Linux Commands

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/10/3-tools-help-you-remember-linux-commands

 04:02 <stephenm> Why and how you should switch to Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.popsci.com/switch-to-linux-operating-system

 04:02 <stephenm> Surprise Announcement Changes Container Landscape at DockerCon EU

 04:02 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/surprise-announcement-changes-container-landscape-at-dockercon-eu

 04:02 <stephenm> Serious Flaw in WPA2 Protocol Lets Attackers Intercept Passwords and Much More

 04:02 <stephenm> https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/10/severe-flaw-in-wpa2-protocol-leaves-wi-fi-traffic-open-to-eavesdropping/

 04:02 <stephenm> Tips to Secure Your Network in the Wake of KRACK

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/10/tips-secure-your-network-wake-krack

 04:03 <stephenm> Image Processing on Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/image-processing-linux

 04:03 <stephenm> Linus Torvalds says targeted fuzzing is improving Linux security

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/linus-torvalds-says-targeted-fuzzing-is-improving-linux-security/

 04:03 <stephenm> How Eclipse is advancing IoT development

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/10/eclipse-and-iot

 04:03 <stephenm> Introducing CRI-O 1.0

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/introducing-cri-o-10

 04:03 <az_fox> +1

 04:03 <stephenm> How to implement cloud-native computing with Kubernetes

 04:03 <stephenm> https://insights.hpe.com/articles/how-to-implement-cloud-native-computing-with-kubernetes-1710.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Running Android on Top of a Linux Graphics Stack

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/event/elce/2017/10/running-android-top-linux-graphics-stack

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install and Configure latest version of Ansible on Ubuntu Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-install-and-configure-latest-version-of-ansible-on-ubuntu-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Sorry for it being short this week, been a little busy.

 04:04 <stephenm> Back to you toddc

 04:04 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:04 <Ron_A> This is the command to check to see if your patched for the krack vulnerability.

 04:04 <Ron_A> apt-cache policy wpasupplicant

 04:04 <stephenm> welcome

 04:04 <stephenm> night ya'll

 04:04 <Ron_A> Thanks stephenm

 04:05 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:05 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:05 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:05 <MajB> Ubuntu Linux will never be the same after version 17.10

 04:05 <MajB> http://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-linux-will-never-be-the-same-after-version-17-10/

 04:05 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:05 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:06 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:06 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:06 <toddc> "Like car accidents, most hardware problems are due to driver error."

 04:07 <toddc> Customer: I cleaned my computer and now it???s broken!

 04:07 <toddc> PC Technician: What did you clean it with?

 04:07 <toddc> Customer: Soap and water.

 04:07 <toddc> PC Techinician: You???re not suppose to use water near a computer!

 04:07 <toddc> Customer: I don???t think it was the water that broke it??????.I think it was the spin cycle!

 04:08 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:08 <toddc> Canonical has 28 open positions

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <toddc> Network System Specialist Administrator (CHANDLER)

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html

 04:09 <toddc> Autonomous Vehicle Test Engineer

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.hireart.com/jobs/162bcacf/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist#sthash.oN3sUVoI.dpbs

 04:09 <toddc> Shutterfly

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.shutterflyinc.com/jobs.html

 04:10 <toddc> Network Data Center Analyst

 04:10 <toddc> call Ted Finch at 760-696-9789.

 04:10 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:10 <toddc> soon we canrun most any linux distro on samsung smartphones

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.samsungmobilepress.com/stories/samsung-dex's-expanding-ecosystem-pushes-the-possibilities-of-the-smartphone

 04:10 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:11 <toddc> Linux took over the world

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.wired.com/2016/08/linux-took-web-now-taking-world/

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:11 <MajB> 26 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 28 October, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Arizona South Learning Resource Center, 1140 N. Colombo Ave. Sierra Vista.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisti

 04:12 <MajB> 02 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 04 November,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, Mesa Center for Higher Education, 245 W. 2nd Street, Mesa .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:13 <MajB> 18 November,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:13 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:13 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:13 <xHans> DevOpsDays is this Tuesday

 04:13 <xHans> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/

 04:14 <xHans> There is a PLUG discount for 10% off, use code "dodmeetup"

 04:14 <xHans> DevOpsDays is at Galvanize Phoenix, 515 E Grant St, Phoenix, AZ 85004

 04:14 <xHans> The SCaLE cfp is closing soon

 04:14 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:14 <xHans> SCaLE will be Thur - Sun, March 8th to 11th next year in Pasadena

 04:14 <xHans> The LibrePlanet cfp is closing soon

 04:14 <xHans> https://my.fsf.org/lp-call-for-sessions

 04:14 <xHans> If you would like help submitting a talk to either, I will gladly help

 04:14 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:15 <toddc> thank xHans

 04:15 <xHans> bitte

 04:15 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 28 October 10-4 pm.  Learning Resource Center University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 03 November 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Linux Meet-up meeting on 07 November 7-8 pm. Location TBA, Tucson.

 04:16 <MajB> https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 08 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 08 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 19 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:17 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:17 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:17 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:17 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:17 <MajB> 09 November 2017, 3rd Annual Cyber Southwest (CSW) symposium

 04:17 <MajB> Radisson Suites Hotel - Catalina Ballroom

 04:17 <MajB> Tucson, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/

 04:18 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
