{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc2> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc2> +1.5
<spinrage> +1
<toddc2> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc2> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc2> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc2> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc2> some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc2> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<dennisk1> +1
<toddc2> "Linux, DOS, Vista -- The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly"
* Rich_ (46c7c30c@gateway/web/freenode/ip.70.199.195.12) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<ericc> +1
<Rich_> +1
<toddc2> hi Rich_  just getting started
<Rich_> cool
<toddc2> UBUNTU NEWS
<dennisk1> @toddc: Worked for me in Firefox, but I;ll rename the file later.
<toddc2> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> The Best Text to Speech (TTS) Software Programs and Online Tools
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/125305/the-best-text-to-speech-tts-software-programs-and-online-tools
<Dazed_75> Installing Oracle JDK on Ubuntu 12.04 (and on OpenSUSE 12.2)
<Dazed_75>     http://ashish-yadav.blogspot.in/2012/09/installing-oracle-jdk-on-ububtu-1204.html
<Dazed_75> Which Linux Do I Turn To? (Interesting article by a disgruntled Ubuntu User)
<Dazed_75>     http://scienceblogs.com/gregladen/2012/09/29/which-linux-do-i-turn-to-in-my-hour-of-need/
<Dazed_75> Linux is Full With Educational Software
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/article/linux-is-full-with-educational-software?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Seven Gmail Tricks You Probably Do Not Know
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/7-gmail-tricks-you-probably-had-no-idea-about/2012/09/29
<Dazed_75> How to Convert Virtual Machines Between VirtualBox and VMware (one instruction is Windows specific)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/125640/how-to-convert-virtual-machines-between-virtualbox-and-vmware
<Dazed_75> 3D Printers at MakerFaire
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/electronics/137098-3d-printer-safari-maker-faire-ny
<Dazed_75> With Your Data, etc in the Cloud, What Are Your Rights?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/internet/134687-extremetechs-cloud-bill-of-rights
<Dazed_75> Does the Consumer Hard Drive Have a Future?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/computing/137126-does-the-consumer-hard-drive-have-a-future
<Dazed_75> An Electronic Magazine About GIMP and a Good Resource List With Tutorials
<Dazed_75>     http://gimpmagazine.org/
<Dazed_75> ZaReason Limbo 6000A Desktop Computer Running Linux Mint 12
<Dazed_75>     http://blogs.dailynews.com/click/2012/09/its-finally-here-my-long-long-.html
<Dazed_75> Is the Amazon Commercialism in 12.10 Good or Bad
<Dazed_75>     http://www.muktware.com/4434/commercialization-ubuntu-good-or-bad#.UGtNZmbfGf8
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/ubuntu-wont-fix-nsfw-content-in-amazon-unity-results
<Dazed_75>     http://www.infoworld.com/d/data-center/ubuntu-has-bigger-problem-its-amazon-blunder-203467
<Dazed_75> New Version of Linux E-Mail App 'Geary' Released
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/new-linux-e-mail-app-geary-updates
<Dazed_75> Linux Video Editor 'OpenShot' Updates with More Blender Effects
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/linux-video-editor-openshot-updates-with-more-blender-effects
<Dazed_75> Steam for Linux to Arrive "In a Few Days"
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/steam-for-linux-to-arrive-in-a-few-days
<Dazed_75> Rhythmbox 2.98 Released
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/rhythmbox-298-released-install-it-in.html
<toddc2> awkward pause
<Dazed_75> 'My Weather Indicator' Gets New Forecast Map, Improved Geo-location
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/my-weather-indicator-gets-new-forecast.html
<Dazed_75> Easily create animated GIF images from videos with video2gif
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/easily-create-animated-gif-images-from.html
<Dazed_75> How to set up nginx as a reverse proxy for Apache2 on Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-set-up-nginx-as-a-reverse-proxy-for-apache2-on-ubuntu-12.04
<Dazed_75> Linux strace command - a magnificant troubleshooter
<Dazed_75>     http://mylinuxbook.com/linux-strace-command-a-magnificent-troubleshooter/
<Dazed_75> A herd of excellent web testers for Linux Webmasters
<Dazed_75>     https://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/645489-a-herd-of-excellent-free-web-testers-for-linux-webmasters
<Dazed_75> Chrome Toolbox restores missing features for Goog;e Chrome
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/chrome-toolbox-restores-missing-features-for-google-chrome/2012/10/06
<Dazed_75> ---that one seemed less featured in Linux for some reason
<Dazed_75> Games dominate Ubuntu's paid application chart in September
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/games-dominate-ubuntus-paid-app-chart-in-september
<Dazed_75> New use for a Raspberry Pi = making beer
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/10/new-usage-of-rapsberry-pi-making-beer.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.10 Stuff
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/how-to-reset-compiz-and-unity-in-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/10/ubuntu-1210-adds-option-to-disable.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/ubuntu-adds-amazon-results-off-switch-fixes-nsfw-issues
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/10-things-to-look-for-in-ubuntu-12-10/2012/10/05
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/new-ubuntu-12-10-t-shirts-hats-go-on-sale
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/ubuntu-12-10-dvd-available-for-pre-order
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/unity-6-8-0-arrives-in-quantal
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/ubuntu-12-10-updates-messaging-menu-status-pips
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/indicator-remindor-1210-released-with.html
<Dazed_75> and thats it from AJ
<toddc2> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc2> I have a few more to add!
<toddc2> ZaTab open hackable tablet but read the specs 1.2 single core pre-rooted
<toddc2> http://zareason.com/shop/zatab.htm
<toddc2> this might be able to be the first tablet truly able to run ubuntu
<toddc2> Ubuntu Unity 6.8 Aims To Fix Performance Problems
<toddc2> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTE5OTk
<toddc2> Recover Your GPG Passphrase using 'John the Ripper'
<toddc2> http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/10/recover-your-gpg-passphrase-using-john.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+UbuntuVibes+%28Ubuntu+Vibes%29
<toddc2> JOB LIST
<toddc2> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc2> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc2> Customer Service Engineer
<toddc2> mike@nextstepsystems.com
<toddc2> Xen API implementation
<toddc2> tb9qt-3321303707@job.craigslist.org
<toddc2> Computer Technician
<toddc2> http://www.datadoctors.com/jobs/index.cfm?JobID=41
<toddc2> Phoenix Linux User Group is hosting a Job night on Tuesday, 2012 Oct16
<toddc2> managers, head hunters, recruters will be on hand to interveiwIguana Macks
<toddc2> 1371 N. Alma School Rd 7-9 pm
<toddc2> Chandler, AZ 85224
<toddc2> http://www.lufthans.com/node/5689 for more info
<toddc2> City of Tempe Oktoberfest is October 12-14 buns brats and beer and more !!!
<toddc2> ANDROID APP PICK
<toddc2> ezNetScan, it list all connected devices and connections
<toddc2> http://www.appbrain.com/app/eznetscan/com.vrsspl.eznetscan
<toddc2> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc2> Thursday October 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc2> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc2> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc2> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc2> UAT is unable to host our Nov 3 installfest and  we have had to cancel it for november
<toddc2> repeat UAT is unable to host our Nov 3 installfest and  we have had to cancel it for november
<ericc> (that app pick is exactly what i was looking for last night! thanks!))
<toddc2> np I just found it today and been playing with it all afternoon
<toddc2> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is December 1  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc2> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc2> Tagose planning and development meeting on October 13 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc2> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday October 20 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc2> For more info see
<toddc2> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc2> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc2> Linux Security HackFest
<toddc2> 2nd Saturday of each month 11PM to 2PM.  Devry 2149 West Dunlap Avenue
<toddc2> Phoenix, AZ
<toddc2> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc2> Ubuntu offers free online training several time a year
<toddc2> use the program Lernid or #ubuntu-clasroom in IRC freenode
<toddc2> October 18 Ubuntu Women Career Days
<toddc2> Ubuntu Open Week will be October 24-26 stay tuned for more info
<toddc2> We will do a 12.10 Release party  October 20th at the server installfest!!!!
<toddc2> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc2> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc2> Plug East side meeting Thursday October 11  7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<ericc> toddc2: just so you know you posted the Linux Sec. Hackfest as being from 11p-2p
<toddc2> that is what I was told am I incorrect?
<toddc2> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday October 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd
<toddc2> Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc2> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc2> Deveolper Meeting Thursday November 1
<toddc2> University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc2> Tagcose Server Development  October 13 10am-4pm
<toddc2> Anyone interested in learning or assisting with the Tagcose Server Project.
<toddc2> University of Advancing Technology: 2625 W Baseline,Tempe, AZ 85283
<ericc> toddc2: I can't imagine 'hackfesting' for 15hrs. I'd be down, but i'm just sayin...
<toddc2> ericc as far as I know the security event at ---ahh changed my notes and slapped myself silly
<toddc2> Linux Security HackFest
<toddc2> 2nd Saturday of each month 11AM to 2PM.  Devry 2149 West Dunlap Avenue
<toddc2> Phoenix, AZ
<toddc2> happy happy happy
<toddc2> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc2> I will notify Lisa that you want a 15 hour hackfest
<toddc2> :)
<toddc2> if there is nothing else?
<toddc2> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
