{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

02 March – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed general Linux topics
04 March – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Discussed Next Cloud
* Recovered the configuration files that had been deleted from a Raspberry Pi weather station.
* Set up a server with docker containers for an individual
05 March – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2005%2C%202023%20Meeting
09 March - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees (one new person)
* Discussed Firefox problems a member had during an Ubuntu install.
* Discussed DVD vs VHS quality comparison.
* Installed the driver for Display Link for an attendee.
* We are looking at 08  or 15 April for our next installfest in Sierra Vista.
09 March - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed Wayland
* Discussed Hard drives
* Discussed swap partitions and files
* Discussed the Gnome screen shot default location and how to move it.
18 March - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 4 attendees
* Discussed Ubuntu vs Linux Mint for beginning Linux users
* Discussed Nitro Key
* Repaired and updated the Team Next Cloud server
19 March - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2019%2C%202023%20Meeting
23 March - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed general Linux topics
