{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #65 for the week September 15, September 21.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Sixty Fifth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-September 24, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday September 28, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Announcements ===

Greeting AZ team! If you didn't get to the ABLEconf in Phoenix last Saturday, you missed a rockin' good time. Lots of people, lots of prizes, lots of great presentations, lots of fun!! We are planning to have more of these open source conferences in the future so make a plan to attend the next one. We are putting up the pictures we took at the conference on the ABLEconf planning page:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/OpenSourceConference I haven't got them all up yet, but I should have it completed today sometime. Drop by and check them out.

Thanks to all the team members who participated!!

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the September 21, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08September21

johnc4510 began the meeting by asking Fern``Hans to make his announcements:

* First off, thanks to everyone for helping with ABLEconf.  The Ubuntu-US-AZ table was great, congrats on being well organized.  Lots of Lo``Co members helping out everywhere yesterday. Danke!
* The Install``Fest is now co-sponsored by Ubuntu-US-AZ as well as PLUG.  The Install``Fest is the last Saturday of the month from 10:00 to 16:00 at UAT.  That means the next Install``Fest is this Saturday.
* ASULUG has a big Install``Fest two weeks from Saturday on the 11th, it runs all day.  ASULUG does a great job on their Install``Fests.  they only go twice a year and ASULUG is glad to have lots of help.
* The same day is the first Hackfest, a 3 hour security lab.  Hackfest will be at UAT from noon until 15:00.  A shame that the two events are the same day, but I think it's going to have to stay that way.  Both have been advertising and planning for a while, so it's a little late to change the day.  I thought about moving the Hack``Fest to ASU, but there are practical problems with that.  So the Install``Fest and Hack``Fest being on the same day is a good example of why we need a combined calendar as Bill asked about.

Fern``Hans paused for questions, and johnc4510 asked about the Team also sending a thank you letter to UAT.  Fern``Hans said that he'd get johnc4510 the contact information for Liz.

johnc4510 also mentioned that we have a computer hosted at De``Lug, and that we could dedicate it to Conference things, like the calendar.  Fern``Hans replied that he's probably going to keep his Dream``Host account anyway, we could run tons of stuff off that.

johnc4510 then made some announcements:

* Intrepid Ibex Alpha 6 released: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2008-September/000487.html.  We're getting closer to release.   w00t!
* Launchpad released a new version.  On everyone's launchpad page is a map now.  You can add yourself to the map on your personal page and it will add you to the maps of all the other teams you belong to.  To do it, just go to https://launchpad.net/people/+me, and add yourself.  Note: just add yourself to the city you live in.  Don't pinpoint your address.  I think it works off the same kind of configuration that time and date does.
* johnc4510 personally thanked all of you who participated in the conference.  you all did a great job!  Made it easy to get things done that day.  He was _very_ pleased.  It was also nice to see you folks in the conference meeting tonight and volunteering to help with the after conference extras.
* Now, we talked about what was good and what we might do different next time in the conference meeting.  I don't see a need to rehash that at this point.  However, do feel free to add your suggestions at anytime.
* Next, as we are now a supporting sponsor of the installfest as Hans said, we should try to have a presence.  So consider joining in on the installfest up there if possible.  I know we can't be there all the time.
* Our own release parties/installfest will be coming up next. This is our own team event.
* johnc4510 then held a discussion concerning servers.  We have the small one at De``Vry, and have been thinking of dedicating that to Conference and Calendar Events for all the state groups.  We also have the larger one that was donated to us, but slofgren feels that it may be too much for us. We should all think over the options and next week we can discuss it more.
* Next week we need to get back on track with the release/installfests.  I have an in at the U OF A for rooms with wifi for such an event, so we should be good for Tucson.  And after talking with zach of the asulug, we can get rooms there at any time trough him.  I'm thinking that trying these type of events at the colleges is a good idea.  Think it over, and next week we'll get down to planning.

OK all, if that's it, we are adjourned.  Thanks again for all the conference help and great job while we were there!! w00t to the AZ team.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:42 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
