{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 26 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-11-26-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/dell-xps-13-the-best-linux-laptop-of-2018/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/11/home-assistant-python-approach-home-automation 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/11/evernote-linux-client-nixnote2-forked.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/11/hacktoberfest 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/11/how-web-was-won 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/6/practical-networking-linux-admins-tcpip 
''LINK:'' https://blog.github.com/2018-11-15-state-of-the-octoverse-top-programming-languages/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/11/three-ssh-guis-linux 
''LINK:'' https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/open-source_gettingstarted/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-october-cms-platform-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-and-configure-apache-web-server-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/how-to-build-a-netboot-server-part-1/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://careers.isoutsource.com/apply/mUjFmzujgl/IT-Field-Technician 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/openwrt-based-distro-claimed-to-be-first-fully-open-source-bitcoin-mining-software/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/intel-updates-embedded-toolsuite-but-says-its-scaling-back-its-iot-effort/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/393/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/448/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (57)
* MajB (30)
* stephenm (28)
* xHans (10)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* Deoxizn (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov 26 04:00:15 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 96502.37

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <Deoxizn> +1

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> hi Deoxizn

 04:02 * Deoxizn hides

 04:02 <MajB> Welcome Deoxizn

 04:02 <stephenm> News starts out simple and then gets more techie

 04:03 <stephenm> Dell XPS 13: The Best Linux Laptop of 2018

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/dell-xps-13-the-best-linux-laptop-of-2018/

 04:03 <Ron_A> Greetings Deoxizn

 04:03 <stephenm> Home Assistant: The Python Approach to Home Automation

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/11/home-assistant-python-approach-home-automation

 04:03 <stephenm> Evernote Linux Client Nixnote2 Forked, Includes Numerous Improvements

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/11/evernote-linux-client-nixnote2-forked.html

 04:03 <stephenm> More than 46k people participate in Hacktoberfest 2018

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/11/hacktoberfest

 04:04 <stephenm> How I uncovered my inner geek

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/11/how-web-was-won

 04:04 <stephenm> Practical Networking for Linux Admins: TCP/IP

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/6/practical-networking-linux-admins-tcpip

 04:04 <stephenm> The State of the Octoverse: Top Programming Languages of 2018

 04:04 <stephenm> https://blog.github.com/2018-11-15-state-of-the-octoverse-top-programming-languages/

 04:04 <stephenm> Three SSH GUI Tools for Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/11/three-ssh-guis-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> The Beginner’s Guide to Contributing to Open Source Projects

 04:04 <stephenm> https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/open-source_gettingstarted/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install October CMS platform on CentOS 7

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-october-cms-platform-on-centos-7/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Configure Apache 2 Web Server on Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-and-configure-apache-web-server-on-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Build a Netboot Server, Part 1

 04:05 <stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/how-to-build-a-netboot-server-part-1/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you toddc.

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <Ron_A> good work stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <MajB> 05 January Installfest/Linux Workshop (Campus wide event – no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:06 <toddc> mabey?

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES   edit just some bad jokes!

 04:08 <toddc> How do trees go online?

 04:08 <toddc> They log-on of course.

 04:09 <toddc> What is the cause of most computer problems?

 04:09 <MajB> Operator?

 04:09 <Deoxizn> windows.

 04:09 <toddc> It's the loose nut between the chair and the keyboard.

 04:09 <toddc> Who is general failure and why is he reading my disk?

 04:09 <MajB> Moi?

 04:10 <toddc> They say spending too much on the internet is bad for you...

 04:10 <toddc> I wonder if there's a website to find out more information about it?

 04:10 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical has 50 open positions

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <toddc> IT Field Technician

 04:11 <toddc> http://careers.isoutsource.com/apply/mUjFmzujgl/IT-Field-Technician

 04:11 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:11 <toddc> OpenWrt based distro claimed to be first fully open source bitcoin mining software

 04:11 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/openwrt-based-distro-claimed-to-be-first-fully-open-source-bitcoin-mining-software/

 04:11 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Intel updates embedded toolsuite ??? but says it???s scaling back its IoT effort

 04:12 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/intel-updates-embedded-toolsuite-but-says-its-scaling-back-its-iot-effort/

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:13 <MajB> 29 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 01 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:13 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 06 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 15 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:14 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 27 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 27 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <toddc> I want to thank everyone for the help at the last istallfest we were jam backed with lots of new people

 04:15 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:15 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:15 <xHans> Next month's East Side meeting is our annual end of year pot luck

 04:15 <xHans> Two weeks from Thursday on December 13th

 04:15 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/393/east-valley-meeting/

 04:15 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:15 <xHans> Stammtisch next month is on the 18th

 04:15 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/448/floss-stammtisch/

 04:16 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:16 <xHans> There is no December security meeting, sec mtgs will restart in January

 04:16 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:16 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:16 <MajB> Thanks xHans

 04:16 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:17 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 23 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 07 December 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 12 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 12 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 22 December 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:17 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:18 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:18 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <MajB> nada

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
