{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 08 Aug at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-08-08-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://phoenix.craigslist.org/evl/tch/d/tempe-desktop-system-administrator/7513793873.html   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.aislabs.com/careers/   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/AMD-Sabrina-Mendocino   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-22-04-1-delayed-until-august-11/29859   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (56)
* MajB (32)
* meetingology (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:42 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> mee too +1

 04:01 <toddc> Stardate 100198.59

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL SEA SERPENT DAY

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:04 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:04 <toddc> or later

 04:04 <toddc> if we find some

 04:04 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:05 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:05 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:05 <MajB> No canceled events

 04:05 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:05 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:05 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:05 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:06 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:06 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:06 <markthomas> +1

 04:07 <toddc> I do get my pizzas paid for by Linux indirectly.

 04:07 <MajB> Hello markthomas

 04:07 <toddc> "To err is human... to really foul up requires the root password."

 04:07 <toddc> "If brute force doesn't solve your problems, then you aren't using enough."

 04:07 <toddc> It is impossible to build a fool proof system;

 04:07 <toddc> because fools are so ingenious.

 04:08 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:08 <toddc> Desktop System Administrator (Tempe)

 04:08 <toddc> https://phoenix.craigslist.org/evl/tch/d/tempe-desktop-system-administrator/7513793873.html

 04:08 <toddc> open source PHP DEV and also a Senior Network Engineer  both remote

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.aislabs.com/careers/

 04:09 <toddc> Canonical has 202 open positions

 04:09 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:09 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 143 open jobs

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&

 04:09 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:09 <toddc> AMD's "Sabrina" SoC Is Mendocino - Coreboot Enablement

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.phoronix.com/news/AMD-Sabrina-Mendocino

 04:10 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:10 <toddc> Ubuntu 22.04.1 is deleyaed till August 11 due to a bug

 04:10 <toddc> https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-22-04-1-delayed-until-august-11/29859

 04:10 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:11 <MajB> 11 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 11 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 20 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:12 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 21 August,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 25 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 01 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <toddc> LuftHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:12 <MajB> 03 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:12 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 04 September,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:13 <MajB> Many events are being held on line.

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 11 August, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 16 August, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly meeting 10 August, 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:14 <MajB> Special Meeting 17 August, 1800-1900, Location: Warrior Heraling Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 27 August, 1300-1500 (fourth Saturday of each month),  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:14 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:14 <MajB> That's all I have

 04:14 <toddc> ny thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:15 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:15 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022

 04:15 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:15 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:15 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
