{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 02 March - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees
* Discussed cpu coolers for AMD processors (and possibly liquid coolers)
* Conducted stress test on various servers using stress-ng & monitoring via lm-sensors
* Repaired an attendee’s Thunderbird email account by compressing folders
* looked into configuring a Zentyal server with wi-fi to provide an access point
* 04 March – Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 14 attendees
* 2 installations, Zentyal server and a dual boot Open Suse with Win10
* Repaired the Team’s Own Cloud server
* Attempted to exchange  hard drives from a computer with a bad Mother Board to a second computer only to discover that its Mother Board was also defective.
* 05 March – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 13 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2005%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 12 March - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 9 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2012%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 18 March - Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 18 attendees
* 8 installs, (4 Ubuntu, 1 Mint, 2 Kali, and 1 Mint dual boot with Mac OS)
* WEEWX linux powered weather station was completed.
* A member worked on his server and his video box
* 19 March – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 12 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2019%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 23 March – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Discussed the Raspberry Pi, its capabilities, uses, and add-ons.
* Discussed the possibility of instituting problem solving activities for future meetings.
* 23 March – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 12 attendees
* Discussed and worked on Zentyal, 
* Discussed Easter Egg urls, Zoneminder, Linux weather stations, LXDE UI install, XBMC , installed weather indicator, KALI, TOR, DNSSEC server planning, Team hosting, NoMachine, and Gangplank reservations
* 26 March – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 11 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2026%2C%202017%20Meeting 
