{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 06 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-01-06-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/javastream 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/loot-python-platformer-game 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/getting-started-open-source 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/cheat-sheets-guides 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/12/open-leadership 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/12/programming-resources 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/12/devops-resources 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/open-source-alternatives 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/redirect-http-to-https-in-apache/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/kubernetes-2020 
''LINK:'' https://net2.com/best-download-managers-for-linux-ubuntu-debian/ 
''LINK:'' https://thelinuxgurus.com/examples-on-how-to-use-yum-command-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://thelinuxgurus.com/examples-on-how-to-use-rpm-command-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-use-gnome-shells-hidden-screen-recorder-in-debian/ 
''LINK:'' https://thelinuxgurus.com/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/3-ways-to-find-your-local-ip-address-in-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/fix-git-user-credentials-for-https/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-wallabag-on-ubuntu-1804/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.kmotoko.com/articles/how-to-use-dnscrypt-proxy-to-secure-dns-queries-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/install-rust-programming-language-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/bash-script-to-check-successful-and-failed-user-login-attempts-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://devconnected.com/how-to-undo-last-git-commit/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/boot-centos-8-rhel-8-single-user-mode/ 
''LINK:'' https://devconnected.com/how-to-clone-a-git-repository/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/random-one-liner-linux-commands-part-1/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxgain.com/install-spacewalk-server-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (56)
* Ron_A (46)
* MajB (30)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <Ron_A> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan  6 04:00:10 2020 UTC.  The chair is Ron_A. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date 97613.18

 04:00 <Ron_A> Some of us are in https://bbb.azloco.net/html5client/join?sessionToken=rmlsfvc3d1lpiana if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <stephenm> OK so some news but it's all messed up

 04:01 <stephenm> Data streaming and functional programming in Java

 04:01 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/javastream

 04:01 <stephenm> Put some loot in your Python platformer game

 04:01 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/loot-python-platformer-game

 04:02 <stephenm> How to get started with open source in 2020

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/getting-started-open-source

 04:02 <stephenm> 9 cheat sheets and guides to enhance your tech skills

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/cheat-sheets-guides

 04:02 <stephenm> How to be a better organization: Top 10 reads for leaders

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/12/open-leadership

 04:02 <stephenm> 12 programming resources for coders of all levels

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/12/programming-resources

 04:02 <stephenm> 8 must-read DevOps articles for success in 2020

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/12/devops-resources

 04:03 <stephenm> 10 open source software alternatives for the new year

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/open-source-alternatives

 04:03 <stephenm> Redirect HTTP to HTTPS in Apache

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/redirect-http-to-https-in-apache/

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 predictions for Kubernetes in 2020

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/kubernetes-2020

 04:03 <stephenm> Best download managers for Linux Ubuntu/Debian

 04:03 <stephenm> https://net2.com/best-download-managers-for-linux-ubuntu-debian/

 04:03 <stephenm> Examples on how to use YUM command in Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://thelinuxgurus.com/examples-on-how-to-use-yum-command-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Examples on how to use RPM command in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thelinuxgurus.com/examples-on-how-to-use-rpm-command-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to use Gnome shell's hidden Screen Recorder in Debian 10

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-use-gnome-shells-hidden-screen-recorder-in-debian/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to install MySQL on Ubuntu

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thelinuxgurus.com/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu/

 04:04 <stephenm> 3 Ways to find your local IP Address in Debian 10

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/3-ways-to-find-your-local-ip-address-in-debian-10/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Fix Git Always Asking For User Credentials For HTTP(S) Authentication

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/fix-git-user-credentials-for-https/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Wallabag on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-wallabag-on-ubuntu-1804/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to use dnscrypt-proxy to secure DNS queries in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.kmotoko.com/articles/how-to-use-dnscrypt-proxy-to-secure-dns-queries-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Install Rust Programming Language In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/install-rust-programming-language-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Bash Script to Check Successful and Failed User Login Attempts on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/bash-script-to-check-successful-and-failed-user-login-attempts-on-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Undo Last Git Commit

 04:05 <stephenm> https://devconnected.com/how-to-undo-last-git-commit/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Boot CentOS 8 / RHEL 8 Server in Single User Mode

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechi.com/boot-centos-8-rhel-8-single-user-mode/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Clone a Git Repository

 04:06 <stephenm> https://devconnected.com/how-to-clone-a-git-repository/

 04:06 <stephenm> Some Random One-liner Linux Commands

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/random-one-liner-linux-commands-part-1/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Install Spacewalk Server on CentOS

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxgain.com/install-spacewalk-server-on-centos-7/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have, back to you Ron_A

 04:06 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <Ron_A> 

 04:06 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <Ron_A> MajB has Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB> 01 February – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop No rooms are available at UAT and no alternate location is currently available.

 04:07 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:07 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:07 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <Ron_A> Mac users swear by their Mac, PC users swear at their PC.

 04:08 <Ron_A> Relax! It's only 1's and 0's.

 04:08 <Ron_A> If you can't beat your computer at chess, try kick-boxing.

 04:08 <Ron_A> - Matt Larson

 04:08 <Ron_A> 67 current canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:08 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:09 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:09 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:09 <Ron_A> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:09 <MajB> 09 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <MajB> 09 January, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 18 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:10 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 23 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 01 February, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop canceled because rooms are not available at UAT and no alternate location is currently available.

 04:10 <Ron_A> New Members this week

 04:10 <Ron_A> Jim Galuska

 04:10 <Ron_A> joined 5 January

 04:10 <Ron_A> Welcome Jim

 04:10 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:12 <MajB> I will cover the PLUG events with the other AZ LUGS

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 09 January 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 16 January 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:12 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 21 January  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thi

 04:13 <MajB> ngs tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:13 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 26 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 07 February 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave and Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 08 January 6-7:30 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 25 January 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:14 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB !

 04:14 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:14 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:14 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:14 <Ron_A> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
