{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 08 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-03-08-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/caveexpress-classic-2d-platformer/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/5-ways-insights   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/04/red_hat_eos/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/05/libreoffice_7_1_1/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/3/libreoffice-command-line   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/3/moodle-plugins   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/05/redhat_enterprise_costs/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/ubuntu_mono/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-nmap-on-linux-mint-20/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-moodle-on-ubuntu-20-04/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/an-introduction-to-webassembly/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-set-up-multi-factor-authentication-for-ssh-on-ubuntu-20-04/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/03/linux-kernel-5-12-rc2/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/systemrescue-8-00-released-with-linux-5-10-lts-xfce-4-16-and-improved-exfat-support   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/3/bastille-raspberry-pi   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/fix-implementation-of-the-usb-2-0-controller-not-found-virtualbox-error/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-restore-or-recover-deleted-commands-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/configure-network-ansible-roles   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/3/raspberry-pi-totalcross   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-21-04-hirsute-hippo-enters-feature-freeze-beta-expected-on-april-1st   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/looks-like-ubuntu-21-04-will-offer-a-hybrid-gnome-3-38-desktop-with-gnome-40-apps   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/patches-for-multiple-new-grub2-security-flaws-start-rolling-out-to-linux-distros-update-now   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zippia.com/linux-administrator-jobs/best-states/#   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.gdit.com/careers/search/   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://bloodsystems.taleo.net/careersection/vitalantexttier1/jobdetail.ftl?job=201163&tz=GMT-07%3A00&tzname=America%2FPhoenix   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/9145439?hl=en   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:16)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (49)
* stephenm (41)
* MajB (30)
* meetingology (2)
* gnewbie (2)
* Eleison23 (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:07 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 98609.09

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <gnewbie> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> cause I certainly will!!

 04:02 <gnewbie> Ha, I rememberd.    Well, my wife reminded me.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> gnewbie: -1 for his wife

 04:02 <toddc> +1

 04:02 <MajB> 10 points for gnewbie's wife

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news over to stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> News is a little news and then some *nix items setup.

 04:03 <stephenm> CaveExpress – classic 2D platformer with physics-based gameplay

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/caveexpress-classic-2d-platformer/

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 ways Red Hat Insights can improve your sysadmin life

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/5-ways-insights

 04:03 <stephenm> Ever wondered why the big beasts in software all suddenly slapped an 'I heart open-source' badge on?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/04/red_hat_eos/

 04:03 <stephenm> The Document Foundation updates LibreOffice Community to 7.1.1

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/05/libreoffice_7_1_1/

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 surprising things you can do with LibreOffice from the command line'

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/3/libreoffice-command-line

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 useful Moodle plugins to engage students

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/3/moodle-plugins

 04:04 <stephenm> Self-supported Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server virty users see stealth inflation

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/05/redhat_enterprise_costs/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Mono on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/ubuntu_mono/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install and Use Nmap on Linux Mint 20

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-nmap-on-linux-mint-20/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Moodle with Nginx and Let's Encrypt SSL on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-moodle-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:04 <stephenm> An Introduction to WebAssembly

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/an-introduction-to-webassembly/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Set Up Multi-Factor Authentication for SSH on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-set-up-multi-factor-authentication-for-ssh-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Kernel 5.12 RC2 Released Early, Fixing the Scary Swap File Bug

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/03/linux-kernel-5-12-rc2/

 04:05 <stephenm> SystemRescue 8.00 Released with Linux 5.10 LTS, Xfce 4.16, and Improved exFAT Support

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/systemrescue-8-00-released-with-linux-5-10-lts-xfce-4-16-and-improved-exfat-support

 04:05 <stephenm> Manage containers on Raspberry Pi with this open source tool

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/3/bastille-raspberry-pi

 04:05 <stephenm> Fix “Implementation of the USB 2.0 controller not found!” VirtualBox Error

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/fix-implementation-of-the-usb-2-0-controller-not-found-virtualbox-error/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Restore Or Recover Deleted Commands In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-restore-or-recover-deleted-commands-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to configure network settings with Ansible system roles

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/configure-network-ansible-roles

 04:06 <stephenm> Build a printer UI for Raspberry Pi with XML and Java

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/3/raspberry-pi-totalcross

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight,back to toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <MajB> Ubuntu 21.04 (Hirsute Hippo) Enters Feature Freeze, Beta Expected on April 1st

 04:07 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-21-04-hirsute-hippo-enters-feature-freeze-beta-expected-on-april-1st

 04:07 <MajB> Looks Like Ubuntu 21.04 Will Offer a Hybrid GNOME 3.38 Desktop with GNOME 40 Apps

 04:07 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/looks-like-ubuntu-21-04-will-offer-a-hybrid-gnome-3-38-desktop-with-gnome-40-apps

 04:08 <MajB> Patches for Multiple New GRUB2 Security Flaws Start Rolling Out to Linux Distros, Update Now

 04:08 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/patches-for-multiple-new-grub2-security-flaws-start-rolling-out-to-linux-distros-update-now

 04:08 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:08 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.zippia.com/linux-administrator-jobs/best-states/#

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical has 129 open positions

 04:10 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:10 <toddc> General Dynamics IT Several jobs in AZ with a linux background

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.gdit.com/careers/search/

 04:10 <toddc> Sr. Systems Engineer (Linux)

 04:11 <toddc> https://bloodsystems.taleo.net/careersection/vitalantexttier1/jobdetail.ftl?job=201163&tz=GMT-07%3A00&tzname=America%2FPhoenix

 04:11 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:11 <toddc> Install linux on new chrome books

 04:11 <toddc> https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/9145439?hl=en

 04:11 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Proxmox 6.3-3 with Lots of new cluster storage features

 04:12 <toddc> https://proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:13 <MajB> 11 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour - 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 11 March, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour – https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000, Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 20 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal project

 04:13 <MajB> s, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 21 March, AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az, 2100-2130.

 04:14 <MajB> 25 March, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 01 April, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn about Linux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 03 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal project

 04:14 <MajB> s, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 04 April,  AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az, 2100-2130.

 04:14 <MajB> That's all I have

 04:15 <toddc> xHans: would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:16 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:16 <MajB> Most events are being held on line.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 27 March 1300-1500,  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:17 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:17 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:17 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
