{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #63 for the week September 1, September 7.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Sixty Third Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-September 10, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday September 14, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the September 7, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08September07

johnc4510 began with, "Ok all, I'm back home again! Thank goodness!! I want to thank everyone for their thoughts about mom's brother's passing. We really appreciate all your good wishes!!  I've been mostly absent the last 3 weeks. My apologies to all. I'm being pulled in a lot of different directions and haven't been able to devote the proper time to any of them, and that really bothers me. All I can do at the moment is try to catch up and hope I don't drop the ball to badly doing it. Please be patient as I try to recover. Thanks.  Any help would be appreciated too."

johnc4510 then made the following announcements:

* Intrepid Ibex Alpha-5, which will in time become Ubuntu 8.10. Alpha 5 is the fifth in a series of milestone CD images that will be released throughout the Intrepid development cycle.  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2008-September/000480.html.
* KDE 4.1.1 has been released and packages are available for Kubuntu 8.04, the Hardy Heron.  http://www.kubuntu.org/news/kde-4.1.1.
* Issue #107 of the UWN is out. There are several items everyone should look at as usual. :) https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue107.
* We got the conference pack from Ubuntu. 50 pens, some stickers, some pamphlets, 4 t-shirts, and 2 ball caps. One t-shirt and one ball cap have already been claimed by johnc4510.  The t-shirts are chocolate colored and on the front say Ubuntu Geek with the Ubuntu Logo. On the back they say Ask me about Ubuntu with the Ubuntu logo.

johnc4510 then reported that he got Cox to let him try out a business account with a static IP address. If it works out, we'll get the server up and going.  He was thinking about having the Tucson folks over for a server party to hash things out.  This was well received by a number of members from Tucson, such as azteech and Rakeer.

johnc4510 then asked Rakeer to introduce himself, since he'd been unavailable at the beginning of the meeting.  Rakeer responded, "I'm a local Tucsonan, grew up here, and returned after some years away. Back to Ubuntu after a few years off, helping to get the ball heavily rolling for PPC64 and PS3 dev.  Glad to make the acquaintance of locals who share my interests. I'm active with communications between developers for support, to hopefully see a "Just-Works" build of intrepid for PS3.  I run a local business, Jones PC Rescue. I'm married, have 2 beautiful children."  Rakeer was welcomed to the Arizona Team.

xHans was then asked to make his announcements:

* PLUG east side this Thursday, we need topics.  It's a great opportunity to practice an ABLEconf presentation.  Sequoia Charter School, near the US60 and Stapley.
* Hack``Fest starts in Okt, so nothing this weekend.
* Stammtische next week.  A reminder that the Avondale Free Software Stammtisch now meets on the 3rd Wednesday.  The location is the same.
* See the PLUG site or my calendar for info on the Stammtische and the PLUG site for the east side meeting.  http://plug.phoenix.az.us/.
* ABLEconf is two weeks from yesterday (September 20, 2008).  We need to push for presentation and promotion this week.  http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2008Phx/Promotion.

johnc4510 then invited calimer to make an announcement:  "I just wanted to mention that I plan to do a press release this week, probably around the weekend showing off the work that kids have done in sandbox.  Mainly work the 9 year old girl I babysit for and the kids 11-17 that I taught at the kids camp.  Basically the goal is to make it as easy as possible for kids and adults to make their own games.  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g44Ww2bg2_E.  And our homepage is http://Kids.PlatinumArts.Net."  azteech suggested that it would make a good presentation for the ABLEconf.  calimer agreed, and agreed to meet with others outside of the meeting to determine how best to present it.

johnc4510 then started discussing the Team booth or table for the ABLEconf.  UAT will, apparently NOT be providing tables, so it would be up to the Team to come up with one or more.  word suggested that he bring his computer and show off video gaming in Linux.  azteech is working on getting a kiosk made of the benefits of Ubuntu.

johnc4510 asked if soldats was in the channel.  He wasn't, but members will be on the look-out for him so that he can get the svg file of the Team logo.  johnc4510 said that he'd front the $80 or $90 necessary to cover it, and then take donations from the members at the conference to help cover the cost.  johnc4510 then asked if we had a flier for the Team.  None is currently available, but tyche volunteered to look into it.  johnc4510 would like there to be information about the Team's purpose, ie: advocacy for ubuntu and open source, and links to the wiki and launchpad sites, it should also have the team logo, and tell how to join this channel to get team support from us.

Another part of the discussion was how soon we could get into the facility to set up.  xHans reported that we could get in 2 hours before, and that we would have 90 minutes for cleanup after the conference.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:45 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
