{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<tuxmann> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<pjdamws> +1
<ArchFan9x> i have heard something like that on phoronix
<toddc> +1
<Rich_> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<TRG_> +1
<tuxmann> +1
<toddc> still do not believe in global warming??????
<TRG_> no I don't
<wmack> +1
<tuxmann> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<TRG_> we don't have enough historical weather data
<nhasian> +1
<erroric> +2
<tuxmann> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<tuxmann> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<tuxmann> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<tuxmann> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<tuxmann> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<tuxmann> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<tuxmann> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<tuxmann> lets start with the news!!
<tuxmann> UBUNTU NEWS
<tuxmann> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/166497/htg-explains-what-is-juice-jacking-and-how-worried-should-you-be/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.org/article/view/online-defragmentation (and, yes for Linux)
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.org/article/view/intro-to-snapshot-cloning
<Dazed_75> XWayland 2D performance appears better than XMir
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5OTY
<adrenaline> +1
<Dazed_75> Unity on XMir performance for Nouveau Gallium 3D
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_xmir_nouveau&num=1
<Dazed_75> LXDE-based Lubuntu will not ship Mir display server
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5OTI
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/lubuntu-kubuntu-decide-against-mir-switch
<Dazed_75> Fedora vs Ubuntu Linux benchmarks on Interl Haswell
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=fedora19_ubuntu_haswell&num=1
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/some-examples-of-how-to-use-paste.html (uses???)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtoforge.com/installing-apache2-with-php5-and-mysql-support-on-ubuntu-13.04-lamp
<Dazed_75> Features coming in the XFCE 4.12 desktop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5OTA
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/19-of-app-devs-interested-in-ubuntu-touch
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/walmart-nexus-10-ubuntu-touch
<Dazed_75> http://www.pcworld.com/article/2043095/heres-what-an-eavesdropper-sees-when-you-use-an-unsecured-wi-fi-hotspot.html#modalVideoWindow
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/166507/why-most-web-services-dont-use-end-to-end-encryption/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Gedit-3-9-3-Brings-Various-Bugfixes-and-Improvements-364827.shtml
<TRG_> when is that ubuntu phone coming out?
<Dazed_75> http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/join-thousands-of-linux-users-asking-google-for-native-drive-client-updates/
<toddc> this fall
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/tutorials/make-a-personal-wiki-with-dokuwiki
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/07/raspberry-pi-creator-won-silver-medal.html
<Dazed_75> http://science.opposingviews.com/set-up-secure-proxy-server-ubuntu-linux-23184.html
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Arch-Linux-2013-07-01-Is-Now-Available-for-Download-364591.shtml
<Dazed_75> Patch management of Linux servers using Spacewalk
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/spacewalk-client/
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/memory-corruption-in-linux-programming/
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/sudo-vs-su-in-ubuntu-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/install-linux-deepin-desktop-on-ubuntu/2013/07/02
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/pinlock-feature-demoed-on-ubuntu-touch
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/testing-as-a-community : How you can help Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/fedora-19-available-for-download.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/conky-manager-gui-for-managing-conky.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/gaming/160418-libre-office-adds-gpu-acceleration-gives-gamers-a-potent-spousal-defense
<Dazed_75> http://opensource.com/government/13/7/hawaii-open-data-policy
<Dazed_75> http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/unix-command/dig/
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/how-to-clear-memory-cache-on-linux-servers/
<Dazed_75> Open Source misconceptions
<Dazed_75>     http://opensource.com/life/13/7/community-spotlight-robin-muilwijk
<Dazed_75> http://www.networkworld.com/news/2013/070113-open-source-stars-271445.html?hpg1=bn
<Dazed_75> http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-install-ajenti-similar-to-webmin-on-ubuntu-13-04-server.html
<Dazed_75> -- Hmmmm, this uses Keepass2 and mono, in case you don't want to use mono
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/integrate-keepass-with-browser-in-ubuntu/2013/07/03
<Dazed_75> Indonesia's largest mobile Internet network joins Ubuntu Touch forum
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/smartfren
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/minitube-2-1-added-to-ubuntu-software-centre
<Dazed_75> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/07/linux-is-here-to-stay.html
<tuxmann> TRG_ I know that ubuntu touch should be coming out this fall. I'm guessing it will be a little while before it's more mature. Dwayne had his Nexus 4 loaded with Ubuntu Touch during the installfest.
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/07/things-to-do-after-installing-linux-mint.html
<Dazed_75> http://how-to.linuxcareer.com/doudoulinux-review-expose-your-children-to-linux
<Dazed_75> http://myubuntublog.com/ubuntu-13-04-the-dash/
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/install-audacious-34-in-ubuntu-via-ppa.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/166938/protect-your-gadgets-why-you-need-a-surge-protector/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/165097/how-can-i-safely-run-ethernet-cable-outdoors/
<Dazed_75> Intel Rapid Start being toyed with for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQwMzU
<Dazed_75> http://www.wired.com/reviews/2013/07/dell-xps-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://dot.kde.org/2013/07/04/year-linux-desktop after a year using Linux in a girls school
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Native-exFAT-Support-Finally-Arrives-on-Linux-365770.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/qgifer-converts-video-to-gif-supports.html
<Dazed_75> No, LXDE-QT is not bloated
<Dazed_75>     http://blog.lxde.org/?p=1026
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/07/change-or-disable-login-sound-linux-mint-15.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/upgrade-ubuntu-12-04-lts-to-13-04/2013/07/05
<Dazed_75> ... and thats all from Apache Junction.  I hope everyone found SOME piece of news useful
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> Cool solar powered new laptop but where is the charger?
<toddc> http://www.solaptop.com/
<toddc> Barbie I can be a computer engineer doll uses linux!!!   ---no comments please!!!
<adrenaline> I am assuming in the sky
<toddc> http://www.amazon.com/Barbie-Can-Computer-Engineer-Doll/dp/B0042ESG9W
<toddc> I think it has a separate solar charger that plugs in to it
<toddc> JOB LIST
* pjdamws has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<toddc> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<toddc> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<[R]> toddc: i almost bought that for my neice
<toddc> Network Engineer
<toddc> http://www.greenloopsolutions.com
<toddc> [R] you would get it for yourself!!
<[R]> rofl
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Android App Pick of the week
<toddc> Mr. Number-Block calls, texts
<adrenaline> nice
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mrnumber.blocker
<toddc> I am testing it now call me and I will block you!!
<adrenaline> haha
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> Qgifer A video-based animated GIF creator
<toddc> http://sourceforge.net/projects/qgifer/
<toddc> TUCSON Ubuntu Hour
<toddc> July 13  11 at 2pm at Bookmans in Tucson 1930 E. Grant at Rd 2 pm.
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday July 20 and Saturday August 3 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more info see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<toddc> Thursday July 24 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> opps july 25 !!
<toddc> 4th thursday
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<TRG_> what time is that
<toddc> 7pm
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on air
<toddc> ubuntu development hang out Tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
<toddc> Jono Bacon O&A Wednesday 7-8 pm GMT
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday July 11  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday July 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<adrenaline> I am going to upgrade the sight soon. Scheduling issues with my DBA
<toddc> cool
<adrenaline> Tentatively for tomorrow night
<toddc> slofgren also transfered azloco.com to me so we have local domain control now
<tuxmann> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<TRG_> what is tomorrow night?
<adrenaline> I have a DBA at my disposal
<toddc> nada on tomorrow
<toddc> just some work on the main website
<TRG_> so next thing coming up is July 16th?
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
