{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 24 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-09-24-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3305070/internet/icann-sets-plan-to-reinforce-internet-dns-security.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/The-Future-of-Open-Source-85574.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/09/openshot-2-4-3-released 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/kaos-linux-gets-the-kde-applications-18-08-treatment-latest-calamares-installer-522815.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/linux-app-stores-for-chrome-os/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/escuelas-linux-celebrates-20th-anniversary-with-major-release-here-s-what-s-new-522808.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/09/master-password-is-password-manager.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/9/deepin-linux-gorgeous-it-user-friendly 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3305810/linux/how-to-list-repositories-on-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/9/linux-iptables-firewalld 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/9/python-37-beginners-cheat-sheet 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/linux-network-bandwidth-monitoring-tools/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/node-js/2018/9/building-secure-ecosystem-nodejs 
''LINK:'' https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3277541 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/9/distributed-tracing-microservices-world 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/encrypt-usb-drive-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.theverge.com/2018/9/21/17883442/linux-founder-linus-torvalds-apology-code-of-conduct-change-enforcement 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.responsivedata.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ibase.com.tw/english/ProductDetail/DigitalSignagePlayer/SI-626 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-pkill-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactuscon.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactusconkids.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/175/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/ 
''LINK:'' http://SeaGL.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2018/schedule 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (58)
* stephenm (39)
* MajB (29)
* xHans (21)
* Ron_A (5)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 24 04:00:02 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 96329.88

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/Y

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight! All the way from TX

 04:02 <stephenm> News is broad and gets more closer to Linux.

 04:02 <stephenm> ICANN Sets Plan to Reinforce Internet DNS Security

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3305070/internet/icann-sets-plan-to-reinforce-internet-dns-security.html

 04:02 <stephenm> The Future of Open Source

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/The-Future-of-Open-Source-85574.html

 04:02 <stephenm> OpenShot Adds Animated Video Masking, New Video Presets

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/09/openshot-2-4-3-released

 04:03 <stephenm> KaOS Linux Gets the KDE Applications 18.08 Treatment, Latest Calamares Installer

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/kaos-linux-gets-the-kde-applications-18-08-treatment-latest-calamares-installer-522815.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> Alternative Linux-centric App Stores to Google Play for Chrome OS

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/linux-app-stores-for-chrome-os/

 04:03 <stephenm> Escuelas Linux Celebrates 20th Anniversary with Major Release, Here's What's New

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/escuelas-linux-celebrates-20th-anniversary-with-major-release-here-s-what-s-new-522808.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> "Master Password" Is A Password Manager Alternative That Doesn't Store Passwords

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/09/master-password-is-password-manager.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Deepin Linux: As Gorgeous As It Is User-Friendly

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/9/deepin-linux-gorgeous-it-user-friendly

 04:04 <stephenm> How to List Repositories on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3305810/linux/how-to-list-repositories-on-linux.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux firewalls: What you need to know about iptables and firewalld

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/9/linux-iptables-firewalld

 04:04 <stephenm> Python 3.7 beginner's cheat sheet

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/9/python-37-beginners-cheat-sheet

 04:04 <stephenm> 16 Useful Bandwidth Monitoring Tools to Analyze Network Usage in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/linux-network-bandwidth-monitoring-tools/

 04:05 <stephenm> Building a Secure Ecosystem for Node.js

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/node-js/2018/9/building-secure-ecosystem-nodejs

 04:05 <stephenm> Tracking and Controlling Microservice Dependencies

 04:05 <stephenm> https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3277541

 04:05 <stephenm> Distributed tracing in a microservices world

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/9/distributed-tracing-microservices-world

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Encrypt USB Drive on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/encrypt-usb-drive-on-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <Ron_A> Good stuff thanks stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:06 <Ron_A> Linus stepping down???

 04:07 <stephenm> uh?

 04:07 <MajB> Let's call it a vacation

 04:07 <stephenm> What's happening with Linus?

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.theverge.com/2018/9/21/17883442/linux-founder-linus-torvalds-apology-code-of-conduct-change-enforcement

 04:08 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <stephenm> no no no, he cannot be giving into the crazy politics that is going on right now.  I find his rants amusing and uplifting.

 04:09 <toddc> Q: Why was there a bug in the computer?

 04:09 <toddc> A: Because it was looking for a byte to eat?

 04:09 <toddc> Q: What do you get when you cross a computer and a life guard?

 04:10 <toddc> A: A screensaver!

 04:10 <toddc> Q: What do you get when you cross a computer with an elephant?

 04:10 <toddc> A: Lots of memory!

 04:10 <Ron_A> 99 bugs in the take one down,,,,

 04:11 <Ron_A> 135 bugs in the code

 04:11 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical has 54 open positions

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <toddc> Full Stack Web Developer PHP, Javascript, Mysql and Linux systems administration Mesa

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.responsivedata.com/

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> Digital Signage Player 6x HDMI1.4b with independent audio output small pc that runs linux

 04:12 <toddc> with support for lots of monitorsY

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.ibase.com.tw/english/ProductDetail/DigitalSignagePlayer/SI-626

 04:13 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:13 <toddc> Linux pkill Command Tutorial for Beginners (5 Examples)

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-pkill-command/

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 27 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 27 September,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 04 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 06 October, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:14 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> 20 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:15 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:15 <toddc> qoute

 04:15 <toddc> People say Linux is ugly. How does that make you feel?

 04:16 <toddc> Torvalds: They'll be the first against the wall when the revolution comes. Let's see just how ugly they think it is when they have a few bulletholes in them.

 04:16 <MajB> Ugly is in the eyes of the beholder

 04:16 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:16 <xHans> yes, thanks

 04:17 <xHans> CactusCon is Friday and Saturday at Mesa Convention Center

 04:17 <xHans> Friday and Saturday the 28th and 29th of September

 04:17 <xHans> https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:17 <xHans> you need tickets, no cost tickets available or pay in order to get badge

 04:17 <xHans> CactusCon Kids Kids is Saturday at CactusCon, requires no cost registration

 04:17 <xHans> https://www.cactusconkids.com/

 04:17 <xHans> Next month's PLUG east side meeting will be a lab

 04:17 <xHans> The lab is intro to the GNU/Linux command line

 04:17 <xHans> Bring a laptop. Bring a friend with a laptop

 04:17 <xHans> Thursday, 2018Oct11 @ 19:00

 04:17 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:18 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/175/east-valley-meeting/

 04:18 <xHans> DevOpsDays Phoenix is Tuesday, 2018Oct23 at Galvanize in Phoenix

 04:18 <xHans> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/

 04:18 <xHans> SeaGL is Friday and Saturday November 9th and 10th in Seattle

 04:18 <xHans> that's Veteran's Day weekend

 04:18 <xHans> http://SeaGL.org/

 04:18 <xHans> the schedule is up

 04:18 <xHans> https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2018/schedule

 04:18 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:18 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:19 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:19 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:19 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 28 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 05 October 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 10 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:20 <MajB> Intro to Linux Presentation on 02 October 10-11 a.m. Sunsites Branch Library meeting room, 210 N. Ford Rd., Sunsites

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 10 October 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 27 October 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:20 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:21 <toddc> cancelled evets

 04:21 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:21 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:21 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:21 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:22 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
