{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #115 for the week January 25, January 31, 2010.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Fifteenth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-February 3, 2010
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday February 7, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the January 31, 2010 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10January24

scott_ev began the meeting by reminding everyone that he is only filling in temporarily until johnc4510 can get back.

New members introduced themselves and were welcomed to the Team:
* Doorman352:  I'm new to Linux but been doing Microsoft since DOS, I manage a small WAn in two states using Microsoft software and am here to learn Linux.
* Crymson:  Well I've been a Windows guy since I started using computers, I got to talking to my fiancee's parents friends and azteech gave me some linux info and a live cd and the magazine to go with it and invited me to join in here if i needed anything and what not.

scott_ev then gave some announcements:

* What Individuals Can Do For Their Lo``Co Team - http://ubuntu-us.org/?q=node/14366

* 5 reasons why Ubuntu Lucid Lynx may be a game changing release - http://www.ghabuntu.com/2010/01/5-reasons-why-ubuntu-lucid-lynx-may-be.html

* Ubuntu 10.4 Lucid Lynx Alpha 2 Released
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu)
** http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu Server for UEC and EC2)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu ARM)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Kubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Edubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Mythbuntu)

Alpha 2 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider testing. Please refer to http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/lucid/alpha2 for information on changes in Ubuntu.

* Ubuntu's default search engine to change in deal with Yahoo - http://tinyurl.com/yabprov

* Ubuntu Unleashed 2010 Edition Review - http://www.thelinuxblog.com/ubuntu-unleased-2010-edition-revie/

* Yahoo Pays Canonical, Now They're The Ubuntu Default - http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzkyNg

* Firefox 3.6 STABLE Ubuntu Repository (PPA) - http://www.webupd8.org/2010/01/firefox-36-stable-ubuntu-repository-ppa.html

* Ubuntu – The Kaizen Of Computing - http://linuxmagazines.com/ubuntu-the-kaizen-of-computing/

* Second Lucid Lynx alpha said to offer 15-second start-ups - http://www.desktoplinux.com/news/NS3445113727.html

* Web Based Ubuntu And Debian Custom Installation / Live CD Creation Service - http://www.webupd8.org/2010/01/web-based-ubuntu-and-debian-custom.html

* We may have a chance to move the venue of the monthly installfest that has been at UAT for the last 1 1/2 yrs.  If it happens, there's a good chance of it being advertised on TV and in the newspaper:  it would be promoted by the city of Tempe.  This really could be a chance to bring lots of local attention to Open Source Software.  We'll need a volunteer or volunteers to work with PLUG to arrange this if we get the go-ahead.  They suggested we do install fest at both locations for a while before completely switching.  This sounds like a great idea because we don't want to burn a door with UAT before we know our new venue is actually going to be a good fit.  The PLUG guys that are always at installfest seemed to think this could be good, so we aren't stepping on anyone's toes by trying to do this.  I'm bringing this up now, because if it happens, I'd hope our Lo``Co will represent.  I will be have more info this week on location.  I forget where he said, but it will be big enough and will have broadband wifi.  The city has several locations available  I need to go look at them.  This is in the early pre-planning stages.

* There will be a 10.04 Lucid Lynx release party at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe (http://www.bouldersonbroadway.net/) on the 24th of April. Boulders on Broadway has a room upstairs that we will have all to ourselves.  We'll have wifi access too.  It's going to be a good chance to eat some good grub, have a few drinks or brewski's and meet some of the other Ubu``Geeks that you have only met online.  You're not going to want to miss this.  Ok, that brings up another point:  We need volunteers for a couple of things:  we'll need a few extension cords and power strips.  Someone can pick out new features in 10.04 and present them or concentrate on one for example.  Anything to do with Ubuntu will be OK.  Things like how to navigate Launchpad and report bugs...  Actually, if you have a favorite piece of software that you use you can present that even if it's not in Ubuntu's repos.  Please be thinking about this.  It will only make the Release Party more of a success.  Here is a link to the Lucid Lynx planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/LucidLynx .  Feel free to add to the ideas section or fill in anything that might be missing.  We will be heading there from the monthly installfest at UAT. http://tinyurl.com/yemru26 If you've never been to an installfest at UAT, you may want to consider checking it out.  Our Lo``Co co-sponsors it with PLUG but we are poorly represented.  There's a proposed flyer posted at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1388113 please give us your feedback in the form of a vote with comments if needed.  It's a chance to help another linux user or, better yet, possibly install Linux an a computer that currently is running that other OS.  http://azloco.com/node/120

* I'm proud to announce an Ubucon at SCaLE8X on Friday, February 19th, 2010. An Ubucon is an organized event for Ubuntu users that's halfway between an unconference and a convention. The main focus is for Ubuntu users to get together and meet others, share ideas, and improve their skills.  You might consider going to SCa``LE8X since we live within driving distance.  hutchnate and I have already registered and reserved a room for friday and saturday night.  Oh, if you don't know what SCa``LE is, it's the Southern California Linux Exposition.  And Ubucon is part of it.  The Expo is held at the Westin LAX. map: http://tinyurl.com/yacqsst .  Keynote speakers: http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/speakers . http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/

* I need a volunteer to moderate the meeting on that Sunday night as I won't be home in time to prepare for or attend the meeting.

* Ubuntu Us Teams Website - http://ubuntu-us.org/

* Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Current Or subscribe: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-news

scott_ev then asked xHans for any PLUG and class announcements:

* PLUG devel this Thursday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/553

* PLUG planning IRC meeting next Sunday the hour before the AZLoCo mtg - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2273

* PLUG security hackfest a week from Tuesday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2135

* PLUG east side a week from Thursday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/164
** "Can a devote Emacs user find happiness using a GUI editor? Dennis Kibbe, Mesa Community College Linux Instructor, will give a presentation on three useful extensions to the GNOME gedit text editor. See how you can make this simple editor more versatile and fun to use."
** "Saving Money by Using Linux to Deploy Windows" Brian will be previewing his Sca``LE OSSIE talk.  http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/presentations/saving-money-using-linux-deploy-windows

* As scott_ev already mentioned, SCa``LE 8x is coming up. I highly suggest we all work together on ride-sharing and room-sharing.  We've done that the last couple of years and it's worked out quite nicely.  scott_ev added:  people can contact me or find hutchnate on here during the day.  xHans continued:  I started a thread on PLUG-discuss as well.  http://lists.plug.phoenix.az.us/lurker/message/20100125.030435.571b7f98.en.html

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:41 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
