{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[IanMcewen]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# Team Reports
  a. <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Teams/Education|Education Team]]</nowiki>
  a. <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server|Server Team]]</nowiki>
# Gutsy Release Party
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
21:03 < UncleSam> Welcome to the Ubuntu Loco Team Meeting
21:03 < johnc4510> hi all
21:03 < word> g'damnit, the water gets filtered AFTER people can crap in it
21:03 < br24> hey johnc4510 
21:03 < word> and I taste the water all the time, it's FINE!
21:03 < tyche> Hi, john
21:04 < johnc4510> k, no intoductions and no annoucements so let's get right to it
21:04 < br24> Im sorry, but it seems like somebodys feeling a little "poopy"
21:04 < word> good 'morrow johnc4510 :P
21:04 < johnc4510> :)
21:04 < word> br24: time has been distorted and it's making me angry 
21:04 < johnc4510> GUTSY RELEASE PARTY'S
21:04 < johnc4510> ok, is everyone up for a party in phoenix and tucson
21:04 < johnc4510> ?
21:04 < word> AND?
21:04 < tyche> I'm in.
21:04 < Polygon89> i cant.
21:05 < jsonder> Yup for Tucson
21:05 < johnc4510> Thursday night
21:05 < br24> I cant
21:05 < word> i'm so not going to a party in phoenix then travelling to tucson to finish :P
21:05 < SloggerKhan> After 7:00 ish I'm free on thursdays
21:05 < br24> unless its after 8:30
21:05 < word> unless you mean phoenix or* tucson ;p
21:05 < johnc4510> yes phoenix or tucson
21:05 < word> :P yes for phoenix
21:05 < johnc4510> ok, here's some info then
21:06 < johnc4510> Phoenix Party at:
21:06 < johnc4510> Desert Ridge Marketplace
21:06 < johnc4510> 21001 N Tatum Blvd
21:06 < johnc4510> Map to Phoenix Party: http://tinyurl.com/yo42rn
21:06 < johnc4510> Time: 7:00PM
21:06 < johnc4510> tyche will give you some more info 
21:06 < johnc4510> tyche: if you please
21:06 < tyche> I figure we could meet in front of Barnes & Nobel
21:07 < tyche> I'll be the guy with the white, short sleeve, 3 button shirt with the Ubuntu-Arizona logo on the side.
21:07 < johnc4510> ok, and this place has free wifi and food is available
21:07 < word> tacky :P
21:07 *** tyche wasn't going to say golf shirt
21:08 < johnc4510> ok, any questions from the phoenix members?
21:08 < word> is there anything we should bring? o.O
21:08 < johnc4510> k, you can also bring friends or significant others to the party's
21:09 < tyche> Yourselves.  Laptops if you're going to install there.  Otherwise nothing special
21:09 < johnc4510> if you have a lappy or a digital camera you should bring them
21:09 < tyche> I'll try to burn some disks during the day.
21:09 < word> i might bring my brother :-/ 
21:09 < johnc4510> we would like pics for the wiki page
21:09 < johnc4510> word: cool
21:09 < tyche> It would help if I knew how many to burn.
21:10 < johnc4510> well, maybe 5
21:10 < word> 35 so we have extras to throw at poeple o.O
21:10 < Polygon89> lol
21:10 < johnc4510> lol
21:10 < tyche> Sounds reasonable, johnc4510
21:11 < johnc4510> you can give those away at the end of the evening if needed
21:11 < johnc4510> ok, tucson party goers
21:11 < johnc4510> John Crawford's
21:11 < johnc4510> 3003 W. Broadway #20
21:11 < johnc4510> http://tinyurl.com/ywfu2y
21:11 < johnc4510> Time: 7:00PM
21:11 -!- slogger [n=slogger@dhcp-9687bfac.rescomp.Arizona.EDU] has joined #ubuntu-arizona
21:11 < johnc4510> we could not get bookmans
21:11 < johnc4510> so i'm hosting
21:11 -!- SloggerKhan [n=SloggerK@dhcp-9687bfac.rescomp.Arizona.EDU] has left #ubuntu-arizona []
21:12 < johnc4510> bring a digital camera if you have one please
21:12 < johnc4510> i will have wireless set up 
21:12 < johnc4510> bring food if you want
21:13 < slogger> Where is your place?
21:13 < johnc4510> slogger: see link
21:13 < johnc4510> for map
21:13 < johnc4510> slogger: you need a ride?
21:13 < slogger> maybe
21:13 < slogger>  haven't seen link
21:13 < johnc4510> let me know
21:14 < johnc4510> west broadway past pima west
21:14 < johnc4510> br24: you can't make it?
21:14 < slogger> could you resend link?  I think I may have missed it.
21:14 < johnc4510> http://tinyurl.com/ywfu2y
21:14 < br24> will be in class
21:14 < johnc4510> John Crawford's
21:14 < johnc4510> 3003 W. Broadway #20
21:14 < johnc4510> http://tinyurl.com/ywfu2y
21:14 < johnc4510> Time: 7:00PM
21:15 < br24> but after 8:30, I could
21:15 < johnc4510> br24: come then and bring shari
21:15 < johnc4510> if you want
21:15 < br24> shes not here
21:15 < johnc4510> ah
21:15 < johnc4510> kk
21:15 < br24> in Seattle
21:15 < johnc4510> then come yourself
21:15 < br24> I can do that
21:15 < johnc4510> ianmcorvidae: you still going to that play ?
21:16 < slogger> Yours is the one @ Zuni?
21:16 *** johnc4510 nudges ianmcorvidae 
21:17 < johnc4510> slogger: yes  turn into the complex, turn right at first cross street and then it is at the end before you turn left
21:17 *** slofgren is here
21:17 < ianmcorvi> johnc4510: Yeah, still going to that.
21:17 < johnc4510> a gray place
21:17 < ianmcorvidae> Sorry, heh.
21:17 < johnc4510> kk
21:17 < johnc4510> what time is it over?
21:17 < slogger> Yeah, I'd need a ride.
21:17 < ianmcorvidae> Um, lemme look.
21:17 < johnc4510> slogger: kk, i get you fixed up
21:18 < johnc4510> jsonder: you coming?
21:18 < jsonder> I plan to
21:18 < johnc4510> cool
21:18 < ianmcorvidae> Not sure; it starts at 7:30, probably 2 hours give or take after that.
21:19 < jsonder> Two hours should be sufficient; I've been thrown out quicker....
21:19 < ianmcorvidae> lol
21:19 < johnc4510> ianmcorvidae: i'll give you my number and you can call me
21:19 < word> anyone other than me and tyche going to the phoenix party? o.O
21:19 < johnc4510> ok, next
21:19 < ianmcorvi> johnc4510: How late will you folks be running?
21:19 < johnc4510> Server Team    slofgren 
21:19 < ianmcorvidae> Oh, moving on. Never mind .
21:20 < slofgren> yo
21:20 < johnc4510> ianmcorvidae: not sure but call and see
21:20 < slogger> Well, is there even an official ISO post time?
21:20 < johnc4510> no
21:20 < johnc4510> hee hee
21:21 < tyche> If it helps, I've been getting the updates at about 8:00 our time.
21:21 < johnc4510> slofgren: your up 
21:21 < slofgren> Ok server is up
21:21 < johnc4510> :):):):)
21:21 < Polygon89> well the RC is out
21:21 < slofgren> now we need to decide what tod o with it
21:22 < johnc4510> http://12.159.65.83/
21:22 < Polygon89> so if they dont update the dl page with the final you can use that...
21:22 < slofgren> We have web server up
21:22 < johnc4510> cool
21:22 < tyche> Ya!
21:22 < ianmcorvidae> Are we planning on getting a DNS of some sort? We could just do something like DynDNS if we want, but that does make it easier.
21:22 < slofgren> does any one have any ideas with the direction we should take with server services
21:23 < slofgren> I thought we were reg a domain name
21:23 < johnc4510> not yet, i have to buy it
21:23 < ianmcorvidae> Presumably, yeah, that will happen eventually.
21:23 < johnc4510> i waited because i didn't want to spend to bucks if server never got up
21:23 < slofgren> then lets jsut wait on dns stuff
21:23 < ianmcorvidae> Yeah, ok.
21:23 < johnc4510> k
21:23 < word> file hosting...team site....forums....
21:24 < johnc4510> team site i would like for sure
21:24 < slofgren> we have like 8GB
21:24 < johnc4510> not sure we can file host
21:24 < ianmcorvidae> Those are all good ideas; once we have a domain, email forwarding would be nice. But yeah, we need more hard drive, heh.
21:24 < johnc4510> with limited space
21:24 < slofgren> I want us to talk before installing stuffs
21:24 < word> any open ide slots / ata***?
21:24 < Polygon89> well hard drives are relatively cheap
21:24 < slofgren> word: not sure
21:24 < ianmcorvidae> Polygon89: But we're poor :P
21:25 < slofgren> we don't have physical access
21:25 < slofgren> we as in al use here
21:25 < slofgren> er...all us here
21:25 < johnc4510> right
21:25 < ianmcorvidae> DX would be the one with physical access.
21:25 *** slofgren holds breath
21:25 < ianmcorvidae> lol
21:26 < johnc4510> slofgren: what ideas do you have for the server?
21:26 < slofgren> I think we need to implemewnt our web design team
21:26 < slofgren> web is up so lets rock it
21:26 < johnc4510> agreed
21:26 < ianmcorvidae> Yeah, I'm not really sure. I think it's most likely to be a web host/email forwarding server primarily until we have more disk space; with more space it could become a file storage area, et cetera.
21:26 < ianmcorvidae> slofgren: What do we have installed? LAMP?
21:26 < johnc4510> ok, so we need people with design knowledge?
21:27 < word> for a website?
21:27 < slofgren> need to update apache
21:27 < slofgren> I found it with apache 1.3
21:27 < slofgren> instead of 2
21:27 *** word chokes
21:27 < ianmcorvidae> Oo, yeah. Probably want some apache 2, lol.
21:27 < Polygon89> lol
21:27 < slofgren> no lamp
21:27 < word> i love lamp?
21:27 < slogger> I don't really do websites, but I do graphics/design somewhat.
21:27 < slofgren> or I didn't install it
21:27 < slofgren> john what al did you install
21:28 < ianmcorvidae> Oh, just Apache. So it's just HTML, no PHP or so forth?
21:28 < word> i know phpmysql but i suck at making stuff look good :P
21:28 < slofgren> slogger: cool
21:28 < johnc4510> i did the lamp install, but it wouldn't let me access the mysql password to put in
21:28 < slofgren> I am not against installing what we need
21:28 < word> apache has a php plugin mysql would be seperate but nescesary to do anything interesting with mysql
21:28 < ianmcorvidae> I don't have time, but I can look over stuff, I suppose. I have some cursory knowledge of all sorts of random stuff.
21:28 < slofgren> we do have 1GB of ram
21:28 < ianmcorvidae> lamp install is a good thing; then we have PHP.
21:28 < word> interesting with php*
21:29 < johnc4510> slofgren: apache2 php5-mysql php5-gd libapache2-mod-php5 mysql-server
21:29 < ianmcorvidae> Which is convenient if we want to do something interesting (i.e. beyond just HTML boring)
21:29 < slofgren> personally I wish we could just do a reinstall
21:29 < word> i can do anything we need to do with the website as long as somebody helps with making it look purdy
21:29 < Polygon89> you could install like joomla or something
21:29 < Polygon89> but then you need like php
21:29 < ianmcorvidae> We have PHP :)
21:30 < Polygon89> oh yeah
21:30 < Polygon89> well there is an option
21:30 < ianmcorvidae> Drupal would probably be the program of choice, anyway.
21:30 < Polygon89> easy good looking site
21:30 < Polygon89> or that
21:30 < slofgren> I would liek us to resist using it as a testign grounds
21:30 < Polygon89> some CMS
21:30 < ianmcorvidae> slofgren: Hah, yeah.
21:30 < johnc4510> ianmcorvidae: drupal is what i was going for 
21:30 < word> phpbb for forums obviously
21:30 < br24> hell, lets install everything in site
21:30 < ianmcorvidae> word: Ick?
21:30 < ianmcorvidae> lol
21:30 < br24> sight*
21:30 < slofgren> I only want to use apps and services we are confident in
21:30 < slogger> If I made an SVG mockup of it, could you turn it to a web page?
21:30 < Polygon89> we dont need forums
21:30 < Polygon89> i dont think
21:30 < johnc4510> slofgren: agreed
21:30 < word> slogger: yes
21:30 < johnc4510> and you should approve all installs
21:31 < ianmcorvidae> slofgren: I think in the long run, you're in charge, heh.
21:31 < slofgren> what is the main focus we want the server to do
21:31 < tyche> Information
21:31 < word> slogger: you'd also need to seperate the different pieces into images and make a uh...forget what it's called but the photoshop feature is 'slice'
21:31 < br24> I thought display information
21:31 < slofgren> lets focus on one thing at a time
21:31 < johnc4510> web page to start with i think
21:31 < ianmcorvidae> As of this exact moment, I think web is the focus. LAMP stuff.
21:31 < slofgren> k
21:31 < ianmcorvidae> Conveyance of information, more generally. As tyche said.
21:31 < word> i know of an awesome under construction pic for while i work on the site :P
21:32 < johnc4510> that should be easy enough and a starting point
21:32 < slofgren> do we all know how to use lamp or just web
21:32 < tyche> I'm just web
21:32 < ianmcorvidae> I have a basic knowledge of PHP and MySQL, but not much.
21:32 < tyche> I only did HTML
21:32 < johnc4510> i would be learning lamp
21:32 < slofgren> word: I do have a basic page up
21:32 < word> i know php mysql html minimal css javascript and a tiny bit of web 2.0 stuff
21:32 < johnc4510> http://12.159.65.83/
21:33 < tyche> I do have some pictures from a trip to redrocks that I could let you have.
21:33 < johnc4510> there is the basic page on server
21:33 < slofgren> I did my best with vim
21:33 < slogger> I think with SVG since it's xml there's some way to make the whole think work internally. But if you wanted to use slices, I think svgs allow you to render any element independently.
21:33 < ianmcorvidae> :)
21:34 < slofgren> so we want an informational web site
21:34 < slofgren> what content
21:35 < slofgren> what content would live here that we don't have already
21:35 < slofgren> cnetralized lug info?
21:35 < word> slogger: never used svg actually, mind just filled in "graphics mumbo jumbo" ;p i'd have to research it
21:35 < johnc4510> links to state lugs
21:35 < slofgren> k
21:35 < tyche> Education for n00bies.
21:35 < slogger> I think making it more friendly looking even with much of the same content as wiki would be a start.
21:35 < slofgren> tyche: yes
21:36 < slofgren> userfriendly help pages
21:36 < ianmcorvidae> Links to wiki content, then?
21:36 < johnc4510> slofgren: yes
21:36 < ianmcorvidae> Essentially.
21:36 < slofgren> eh..we shouydl be linking our existing site
21:36 < johnc4510> yes
21:36 < ianmcorvidae> Exactly.
21:36 < slofgren> that link should be more along the line of "if you want to get involved"
21:37 < slogger> with the rendering I meant to .png or something instead of svg for elements.
21:37 < johnc4510> maybe a map of members in the state    maybe
21:37 < word> anyone against using quanta plus to handle the web design ( it allows for multiple people to work on the same website easily if i set it up right.. )
21:37 < ianmcorvidae> Possibly. That requires all the users to input :P
21:37 < slofgren> and RFID tag numbers? ;)
21:37 < tyche> Cost?
21:37 < ianmcorvidae> word: I think we'd need to research a bit :)
21:38 < ianmcorvidae> slofgren: Yes, RFID :P
21:38 < slofgren> hehe
21:38 < johnc4510> slofgren: what are RFID tag #'s?
21:38 < word> ianmcorvidae: i have ;p quanta is the best open source web dev software :P 
21:38 <      word> johnc4510: he was making a big brother reference :P
21:38 < slofgren> I think we need to play and think on its uses a bit
21:38 < slogger> wtf with RFID?
21:39 < slofgren> wa a joke related to member map
21:39 < johnc4510> ah
21:39 < slofgren> bad humor with paranoia
21:39 < johnc4510> i would really like it to be new user instructional and support if possible
21:39 < slofgren> does anyone here want a shell account
21:39 < tyche> Quanta being installed.  RFID is Radio Frequency Identification.
21:39 < johnc4510> web page
21:40 <  slofgren> johnc4510: good idea
21:40 < johnc4510> ah doggy tags
21:40 < tyche> Yea.  You got it.
21:40 < word> slofgren: could i get one? o.O
21:40 < tyche> Or implants.  Hee hee
21:40 < slogger> I know RFID,, I just don't know the connection to web development.
21:40 < slofgren> anyway email me at gmail if you want an account
21:40 < ianmcorvidae> slofgren: I would be up for one, yes. Email address?
21:40 < slofgren> word: np..send me an email
21:40 < Polygon89> for the server?
21:41 < slofgren> ianmcorvidae: I just gave it away
21:41 < slofgren> email me at gmail
21:41 < word> mailto:slofgren@gmail.com
21:41 < word> ?
21:41 *** slofgren nods
21:41 < johnc4510> that's his address
21:41 < Polygon89> what do we have to give you? a pass or just an email saying yo i want an account
21:41 < ianmcorvidae> Ok.
21:41 < word> no it's his email :p zing!
21:42 < johnc4510> Polygon89: you need a note from a sane person  :0  hee hee
21:42 < tyche> Quanta installed
21:42 < slofgren> naw...by defaukt I think we should use our same user names as here to keep things straight
21:42 *** tyche loves 64 bit gutsy
21:42 < johnc4510> slofgren: yes on regular user name
21:42 < slofgren> I will send back your pass and how to change it
21:43 < johnc4510> slofgren: you might hit on installing ie only admins. can install
21:43 < Polygon89> slofgren, do i have to email you a password?
21:43 < word> Polygon89: ..no :P
21:43 < slofgren> when you log on you wil be greated with this : http://12.159.65.83/motd.txt
21:43 < slofgren> Polygon89: I wil give you one
21:43 < slofgren> then you can change it
21:44 < Polygon89> \k
21:44 < slofgren> I have to go pack for work next week
21:44 < johnc4510> i want to thank slofgren for getting this started, i would be lost 
21:44 < slofgren> any other questions?
21:44 <  slofgren> johnc4510: np
21:45 < word> if we break it...is blaming tyche an option?
21:45 < slofgren> sure
21:45 < tyche> Not at all
21:45 < slofgren> ;)
21:45 < tyche> I didn't have a hand on it.
21:45 < ianmcorvidae> Whether or not you'll be believed, well. :P
21:45 < word> heh :P
21:46 < tyche> It's not my fault...the check is in the mail...they told me to fix it...
21:46 < johnc4510> ok, slofgren you done?
21:46 < slofgren> ok I am out.  get on the server and play/  we wil make things work
21:46 < johnc4510> ty
21:46 < ianmcorvidae> slofgren: Thanks. Email sent, also.
21:46 < word> slogger: so are you going to work on the mockup, i can start doing the coding without having the looks figured out, output is the easy part ;)
21:46 < tyche> thanks, slofgren
21:46 < johnc4510> ok, next
21:46 < johnc4510> Ed Team br24 you around?
21:47 < slogger> I can have a basic look by next meeting.
21:47 < br24> yes I am
21:47 < johnc4510> go please
21:47 < slogger> It will be fairly simple.
21:47 < johnc4510> slogger: ok
21:47 < br24> we are getting back on track with the Edu team
21:48 < johnc4510> nice
21:48 < Polygon89> espeically with the fact that the kernel should no longer be updating
21:48 < br24> a lot of work has been done from tyche 
21:48 < Polygon89> and i can get on top of maybe seeing if screencasts work
21:48 < johnc4510> yeah tyche 
21:49 < br24> we will soon divide everything he has done into its appropriate category
21:49 < br24> I still would like to have an Edu team meeting on a Fri night
21:49 < johnc4510> nice
21:49 < tyche> OK
21:49 < Polygon89> cant come on friday
21:49 < br24> all are welcome to join
21:49 < Polygon89> got band -.
21:49 < Polygon89> -.-
21:49 < br24> okay thanks Polygon89 
21:49 < johnc4510> Polygon89: cool
21:49 < Polygon89> if its at liek
21:49 < Polygon89> 10 pm  maybe
21:50 < tyche> Well, there goes my beauty sleep.  Heh heh
21:50 < br24> any questions for me?
21:50 < johnc4510> br24: this ed team project is part of what i want for the server support section
21:50 < br24> indeed
21:50 < johnc4510> :)
21:50 < br24> thank you tyche for the work you have done
21:51 < word> so the edu team is for getting people to understand ubuntu and things right?
21:51 < johnc4510> it will link in perfectly
21:51 < br24> word, yes
21:51 < tyche> You're welcome
21:51 < johnc4510> word: how to install and programs available etc
21:51 < word> br24: are you thinking of working on some instructional pages for the website?
21:51 < br24> word, can you explain a little more?
21:52 < tyche> I think what word is talking about is partitioning and installation, and using Synaptic, etc.
21:52 < johnc4510> word: we are trying to link to wiki pages already up and running for the info we are using
21:52 < tyche> All the little details we take for granted
21:52 < word> like...common tasks. if we get the website going, we could have an edu section, that had those common task explanations right there with detailed easy instructions
21:52 < br24> these are going to be things on the wiki
21:53 <      word> johnc4510: cool, but speaking from experience, a lot of the wiki pages are outdated, and rarely have kubuntu applicable versions.
21:53 < johnc4510> word: the support page on the server will link to the ed team wiki pages
21:53 < johnc4510> and you are right some are outdated
21:54 < word> oh, our teams wiki pages?
21:54 < johnc4510> btw, anyone can edit wiki pages
21:54 < johnc4510> and bring them up to date
21:54 < slogger> So it's important to keep update dates and version info somewhere in tutorials
21:54 < johnc4510> slogger: right
21:54 < word> so the arizona edu team has it's own wiki pages?
21:54 < ianmcorvidae> Speaking of which, I just updated the page header for the next meeting :)
21:54 < johnc4510> word: yes
21:55 <      word> johnc4510: i'd be happy to go through and update some things, what's the link?
21:55 < johnc4510> word: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Education
21:55 < johnc4510> word: that is the ed page, but work with br24 as he is team leader
21:55 < br24> word, feel free to add any additional input and comments
21:55 < johnc4510> please
21:56 < johnc4510> ok, br24 we going to try for friday for ed team meeting?
21:56 < br24> I would like to
21:57 < johnc4510> time?
21:57 < br24> lets do it at 8
21:57 < johnc4510> i'll be there
21:57 < tyche> OK with me.
21:57 < br24> jsonder?
21:57 < jsonder> OK
21:57 < br24> Polygon89, dont worry about missing this one
21:57 < johnc4510> word: can you make it friday night for ed team meeting
21:57 < br24> I will talk with you more on screencasts
21:57 < word> br24: i'll be in prescott building some bridges :(
21:58 < Polygon89> k
21:58 < tyche> br24: I've got Quanta installed, and I'll see if I can understand it.
21:58 < br24> ah
21:58 < br24> sounds good tyche 
21:58 < johnc4510> ok, anything else br24 on ed team?
21:58 < br24> thats it
21:58 < johnc4510> kk
21:58 < br24> thank you
21:58 *** johnc4510 does anyone have anything else to discuss?
21:59 < word> tyche: what version does gutsy have in the package db?
21:59 < johnc4510> i will send an email to list about the gutsy parties with links tomorrow
21:59 < tyche> word: Quanta Plus 3.5
22:00 < UncleSam> Meeting Over and thanks to all
</pre> block.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
