{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


01 May - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
03 May - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG workshop
* 8 attendees
* Attempted to build and configure an IP Fire installation for an attendee
04 May – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2004%2C%202025%20Meeting
08 May - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees.  Two new people.
* A member raised a problem that he had trying to install a Linux OS on a Windows machine. It was an HP laptop and it went directly to the Windows OS no matter which button that he pressed; F2, F10, Esc, or even F12.  It was recommended that he enter the BIOS (UEFI) and disable Fast Boot and try it again.  Occasionally Secure boot has to be disabled as well.
* Discussed a possibility for a future Social event.  The Orient Express Restaurant was suggested.
* A member discussed his efforts to place computers in the homeless shelter in Naco, AZ as well as the Camp Naco Historical Site.
* Conducted a one-on-one discussion with the new attendee about Linux in general and Ubuntu in particular.
* Distributed information to the new attendee.
17 May - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG workshop
* 3 attendees
* Reconfigured Samba file share for a member
22 May - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
27 May – Presentation on ProxMox to the Cochise Linux user Group via Big Blue Button by Todd Cole
* 12 attendees
* Conducted a presentation on the use and configuration of ProxMox
* First use by AZLOCO of Big Blue Button to give a remote presentation
