{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 04 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-01-04-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' http://www.noobslab.com/2015/12/notepadqq-is-best-alternative-to.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxtoday.com/it_management/ubuntu-aims-for-true-convergence-across-devices-in-2016.html 
''LINK:'' http://blog.hypriot.com/post/getting-docker-running-on-a-highend-arm-gaming-console-for-fun-and-profit/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/install-ntp-server-in-centos/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/3018712/linux/should-linux-mint-be-the-default-distro-for-dell-and-system76-computers.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/nmap-command-examples/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.theregister.co.uk/2015/12/28/2015_year_review_enterprsie_cloud/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Top-AMD-RTG-2015-News&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+Phoronix+%28Phoronix%29 
''LINK:'' http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744# verify dates on
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.grillocracy.com/blog/2015/4/13/zero-carb-bacon-bun-burger 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (89)
* MajB (29)
* toddc (12)
* paul_be (3)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* gnewbie (1)
* pavlos (1)
* AverageJ0e (1)
* Tuxmann (1)
* stephenm (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan  4 04:00:16 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <wmack> hello Ron_A

 04:01 <Ron_A> Hi all

 04:01 <paul_be> howdy Ron_A

 04:01 <MajB> Hi Ron_A

 04:01 <Ron_A> Hi paul_be and wmack

 04:01 <Ron_A> hi MajB

 04:02 <Ron_A> toddc please start the meeting

 04:02 <toddc> Ron_A: WILL DOING THE MEETING TONIGHT

 04:02 <toddc> it is

 04:02 <paul_be> hey hey lets not yell there toddc

 04:02 <Ron_A> Thank you

 04:02 <stephenm> +1

 04:02 <wmack> +1

 04:02 <MajB> +1

 04:02 <toddc> +1

 04:02 <pavlos> +1

 04:02 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1 Star Date 93610.17

 04:02 <paul_be> +1

 04:02 <Ron_A> +1

 04:02 <mark91> +1

 04:02 <Tuxmann> +1

 04:03 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:03 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:03 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:04 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:04 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:04 <Ron_A> TurbidTux: would you caqre to take it for a bit?

 04:05 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:05 <Ron_A> lets start with the news!!

 04:06 <Ron_A> LINUX NEWS

 04:06 <Ron_A> The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try! Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:06 <Ron_A> Baby's First Bacon

 04:06 <gnewbie> +1

 04:06 <Ron_A> Do you miss Notepadd++

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.noobslab.com/2015/12/notepadqq-is-best-alternative-to.html

 04:07 <Ron_A> Ubuntu aims for true convergence across devices in 2016

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.linuxtoday.com/it_management/ubuntu-aims-for-true-convergence-across-devices-in-2016.html

 04:07 <Ron_A> Getting Docker running on a high-end 64-bit ARM gaming console for fun and profit

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://blog.hypriot.com/post/getting-docker-running-on-a-highend-arm-gaming-console-for-fun-and-profit/

 04:08 <Ron_A> PlayStation 4 Has Been Hacked to Run Gentoo Linuxhttp://news.softpedia.com/news/playstation-4-has-been-hacked-to-run-gentoo-linux-video-498287.shtml

 04:08 <Ron_A> Setting Up “NTP (Network Time Protocol) Server” in RHEL/CentOS 7

 04:08 <Ron_A> PlayStation 4 Has Been Hacked to Run Gentoo Linux http://news.softpedia.com/news/playstation-4-has-been-hacked-to-run-gentoo-linux-video-498287.shtml

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://www.tecmint.com/install-ntp-server-in-centos/

 04:09 <Ron_A> Please don’t let a flame war begin, it is just a point of view

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3018712/linux/should-linux-mint-be-the-default-distro-for-dell-and-system76-computers.html

 04:09 <Ron_A> 29 Practical Examples of Nmap Commands for Linux System/Network Administrators

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://www.tecmint.com/nmap-command-examples/

 04:10 <Ron_A> 2015 wasn't about AWS.

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2015/12/28/2015_year_review_enterprsie_cloud/

 04:10 <Ron_A> AMD/Radeon Has Continued Making Much Linux Graphics Progress

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Top-AMD-RTG-2015-News&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+Phoronix+%28Phoronix%29

 04:11 <Ron_A> MajB: I think has a few words

 04:11 <MajB> Thank you.

 04:11 <MajB> I just wanted to plug our events in Sierra Vista

 04:12 <MajB> 13 January 1700-1800 University of Arizona Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., room C165A North – Presentation:  Introduction to GIT.  (This a primer for the next presentation (23 Jan) on creating web sites with Jekyll.

 04:12 <MajB> 23 January 1400-1545 Sierra Vista public library, 2600 East Tacoma St., conference room – Presentation:  Creating web sites with Jekyll.

 04:12 <MajB> You all are welcome to drive down.

 04:13 <MajB> Thats all I have

 04:13 <Ron_A> thanks

 04:13 <AverageJ0e> cool

 04:13 <Ron_A> TEAM NEWS

 04:13 <Ron_A> It was good to see Don, Tammy and Todd on my recent visit.

 04:13 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:14 <Ron_A> MajB has updated the new members guide on ubuntu foums AZ page thank him please!  He also reched out to New Mexico and Califonia teams to  see if we help each other and tackle some projects togeather as a group. Or support user that do not have a local ubuntu loco.  California Loco has asked if we can assit with Scale 14 on the ubuntu booth.

 04:14 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam and http://www.reddit.com/r/arizona/comments/33tjao/calling_ubuntu_users/

 04:14 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:14 <Ron_A> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.

 04:14 <Ron_A> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:15 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES

 04:15 <Ron_A> See, you not only have to be a good coder to create a system like Linux, you have to be a sneaky bastard too.

 04:15 <Ron_A> Linus Torvalds

 04:15 <Ron_A> JOB list

 04:15 <Ron_A> 36 current canonical Jobs today http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:16 <Ron_A> CyberSponse  Sr. Systems Engineer http://cybersponse.com/careers

 04:16 <Ron_A> Local Motors Chandler Az Dev Ops Engineer (Linux Systems http://localmotors.recruiting.com/engineer-battery-systems-phoenix-and-knoxville-locations/job/5776835

 04:16 <Ron_A> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data) http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:16 <Ron_A> Systems Administrator http://stretchinternet.com/careers/

 04:16 <Ron_A> Runs LINUX

 04:17 <toddc> Ian Murdock has passed this week he is the founder and leader of Deian as in his wife deb and Ian

 04:17 <toddc> and has guided docker the last few years

 04:17 <Ron_A> Thank you to the Linux action show for some cool links

 04:18 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:18 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:18 <Ron_A> xHans: if you would like to taqke it

 04:20 <Ron_A> Linux Installfest

 04:20 <Ron_A> When  Sat, January 16, 10am – 4pm

 04:20 <Ron_A> Where  University of Advancing Technology: 2625 W Baseline,Tempe, AZ 85283 (between 48th and Fry's

 04:20 <Ron_A> We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer router or all most any device that can run on linux

 04:20 <Ron_A> (you must bring everything needed to use your computer e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, router, server, etc).

 04:21 <Ron_A> Linux Training

 04:21 <Ron_A> http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744# verify dates on

 04:21 <Ron_A> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts

 04:21 <Ron_A> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:21 <Ron_A> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:22 <Ron_A> Juju Office Hours

 04:22 <Ron_A> Where#juju on irc.freenode.net (map)

 04:22 <Ron_A> BACON

 04:22 <Ron_A> http://www.grillocracy.com/blog/2015/4/13/zero-carb-bacon-bun-burger

 04:22 <Ron_A> PLUG EVENTS

 04:23 <Ron_A> Thursday January 28, 7pm – 8pm at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux  and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:23 <Ron_A> West side Ubuntu Hour

 04:23 <Ron_A> Wed, January 6, 7pm – 9pm

 04:23 <Ron_A> Where  Starbucks Coffee 13706 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona  If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find  out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:24 <Ron_A> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour is Thursday January 28, 6pm – 7pm

 04:24 <Ron_A> Schlotzsky's Cafe 3900 East Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista AZ 85635 Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your computer

 04:24 <Ron_A> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:24 <Ron_A> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:24 <Ron_A> Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux. Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:25 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:25 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:26 <MajB> AZ LUG activities

 04:26 <toddc> Stammtisch-East Valley

 04:26 <toddc> WhenTue, January 19, 7pm – 10pm

 04:26 <toddc> WhereBoulders on Southern 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210 (map)

 04:26 <toddc> DescriptionPlease come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, both of which are optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:26 <toddc> Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Free Software and Linux.  Us geeks are interested in all sorts of things, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:27 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering)

 04:27 <MajB> 04 January 6:30-9:30 pm

 04:27 <MajB> Bill's Pizza

 04:27 <MajB> 107 S. Cortez St.

 04:27 <MajB> Prescott AZ

 04:27 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting

 04:27 <MajB> 13 January 6-8 pm

 04:27 <MajB> Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility

 04:27 <MajB> 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr.

 04:27 <MajB> Mesa, AZ

 04:27 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting

 04:27 <MajB> 14 January 7-9 pm

 04:27 <MajB> Desert Breeze Substation

 04:27 <MajB> 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd.

 04:27 <MajB> Chandler AZ

 04:27 <Ron_A> Great team work Thanks

 04:28 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting

 04:28 <MajB> 24 January 3-4 pm

 04:28 <MajB> Adam D. Technology

 04:28 <MajB> 71 W. Jacinto St

 04:28 <MajB> Tucson, AZ 85712

 04:28 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming tonight

 04:28 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
