{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #100 for the week July 12, July 18.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundredth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-July 22, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday July 26, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the July 19, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09July19

johnc4510 started with an announcement:

* Ubuntu 8.04.3 LTS has been released for the server, desktop, and alternate installation CDs for the i386 and amd64 architectures. Eighty updates have been integrated including security updates and corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 8.04 LTS. Downloads or CDs are available: http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download

* Announcing that Karmic is now open for translation. You can now go to: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+translations to start translating Ubuntu Karmic.

* The Ubuntu Java development team is pleased to announce completed certification of Open``JDK 6 for Ubuntu 9.04, continuing Ubuntu's tradition of integrating the latest and greatest open source technologies into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution. This certification means that the Open``JDK 6 package included with Ubuntu 9.04 now passes the rigorous testing of the Java SE Test Compatibility Kit (TCK) and is compatible with the Java(TM) SE 6 platform on the amd64 (x86_64) and i386 (ix86) architectures. If you already have java 6 installed there's nothing more to do.  This just certifies it works with the release.

johnc4510 then asked xHans for the PLUG announcements:

* ABLEconf, Saturday Oktober 24th, 10:00 to 16:00, then over to Boulders.  We're considering a FOSS dev day on Friday and a LAN party on Sunday.  http://www.ABLEconf.com .  We should have a press release ready Monday or Tuesday, so please sign up to help with promo and send out the press release this week.  http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2009Phx/Promotion .  We especially need help outside of Phoenix.  Planning meetings are every Sunday at 20:00 in #ABLEconf, please join if you'd like to help create Arizona's premier free software.

* The Free Software Stammtisch in Tempe is this Tuesday.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#Tempe

* The west side meeting is this Wednesday, we will be at a temporary location.  Phrk``On``Lsh will be covering unetbootin. http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/353

* PLUG and Ubuntu-US-AZ Installfest this Saturday.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/127

* Community college classes start up again in mid-August, so check for Free Software classes at your local community colleges.  In Mesa we'll have intro to Linux, shell scripting, Open``Office.org, C and I think python.  Avondale will have intro, sysadmin, shell scripting and more.  The Open``Office.org class is online and can be taken from anywhere in Arizona and probably from anywhere in the world.  She filled the class the first two semesters, if we can fill it again that'll put us in good shape to push for some other free software application classes.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:25.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
