{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

01 February – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees (2 new people)
* Repaired VM for an attendee
* Discussed general Linux subjects
02 February – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2002%2C%202025%20Meeting
06 February - Virtual Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
13 February - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 13 attendees.  Two new people.
* Discussed HAM Radio Linux applications.
* Discussed installing Linux OS to Chromebooks, computers, and flash drives.
* Distributed information to the new attendees
* There was request to repeat the Ventoy presentation.  It is scheduled for March.
* David introduced us to puter.com.  Check it out.
13 February - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour - Canceled because Big Blue Button was non-operational.
15 February - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees.  One new person.
* Compiled “flash card” reader project
* Discussed ProxMox installation with a new attendee 
* Demonstrated use of IP Fire and Virtual Box
27 February _Virtual Ubuntu Hour - Canceled because Big Blue Button was non-operational
