{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===

<pre>
[22:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[22:00]	toddc	+1
[22:00]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[22:00]	toddc	Siph0n: join now!
[22:00]	Siph0n	+1
[22:01]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
[22:01]	toddc	UBUNTU NEWS
[22:01]	toddc	Government use of Ubuntu
[22:01]	toddc	http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1056
[22:01]	toddc	Ubuntu Used in Dr Who
[22:01]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/01/ubuntu-used-in-doctor-who/
[22:02]	toddc	New Dr Who Game Works in WINE
[22:02]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/06/new-doctor-who-game-works-via-wine/
[22:02]	toddc	This T.A.R.D.I.S. Mini-ITX PC CASE Demands an OS Befitting the Doctor
[22:02]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/this-tardis-pc-case-demands-an-os-befitting-the-doctor/
[22:02]	toddc	Locally Integrated Menubar Won't Land in 12.04 but Could Resolve Global
[22:02]	toddc	Menu Dislike for Some
[22:02]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/new-locally-integrated-menubar-might.html
[22:02]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/locally-integrated-menus-delayed-for.html
[22:03]	toddc	How to Dual Boot Android-x86 and Ubuntu
[22:03]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/how-to-dual-boot-android-x86-and-ubuntu.html
[22:03]	toddc	How to Manage Files from the Linux Terminal
[22:03]	toddc	http://www.howtogeek.com/107808/how-to-manage-files-from-the-linux-terminal-11-commands-you-need-to-know
[22:03]	toddc	How to Install the Lightweight LXDE Desktop on Ubuntu
[22:03]	toddc	http://www.howtogeek.com/107368/how-to-install-the-lightweight-lxde-desktop-on-ubuntu
[22:03]	toddc	How to make Simple Graphical Shell Scripts with Zenity on Linux
[22:03]	toddc	http://www.howtogeek.com/107537/how-to-make-simple-graphical-shell-scripts-with-zenity-on-linux
[22:04]	toddc	Official XBMC Remote for Android (could even re-purpose an old Android
[22:04]	toddc	phone)
[22:04]	toddc	http://code.google.com/p/android-xbmcremote/
[22:04]	toddc	Have You Taken the Ubuntu User Survey?
[22:04]	toddc	
[22:04]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/have-you-taken-the-ubuntu-user-survey/
[22:04]	toddc	Help Ubuntu Decide Multi-Monitor Launcher Use in 12.04
[22:04]	toddc	
[22:04]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/poll-multi-monitor-launchers-in-ubuntu-12-04/
[22:04]	toddc	Ubuntu 12.04 .ISO Will Remain CD Sized
[22:04]	toddc	
[22:04]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/ubuntu-12-04-iso-will-remain-cd-sized/
[22:05]	toddc	Jupiter Applet Ported to Python, Gets Ubuntu Indicator Support
[22:05]	toddc	
[22:05]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/jupiter-applet-ported-to-python-gets.html
[22:05]	toddc	Kubuntu 12.04 Alpha 2 (not quite up to date but interesting) with KDE
[22:05]	toddc	Plasma Netbook
[22:05]	toddc	http://www.tuxarena.com/2012/02/kubuntu-12-04-alpha-2-with-kde-plasma-netbook-overview-screenshots/
[22:05]	-->|	Dazed_75 (~larry@173-16-165-112.client.mchsi.com) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[22:05]	toddc	The Kubuntu Commitment
[22:05]	toddc	http://www.thepowerbase.com/2012/03/the-kubuntu-commitment/
[22:06]	toddc	nice of you to join us Dazed_75
[22:06]	toddc	Medibuntu Repositories Available for 12.04 LTS Precise Pangolin
[22:06]	toddc	http://www.unixmen.com/medibuntu-repositories-available-for-ubuntu-12-04-lts-precise-pangolin-ppa/
[22:06]	Dazed_75	Sorry, was working on getting my mic working for BBB
[22:07]	toddc	Unsettings: Tool to Disable Global Menu, Overlay Scrollbars and Tweak Unity
[22:07]	toddc	
[22:07]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/unsettings-tool-to-disable-global-menu.html
[22:07]	toddc	WINE 1.4 Stable Released and Ready for Ubuntu
[22:07]	toddc	
[22:07]	toddc	http://ubuntuportal.com/wine-1-4-stable-version-has-been-released-and-ready-to-install-in-ubuntu-1/
[22:07]	toddc	Linux Mint 12 LXDE Version Released
[22:07]	toddc	
[22:07]	toddc	http://linux4everybody.blogspot.in/2012/03/linux-mint-12-lxde-has-been-relased.html
[22:07]	toddc	Ubuntu now unofficially available for the Motorola Droid 4
[22:07]	toddc	http://phandroid.com/2012/03/10/ubuntu-now-unofficially-available-for-the-motorola-droid-4/
[22:07]	toddc	What Ubuntu Can Take Away From The Raspberry Revolution
[22:07]	toddc	http://techlaze.com/2012/03/what-ubuntu-can-take-away-from-the-raspberry-revolution/
[22:08]	toddc	Thank you Dazed-75 for the news tonight!!
[22:08]	toddc	any comments so far?
[22:08]	toddc	TEAM NEWS
[22:08]	toddc	If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
[22:08]	toddc	Tucson Installfest is on hold for a bit, We lost several locations so we will start in again after
[22:08]	toddc	ABLEconf march 24
[22:09]	toddc	JOB LIST
[22:09]	toddc	Systems Administrator $28hourly
[22:09]	toddc	muuednmumumumu@gmail.com
[22:09]	toddc	Information Security Analysts (Phoenix)
[22:09]	toddc	luke@samuelbranchps.com
[22:10]	toddc	Sr. Systems Operation Engineer Scottsdale
[22:10]	toddc	Icims.com
[22:10]	toddc	TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
[22:10]	toddc	The server installfest on march 17 has been canceled due to st patrick's day
[22:11]	adrenaline_	+1
[22:11]	toddc	hi adrenaline_
[22:11]	adrenaline_	Hello
[22:11]	toddc	TEAM SERVER NEWS
[22:12]	toddc	thanks to Eric for updating the azlocbbb.banditti.com stie to 0.8-3 it really works great with a lot of new features but will need a web designer to complete the upgrade and customize the API's so we need a volunteer if someone would like to take it on please let me know
[22:12]	xHans	toddc: could have just restricted it to installing on green machines
[22:12]	adrenaline_	I am catching up
[22:13]	toddc	lol !had to think for a minute
[22:13]	Dazed_75	xHans is cute as usual
[22:13]	xHans	toddc: you're welcome
[22:13]	toddc	UBUNTU TRAINING
[22:13]	xHans	Dazed_75: danke
[22:13]	Dazed_75	We could use someone in the Tucson area to work on arrangements for an Installfest. The young man who was doing it is back in the hospital.
[22:13]	Dazed_75	Please contact Todd or myself for information.
[22:14]	toddc	Introduction to being an IRC Operator
[22:14]	toddc	#ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net monday
[22:15]	toddc	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom for more info
[22:15]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[22:15]	toddc	ABLEconf.org is March 24 and we need a some help we will be running our Big Blue Button server in up to three classrooms and a booth so I will need some help with that and it will be easy to do the BBB and or the booth.
[22:15]	toddc	I am planning on placing a projector or large monitor at the booth running BBB and if time permits making a Ubuntu demo slide show so if anyone has a few minutes we could use your help!!
[22:15]	toddc	http://www.ableconf.com/
[22:16]	toddc	I did enlist my wife for part of the day
[22:16]	toddc	ETA for my rasberry PI is 4/23 and as soon as it shows we will be setting up a few events test/break it in and see what it can do! Any all ideas for projects are welcome
[22:17]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[22:17]	toddc	xHans would you like the floor?
[22:18]	xHans	soitanly
[22:18]	xHans	got quite a few things tonight
[22:19]	|<--	Siph0n has left freenode (Ping timeout: 248 seconds)
[22:19]	xHans	Snort and Nagios InstallFest this Tuesday from HeatSyncLabs
[22:19]	xHans	http://www.meetup.com/it-professionals-near-phoenix-arizona/events/54706462/?a=socialmedia
[22:20]	xHans	ABLEconf conference call planning meeting this Wednesday at 19:00
[22:20]	xHans	http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/Planning
[22:21]	xHans	GNU/Linux security class starts a week from Monday at Mesa CC
[22:21]	xHans	contact me if you're interested in taking the 8 week class
[22:21]	-->|	[R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[22:21]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/CIS271DL.html
[22:21]	xHans	http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=27897&subject_code=any&all_classes=true&terms[]=4122&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&instructors=
[22:21]	-->|	Siph0n (~Siph0n@ip98-177-157-174.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[22:22]	xHans	there are other GNU/Linux classes starting in the next couple of weeks
[22:22]	xHans	http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=linux&subject_code=any&instructors=&start_hour=any&end_hour=any
[22:22]	xHans	ABLEconf in person meeting a week from Tuesday, before the Stammtisch
[22:22]	xHans	18:00 at Iguana Macks in Chandler
[22:22]	xHans	before the Stammtisch
[22:22]	xHans	http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/Planning
[22:23]	xHans	Free Software Stammtisch a week from Tuesday after the ABLEconf planning mtg
[22:23]	xHans	19:00 at Iguana Macks in Chandler
[22:23]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[22:23]	xHans	ABLEconf 2012 is two-weeks from yesterday
[22:23]	xHans	registration is open, sign up now
[22:23]	xHans	http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/Registration/
[22:23]	xHans	half-price student registration is available
[22:23]	xHans	http://www.ABLEconf.com/press_releases/2012Mar11.html
[22:23]	xHans	lunch will probably ( still working out details ) be from the Duck and Decanter
[22:23]	xHans	keynote announcement will be in the next few days
[22:23]	xHans	http://www.ABLEconf.com/
[22:24]	xHans	breathes
[22:24]	xHans	and that's it for this week
[22:24]	toddc	xHans: are your fingers bleeding?
[22:25]	toddc	any questions or other comments?
[22:25]	xHans	toddc: almost
[22:25]	Dazed_75	none from me
[22:25]	toddc	Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and ABLEconf.com
[22:25]	toddc	if there is nothing else?
[22:26]	toddc	Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
