{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #74 for the week December 1, December 7.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Seventy Fourth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-December 10, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday December 14, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the December 3, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08December3

johnc4510 began with having new member nhasian introduce himself:
 "I'm 32 and have been using PCs since 1991 I think.  I just started using Ubuntu with 8.04  I have several MS certifications and used to build/repair workstations servers and networks."  The Team welcomed nhasian.

The install fest was then discussed.  johnc4510 has contacted Nock with U of A and got the email address for Zack at ASU from xHans.  He expects to be able to get information from them soon.  johnc4510 plans to have 8.04 disks as well as 8.10 disks available, to give people choice.  And hopefully, ASU will have a game server set up.  It was suggested that, since we only have one Team banner, that we hold a competition:  the location with the best turn-out gets the banner for the next year.  word mentioned that the first day of classes at ASU would be January 20.  As a result, the date for the install fest was set for January 24, 2009.

Luft``Hans then added announcements:

* It's the annual end of year party this Thursday for PLUG, bring family, friends and food :)  19:00 in Mesa, see PLUG website for maps.
* The Hackfest is an online security lab this Saturday, more info should be going up on the PLUG site soon.
* The January Hackfest has a special presenter, more info should soon be on the PLUG web site.  I'm looking forward to the January Hackfest, watch the site for the announcement.
* Both Stammtische are next week, http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch (http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/CIS271DL.html towards the bottom).
* The ABLEconf call for local committee opened this week, see the discuss list for more info.  Please pass the ABLEconf announcement far and wide within the state.  For new members ABlEconf is our all state user groups participating in a opensource conference.
* The December west side meeting is canceled, I believe the December Installfest is also canceled

The meeting was adjourned at 9:45 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
