{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 20 May at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-05-20-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/where-ibm-and-red-hat-go-from-here/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/ipfire-linux-based-hardened-firewall-gets-new-intrusion-prevention-system-526045.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-latex-editors-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-use-eye-of-gnome-image-viewer-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/virtualbox-6-0-8-released-to-make-shared-folders-work-with-linux-kernel-3-16-35-526044.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/05/how-to-convert-pdf-to-text-on-linux-gui.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-rpcs3-emulator-and-play-ps3-games-on-linux 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-read-a-file-line-by-line-in-bash/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-books-learn-scratch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/signing-git-commits 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/visual-studio-code-extensions-for-programmers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/install-linux-apps-on-chromebook/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/checking-website-statistics-using-webalizer/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-deb-file-in-redhat-linux-8 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/10-deadly-commands-that-you-should-never-run-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/5/kubernetes-security-5-mistakes 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/5/agile-transformation-7-mistakes 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/connect-access-remote-mysql-mariadb-database-from-linux-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/5/headless-cms 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/working-with-variables-python-programming 
''LINK:'' https://betanews.com/2019/05/18/korea-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (52)
* MajB (51)
* toddc (8)
* xHans (6)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon May 20 04:00:02 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <stephenm> so it's going on a AMD CPU with ddr4?

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> Where IBM and Red Hat go from here

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/where-ibm-and-red-hat-go-from-here/

 04:02 <stephenm> I haven't read but think it's going down hill.

 04:02 <stephenm> By the way starting with general computer stuff and then getting more technical.

 04:02 <stephenm> IPFire Linux-Based Hardened Firewall Gets New Intrusion Prevention System

 04:02 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/ipfire-linux-based-hardened-firewall-gets-new-intrusion-prevention-system-526045.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> I think I might try it on a PIE to see how it works.

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 of the Best LaTex Editors for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-latex-editors-for-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to use Eye of Gnome Image Viewer in Ubuntu

 04:03 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-use-eye-of-gnome-image-viewer-in-ubuntu/

 04:03 <stephenm> VirtualBox 6.0.8 Released to Make Shared Folders Work with Linux Kernel 3.16.35

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/virtualbox-6-0-8-released-to-make-shared-folders-work-with-linux-kernel-3-16-35-526044.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> How To Convert PDF To Text On Linux (GUI And Command Line)

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/05/how-to-convert-pdf-to-text-on-linux-gui.html

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Install RPCS3 Emulator and Play PS3 Games on Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-rpcs3-emulator-and-play-ps3-games-on-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Read a File Line By Line in Bash

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-read-a-file-line-by-line-in-bash/

 04:04 <stephenm> Best Free Books to Learn about Scratch

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-books-learn-scratch/

 04:04 <stephenm> Signing Git Commits

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/signing-git-commits

 04:04 <stephenm> 10 Visual Studio Code Extensions for Programmers

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/visual-studio-code-extensions-for-programmers/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Linux Apps on Your Chromebook

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/install-linux-apps-on-chromebook/

 04:05 <stephenm> Checking website statistics using Webalizer

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/checking-website-statistics-using-webalizer/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to install deb file in RHEL 8 Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-deb-file-in-redhat-linux-8

 04:05 <stephenm> Not on the RHSCA until May 2020 for anyone who will be getting that cert

 04:05 <stephenm> 10 Deadly Commands that You Should Never Run on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/10-deadly-commands-that-you-should-never-run-on-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Kubernetes security: 5 mistakes to avoid

 04:06 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/5/kubernetes-security-5-mistakes

 04:06 <stephenm> 7 easy ways to mess up agile transformation

 04:06 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/5/agile-transformation-7-mistakes

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Connect Remote MySQL/MariaDB Database From Linux Terminal?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/connect-access-remote-mysql-mariadb-database-from-linux-terminal/

 04:06 <stephenm> Create flexible web content with a headless management system

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/5/headless-cms

 04:06 <stephenm> Working With Variables - Python Programming

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/working-with-variables-python-programming

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight.  Next meeting if the LinuxFest in Irving here is better I will actually report on it.

 04:07 <toddc> South Korea will ditch Microsoft Windows for Linux

 04:07 <Ron_A> good stuff stephenm thanks

 04:07 <stephenm> The one in San Antonio was a disappointment.

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> https://betanews.com/2019/05/18/korea-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <stephenm> Munich in Germany tried that and ditched it, very sad.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 58 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 46 new jobs and a total of 118 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <toddc> stephenm: many of us use IPFire it is a good router

 04:09 <stephenm> That's what I need to start doing, you think it could actually go onto a router itself?

 04:09 <MajB> There are 35 new jobs and a total of 85 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <toddc> no it is best used on a old pc with two nicks

 04:10 <stephenm> so no PIE? damn

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:11 <MajB> 23 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <toddc> PI would have some bandwith limitations

 04:11 <MajB> 01 June,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:11 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 06 June,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 13 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 15 June,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:12 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS:

 04:12 <MajB> Dan Hill (hillpd on IRC)

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <xHans> ja, merci

 04:14 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is Tuesday, starting at 19:00

 04:14 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ 85204

 04:14 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:14 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch

 04:14 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:15 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 26 May 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 07 June 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 12 June 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 25 May 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Be there or be square!!

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:17 <MajB> Jefe?

 04:17 <Ron_A> thanks MajB good meeting

 04:17 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:17 <toddc> I do not see Jefe logged in?

 04:18 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
