{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by toddc, 04 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:22 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-03-04-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://debugpointnews.com/sway-1-9/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/mesas-nvk-open-source-vulkan-driver-for-nvidia-hardware-is-now-stable   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/cloudflare-pingora-framework-gets-open-source/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-february-2024-updates/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/guide-to-installing-cinnamon-desktop-on-ubuntu   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://dbaxps.blogspot.com/2024/03/what-is-osb-iso-whats-difference-of-osb.html   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/aliasing-rm-command-is-a-bad-practice/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/empty-files-from-command-line-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-turbowrap/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/install-rust/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/news/privacy/tails-6-0   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/gnome-46-to-ship-with-experimental-variable-refresh-rate-vrr-support   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-24-2-1-office-suite-is-out-with-more-than-100-bug-fixes   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/fix-wi-fi-not-working-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-set-up-ssh-key-authentication-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-librum/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/news/security-projects/lkrg-0-9-8   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-gnome-dynamic-wallpapers   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/install-urbackup/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/03/01/github_automated_fork_campaign/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/securing-your-digital-fortress-implementing-linux-filesystem-encryption-luks-and-ecryptfs   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/resetting-root-password-on-ubuntu-24-04-linux   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/gparted-1-6-open-source-partition-editor-improves-exfat-support-and-fixes-bugs   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:16)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:16)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/nvme-enabled-hifiberry-like-board-for-raspberry-pi-5-sbc/   (toddc, 04:17)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:19)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/21X   (MajB, 04:20)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (68)
* stephenm (50)
* MajB (31)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:46 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> 1+

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Stardate   -298828.2103825136

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also #NationalColdCutsDay

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <stephenm> News is all over the place but you mind find something for yourself.

 04:04 <stephenm> Sway 1.9 Released: Improved Performance and New Features

 04:04 <stephenm> https://debugpointnews.com/sway-1-9/

 04:04 <stephenm> Mesa’s NVK Open-Source Vulkan Driver for NVIDIA Hardware Is Now Stable

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/mesas-nvk-open-source-vulkan-driver-for-nvidia-hardware-is-now-stable

 04:04 <stephenm> Cloudflare’s Pingora Framework Gets Open Source

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/cloudflare-pingora-framework-gets-open-source/

 04:04 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Software: February 2024 Updates

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-february-2024-updates/

 04:04 <stephenm> Guide to Installing Cinnamon Desktop on Ubuntu

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/guide-to-installing-cinnamon-desktop-on-ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> What is an OSB ISO? What’s the difference of an OSB and a “normal ISO image"

 04:05 <stephenm> https://dbaxps.blogspot.com/2024/03/what-is-osb-iso-whats-difference-of-osb.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Why Aliasing rm Command is a Bad Practice in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/aliasing-rm-command-is-a-bad-practice/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Quickly Empty Files Without Deleting Them In Linux And Unix

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/empty-files-from-command-line-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Use TurboWarp on Linux (Scratch Client)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-turbowrap/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Rust on Ubuntu and Other Linux Distros

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/install-rust/

 04:05 <stephenm> Tails 6.0 Released with Critical Security Updates, Big Improvements

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/news/privacy/tails-6-0

 04:05 <stephenm> GNOME 46 to Ship with Experimental Variable Refresh Rate (VRR) Support

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/gnome-46-to-ship-with-experimental-variable-refresh-rate-vrr-support

 04:06 <stephenm> LibreOffice 24.2.1 Office Suite Is Out with More Than 100 Bug Fixes

 04:06 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-24-2-1-office-suite-is-out-with-more-than-100-bug-fixes

 04:06 <stephenm> Wi-Fi Not Working in Linux? Here’s How to Fix it

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/fix-wi-fi-not-working-ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Set up SSH Key Authentication on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-set-up-ssh-key-authentication-on-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install and Use Librum on Linux (with Usage Guide)

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-librum/

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Kernel Runtime Guard (LKRG) 0.9.8 Released with Major Improvements

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/news/security-projects/lkrg-0-9-8

 04:06 <stephenm> How to create GNOME dynamic wallpapers

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-gnome-dynamic-wallpapers

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install UrBackup [Client/Server] System on Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/install-urbackup/

 04:07 <stephenm> GitHub struggles to keep up with automated malicious forks

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2024/03/01/github_automated_fork_campaign/

 04:07 <stephenm> Securing Your Digital Fortress Implementing a Linux Filesystem Encryption With LUKS and eCryptfs

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/securing-your-digital-fortress-implementing-linux-filesystem-encryption-luks-and-ecryptfs

 04:07 <stephenm> Resetting Root Password on Ubuntu 24.04 Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/resetting-root-password-on-ubuntu-24-04-linux

 04:07 <stephenm> GParted 1.6 Open-Source Partition Editor Improves exFAT Support and Fixes Bugs

 04:07 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/gparted-1-6-open-source-partition-editor-improves-exfat-support-and-fixes-bugs

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <toddc> Two lumberjacks are talking to eachother. One says "I don't think we are going to be able to cut down this tree". The other says "why not?"

 04:09 <toddc> The first lumberjack says "we can't get root acesss."

 04:09 <toddc> #whatis Windows

 04:09 <toddc> Windows: nothing appropriate.

 04:10 <toddc> Ubuntu is an ancient african word which means we are what we are all thanks to Shuttlworth's money.

 04:10 <toddc> ASCII stupid question, get a stupid ANSI!

 04:11 <toddc> Enter any 11-digit prime number to continue...

 04:11 <toddc> Ever notice how fast Windows runs? Neither did I...

 04:11 <toddc> .....File not found. Should I fake it? (Y/N)

 04:12 <toddc> Hit any user to continue.

 04:12 <toddc> Hi! I am a computer, dumber than any human and smarter than an administrator.

 04:12 <toddc> Keyboard not connected, press F1 to continue.

 04:13 <toddc> User error: Replace user and press any key to continue.

 04:13 <toddc> One if by LAN, two if by C.

 04:14 <toddc> One man's constant is another man's variable.

 04:14 <toddc> Profanity is the one language all programmers know best.

 04:14 <toddc> Never trust a computer you can't throw out the window.

 04:14 <toddc> Is your cat caught in the printer?

 04:15 <toddc> The computer is mightier than the pen, the sword, and usually the programmer.

 04:15 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:15 <toddc> Linux Systems Administrator TEKsystems Remote See ZipRecuiter

 04:16 <toddc> Linux System Engineer Sr. TriWest Healthcare Alliance remote

 04:16 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 224

 04:16 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:16 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 46 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:16 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:16 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:16 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:17 <toddc> NVMe-Enabled HiFiBerry-Like Board for Raspberry Pi 5 SBC

 04:17 <toddc> https://linuxgizmos.com/nvme-enabled-hifiberry-like-board-for-raspberry-pi-5-sbc/

 04:17 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:17 <toddc> LibreOffice 24.2.1 is now available for download

 04:18 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:18 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:18 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:18 <MajB> 07 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> 14 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:19 <MajB> 14 March, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:19 <MajB> 16 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:19 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:19 <MajB> 17 March, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:19 <MajB> 28 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:19 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:19 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:19 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:19 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:20 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:20 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 14 March, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:20 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 19 March, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:20 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:20 <MajB> Monthly meeting 13 March, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month),

 04:20 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:20 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 26 March, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:20 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:20 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:20 <MajB> SCaLE  14-17 March 2024

 04:20 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:20 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/21X

 04:21 <MajB> That is all that I have.

 04:21 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:22 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:22 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:22 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:22 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
