{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# PLUG Announcements
# Announcements
# Discussion
# ETC

If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with johnc4510 or scott_ev.

=== Log ===
<pre>
19:01 < scott_ev> who's here? signify with a +1
19:01 < hutchnate> +2
19:01 < hutchnate> oops
19:01 < hutchnate> -1=+1
19:02 < toddc> +1
19:02 < scott_ev> well, sorry about the last two weeks; I wasn't feeling well and went to bed really early
19:04 < Doorman352> +1
19:06 < scott_ev> I didn't prepare news like usual because I was working on someone's android phone
19:06 < scott_ev> is there any old business we need to discuss?
19:06 < scott_ev> I'll take that a a no
19:06 < scott_ev> with no old business, do we have any new business?
19:06 < scott_ev> man, OK
19:06 < scott_ev> I guess since I wasn't here for a couple of weeks, the attendance dropped off again
19:07 < scott_ev> we need to see what we can do about that
19:07 < scott_ev> being an Ubuntu Team takes more than having a channel and meetings
19:07 < scott_ev> don'tcha agree
19:08 < Doorman352> sure
19:08 < scott_ev> I still need to find someone to help with the wiki
19:08 < scott_ev> Flakeparadigm: is helping by putting up the minutes of the meeting
19:09 < scott_ev> I need someone to give someone rights to change things on the wiki
19:09 < scott_ev> on the forst page is the upcomming meetings section on the upper right]
19:09 < Flakeparadigm> +1
19:09 < scott_ev> it's easy to keep that up to daty
19:09 < scott_ev> welcome flake
19:09 < scott_ev> are you9 logging?
19:10 < Flakeparadigm> yes
19:10 < scott_ev> cool
19:10 < scott_ev> this is going to be a pretty short meeting
19:10 < scott_ev> there's not much old business and no new
19:10 < scott_ev> does anyone have anything to add?
19:12 < scott_ev> Ok then, that's the meeting
19:12 < scott_ev> bye
</pre>

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
