{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<Dazed_75> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<dennisk> +1
<Dazed_75> Toddc could not make it tonight.  He is in Spokane
<Dazed_75> I have his notes though
<Dazed_75> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<Dazed_75> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<Dazed_75> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<Dazed_75> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<Dazed_75> some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<Dazed_75> Actually, I am the only one in BBB tonight
<Dazed_75> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<Dazed_75> UBUNTU NEWS
<Dazed_75> over to Dazed_75 for the news 
<Dazed_75> The best free tools for creating a bootable Windows or Linux USB drive
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/127377/the-best-free-tools-for-creating-a-bootable-windows-or-linux-usb-drive
<Dazed_75> Xubuntu 12.10: How to make it the perfect desktop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/the-perfect-desktop-xubuntu-12.10-quantal-quetzal
<Dazed_75> Wayland status
<Dazed_75>     http://worldofgnome.org/gnome-wayland/
<Dazed_75> Receiver (an FPS game) now available for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/10/critically-acclaimed-game-receiver-now.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 11.04 supports ended 10/28
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/ubuntu-11-04-support-ends-today
<Dazed_75> GnuPG (GPG) Basics explained with Linux GPG command examples (usage will be in future article)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2012/10/gnupg-basics/
<Dazed_75> Tweak Unity with Unsettings 0.08, now with Ubuntu 12.10 support
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/tweak-unity-with-unsettings-008-now.html
<Dazed_75> USB Chargers Compared
<Dazed_75>     http://www.arcfn.com/2012/10/a-dozen-usb-chargers-in-lab-apple-is.html
<Dazed_75> Linux Preloaded: Coming soon to a PC near you
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/76526.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 13.04 will drop Alpha Releases
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/It-s-Official-Ubuntu-13-04-Will-Drop-Alpha-Releases-303458.shtml
<Dazed_75> Stay on IRC forever using Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/stay-on-irc-forever-using-linux/2012/10/31
* Rich____ (c71e42b3@gateway/web/freenode/ip.199.30.66.179) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Almost half of OMG readers have already upgraded to Ubuntu 12.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/almost-half-of-users-have-already-upgraded-to-ubuntu-12-10
<Dazed_75> Welcome Ruch___
<Rich____> hi
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu PC sales skyrocketed in 2011
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/ubuntu-pc-sales-skyrocket-in-2011
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu on the Mongol Steppe: Carving paths into emerging markets
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/ubuntu-on-the-mongol-steppe-carving-paths-into-emerging-markets
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint inks another hardware deal
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/linux-mint-inks-another-hardware-deal
<Dazed_75> Live wallpaper in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/live-wallpaper-for-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Editshare admits "Communication Issues" over Lightworks Linux alpha
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/editshare-admit-communication-issues-over-lightworks-linux-alpha
<Dazed_75> Bastion: Redefining the Classic Action RPG
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/bastion-redefining-the-classic-action-rpg
<Dazed_75> Easily monitor system usage in Ubuntu 12.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/easily-monitor-system-usage-in-ubuntu-12-10-with-syspeek
<Dazed_75> How to get a complete GNOME 3 Desktop in Ubuntu 12.10 without installing Ubuntu GNOME Remix
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/how-to-get-complete-gnome-3-desktop-in.html
<Dazed_75> and then ... how to enable Notifications in the Lock Screen
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/gnome-shell-how-to-enable-notifications.html
<Dazed_75> How to set up Compiz in Xubuntu 12.10 or 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-set-up-compiz-in-xubuntu-1210-or.html
<Dazed_75> Kazam Screencaster 1.3.2 gets new UI, Screenshot support
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/kazam-screencaster-132-gets-new-ui.html
<Dazed_75> How do you calculate processor speed on multi0core processors?
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/127950/how-do-you-calculate-processor-speed-on-multi-core-processors
* toddcnb (~chatzilla@antoine.mirabeau.air-pipe.com) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Introducing Ubuntu Shopping Alternate Lens for Unity
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Introducing-Ubuntu-Shopping-Alternate-Lens-for-Unity-303786.shtml
<toddcnb> hi
<Dazed_75> Introducing Ubuntu GitHub Lens for Unity
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Introducing-Ubuntu-GitHub-Lens-for-Unity-303787.shtml
<Dazed_75> Canonical and Ubuntu join the Linaro Enterprise Group
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/canonical-and-ubuntu-join-the-linaro-enterprise-group
<Dazed_75> hiyas Toddcnb
<Dazed_75> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news tonight!!!
<Dazed_75> Applause for Dazed_75 
<Dazed_75> Toddcnb, do you want to take over being you?
* xHans has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
<toddcnb> no still getting your notes go ahead
<Dazed_75> OK
<Dazed_75> I have a few more to add!!
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu moves to new release schedule 
<Dazed_75> http://www.networkworld.com/news/2012/103112-ubuntu-263863.html
<Dazed_75> TEAM NEWS
<Dazed_75> We now have 12.10 Ubuntu Desktop and Server cd's.   As before, the Desktops are 32-bit and the Servers are 64-bit.  We DO have the .iso's for all varieties as well.
* xHans (~LuftHans@wsip-174-79-56-141.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Please hook up with Dazed_75, Adrenaline or myself to pass out these and spread the word of Linux/open source and/or installfests
<Dazed_75> JOB LIST
<Dazed_75> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<Dazed_75> jobs@oneneck.com
<Dazed_75> linux Admin/Engineering Manager
<Dazed_75> eric@aztechfinders.com
<Dazed_75> Xen API implementation
<Dazed_75> tb9qt-3321303707@job.craigslist.org
<Dazed_75> AIX / SAN / TSM Specialist 
<Dazed_75> Mail resume to M. Simo, Nestle USA, Inc., 800 North Brand Blvd., Glendale, CA 91203. Reference Job Code ASTS
<Dazed_75> Jr. Network Engineer (Tempe, AZ)
<Dazed_75> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=2544021&t=1
<Dazed_75> Information Technology Manager (Phoenix)
<Dazed_75> jobs@lawlogix.com
<Dazed_75> UBUNTU HOUR (4th Thursdays)
<Dazed_75> This a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about Linux and open source at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock
<Dazed_75> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<Dazed_75> November 22 from 7-8pm is the next Ubuntu Hour.  Stop by and say hi!! 
<Dazed_75> NOTE: We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<Dazed_75> INSTALLFESTS.  These are joint Azloco and PLUG events
<Dazed_75> These are events at which we do, or assist with, installing Linux and/or applications on user's machines.  We also answer Linux questions or just discuss Linux.  While there are Desktop and Server Emphasis events, we are always happy to deal with either.
<Dazed_75> Unless otherwise noted, they are  held from 10am to 4pm at UAT Room 245 enter from the rear of the  building.  2625 W Baseline Rd, Tempe, AZ 85283 (48st and Baseline Rd).  That is 2-3 blocks west of Fry's Electronics on the south side of Baseline.
<toddcnb> can
<Dazed_75> For more info see the Azloco calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28 or the PLUG calendar at http://plug.phoenix.az.us/
<Dazed_75> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up. 
<toddcnb> can I go to a installfest?
<Dazed_75> DESKTOP EMPHASIS INSTALLFEST (1st Saturdays)
<Dazed_75> November 3 we have had to cancel as UAT is unable to host that day.  
<Dazed_75> December 1  10am-4pm at UAT (details above)
<Dazed_75> SERVER EMPHASIS INSTALLFEST (3rd Saturdays)
<Dazed_75> November 17  10am-4pm at UAT  (details above)
<Dazed_75> TAGCOSE SERVER WORKSHOP (2nd Saturdays)
<Dazed_75> Tagose planning and development meeting 10am-4 pm at UAT in Room 208 (2625 W Baseline Rd) which is across the street and 2-3 blocks west of Fry's Electronics (see details above)
<Dazed_75> November 10 Tagcose workshop/class is canceled.  The next event will be December 8 
<Dazed_75> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<Dazed_75> the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<Dazed_75> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info and should be able to issue VM real soon in the new server
<Dazed_75> Thanks to Dwayne and Justin Haught the proxmox server now has a four core 8 gb ram 
<Dazed_75> mother board and proc and ram that  we installed Friday afternoon. So we should be able to continue 
<Dazed_75> the configuration on Oct 13 Tagcose event and run all services. We will be still looking to build and 
<Dazed_75> a main proxmox server in a the  near future.
<Dazed_75> LINUX SECURITY HACKFEST (2nd Saturdays)
<Dazed_75> 2nd Saturday of each month 11AM to 2PM.  Devry 2149 West Dunlap Avenue
<Dazed_75> Phoenix, AZ
<Dazed_75> UBUNTU TRAINING
<Dazed_75> No classes this week
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu offers free online training several time a year. Use the program Lernid or #ubuntu-clasroom in IRC freenode
<Dazed_75> FUTURE EVENTS 
<Dazed_75> Dec 11 road trip carpool to Prescott for the LUGY meeting and to meet with Shane
<Dazed_75> We will plan to leave around 5pm Dazed_75 will be driving (god help us)
<Dazed_75> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us? 
<xHans> moin moin
<xHans> devel meeting this Thursday has been cancelled
<Dazed_75> PLUG EVENTS
<Dazed_75> Plug East side meeting Thursday November 8  7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<xHans> the devel meetings are going to be replaced by a devel project
<xHans> and Dazed_75 just gave the details on the general meeting a week from Thursday
<xHans> and that's for this week
<Dazed_75> xHans Thanks for keeping up to date on plug/training events and classes at local Colleges 
<Dazed_75> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<Dazed_75> if there is nothing else? 
<Dazed_75> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<dennisk> Phoenix Meshnet held its first meeting yesterday in UAT's state-of-the-art CyberSecurity Cave.  The goal of Phoenix Meshnet is to provide an alternative wifi network using TV white space.  Details: http://www.reddit.com/r/PHXMeshnet #phxmeshnet
<Dazed_75> Dazed_75 and pseudo Toddc are done.  Any questions?
<toddcnb> cool idea dennisk
<Dazed_75> Neat
<dennisk> Feel free to participate
<toddcnb> tempe still has the defunct wifi mesh up maybe they would donate use of it?
<_ericcc> Those emergency comms guys do alot of cool things with wifi and digital radio packets. Neat stuff all around.
<dennisk> We talked aout that.  Also, using bus stops which have solar power to locate APs.
<toddcnb> I have thought about a tunnel into the wifi mesh for personal use but never had time to test it
<toddcnb> mesa has some ap already open to the public on some bus stops
<_ericcc> Ham radio used aprs for a radio gps, that was cool to see. Id like to see directional wifi used in an emergency setting

<dennisk> A problem with packet radio, I understand is that encryption ist verboten.
<toddcnb> slow slow speeds on gmrs years ago
<_ericcc> yeah, encryption is against FCC laws, unfortunately
<toddcnb> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
* spinrage has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<_ericcc> It is slow but people are gradually getting more interested again so I imagine speeds will pick up over time
* Rich____ has quit (Quit: Page closed)
<dennisk> Also, Gute nacht, Schaf' gut, Jungs!
* dennisk (~user@ip68-230-67-156.ph.ph.cox.net) has left #Ubuntu-US-AZ ("ERC Version 5.3 (IRC client for Emacs)")
<Dazed_75> Toddcnb: the logs are done and the SubPageHeader updated.  I need to leave for a bit.  You will probably have to do the newsletter when you get back if you can't tonight
<toddcnb> meeting are getting too long to put in the email so if i cut you off it is just a place to copy logs
<_ericcc> there is a new open source SDR, software defined radio, coming out soon. So thats proof the hobby isnt dead yet
<toddcnb> sorry i missed the first half
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
