{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 07 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:20 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-11-07-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/oracle-virtualbox-install-ubuntu-mint/   (MajB1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/ubuntu-unity-22-10-review/   (MajB1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-3-gets-last-maintenance-update-users-urged-to-upgrade-to-libreoffice-7-4   (MajB1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-22-10-gets-first-kernel-security-update-to-address-recent-wi-fi-stack-vulnerabilities   (toddc, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://lowell.edu/about/career-opportunities/   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techradar.com/best/linux-pc   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-desktops-for-beginners/   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/supertuxkart-1-4-kart-racing-game-released-with-new-textures-and-karts-vulkan-renderer   (stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2022/10/19/a-look-at-vulkan-extensions-in-venus/   (stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.esecurityplanet.com/threats/github-poc-malware/   (stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxhostsupport.com/blog/5-most-used-touch-commands-in-linux-with-examples/   (stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/10-useful-lsof-commands-in-linux-with-examples/   (stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/best-free-linux-gui-code-editors/   (stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-password-protect-files-using-vim-editor-in-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/rename-files-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/10/18/how-to-spot-deepfakes-video/   (stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/restrict-access-linux-servers-using-tcp-wrappers/   (stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/essential-system-tools-greenwithenvy-nvidia-graphics-card-utility/   (stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/angie-web-server-is-a-new-nginx-fork/   (stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-apache-guacamole-as-docker-container-on-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-virtualbox-in-debian-and-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-webmin-installation/   (stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/how-to-control-your-cpu-frequency-in-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-secrets-data-decryption/   (stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/basic-useful-firewall-cmd-commands-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB1, 04:18)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (56)
* stephenm (43)
* MajB1 (37)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:32 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Stardate 100447.68

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also National Nachos Day

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:04 <MajB1> +1

 04:04 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:04 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:04 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:04 <toddc> are there any questions please ask?  Any other item requests?

 04:04 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:05 <MajB1> How to Install Oracle VirtualBox in Ubuntu and Linux Mint

 04:05 <MajB1> https://www.debugpoint.com/oracle-virtualbox-install-ubuntu-mint/

 04:05 <MajB1> Ubuntu Unity 22.10 Review: A Promising ‘Official’ Start

 04:05 <MajB1> https://www.debugpoint.com/ubuntu-unity-22-10-review/

 04:05 <MajB1> LibreOffice 7.3 Gets Last Maintenance Update, Users Urged to Upgrade

 04:05 <MajB1> https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-3-gets-last-maintenance-update-users-urged-to-upgrade-to-libreoffice-7-4

 04:06 <MajB1> Back to you

 04:06 <toddc> Ubuntu 22.10 Gets First Kernel Security Update to Address Recent Wi-Fi Stack Vulnerabilities

 04:06 <toddc> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-22-10-gets-first-kernel-security-update-to-address-recent-wi-fi-stack-vulnerabilities

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <MajB1> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB1> 24 November, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour (Conflict with Thanksgiving)

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> What does a dyslexic Linux SysAdmin have for breakfast?

 04:08 <toddc> cron flakes

 04:09 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:09 <toddc> IT TIER 1 SUPPORT TECHNICIAN

 04:09 <toddc> https://lowell.edu/about/career-opportunities/

 04:09 <toddc> Canonical has 211 open positions

 04:09 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:09 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 11 local open jobs

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&

 04:10 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:10 <toddc> Best Linux PC of 2022: desktop PCs with Linux pre-installed

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.techradar.com/best/linux-pc

 04:10 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:11 <toddc> The 5 best Linux distros for beginners: You can do this

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-desktops-for-beginners/

 04:11 <stephenm> sorry I'm late

 04:11 <stephenm> +1

 04:11 <toddc> np

 04:11 <MajB1> Had you covered

 04:11 <stephenm> have we started?

 04:11 <toddc> stephenm: would  you like to do the news

 04:12 <stephenm> SuperTuxKart 1.4 Kart Racing Game Released with New Features

 04:12 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/supertuxkart-1-4-kart-racing-game-released-with-new-textures-and-karts-vulkan-renderer

 04:12 <toddc> yes daylight savings not in az

 04:12 <stephenm> Haven't played for a while but is fun

 04:12 <stephenm> ya I remember that but I was cooking and completely forgot

 04:12 <toddc> np

 04:12 <stephenm> A Look at Vulkan Extensions in Venus

 04:12 <stephenm> https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2022/10/19/a-look-at-vulkan-extensions-in-venus/

 04:12 <stephenm> Cybercriminals Use Fake Public PoCs to Spread Malware and Steal Data

 04:12 <stephenm> https://www.esecurityplanet.com/threats/github-poc-malware/

 04:12 <stephenm> 5 Most Used Touch Commands in Linux With Examples

 04:12 <stephenm> https://linuxhostsupport.com/blog/5-most-used-touch-commands-in-linux-with-examples/

 04:13 <stephenm> 10 Useful lsof Commands in Linux With Examples

 04:13 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/10-useful-lsof-commands-in-linux-with-examples/

 04:13 <stephenm> 6 Best Free Linux GUI Code Editors for Programming

 04:13 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/best-free-linux-gui-code-editors/

 04:13 <stephenm> How to Password Protect Files Using Vim Editor in Ubuntu

 04:13 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-password-protect-files-using-vim-editor-in-ubuntu/

 04:13 <stephenm> How to Find and Rename Files in Linux

 04:13 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/rename-files-in-linux/

 04:13 <stephenm> Deepfakes: What they are and how to spot them

 04:13 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/10/18/how-to-spot-deepfakes-video/

 04:13 <stephenm> How to Restrict Access to Linux Servers Using TCP Wrappers

 04:13 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/restrict-access-linux-servers-using-tcp-wrappers/

 04:13 <stephenm> Essential System Tools: GreenWithEnvy NVIDIA Graphics Card Utility

 04:13 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/essential-system-tools-greenwithenvy-nvidia-graphics-card-utility/

 04:14 <stephenm> Angie: A New NGINX Fork Developed by Some of Its Former Devs

 04:14 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/angie-web-server-is-a-new-nginx-fork/

 04:14 <stephenm> How to Install Apache Guacamole as Docker Container on Ubuntu

 04:14 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-apache-guacamole-as-docker-container-on-ubuntu/

 04:14 <stephenm> How to Install VirtualBox 7.0 in Debian, Ubuntu, and Linux Mint

 04:14 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-virtualbox-in-debian-and-ubuntu/

 04:14 <stephenm> How to Install Webmin with Let’s Encrypt SSL Certificate on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:14 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-webmin-installation/

 04:14 <stephenm> How to Check and Control Your CPU Frequency in Ubuntu

 04:14 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/how-to-control-your-cpu-frequency-in-ubuntu/

 04:14 <stephenm> No More Secret Data Decryption Effects

 04:14 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-secrets-data-decryption/

 04:15 <stephenm> 15 Basic Firewall-cmd Commands in Linux

 04:15 <stephenm> https://www.linuxteck.com/basic-useful-firewall-cmd-commands-in-linux/

 04:15 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight

 04:15 <MajB1> Thanks stephenm

 04:15 <stephenm> welcome

 04:15 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <MajB1> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:16 <MajB1> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:16 <MajB1> 10 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <MajB1> 10 November, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:16 <MajB1> 19 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:16 <MajB1> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <MajB1> 20 November,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:17 <MajB1> 01 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB1> 03 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:17 <MajB1> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <MajB1> 04 December,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:17 <MajB1> That's all I have

 04:18 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:18 <MajB1> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:18 <MajB1> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:18 <MajB1> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:18 <MajB1> Many events are being held on line.

 04:18 <MajB1> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:18 <MajB1> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:18 <MajB1> Monthly Meeting 10 November, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:18 <MajB1> Free Software Stammtisch 15 November, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:18 <MajB1> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:18 <MajB1> Monthly meeting 09 November, 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:19 <MajB1> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:19 <MajB1> Monthly Meeting 22 November, 1300-1500 (fourth Tuesday of each month),  Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:19 <MajB1> Thta is all of the LUG events

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:19 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:20 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
