{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 03 June - Westside Ubuntu Hour hosted by programmer317
** 4 attendees
** Discussed Grub settings, Wireshark, nmap, snort, uncomplicated firewall (ufw), Mac partitioning preparation for dualboot install of ubuntu, difference in bootable USB drives and how to access (windows, linux, mac), security / pentesting toolsets.
** Ran ubuntu in live from USB to increase knowledge for one user.
* 04 June - Ubuntu Hour Tempe hosted by pavlos
** 8 attendees
** Passed out Ubuntu flyers.
** Discussed back-up options for Ubuntu and XBMC.
** Distributed AZLOCO web site & IRC information and CD/DVDs.
** Downloaded pi images and wrote them to SD cards.
* 06 June – Linux Install-Fest co-sponsored by AZLOCO and the Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG)
** 18 attendees
** 3 installs
** 2 pi installs and demonstrations and several repairs
* 07 June - AZLOCO IRC meeting chaired by wmack
** 13 members present
** Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2007%2C%202015%20Meeting
* 14 June - AZLOCO meeting chaired by Todd Cole
** 10 members present
** Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2014%2C%202015%20Meeting
* 20 June - Linux Install-Fest co-sponsored by AZLOCO and the Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) 
** 13 attendees
** Two installs, two repairs, three raspberry pi projects 
* 21 June - AZLOCO meeting chaired by Ron_A
** 11 members present
** Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2021%2C%202015%20Meeting 
* 25 June - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
** 4 attendees
** Discussed the possibility of forming a Linux User Group in Cochise County
** Discussed advantages of belonging to the Arizona Ubuntu Local Community (AZLOCO)
** Passed out Ubuntu DVDs and answered questions on Ubuntu 
* 25 June - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
** 6 attendees
** Two new people stopped by and plan to be at the next installfest.
* 28 June - AZLOCO meeting chaired by Todd Cole
** 10 members present
** Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2028%2C%202015%20Meeting
