{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# PLUG Announcements
# Announcements
# Discussion
# ETC

If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with johnc4510 or scott_ev.

=== New To The Gang ===
A quick intro from a newcomer to our group:

<ariel_g> Hi, I'm new. I like using linux. Just interested in seeing what the Ubuntu Arizona Team is up to.

=== Log ===
This week's links are available <nowiki>[[#links|below the log]]</nowiki>.
<pre>
[21:01] <scott_ev> OK, it's time for us to get started on this week's meeting of the Ubuntu Az LoCo Team.  Welcome everyone.  If this is your first time in this meeting, please introduce yourself and let us know a little about you.
[21:01] <Yorokobi> +1
[21:01] <jawee> +1
[21:01] <toddc> +1
[21:01] <Flakeparadigm> +1
[21:01] <lenards> +1
[21:01] <fuzzyvader> +1
[21:01] <Dazed_75> +1
[21:01] <jawee> this is my second meeting, but I think I've been made familiar with the people here for the most part =)
[21:01] <scott_ev> well, that's a little better than we've been doing lately
[21:01] <Flakeparadigm> Totals up to a nice +7
[21:02] <ariel_g> Hi, I'm new. I like using linux. Just interested in seeing what the Ubuntu Arizona Team is up to.
[21:02] <scott_ev> welcome ariel_g
[21:02] <Yorokobi> Welcome, ariel_g
[21:02] <scott_ev> where are you?
[21:02] <ariel_g> scottsdale
[21:02] <scott_ev> col
[21:02] <scott_ev> cool
[21:02] <scott_ev> do you know about our website?
[21:03] <Thugal> you're suppose to go "Scottsdale?   Ewwwwwwwwwww"  :)
[21:03] <scott_ev> hah
[21:03] <Flakeparadigm> hullo Thugal
[21:03] <Thugal> hey Flakeparadigm.  How's it going?
[21:03] <scott_ev> ariel_g: we have several things available to the AZ LoCo Team
[21:03] <scott_ev> www.azloco.com
[21:04] <scott_ev> a test server, a wiki, @azloco.com email addresses
[21:04] <scott_ev> and more, so stick around
[21:04] <scott_ev> xHans: from PLUG will be doing his announcements early in the meeting this week
[21:04] <ariel_g> scott_ev: thanks. i'd seen the wiki, but not that site.
[21:05] <scott_ev> xHans: are you around yet?
[21:05] <xHans> scott_ev: yup
[21:05] <scott_ev> ariel_g: np, we have fun here as we're not a huge group
[21:05] <scott_ev> xHans: ready?
[21:05] <xHans> Both Valley Stammtische are this week
[21:05] <xHans> Tempe is Tuesday night and Avondale is Wednesday night
[21:05] <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/426
[21:05] <scott_ev> ariel_g: PLUG is the Phoenix Linux Users Group
[21:05] <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/594
[21:05] <xHans> the next ABLEconf IRC planning meeting is next Sunday
[21:05] <xHans> it's at 20:00, the hour before the LoCo meeting, in #ABLEconf
[21:06] <xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/
[21:06] <xHans> PLUG west side meeting is a week from Wednesday at 19:00
[21:06] <xHans> Topic: installing on a soekris box
[21:06] <xHans> pizza and drinks will be provided
[21:06] <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/341
[21:06] <xHans> the PLUG/LoCo Installfest is the last Saturday of the month
[21:07] <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2285
[21:07] <xHans> that's it for this week
[21:07] <scott_ev> nice
[21:07] <scott_ev> thanks
[21:07] <xHans> thanks for the opportunity
[21:07] <scott_ev> now, go rest before work
[21:07] <scott_ev> OK, Dazed_75 do you have anything?
[21:08] <xHans> ariel_g: we have some east side events in Tempe and Mesa ( Stammtisch this Tuesday and also a developers meeting, a general topics meeting and the Installfest ). See the PLUG site for more info if you're interested
[21:08] <xHans> scott_ev: yeah, time for nap 2, danke :)
[21:09] <scott_ev> I'm going to do some general Ubuntu news before we get down to discussions
[21:09] <Dazed_75> Basically, no.  You have announced the disk availability.  Only thing I might add here is the availability of installfest materials on the PLUG web site
[21:09] <scott_ev> kk
[21:09] <scott_ev> yes, I now have the 10.04 disks.  email has been sent to the mailing list
[21:09] <Dazed_75> BTW, PLUG site is http://plug.phoenix.az.us/
[21:10] <scott_ev> if you're not on that list you can email me at j.scott.gwin at ubuntu.com so I can make arrangements to get disks to you
[21:10] <scott_ev> then get on the mailing list
[21:10] <scott_ev> Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase calls all artists to contribute to next version of Ubuntu
[21:10] <scott_ev> http://www.canonical.com/news/ubuntu-free-culture-showcase
[21:10] <Flakeparadigm> ooh, that sounds cool.
[21:10] <scott_ev> Operation Cleansweep: We Need You!
[21:10] <scott_ev> http://www.jonobacon.org/2010/07/14/operation-cleansweep-we-need-you/
[21:10] <soldats> sweet
[21:11] <scott_ev> Dustin Kirkland: Man Your Browser
[21:11] <scott_ev> http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2010/07/man-your-browser.html
[21:11] <scott_ev> Mohamad Faizul Zulkifli: Android SDK on Ubuntu
[21:11] <scott_ev> http://9w2pju.blogspot.com/2010/07/android-sdk-on-ubuntu.html
[21:11] <scott_ev> Is Chrome OS a Threat to Ubuntu or Windows?
[21:11] <scott_ev> http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/osrc/article.php/3892351/Is-Chrome-OS-a-Threat-to-Ubuntu-or-Windows.htm
[21:11] <scott_ev> AndroidU1
[21:11] <scott_ev> http://opensourceexcedio.wordpress.com/2010/07/15/androidu1/
[21:11] <scott_ev> Google Nexus One Gets Ubuntu-ed
[21:11] <scott_ev> http://www.techtree.com/India/News/Google_Nexus_One_Gets_Ubuntu-ed/551-112218-580.html
[21:11] <scott_ev> Linux to eclipse Microsoft's 'all-in' tablet enthusiasm
[21:11] <scott_ev> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2010/07/16/linux_dominates_devices_survey/
[21:12] <scott_ev> Ubuntu's "Free" Ride Into the Enterprise
[21:12] <scott_ev> This article compares the methods by which some of the major linux distributions have found their way into corporations as an enterprise solution.
[21:12] <scott_ev> http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/linux_unix/article.php/3891546/Ubuntus+Free+Ride+Into+the+Enterprise.htm
[21:12] <scott_ev> Ubuntu 10.10 Will Have a Revamped Installer
[21:12] <scott_ev> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-10-10-Will-Have-a-Revamped-Installer-146644.shtml
[21:12] <scott_ev> Catching up with Canonical’s CEO, Jane Silber
[21:12] <scott_ev> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/interviews/catching-up-with-canonical/
[21:12] <scott_ev> Freezing Maverick – behind the scenes on Ubuntu 10.10
[21:12] <scott_ev> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/opinion/freezing-maverick-behind-the-scenes-on-ubuntu-10-10/
[21:12] <scott_ev> ARM muscling in on desktop space
[21:12] <scott_ev> To find out more about what Jerome had to say to Arm Devices as well as watch the video go to:
[21:12] <scott_ev> http://www.thinq.co.uk/2010/7/6/arm-muscling-desktop-space/
[21:13] <scott_ev> Nokia/Intel/Google/Canonical – openness and professionality in MeeGo, Android, Ubuntu
[21:13] <scott_ev> http://www.webupd8.org/2010/07/patched-notifyosd-updates-option-to.html
[21:13] <scott_ev> BrtFS to butter your files
[21:13] <scott_ev> The BtrFS file system is coming to Ubuntu 10.10 (maverick).
[21:13] <scott_ev> http://cityblogger.com/archives/2010/07/07/btrfs-to-butter-your-files
[21:13] <scott_ev> The Sound Indicator In Ubuntu Maverick Gets New Icons, More
[21:13] <scott_ev> http://www.webupd8.org/2010/07/sound-indicator-in-ubuntu-maverick-gets.html
[21:13] <scott_ev> How to Install Ubuntu on Your Nexus One/Android!
[21:13] <scott_ev> The latest hacker buzz of the week is a step by step guide regarding How-to install Ubuntu on a Nexus One phone.
[21:13] <scott_ev> http://nexusonehacks.net/nexus-one-hacks/how-to-install-ubuntu-on-your-nexus-oneandroid/
[21:14] <scott_ev> GIMP Plugin Registry 3.5.1 Gets ~129 New Plugins
[21:14] <scott_ev> http://www.webupd8.org/2010/07/gimp-plugin-registry-351-gets-129-new.html
[21:14] <scott_ev> Getting Amarok running in Ubuntu 10.04
[21:14] <scott_ev> http://www.brighthub.com/hubfolio/matthew-casperson/articles/73177.aspx
[21:14] <scott_ev> OK, I had more, but the storm rebooted me and I lost some stuff
[21:15] <scott_ev> we should, perhaps, start thinking about having a 10.10 release party
[21:15] <Flakeparadigm> 'twould be good
[21:15] <scott_ev> this time we should wait to have it after the actual release
[21:15] <Dazed_75> AFTER the release this time please :)
[21:16] <Dazed_75> ROFL
[21:16] <scott_ev> there's enough of you in Tucson to have one down there
[21:16] <scott_ev> if only someone will step up and take the lead
[21:16] <scott_ev> I can't do it from up here
[21:16] <scott_ev> who will search out a location?
[21:16] <Flakeparadigm> I can talk with hutchnate about it if he is available.
[21:17] <scott_ev> OK, please do
[21:17] <scott_ev> will someone look up the release date for me right quick, please
[21:17] <Thugal> oct 28th
[21:18] <scott_ev> Boulders was a decent place for the last one, but it was noisy
[21:18] <scott_ev> thanks
[21:18] <scott_ev> OK, we'll shelve planning the release party till the end of aug
[21:18] <Thugal> according to linuxers.org at any rate
[21:18] <scott_ev> close enough for now
[21:19] <scott_ev> we need to get to updating the wiki
[21:19] <scott_ev> Flakeparadigm: has v9lunteered to take on part of it
[21:19] <scott_ev> right?
[21:19] <Flakeparadigm> yup
[21:19] <Flakeparadigm> I'm currently in the process of picking up where I left off when things got busy.
[21:20] <Flakeparadigm> Last week's meeting will be available in like 5 minutes
[21:20] <scott_ev> is there anyone here that's willing to put in a litle bit of work on the wiki?
[21:20] <scott_ev> a lot of time and effort has gone into our wiki and it's languishing
[21:20] <fuzzyvader> I reckon I could volunteer some time
[21:20] <scott_ev> awesome
[21:21] <Dazed_75> According to past reports and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickReleaseSchedule 10.10 is now planned for release on Oct 10 (10.10 - cute, eh?)
[21:21] <scott_ev> just pick a section like education and email me so I can keep track of it
[21:21] <Thugal> 10.10 to be released on 10-10-2010  a sunday :(
[21:21] <scott_ev> Dazed_75: awesome
[21:21] <fuzzyvader> scott_ev: will do
[21:21] <scott_ev> I'm going to dive back in and see what else needs to be updated
[21:22] <scott_ev> who here thinks they can make it to the next installfest at UAT?
[21:22] <fuzzyvader> I might
[21:22] <scott_ev> that would also be a good time to discuss things
[21:22] <Dazed_75> I run it so ...
[21:22] <scott_ev> fuzzyvader: if you need to couch sufr. let me know
[21:22] <Flakeparadigm> Last weeks meeting...
[21:22] <scott_ev> surf
[21:22] <Flakeparadigm> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10July11
[21:23] <scott_ev> thanks Flakeparadigm
[21:23] <fuzzyvader> scott_ev: i'll let ya know thx
[21:23] <scott_ev> does anyonie have any questions or suggestions?
[21:23] <Yorokobi> scott_ev, installfests are Saturdays at 17:00 MST, yes?
[21:24] <toddc> downloading 10.10 alpha2 for test box
[21:24] <Dazed_75> 10:00 til 16:)) MST
[21:24] <scott_ev> installfest is 10 - 4pm on the 4th saturday
[21:24] <Dazed_75> on the LAST saturday
[21:24] <scott_ev> toddc: talk to slofgren
[21:24] <scott_ev> last sat, sorry
[21:24] <Dazed_75> there can be 5 some months
[21:24] <scott_ev> true
[21:24] <scott_ev> thank you for that
[21:25] <scott_ev> Yorokobi: do you know where UAT is?
[21:25] <Yorokobi> Looks like I won't make it until my work schedule changes.
[21:25] <scott_ev> kk
[21:26] <scott_ev> OK, as most of you already know, I recently was granted Ubuntu membership.  You can do the same thing too.  It all starts with building your own wiki
[21:26] <scott_ev> if you want/need help getting one started, let me know
[21:26] <scott_ev> actually, we should have a tutorial on our wiki
[21:27] <Flakeparadigm> That would be helpful.
[21:27] <scott_ev> but I don't think we do.  There used to be an education coordinator for the team, but that's fallen fallow also
[21:27] <scott_ev> who here has a wiki going?
[21:28] <soldats> im pretty sure i do
[21:28] <toddc> +1
[21:28] <-- Ricksna has left this server (Remote host closed the connection).
[21:28] <toddc> not current on my wiki
[21:28] <scott_ev> true, it's not for everyone.  but if you want to start one, let me know
[21:29] <scott_ev> OK, I have nothing else.
[21:29] <scott_ev> anyone?
[21:29] <Thugal> defcon at the end of the month in LV
[21:29] <Flakeparadigm> Well... A link to tonight's meeting will be posted afterwards. (Just a heads up)
[21:30] <scott_ev> ah, gonna have to miss this one...dang it
[21:30] <scott_ev> thanks Flakeparadigm
[21:30] <scott_ev> who's going to defcon?
[21:30] <Thugal> I'm still trying to get work to let me
[21:30] <scott_ev> understood
[21:31] <scott_ev> I just bought this NAS.....so I'm going to skip the expense of defcon
[21:31] <soldats> i wish i cuold go, i was supposed to but omney fell through
[21:31] <scott_ev> well, should we shutdown this popsickle stand for this week?
[21:31] <ariel_g> i'm going to try to go
[21:31] <scott_ev> nice
[21:32] <scott_ev> ariel_g: you didn't really tell us much
[21:32] <scott_ev> how long have you been using Linux, etc?
[21:32] <-- ariel_g has left this server (Remote host closed the connection).
[21:32] <scott_ev> otay
[21:32] <Thugal> LOL
[21:32] <scott_ev> well, geeks......goodnight
[21:32] <jawee> now you'll never know ;)
[21:32] <Dazed_75> you scared her
[21:32] --> Ricksna has joined this channel (~rick@74-36-33-202.dr01.lhcy.az.frontiernet.net).
[21:33] <Flakeparadigm> good night scott_ev
[21:33] <lenards> night
[21:33] <scott_ev> thanks for being here
[21:33] <Dazed_75> gnite
[21:33] --> ariel_g has joined this channel (~quassel@ip68-231-79-204.ph.ph.cox.net).
[21:33] <-- Dazed_75 has left this channel ("Leaving").
[21:33] <scott_ev> ariel_g: haha
[21:34] <ariel_g> i've been using linux off and on for a while. hopefully i'll make it out to an event and we'll talk then
[21:34] <Thugal> off to find food.  peace out y'all
[21:35] <scott_ev> nice.  ariel_g please come back
[21:35] <ariel_g> peace
[21:35] <scott_ev> nite
[21:35] <jawee> night
</pre>

=== Links ===
Links mentioned in this week's meeting.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/news/ubuntu-free-culture-showcase|Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase calls all artists to contribute to next version of Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/2010/07/14/operation-cleansweep-we-need-you/|Operation Cleansweep: We Need You!]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2010/07/man-your-browser.html|Dustin Kirkland: Man Your Browser]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://9w2pju.blogspot.com/2010/07/android-sdk-on-ubuntu.html|Mohamad Faizul Zulkifli: Android SDK on Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/osrc/article.php/3892351/Is-Chrome-OS-a-Threat-to-Ubuntu-or-Windows.htm|Is Chrome OS a Threat to Ubuntu or Windows?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://opensourceexcedio.wordpress.com/2010/07/15/androidu1/|AndroidU1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.techtree.com/India/News/Google_Nexus_One_Gets_Ubuntu-ed/551-112218-580.html|Google Nexus One Gets Ubuntu-ed]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.theregister.co.uk/2010/07/16/linux_dominates_devices_survey/|Linux to eclipse Microsoft's 'all-in' tablet enthusiasm]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/linux_unix/article.php/3891546/Ubuntus+Free+Ride+Into+the+Enterprise.htm|Ubuntu's "Free" Ride Into the Enterprise]]</nowiki> - This article compares the methods by which some of the major linux distributions have found their way into corporations as an enterprise solution.
* <nowiki>[[http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-10-10-Will-Have-a-Revamped-Installer-146644.shtml|Ubuntu 10.10 Will Have a Revamped Installer]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/interviews/catching-up-with-canonical/|Catching up with Canonical’s CEO, Jane Silber]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/opinion/freezing-maverick-behind-the-scenes-on-ubuntu-10-10/|Freezing Maverick – behind the scenes on Ubuntu 10.10]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.thinq.co.uk/2010/7/6/arm-muscling-desktop-space/|ARM muscling in on desktop space]]</nowiki> - To find out more about what Jerome had to say to Arm Devices as well as watch the video, check out this link.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/07/patched-notifyosd-updates-option-to.html|Nokia/Intel/Google/Canonical – openness and professionality in MeeGo, Android, Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://cityblogger.com/archives/2010/07/07/btrfs-to-butter-your-files|BrtFS to butter your files]]</nowiki> - The BtrFS file system is coming to Ubuntu 10.10 (maverick).
* <nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/07/sound-indicator-in-ubuntu-maverick-gets.html|The Sound Indicator In Ubuntu Maverick Gets New Icons, More]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://nexusonehacks.net/nexus-one-hacks/how-to-install-ubuntu-on-your-nexus-oneandroid/|How to Install Ubuntu on Your Nexus One/Android!]]</nowiki> - The latest hacker buzz of the week is a step by step guide regarding How-to install Ubuntu on a Nexus One phone.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/07/gimp-plugin-registry-351-gets-129-new.html|GIMP Plugin Registry 3.5.1 Gets ~129 New Plugins]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.brighthub.com/hubfolio/matthew-casperson/articles/73177.aspx|Getting Amarok running in Ubuntu 10.04]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
