{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

(09:00:03 PM) Ron_A: Join us on http://bbb.azloco.net if using firefox please ask for help to add flash support to your system
(09:00:07 PM) Ron_A: #startmeetingAZLoco meeting
(09:00:20 PM) Ron_A: #startmeeting AZLoco meeting
(09:00:21 PM) meetingology: Ron_A: Error: Can't start another meeting, one is in progress.
(09:00:42 PM) Ron_A: Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
(09:00:42 PM) stephenm: ya Ron_A you can't start a 2nd meeting
(09:00:45 PM) stephenm: +1
(09:00:49 PM) MajB: +1
(09:00:49 PM) Ron_A: +1
(09:00:54 PM) pavlos: +1
(09:01:03 PM) Ron_A: Star Date   94855.18
(09:01:13 PM) Ron_A: Team Website is http://azloco.org/
(09:01:22 PM) toddc: +1 but will wait till he gets meetingology  started
(09:01:26 PM) Ron_A: IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/
(09:02:14 PM) Ron_A: Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
(09:02:25 PM) Ron_A: http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
(09:02:46 PM) Ron_A:  Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/
(09:02:58 PM) Ron_A: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
(09:03:12 PM) Ron_A: https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam
(09:03:20 PM) toddcnm [b8bca82d@gateway/web/freenode/ip.184.188.168.45] entered the room.
(09:03:28 PM) Ron_A:  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
(09:03:28 PM) toddcnm: #startmeeting AZLoco meeting
(09:03:28 PM) meetingology: toddcnm: Error: Can't start another meeting, one is in progress.
(09:03:41 PM) Ron_A: Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing
(09:03:53 PM) Ron_A: lets start with the news stephenm will be bring us the news tonight! The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!
(09:04:05 PM) stephenm: that's my line!!
(09:04:13 PM) wmack: +1
(09:04:17 PM) stephenm: Dallas Takes Step Closer in Becoming ?Smart City?
(09:04:17 PM) stephenm: https://www.dallasinnovates.com/dallas-takes-step-closer-in-becoming-smart-city/
(09:04:56 PM) stephenm: I don't remember seen this in Dallas when I was there in February but will look in either August or September when I am there again.
(09:05:10 PM) stephenm: Being a Linux user isn't weird anymore
(09:05:10 PM) stephenm: v
(09:05:11 PM) stephenm: http://www.networkworld.com/article/3185829/linux/being-a-linux-user-isnt-weird-anymore.html
(09:05:21 PM) stephenm: meaning we are not locked in dark basements
(09:05:34 PM) stephenm: AT&T Joins The Linux Foundation as a Platinum Member
(09:05:35 PM) stephenm: https://www.linuxfoundation.org/announcements/att-joins-linux-foundation-as-a-platinum-member
(09:06:10 PM) stephenm: I don't know how I feel about these big business, government companies coming onto open source
(09:06:22 PM) stephenm: IBM technology creates smart wingman for self-driving cars
(09:06:23 PM) stephenm: http://www.networkworld.com/article/3186630/analytics/ibm-technology-creates-smart-wingman-for-self-driving-cars.html
(09:06:40 PM) stephenm: doesn't help you pickup  that special someone
(09:06:55 PM) stephenm: SpaceX makes aerospace history with successful launch and landing of a used rocket
(09:06:55 PM) stephenm: http://www.theverge.com/2017/3/30/15117096/spacex-launch-reusable-rocket-success-falcon-9-landing
(09:07:06 PM) stephenm: NextCloudPi gets remote updates, logs to RAM, easy WiFi and more
(09:07:06 PM) stephenm: https://ownyourbits.com/2017/03/31/nextcloudpi-gets-remote-updates-logs-to-ram-easy-wifi-and-more/
(09:07:18 PM) stephenm: Spring cleaning in IT: 12 tech professionals share best practices
(09:07:18 PM) stephenm: https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2017/3/spring-cleaning-it-12-tech-professionals-share-best-practices
(09:07:30 PM) stephenm: Peering into complex, tiny structures with 3D analysis tool tomviz
(09:07:31 PM) stephenm: https://opensource.com/article/17/3/tomviz-large-3D-datasets
(09:07:41 PM) stephenm: Philips Hue Uses Kubernetes to Keep the Lights On
(09:07:42 PM) stephenm: http://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/philips-hue-uses-kubernetes-to-keep-the-lights-on.html
(09:07:51 PM) stephenm: TinkerOS_Debian V1.6 (Beta version) Released
(09:07:52 PM) stephenm: https://www.ossblog.org/tinkeros1-6/
(09:08:01 PM) stephenm: How to remap or swap special keyboard keys in Linux?
(09:08:01 PM) stephenm: https://ictsolved.github.io/blog/linux/remap-key-in-linux
(09:08:14 PM) stephenm: No more parsing is required, Move from ifconfig to ifdata
(09:08:14 PM) stephenm: http://codelectron.com/no-more-parsing-is-required-move-from-ifconfig-to-ifdata/
(09:08:33 PM) stephenm: How To Password Protect GRUB Bootloader In Linux
(09:08:34 PM) stephenm: https://www.ostechnix.com/password-protect-grub-bootloader-linux/
(09:08:49 PM) stephenm: Might first secure the physical first
(09:09:00 PM) stephenm: How To Find Who Is Logged On Your System And What They Are Doing
(09:09:00 PM) stephenm: https://www.ostechnix.com/find-logged-system/
(09:09:10 PM) stephenm: Deprecated Linux networking commands and their replacements
(09:09:11 PM) stephenm: https://dougvitale.wordpress.com/2011/12/21/deprecated-linux-networking-commands-and-their-replacements/
(09:09:14 PM) stephenm: Good read
(09:09:29 PM) stephenm: How to Install Packages from Source on Linux
(09:09:30 PM) stephenm: https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/3/how-install-packages-source-linux
(09:09:41 PM) stephenm: that's all the news for tonight folks.
(09:09:45 PM) Ron_A: Great job stephenm!
(09:09:50 PM) MajB: Thanks stephenm
(09:09:51 PM) stephenm: back to Ron_A
(09:09:54 PM) stephenm: welcome
(09:09:59 PM) Ron_A: Is there any other news we missed?
(09:10:20 PM) Ron_A: We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project
(09:10:32 PM) toddcnm: question: tempe is installing devices to count bluetooth and wireless phones at traffic intersections to find traffic trends?   how can that be a valid count?
(09:10:33 PM) Ron_A: Team Projects Page
(09:10:45 PM) Ron_A: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects
(09:10:56 PM) Ron_A:  We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.
(09:11:08 PM) Ron_A: See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.
(09:11:15 PM) stephenm: it's not toddcnm, it's more government spying
(09:11:31 PM) Ron_A: Linux, DOS, Windows NT
(09:11:42 PM) Ron_A: -- The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly
(09:11:58 PM) Ron_A: Computers are like air conditioners -
(09:12:12 PM) Ron_A: - they stop working properly if you open WINDOWS
(09:12:27 PM) Ron_A: Local linux Jobs
(09:12:39 PM) Ron_A: 28 current canonical Jobs today
(09:12:49 PM) Ron_A: http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies
(09:13:00 PM) Ron_A: Software Developer Tempe
(09:13:12 PM) Ron_A: https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper
(09:13:26 PM) Ron_A: TEAM SERVER NEWS
(09:13:41 PM) Ron_A: If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin
(09:13:55 PM) Ron_A: UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!
(09:13:57 PM) MajB: AZLOCO Events and Activities: 
(09:13:57 PM) MajB: Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28 
(09:14:15 PM) MajB: 06 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users. 
(09:14:28 PM) MajB: 15 April, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.
(09:14:43 PM) MajB: 27 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires. 
(09:14:59 PM) MajB: 27 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users. 
(09:15:16 PM) MajB: 07 May, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.
(09:15:26 PM) superfly: +1
(09:15:27 PM) MajB: Back to you Ron_A
(09:15:35 PM) Ron_A: Congrats to the 3 members who became Ubuntu members so far this year!!
(09:15:52 PM) Ron_A: xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?
(09:15:58 PM) MajB: HooRah
(09:16:12 PM) xHans: ja, danke
(09:16:19 PM) xHans: PLUG's new security class had a great turnout last month
(09:16:24 PM) xHans: the next meeting is the second Tuesday of April, the 11th
(09:16:30 PM) xHans: that's a week from Tuesday @ 19:00
(09:16:36 PM) xHans: http://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security/
(09:16:40 PM) MajB: AZ LUG Activities.  Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225
(09:16:44 PM) xHans: PLUG has two speakers for April:
(09:16:52 PM) xHans: Ed Nicholson will cover Securing a SSH jump host with PrivacyIDEA and U2F
(09:16:59 PM) xHans: Phillip Waclawski will cover Using Hierarchical Data in MySQL, Trees vs Nests
(09:17:06 PM) xHans: A week from Thursday, 2017Apr13 @ 19:00
(09:17:15 PM) xHans: https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html
(09:17:21 PM) xHans: The Free Software Stammtisch is two weeks from Tuesday @ 19:00
(09:17:28 PM) xHans: Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!
(09:17:29 PM) scu [~scu@5-0-184-192-reverse.instavps.net] entered the room.
(09:17:41 PM) MajB: Sorry xHans.  Hit the wrong key
(09:17:46 PM) toddcnm: welcome scu
(09:17:52 PM) Ron_A: Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events
(09:18:19 PM) Ron_A: And now Majb with OTHER LUG EVENTS
(09:18:25 PM) MajB: AZ LUG Activities.  
(09:18:25 PM) MajB: Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225
(09:18:45 PM) MajB: Tucson Linux Meet-up meeting on 4 April 7-8 pm. Cartel Coffee Lab,   2502 North Campbell Ave, Tucson, https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 
(09:19:02 PM) MajB: Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 10 April 6:30-9:30 pm. Location TBS See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest information on Location.
(09:19:20 PM) MajB: Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 12 April 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/
(09:19:20 PM) MajB: Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 12 April 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm
(09:19:45 PM) MajB: Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 22 April, Sierra Vista public library conference room 
(09:19:45 PM) MajB: 1:00-3:45 pm, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/
(09:19:45 PM) MajB: Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 23 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
(09:20:08 PM) MajB: Forgot one.  Phoenix2600 meeting on 07 April 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org 
(09:20:22 PM) MajB: Back to you Ron_A
(09:20:26 PM) Ron_A: I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.
(09:20:40 PM) Ron_A: Toddc do you have anything to add?
(09:21:05 PM) Ron_A: FUTURE EVENTS
(09:21:09 PM) MajB: FUTURE EVENTS:
(09:21:17 PM) Ron_A: Any thoughts on other events or projects???
(09:21:24 PM) MajB: AZLOCO  and the Cochise Linux User Group (CLUG) will be co-sponsoring an information booth at the 12th annual West End Fair on Fry Blvd between Garden and 7th Street in Sierra Vista on 6 May 2017 from 10-5 pm.
(09:21:39 PM) toddcnm: thank you to every one for helping at the installfest sat
(09:21:45 PM) MajB: The will be a Splunk conference in Scottsdale 25 May 2017.  More information will follow as it becomes available.
(09:22:02 PM) MajB: That is all that I have.
(09:22:05 PM) Ron_A: great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?
(09:22:19 PM) Ron_A: Thanks for coming here tonight
(09:22:23 PM) toddcnm: thank you Ron_A  and MajB
(09:22:35 PM) wmack: thank you
(09:22:35 PM) Ron_A: #endmeeting
(09:22:53 PM) toddcnm: #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
