{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<Siph0n> +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Thanks for taking the time to attend on this Special day
<toddc> starting off with the news
<toddc> Sun-java6 will be removed from all Linux distro's due to license per Oracle so
<toddc> if you need to the official version you will need to visit  http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/index.html
<toddc> The New Ubuntu Friendly Program Needs User Feedback
<toddc> guide to automate your simple back up
<toddc> http://howto.cnet.com/8301-11310_39-20091470-285/how-to-back-up-your-linux-computer/
<toddc> Ubuntu for Developers' workstations survey
<toddc> http://devworks.thinkdigit.com/Features/Column-Ubuntu-for-Developers-workstations_7454.html
<toddc> 38 Days till 11.10 will be released on October 13
<toddc> Oneiric 11.10 is now our in Beta 1 for testing and seems stable on my test box
<toddc> Sept 17 2011 at heatsynclabs we will be hosting a software freedom day event
<toddc> current plans are to demo BBB and do a few installs and Dazed_75 may bring the PXE
<toddc> server
<toddc> I now have access to set up azloco.com email address so if you would like one please contact me!
<toddc> At toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> SANDIGITAL
<toddc> Earth 911
<toddc> iAcquire is expanding its IT/Development team and is looking for you!
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated.  So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
<toddc> http://test.azloco.com/ipxe/
<toddc>  now has a ROM-o-matic Ipxe image for a Ipxe project that Dazed_75 abd bj0 are working on. Stay tuned for more info
<Dazed_75> Actually, the rom-o-matic only builds a client for iPXE, no work to be done on that
<toddc> correct on the rom-o-matic  done but just a tool

<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Developer Meeting Thursday, Sept 1, 2011, 19:30 - 21:30 uat
<toddc> Plug east side meeting thursday August 11 at MCC Southern ave and Dobson at the Kirk student center 7-9 pm
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest  Presentation Saturday August 13 3-6pm at makerbench 2010 E University #4 Tempe
<Siph0n> aug 13th?
<Siph0n> its already sept
<toddc> checking and yes check the azloco calender for correct day the 10 and the 17 th this month
<toddc> http://www.azloco.com/node/28
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> Any one have any other news or Ideas?
<toddc> I had thought about a release party but I think we should just wait till the next installfest
<Dazed_75> I have the Oneiric Beta 1 on the PXE server (32 and 64 bit).
<Dazed_75> Also, tThere is an App in the Android Marketplace for a countdown timer for Oneiric.
<toddc> 11.10 has been working weel on my tests
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<Dazed_75> Anyone have any luck using tightvnc to connect to a sever on Windows 7
<Dazed_75> from Ubuntu that is
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
