{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 09 Jun at 04:01 &mdash; 04:40 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2014/ubuntu-us-az.2014-06-09-04.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://news.techworld.com/security/3523297/researchers-spot-first-ever-android-ransom-attack-that-encrypts-data-files/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/opi-reclaim-your-digital-life 
''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/05/lubuntu-lts-ppa-for-new-apps-stable-fans 
''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/04/arch-shangri-la-ubuntu-power-users 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-AIO-DVD-Has-All-Ubuntu-14-04-LTS-Flavors-on-One-Disk-441202.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.techdrivein.com/2014/05/worlds-fastest-supercomputer-runs-ubuntu.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+techdrivein+%28Tech+Drive-in%29 
''LINK:'' http://www.webupd8.org/2014/06/syncthing-open-source-bittorrent-sync.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.noobslab.com/2014/06/first-audit-report-of-truecrypt-is.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.cioinsight.com/it-strategy/application-development/slideshows/nine-advantages-of-open-source-software.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.techworld.com.au/article/546960/australian_government_will_go_drupal/?fp=16&fpid=1 
''LINK:'' http://thelinuxrain.com/articles/contributing-to-oss 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/new-openssl-breech-is-no-heartbleed-but-needs-to-be-taken-seriously-7000030273/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/pi-based-private-cloud-storage-device-runs-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://opensource.com/business/14/6/five-new-guides-mastering-openstack 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Canonical-to-Release-a-RTM-Version-of-Ubuntu-for-Phones-445407.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/run-linux-live-images-from-hard-disk-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/steam-hits-the-big-500-for-linux-games.3849 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=massive_linux_gpus&num=1 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/RoboLinux-Smooths-the-Linux-Migration-Path-80540.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/security/slideshows/kali-linux-improves-penetration-testing.html 
''LINK:'' http://opensource.com/business/14/6/linux-professionals-jobs 
''LINK:'' http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2014/05/29/community-donations-funding-report/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ubuntu-fridge+%28The+Fridge+-+News+for+Human+Beings%29 
''LINK:'' http://community.ubuntu.com/help-information/funding/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.ashleyellis.com 
''LINK:'' https://www.smartrecruiters.com/ZIVELO1/77079824-inc-500-5000-tech-company-seeks-technical-support-network-specialist 
''LINK:'' https://apply.hrmdirect.com/resumedirect/ApplyOnline/Apply.aspx?req_id=enc-15.540135124685401&source=172528-CS-1983 
''LINK:'' https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/opi-reclaim-your-digital-life 
''LINK:'' http://otter-browser.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/linux-courses/find-linux-training-courses?pi_ad_id=28105463074&gclid=CLGF-uSA8r0CFQWTfgodXIcA7A 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.meetup.com/PhoenixRedHatSoftwareUserGroup/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (141)
* MajB (17)
* FernHans (10)
* turbidtux (7)
* TuxMann (4)
* meetingology (3)
* pavlos (1)
* Rich_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:01 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun  9 04:01:25 2014 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:01 <meetingology> 

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <turbidtux> +1

 04:01 <pavlos> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> 83 degrees

 04:01 <MajB> We are sitting at 4898 feet so it doesn't get as hot here.

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:02 <toddc> Star Date 92039.84 check it at http://www.stoacademy.com/tools/stardate.php

 04:02 <toddc> Team wiki site  is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/ IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <TuxMann> +1

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <Rich_> +1

 04:02 <toddc> I want to go somewhere cooler

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> some of us are in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news!!

 04:03 <toddc> thanks to turbixtux  for the news articles

 04:03 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:04 <toddc> Making end-to-end encryption easier to use (Google Online Security Blog)

 04:04 <toddc> Researchers spot first ever Android ransom attack that ENCRYPTS data files

 04:04 <toddc> http://news.techworld.com/security/3523297/researchers-spot-first-ever-android-ransom-attack-that-encrypts-data-files/

 04:04 <toddc> OPI - Reclaim Your Digital Life—ubuntu cloud server at home in a box

 04:04 <toddc> https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/opi-reclaim-your-digital-life

 04:05 <toddc> Lubuntu To Offer LTS Users Select App Updates Through New PPA

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/05/lubuntu-lts-ppa-for-new-apps-stable-fans

 04:05 <toddc> Arch: Shangri-La for Ubuntu Power Users?

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/04/arch-shangri-la-ubuntu-power-users

 04:05 <toddc> Ubuntu AIO DVD Has All Ubuntu 14.04 LTS Flavors on One Disk

 04:05 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-AIO-DVD-Has-All-Ubuntu-14-04-LTS-Flavors-on-One-Disk-441202.shtml

 04:06 <toddc> Tianhe-2 Supercomputer runs Ubuntu

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.techdrivein.com/2014/05/worlds-fastest-supercomputer-runs-ubuntu.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+techdrivein+%28Tech+Drive-in%29

 04:06 <toddc> Syncthing: Open Source BitTorrent Sync Alternative (P2P Sync Tool)

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/06/syncthing-open-source-bittorrent-sync.html

 04:06 <toddc> First Audit Report of TrueCrypt Is Released To Public

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.noobslab.com/2014/06/first-audit-report-of-truecrypt-is.html

 04:07 <toddc> Nine Advantages of Open Source Software

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.cioinsight.com/it-strategy/application-development/slideshows/nine-advantages-of-open-source-software.html

 04:07 <toddc> Australian government will go Drupal

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.techworld.com.au/article/546960/australian_government_will_go_drupal/?fp=16&fpid=1

 04:07 <toddc> Contributing to OSS

 04:07 <toddc> http://thelinuxrain.com/articles/contributing-to-oss

 04:08 <toddc> New OpenSSL breach is no Heartbleed, but needs to be taken seriously

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/new-openssl-breech-is-no-heartbleed-but-needs-to-be-taken-seriously-7000030273/

 04:08 <toddc> Pi-based private cloud storage device runs Linux

 04:08 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/pi-based-private-cloud-storage-device-runs-linux/

 04:08 <toddc> Five new how-to guides for mastering OpenStack

 04:08 <toddc> http://opensource.com/business/14/6/five-new-guides-mastering-openstack

 04:09 <toddc> Canonical to Release an RTM Version of Ubuntu for Phones

 04:09 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Canonical-to-Release-a-RTM-Version-of-Ubuntu-for-Phones-445407.shtml

 04:09 <toddc> Run Kali Linux , BackBox and Gentoo Distrubutions Directly from Hard Disk in Ubuntu 14.04 using Grub Menu

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.tecmint.com/run-linux-live-images-from-hard-disk-in-linux/

 04:09 <toddc> Steam Hits The Big 500 For Linux Games

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/steam-hits-the-big-500-for-linux-games.3849

 04:10 <toddc> Making end-to-end encryption easier to use (Google Online Security Blog)

 04:10 <toddc> The Google Online Security Blog has announced the alpha release of an OpenPGP-compliant end-to-end encryption extension for the Chrome/Chromium browser.

 04:10 <toddc> Testing 60+ Intel/AMD/NVIDIA GPUs On Linux With Open-Source Drivers

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=massive_linux_gpus&num=1

 04:10 <toddc> RoboLinux Smooths the Linux Migration Path

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/RoboLinux-Smooths-the-Linux-Migration-Path-80540.html

 04:11 <toddc> Kali Linux Improves Penetration Testing

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.eweek.com/security/slideshows/kali-linux-improves-penetration-testing.html

 04:11 <toddc> The sought after Linux professional

 04:11 <toddc> http://opensource.com/business/14/6/linux-professionals-jobs

 04:11 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:12 <toddc> We are getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles. If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.

 04:12 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:12 <MajB> Excellent

 04:12 <toddc> canceled events due to holidays

 04:13 <toddc> Saturday 7/5   installfest (4th July weekend)

 04:13 <toddc> Sunday 7/6  weekly meeting (4th July weekend)

 04:13 <toddc> Sunday 8/31 weekly meeting (Labor day weekend)

 04:13 <toddc> we did 5 repairs and two installs last Sat at the installfest

 04:14 <toddc> Ubuntu 14.04 DVD's are In and ready to passout

 04:14 <toddc> Archfan has built another Big Blue Button server#2 on the team proxmox server but we need some routing issues fixed if someone has a few minutes

 04:14 <toddc> we would like to congratulate again on markthomas being the new team leader he missed the meeting and was voted as team leader

 04:14 <toddc> I will attempt to contact lugy in Prescott and may run up there Tuesday night for their meeting-- Todd

 04:15 <MajB> Yes.  Congrats Mark.

 04:15 <toddc> we now have access to community project money

 04:15 <toddc> http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2014/05/29/community-donations-funding-report/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ubuntu-fridge+%28The+Fridge+-+News+for+Human+Beings%29

 04:15 <toddc> http://community.ubuntu.com/help-information/funding/

 04:16 <toddc> this means we can apply for funding of team projects

 04:16 <toddc> we will need some ideas

 04:16 <toddc> JOB list

 04:16 <toddc> 45 current canonical Jobs they are adding more each day

 04:17 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:17 <toddc> HOSTED SYSTEMS SUPPORT PHX

 04:17 <toddc> http://www.ashleyellis.com

 04:17 <toddc> Tech Company Seeks Technical Support & Network Specialist

 04:17 <toddc> https://www.smartrecruiters.com/ZIVELO1/77079824-inc-500-5000-tech-company-seeks-technical-support-network-specialist

 04:17 <toddc> SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER ViaWest, Inc., a super-regional provider of colocation and cloud solutions

 04:17 <toddc> https://apply.hrmdirect.com/resumedirect/ApplyOnline/Apply.aspx?req_id=enc-15.540135124685401&source=172528-CS-1983

 04:17 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:18 <toddc> OPI is your private cloud with no third party eyes on your information. Still OPI will also allow you to share information with others, on your conditions.

 04:18 <toddc> https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/opi-reclaim-your-digital-life

 04:18 <toddc> Linux App of the week

 04:18 <toddc> Otter Browser , project aiming to recreate classic Opera (12.x) UI using Qt5.

 04:18 <toddc> http://otter-browser.org/

 04:19 <toddc> EVENTS

 04:19 <toddc> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST

 04:19 <toddc> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday June 21 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 206/207 this month 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the

 04:19 <toddc> front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:19 <toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/

 04:19 <toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up

 04:19 <toddc> any events in Sierra Vista ?

 04:20 <toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:20 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be July 2nd 7pm – 9pm

 04:20 <toddc> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:20 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:20 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:20 <toddc> There were 4 people at the June event.

 04:20 <toddc> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:21 <toddc> Thursday June 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame in Tempe southern and McClintock

 04:21 <toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and

 04:21 <toddc> open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:21 <toddc> NORTH INSTALLFEST has been canceled for the summer

 04:21 <toddc> LINUX TRAININGhttps://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/SubPageHeader

 04:21 <toddc> Linux Intro Course Available Online for Free from edX and The Linux Foundation Starts Aug 1 2014

 04:22 <toddc> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free

 04:22 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/linux-courses/find-linux-training-courses?pi_ad_id=28105463074&gclid=CLGF-uSA8r0CFQWTfgodXIcA7A

 04:22 <toddc> ubuntu on-air

 04:22 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:22 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:22 <toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net

 04:22 <toddc> Commuity Q&A  June 10th 11am local

 04:22 <toddc> Charm school June 13th noon local time

 04:23 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:23 <MajB> There is a meeting of the Mountain View Computer Users Group on 14 June at the FairField Inn in Sierra Vista 0900-1200.  I will attend but it is mainly a bunch of Apple folks.

 04:24 <MajB> I haven't given up on SV yet.

 04:24 <turbidtux> I wonder what they are charged to meet there?

 04:24 <toddc> MajB: would you like to take some contact info /pr stuff let me know

 04:24 <FernHans> MajB: take some FreeBSD CDs :)

 04:25 <turbidtux> and Darwin...

 04:25 <TuxMann> One project related to the Sunday night meetings. I think we could use something for automating the meeting news, events, jobs posting.

 04:25 <toddc> FernHans: over to you for the plug events-news

 04:25 <FernHans> toddc: danke

 04:25 <FernHans> this Thursday is the PLUG east side meeting

 04:25 <FernHans> http://www.phxlinux.org/

 04:25 <FernHans> also this Thursday there's a new Red Hat Users Group starting

 04:25 <FernHans> the first event is teaming up iwth other groups for a presentation on OpenStack

 04:25 <FernHans> http://www.meetup.com/PhoenixRedHatSoftwareUserGroup/

 04:26 <FernHans> Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday

 04:26 <FernHans> that's it from me

 04:26 <toddc> FernHans: Thank you for the extra info

 04:26 <FernHans> bitte

 04:27 <toddc> that is all I have any other comments---ideas how to automate news and meetings?

 04:28 <TuxMann> My original idea was to have something that just copied from a document & pasted it into the IRC channel.

 04:29 <TuxMann> It would be good to have a pause and play feature as well in case a discussion gets started or pausing for comments.

 04:29 <toddc> I would need to retake FernHans scripting class :)

 04:29 <turbidtux> Have you created a dropbox, an email address so anyone can contribute news?

 04:29 <MajB> toddc:  I attended their meeting in May and there was only one lady even remotely interested in Linux.  I thought I would attend again and try once more.

 04:30 <toddc> we have several email address that I never have time to check like questions@azloco.com and not been to our FB site in almost a year

 04:31 <MajB> Not sure if handouts are appropriate yet.  I gave my info as contact.

 04:31 <toddc> MajB: correct it takes a while  to consider learning somthing new

 04:31 <MajB> I can always use email address of the bosses.

 04:31 <toddc> if all you ever used or know is winders

 04:32 <turbidtux> I was thinking an email like submit news@...

 04:33 <toddc> but often a show and tell and regular hearing about alt OS's  will spread interest

 04:33 <MajB> Good point.

 04:33 <toddc> turbidtux: it will also need a way to discard duplicates

 04:33 <toddc> or preused news

 04:33 <MajB> What have you got that would be a good quick down and dirty

 04:34 <turbidtux> Team Leader Review  ; )

 04:36 <toddc> I will email you a few flyers incase anyone asks but watching you use linux is usually the very best way most windows user have no idea anyone uses linux or what it can do or event better

 04:36 <toddc> turbidtux: same as I do now:)

 04:37 <MajB> Great.  These are Apple guys and gals.  Windows was not even discussed in May.

 04:38 <toddc> what was the last apple virus?

 04:38 <MajB> No idea.  Never used it

 04:38 <toddc> linux can run older apple computers

 04:38 <MajB> Yes

 04:38 <turbidtux> iOS...

 04:39 <toddc> FREE no expensive software

 04:39 <MajB> Yeah they talk funny as well

 04:40 <toddc> cheaper than a new apple computer too

 04:40 <MajB> Hey you are preaching to the choir.  I've been on Linux since 2008

 04:40 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeamDescribe ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June 8, 2014 Meeting here.
