{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 07 Aug at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-08-07-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.sofmen.com/   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all?   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Steam-Stats-July-2023   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:13)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (57)
* MajB (22)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:00 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 101194.49

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also National Root Beer Float Day did you float today?

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:04 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:04 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:04 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:04 <toddc> - Please press any key!

 04:05 <toddc> - Where is the any-key?

 04:05 <toddc> QUESTION: Where do the characters go when I use my backspace or delete them on my computer?

 04:05 <toddc> ANSWER: The characters go to different places, depending on whom you ask:

 04:06 <toddc> The Catholic Church's approach to characters: The nice characters go to Heaven, where they are bathed in the light of happiness. The naughty characters are punished for their sins. Naughty characters are those involved in the creation of naughty words, such as "breast," "sex" and "contraception."

 04:06 <toddc> The Buddhist explanation: If a character has lived rightly, and its karma is good, then after it has been deleted it will be reincarnated as a different, higher character. Those funny characters above the numbers on your keyboard will become numbers, numbers will become letters, and lower-case letters will become upper-case.

 04:06 <toddc> The 20th-century bitter cynical nihilist explanation: Who cares? It doesn't really matter if they're on the page, deleted, undeleted, underlined, etc. It's all the same.

 04:06 <toddc> The Mac user's explanation: All the characters written on a PC and then deleted go to straight to PC hell. If you're using a PC, you can probably see the deleted characters, because you're in PC

 04:07 <toddc> Stephen King's explanation: Every time you hit the (Del) key you unleash a tiny monster inside the cursor, who tears the poor unsuspecting characters to shreds, drinks their blood, then eats them, bones and all. Hah, hah, hah!

 04:07 <toddc> Dave Barry's explanation: The deleted characters are shipped to Battle Creek, Michigan, where they're made into Pop-Tart filling; this explains why Pop-Tarts are so flammable, while cheap imitations are not flammable. I'm not making this up.

 04:07 <toddc> IBM's explanation: The characters are not real. They exist only on the screen when they are needed, as concepts, so to delete them is merely to de-conceptualize them. Get a life.

 04:07 <toddc> PETA's  (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) explanation: You've been DELETING them??? Can't you hear them SCREAMING??? Why don't you go CLUB some BABY SEALS while wearing a MINK, you pig!!!!

 04:08 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:08 <toddc> software dev

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.sofmen.com/

 04:08 <toddc> Canonical has 119 open positions

 04:08 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all?

 04:09 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 347 lopen jobs many remote some local

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development

 04:09 <toddc> Western Semiconductor In Tempe has several it openings dealing with AI development

 04:10 <toddc> WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPER

 04:10 <toddc> ASU Tempe

 04:10 <toddc> Operational Support Associates

 04:10 <toddc> www.pdworkforce.com

 04:10 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:10 <toddc> Steam On Linux Usage Spikes To Nearly 2% In July, Larger Marketshare Than Apple macOS

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Steam-Stats-July-2023

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:11 <MajB> 10 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 10 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 19 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal

 04:12 <MajB> projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 20 August,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 24 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:13 <MajB> Many events are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 10 August, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 15 August, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly meeting 09 August, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 22 August, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),  Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:14 <MajB> That is all that I have.  Back to you toddc

 04:14 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:14 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:15 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:15 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:15 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
