{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #89 for the week April 6, April 12.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Eighty Ninth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-April 15, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday April 19, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the April 12, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09April12

johnc4510 began the meeting by asking tim_ to introduce himself:  "I'm in Tucson, South East side.  I'm new to irc, but not so new to ubuntu." Team members welcomed tim_ to the team.

johnc4510 then gave some announcements:

* Steve Langasek reports that we are less than a week away from the Release Candidate for Ubuntu 9.04, Jaunty Jackalope. Proposed date for the Release Candidate is April 16, 2009. The archive is now frozen and will not thaw again before release. Uploads to universe should again follow the guidelines described here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2008-April/025259.html  Next Thursday is RC date.

* Ubuntu 7.10, Gutsy Gibbon, will reach end of life on Saturday, April 18th, 2009. It has been supported for the past 18 months, but following April 18th will no longer receive Ubuntu Security Notices or Updates. Note that upgrades to version 8.10 and beyond are only supported in multiple steps, via an upgrade first to 8.04 LTS, then to 8.10. Instructions and caveats for the upgrade may be found at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUp .  For anyone using gutsy still, no more updates or security.  You need to upgrade or do a fresh install.

* The next Open Week takes place from Monday April 27th - Friday May 1st on IRC in #ubuntu-classroom. Ubuntu Open Week is a week of IRC tuition and Q+A sessions all about getting involved in the rock-and-roll world that is the Ubuntu community. The session are organized for the beginning of a new release cycle to help new contributors get involved. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek .  Tentative Schedule for Open Week here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek/Prep .  These sessions are a great way to find out about the other teams of Ubuntu.

* The next testing day will be on Monday, April 13, 2009. The team will be smoke testing any *buntu desktop of your choice. The goals on the day will be to test the installer and applications on the CD as well as those you download from repositories and use regularly. The team will be looking for any regressions or breakages in these packages and reporting faults to launchpad. Join them on #ubuntu-testing on the freenode network. Go to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/UbuntuTestingDay/20090413 to find out more and get involved.

* New issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #137 is out today. Read it here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue137

* Jeff Martin has been added as an admin on the team server. With slofgren busy with other things at the moment, Jeff was good enough to step in and help us out in this area. Thanks Jeff.  If you need an ssh account, or access to the test server, you can now contact jeff, me or slofgren.

* We need more members blogging on the team site please. http://azloco.com/ .   Anyone needing an account please contact myself, tyche or kennymc0.

johnc4510 then started a discussion of the Jaunty release party planning:

johnc4510 brought the jaunty planning wiki page up to date from our last meeting.  Look it over and make sure he got everything right please.  Jaunty Planning: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/JauntyEvents .  Some discussion was made as to an omission that he will correct, that the Release party will be preceded by an install fest at UAT in conjunction with PLUG.  johnc45510 is going to inform TFUG and TCS via email this week.  scot_ev has informed his AUSLUG contact, and the word will get out, there.  He will also try to contact SLUG.

The discussion then turned to the Install Fest for Jaunty.  johnc4510 felt that plans couldn't be made until he had information on the receipt of disks from ShipIt.  kennymc0 felt that it could still be held with burned CDs or USBs of Jaunty.  Then a later install fest could be run with the ShipIt CDs.

johnc4510 then asked for PLUG announcements from xHans.

* Avondale Free Software Stammtische this week on Wednesday.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch and http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5498

* Tempe Free Software Stammtische next week on Tuesday.  http://www.LuftHans.com/node/1521

* West side meeting a week from Wednesday.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/356

* Red Seven Jaunty release party is a week from Thursday on the 23rd.  http://www.RedSevenLinux.com/events/

* Monthly Installfest and Jaunty release party for Phoenix a week from Saturday on the 25th.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/112 .  PLUG chairman blog entry for the release parties:  http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5659 .  I've requested that the PLUG Installfest calendar event get updated with info on the release party.

johnc4510 then mentioned for future consideration: System76 will print fliers for free for member teams.  http://knowledge76.com/index.php/76er_Program .  We would have to have the template done in advance.  It would save us having to expend our personal paper and ink to get it done.  tyche mentioned that he'd heard about the plan, earlier, when we were working on the UWN.  He'll take a look when he has some time, and let you know. [Ed. Note:  The idea looks workable, and I couldn't detect any "gotchas" with it.  This may be something we should consider.]

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:35 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
