{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===

<pre> 
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:01]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	Dazed_75	+1
[21:01]	toddc	+1
[21:01]	dennisk	+1
[21:01]	toddc	Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:02]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me during the meeting
[21:02]	toddc	Here is new news from ubuntu news:
[21:03]	toddc	see the current status for ubunt server development
[21:03]	toddc	http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/ubuntu-server.html
[21:03]	toddc	Ubuntu Cerification going forward to be ready for Oneirick
[21:03]	toddc	http://victorpalau.net/2011/06/06/ubuntu-certification-going-forward/
[21:03]	toddc	Key-mon now in the Archive a on screen keyboard for touch screens
[21:03]	toddc	http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2011/05/key-mon-now-in-ubuntu-oneiric-archive.html
[21:03]	toddc	ubuntu classroom friday430-530
[21:03]	toddc	Q and A with Penelope Stowe and Charlie Kravetz of the Ubuntu Accessibility Team
[21:04]	toddc	The Linux Action Show sunday at 10.am and 8pm pacific time
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.jupiterbroadcasting.com/8211/bryan-smash-google-las-s16e09/
[21:04]	toddc	Install and configure GNOME DO in unity
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/opensource/install-and-configure-gnome-do-in-ubuntu-unity/2535
[21:04]	toddc	30 days of linux day 4 tweaking the look and layout
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/229418/day_4_tweaking_the_look_and_layout_of_ubuntu_linux.htm
[21:05]	toddc	Linux User's Ubuntu column #100 with Mark Shuttleworth
[21:05]	toddc	http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/opinion/linux-users-ubuntu-column-100-with-mark-shuttleworth/
[21:06]	toddc	sh and WiKID TWO FACTOR auth
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.howtoforge.com/securing-ssh-on-ubuntu-with-wikid-two-factor-authentication
[21:06]	toddc	Team Status is still in question and has not moved to my knowledge I have updated the azloco site a bit and made some progress on the team wiki but it still needs more updating before we can go before the council
[21:06]	toddc	I have not been in contact with john4510 for a while but did email him this week but no reply as of yet
[21:06]	toddc	Dazed_75 and I are updating the team wiki https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[21:06]	toddc	if you have a second check it out and make some recommendations or help with updating
[21:06]	toddc	also if someone would like to handle the education or membership or newsletter team
[21:06]	toddc	they are easy and will help the Team a lot and the wiki explains a lot of info on each and those page could use a update also.
[21:07]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:07]	toddc	local motors is looking for a PHP programmer
[21:07]	toddc	TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:07]	toddc	Bj0 built a eyeos server for me as a test platform if anyone would like to play and give me input
[21:07]	toddc	please try it after the meeting at http://tempe.dyndns-at-home.com:8080/eyeos/
[21:07]	toddc	eyeos is a web browser desktop think of it as a light weight cloud desktop pc---android=google
[21:07]	toddc	
[21:07]	toddc	The BBB server is working well. I recommend everyone try it at http://azlocobbb.banditti.com and pick a log in name. I think we can start talking about holding meetings there and picking a date to switch. Any thoughts?
[21:08]	toddc	TEMPE INSTALLFEST NEWS
[21:08]	toddc	Server installfest is Next Saturday 6/18 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's
[21:08]	toddc	Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
[21:08]	toddc	The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:08]	toddc	Q and A with Penelope Stowe and Charlie Kravetz of the Ubuntu Accessibility Team
[21:08]	toddc	WhenFri, June 17, 4:30pm – 5:30pm utc
[21:08]	toddc	Where#ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net
[21:09]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:09]	toddc	I was thinking about a 11.10 release party/ meet and greet Oct 11 but need Idea's as to where?
[21:09]	toddc	Some thoughts are UAT or a bar/ coffee shop or I hear there is wifi at Tempe Town lake maybe a BBQ?
[21:09]	toddc	Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
[21:09]	toddc	
[21:09]	toddc	Thanks to [R] for the logs, I have been able to recreate most of the lost meeting logs files to enter into
[21:09]	toddc	our team wiki. There are still a few gaps and I have only had time to review the last year
[21:09]	toddc	Team status must be renewed by July 19
[21:09]	Dazed_75	10/11 is 2 weeks prior to the release
[21:10]	toddc	this needs to be done if we want to keep active status as a Team we will also need to show events like the installfests and keep up your personal wiki's and
[21:10]	toddc	PLUG EVENTS
[21:10]	toddc	no events This week
[21:10]	toddc	Linux Security Hackfest 12-3 Sat AT Gangplank see azloco.com calender or plugaz for more info
[21:10]	toddc	XHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:11]	xHans	just one more item
[21:11]	xHans	well, it's kinda two items
[21:11]	xHans	Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
[21:11]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:11]	xHans	that same night, after the Stammtisch, there is an ABLEconf planning meeting
[21:11]	xHans	both are in the conference room at Iguana Macks
[21:12]	xHans	that's it. danke
[21:13]	toddc	Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
[21:13]	toddc	dennisk do yo have anything to add?
[21:14]	xHans	thanks for giving us room and for keeping the loco going
[21:14]	Dazed_75	So server Installfest is this Saturday and regular is the following one
[21:14]	toddc	correct
[21:14]	dennisk	Nothing at the moment
[21:14]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:15]	toddc	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
[21:15]	Dazed_75	We have 3 in Big Nlue Button ATM
[21:15]	Dazed_75	Ack - my typing sucks
[21:15]	toddc	need more to test under load
[21:18]	-->|	spinrage (~spinrage@ip70-190-142-30.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:18]	toddc	just missed the meeting spinrage
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
