{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 02 February - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 17 attendees
* 6 installs (5 Ubuntu, 1 CentOS)
* 2 IPFire server repairs
* Conducted training for one instructor and three students from Grand Canyon University on basic Linux installs as well as the command line.
* 02 February - AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest
* 16 attendees
* 2 installs (1 Lubuntu, 1 Peppermint)
* Conducted 2 one on one training sessions (Thunderbird and GRUB)
* Distributed Ubuntu SWAG and distributed information on the Ubuntu-Arizona Local Community Team and the Cochise Linux User Group
* 03 February – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2003%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 07 February – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees (1 new attendee)
* Fixed Ubuntu laptop to play DVDs
* Installed nextcloud server on laptop
* Troubleshot mSATA writes on a Pentium laptop 
* Discussed ansible playbooks to update systems
* 10 February - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2010%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 14 February - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the possible participation in the University of Arizona South Family Day on 13 April.
* Discussed the After Action Report for the 02 February Installfest.
* Discussed the possible collaboration with the Fort Huachuca IEEE branch on some future events.  They have expressed an interest in doing so.
* Passed out Valentine’s Day candy to all present
* 17 February - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5  attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2017%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 28 February - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Installed Ubuntu 18.04 on HP Envy x360
* Troubleshoot pfSense config issues
* Discussed mystery port 7423 on Netgear routers 
