{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 22 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-04-22-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-19-04-disco-dingo-officially-released-with-linux-5-0-and-gnome-3-32-525714.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/eclipse-iot-survey-reveals-growing-role-for-linux-and-arm/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/5-essential-linux-apps-for-guitarists/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2019/03/27/solus-4-linux-gaming-report-nvidia-amd-steam/#39183f0c533a 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/can-better-task-stealing-make-linux-faster 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/useful-pdf-manipulation-tools/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/generate-random-number-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/create-swap-using-fdisk-fallocate/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/delete-all-text-in-a-file-using-vi-editor/# 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/virtualbox-6-0-6-released-with-support-for-linux-5-0-and-linux-5-1-kernels-525697.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/show-asterisks-sudo-password-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Best-Open-Source-Tools-for-Staying-on-Top-of-Projects-85932.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/4/troubleshooting-wifi-linux 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/4/command-line-playgrounds-webassembly 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-stacer-system-monitoring-on-ubuntu-1804-lts/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-shell-script-mysql-mariadb-database-backup/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/check-mysql-mariadb-database-table-size-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/linux-server-hardening-using-idempotency-ansible-part-1 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/3/how-install-ldap-account-manager-ubuntu-server-1804 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/how-authenticate-linux-desktop-your-openldap-server 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* RexB (56)
* stephenm (45)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (2)
* pirateP (2)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <RexB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Apr 22 04:00:03 2019 UTC.  The chair is RexB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <RexB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <RexB> +1

 04:00 <RexB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <RexB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <RexB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <RexB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <RexB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <RexB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <RexB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <RexB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <RexB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <RexB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> Ubuntu 19.04 (Disco Dingo) Officially Released, Here's What's New

 04:02 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-19-04-disco-dingo-officially-released-with-linux-5-0-and-gnome-3-32-525714.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> Sorry I need to start testing these things to give a narrative but I also need a new HDD.  Mine are starting to die.

 04:03 <stephenm> Eclipse IoT survey reveals growing role for Linux and Arm

 04:03 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/eclipse-iot-survey-reveals-growing-role-for-linux-and-arm/

 04:03 <stephenm> 7 Essential Linux Apps for Guitarists

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/5-essential-linux-apps-for-guitarists/

 04:03 <pirateP> +1

 04:03 <pirateP> late

 04:03 <stephenm> Solus 4 Linux Gaming Report: A Great Nvidia, Radeon And Steam User Experience

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2019/03/27/solus-4-linux-gaming-report-nvidia-amd-steam/#39183f0c533a

 04:03 <RexB> Hello pirateP

 04:03 <stephenm> well at least you're here pirateP

 04:03 <stephenm> Can Better Task Stealing Make Linux Faster?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/can-better-task-stealing-make-linux-faster

 04:04 <stephenm> 9 Useful PDF Manipulation Tools

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/useful-pdf-manipulation-tools/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Generate a Random Number in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/generate-random-number-linux.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Creating SWAP partition using FDISK & FALLOCATE commands

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/create-swap-using-fdisk-fallocate/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Delete all Text in a File Using Vi/Vim Editor

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/delete-all-text-in-a-file-using-vi-editor/#

 04:04 <stephenm> VirtualBox 6.0.6 Released with Support for Linux 5.0 and Linux 5.1 Kernels

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/virtualbox-6-0-6-released-with-support-for-linux-5-0-and-linux-5-1-kernels-525697.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Show Asterisks While Typing Sudo Password in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/show-asterisks-sudo-password-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Best Open Source Tools for Staying on Top of Projects

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Best-Open-Source-Tools-for-Staying-on-Top-of-Projects-85932.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Troubleshooting slow WiFi on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/4/troubleshooting-wifi-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> Level up command-line playgrounds with WebAssembly

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/4/command-line-playgrounds-webassembly

 04:05 <stephenm> How to install Stacer System Monitor on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-stacer-system-monitoring-on-ubuntu-1804-lts/

 04:06 <stephenm> A Simple Shell Script For MySQL/MariaDB Database Backup

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-shell-script-mysql-mariadb-database-backup/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Check MySQL/MariaDB Database And Table Size In Linux?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/check-mysql-mariadb-database-table-size-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Server Hardening Using Idempotency with Ansible: Part 1

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/linux-server-hardening-using-idempotency-ansible-part-1

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install LDAP Account Manager on Ubuntu Server 18.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/3/how-install-ldap-account-manager-ubuntu-server-1804

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Authenticate a Linux Desktop to Your OpenLDAP Server

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/how-authenticate-linux-desktop-your-openldap-server

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you RexB

 04:07 <RexB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> thank you stephenm

 04:07 <RexB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <RexB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <RexB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <RexB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <RexB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <RexB> 04 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop.  Venue unavailable

 04:08 <RexB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <RexB> There are 66 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <RexB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <RexB> There are 78 new jobs and a total of 141 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <RexB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <RexB> There are 25 new jobs and a total of 91 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <RexB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <RexB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:10 <RexB> 25 April,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <RexB> 02 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <RexB> 04 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, Canceled.  Venue unavailable.

 04:10 <RexB> 04 May, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Dr. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. Yo

 04:10 <RexB> u must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:11 <RexB> 09 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <RexB> 18 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwar

 04:11 <RexB> e.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <RexB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:12 <RexB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:13 <RexB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 09 May 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:13 <RexB> PLUG Security Class on 16 May 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:13 <RexB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:13 <RexB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 21 May 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things t

 04:13 <RexB> ech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:14 <RexB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 28 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:14 <RexB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 03 May 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:14 <RexB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 08 May 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:14 <RexB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 27 April 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:15 <RexB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else?

 04:15 <RexB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <RexB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
