{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<cc11rocks> +1
<Rich_> +1
<Eric-A> +1
<xorrito> wow whats going on??
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<xorrito> +1
<xorrito> ??
<cc11rocks> The AZLOCO IRC Meeting xorrito
<toddc> xorrito: weekley meeting
<oda> +1
<xorrito> really? well this is the first time i get in one. carry on (sorry just got in)
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Some of us are in   http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/     tonight if you want to talk or see us!
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> xorrito:  can you tell the group a bit about yourself?
<xorrito> sure. here or at BBB?
<toddc> here
<xorrito> ok well I am 20 (i think) male that loves ubuntu. i love gaming and computing
<Dazed_75> Xorrito: in BBB land you will need to acticate your mic and camera at the upper left of the page
<toddc> "Linux, because we don't need no steenkin' Blue Screen of Death!"
<Dazed_75> activate
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<xorrito> oh um i don't think i have a mike in this lappy
<Dazed_75> Become a Vi Master by Learning These 30+ Key Bindings
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/115051/become-a-vi-master-by-learning-these-30-key-bindings
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> What is the Difference Between Ubuntu and Linux Mint?
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/115041/htg-explains-whats-the-difference-between-ubuntu-linux-mint
<Dazed_75> How to configure Ubuntu's Built-in Firewall
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/115116/how-to-configure-ubuntus-built-in-firewall
<Dazed_75> Why Linux Doesn't Need Defragmenting
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/115229/htg-explains-why-linux-doesnt-need-defragmenting
<Dazed_75> How to Install and Configure Proxy Server with Squid3 on Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuserverguide.com/2012/05/how-to-install-and-configure-proxy-server-with-squid3-on-ubuntu-server-12-04-lts.html
<Dazed_75> How to install a LEMP (with Enginx) Server in Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/install-lemp-server-in-ubuntu/2012/05/29
<Dazed_75> Grive: a FOSS Google Drive Client for Linux
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/05/grive-free-and-open-source-google-drive-client-for-linux.html
<Dazed_75> An Opinion: 2012's Best Linux Desktop is Linux Mint 13
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/blog/open-source/2012s-best-linux-desktop-linux-mint-13/11110
<Dazed_75> Secure Linux: Part 1. SELinux History of ...
<Dazed_75> http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-secure-linux-ru/index.html?ca=drs-
<Dazed_75> Delete Old Files in a Folder Automatically
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/delete-old-files-in-a-folder-automatically-in-linux/2012/05/30
<Dazed_75> Install Mint Display Manager in Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/install-mint-display-manager-mdm-in.html
<Dazed_75> Restart X Server in Ubuntu 12.04 without Rebooting
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/05/restart-x-server-ubuntu-12-04-without-rebooting.html
<Dazed_75> How Big is a Billion? (Not Computer Related but not What You Think Either)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/115283/how-big-is-a-billion-video
<Dazed_75> Microsoft EULA Changes Nix Class Action Suits
<Dazed_75> http://news.cnet.com/8301-10805_3-57442686-75/new-microsoft-eula-fine-print-nixes-class-action/
<Dazed_75> Fedora 18 to Support UEFI Secure Boot
<Dazed_75> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Fedora-18-to-support-UEFI-Secure-Boot-1588057.html
<toddc> i got some reading to do tonight!
<Dazed_75> SkyDrive Support Coming to Gnome 3.6
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/SkyDrive-Support-Coming-to-GNOME-3-6-272840.shtml
<Dazed_75> Why You Only Need to Wipe a Disk Once (normally)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/115573/htg-explains-why-you-only-have-to-wipe-a-disk-once-to-erase-it
<Dazed_75> Canonical teams up with Humble Indie Bundle, Ubuntu installations streamlined
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/gaming/130328-canonical-teams-up-with-the-humble-indie-bundle-v
<Dazed_75> Speech Recognition Using the Raspberry Pi
<Dazed_75>     http://www.aonsquared.co.uk/raspi_voice_control
<Dazed_75> Raspberry Pi Impressions: the $35 Linux computer and tinker toy
<Dazed_75>     http://www.engadget.com/2012/06/01/raspberry-pi-impressions-the-35-linux-computer-and-tinker-toy/
<Dazed_75> Mark Shuttleworth Opens UbuCin Latin Americon Video
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/mark-shuttleworth-opens-ubucon-latin-america-video
<Dazed_75> System 76 Lemur Ultra Ubuntu Laptop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/hands-on-with-the-system76-lemur-ultra-ubuntu-laptop
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint Mini-PC Coming soon
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/linux-mint-mini-pc-coming-soon
<Dazed_75> Will You Help Change the Way Open-Source Apps are Funded?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/help-linux-tycoon-more-go-open-source
<cc11rocks> I keep up with all the Linux news and I STILL have stuff to read :P
<Dazed_75> and thats it for me!
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<cc11rocks> Thank you Dazed_75
<toddc> I have a couple more to add!
<toddc> http://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/news/2181774/red-hat-pay-verisign-sign-fedora-microsofts-uefi-secure-boot
<xorrito> grasias
<toddc> fedora signed a uefi contract
<cc11rocks> $99
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> We now have 12.04 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 Adrenaline or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> JOB LIST
<cc11rocks> Thank you very much toddc for the CD's :D
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<xorrito> what to do for the cds?
<toddc> IT Support -Systems Administrator
<toddc> jg2jz-3049923180@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> Linux Systems Administrator (Phoenix Az )
<toddc> Laura McKee
<toddc> Technical Recruiter
<toddc> Office Direct #423-591-7412
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> June 17 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extream Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<Dazed_75> xorrito: We hand out the CDs to anyone who might try them.  If you want some for the Tucson area and /or got a Ubuntu hour, we can send you some
<toddc> basicly another standing room only event!
<xorrito> yeah i will like that!
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so we are also thinking about a room change in the future. The last several events were at or near standing room only.
<Dazed_75> xorrito: just let Todd or I know and where to send them.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on June 9 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<xorrito> ok
<toddc> Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday June 16 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<xorrito> carpool?
<toddc> the Test server test.azloco.com has been fixed and upgraded to 12.04 thanks to adrenaline and hope to be adding another server in the near future. We have installed drupal  on it to upgrade the web page and main server to 12.04
<Dazed_75> xorrito: Carpool to where?
<toddc> if some one has a few minuets and some drupal knowledge need some web redesign
<toddc> please contact adrenaline or myself
<xorrito> the installfest
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<cc11rocks> If you are interested in Java Applets (yes I know it is outdated) I could do that...
<xorrito> i've tinker with drupal before
<toddc> kk stick around for some questions later if you can
<Dazed_75> xorrito: if you can get some folks together to carpool, we would love to see you.  TRodd will cantact the other person we know there
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlueButton ver 08-beta-3 to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page once Drupal is updated.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Ubuntu Training Days
<toddc> June 23-24 on IRC freenode #ubuntu-classroom or just install Lernid       See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
<xorrito> i feel like i should know who trodd is
<toddc> we met in Tucsan last year
<toddc> Dazed_75 was there too
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<xorrito> oh right!! im horrible with names
<Dazed_75> Thats Todd with a Dennis Rodman do
<toddc> We are planning to attend the LUGY meeting in Prescott on June 11 at 7pm
<toddc> I am planning on a carpool for those interested leaving at Az Mills Mall at 4PM
<toddc> I am allowing a bit of extra time to get there but if if you want to go we could
<toddc> leave a bit later if needed
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<Dazed_75> FernHans: are you here
<Dazed_75> FernHans: are you here?
<toddc> I think I have the info soo I will try
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Developer Meeting June 7, 7-9pm at University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<xorrito> I can't click on allow on the darn adobe flash settings windo
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday June 17 7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<cc11rocks> I got the same problem xorrito
<cc11rocks> Though I didn't try too hard
<xorrito> it bugs me cuz this is not the first time this has happen to me
<toddc> go to http://www.macromedia.com/support/documentation/en/flashplayer/help/settings_manager03.html
<Eric-A> what's the east side topic going to be that night?
<toddc> add azlocobbb.banditti.com to each tab and allow it to be accessed
<oda> Prescott is nice
<toddc> I enjoy a trip upthere from time to time
<Dazed_75> Dev meeting is on Puppet
<oda> Unfortunately I don't think I could go without disappearing into the woods never to be seen again
<Dazed_75> I do not know what the East side topic will be
<Eric-A> ok
<xorrito> lol i figured out. and is exactly what you told me.
<toddc> web site Privacy settings is the main one to add the site too
<Dazed_75> hackfest will be: We will be meeting at MakerBench in Tempe as usual next Saturday the 9th for a Presentation on Virtual Monies, BitCoin exploits, P2P protocols, Skype networking and exploits and a general discussion of other distributed networking protocols as they relate to Linux Security.
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday June 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<Dazed_75> Apologies:  Todd says that place is closed so maybe no hackfest saturday
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<toddc> so did everyone figue out BBB?
* Rich_ has quit (Quit: Page closed)
<cc11rocks> Thanks toddc
<cc11rocks> Didn't try again
<Eric-A> thanks Todd
<xorrito> I think i did. i could find nether my cam nor my mic.
<toddc> np thanks for showing up
<oda> Dazed_75, Please keep us informed if it will be on or not.
<Dazed_75> I just sent Lisa an email questioning her post about it
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
