{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 19 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:13 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-02-19-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/news/hackscracks/ubuntu-tool-vulnerability   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/linux-mint-cinnamon-mate-xfce/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2024/02/system76-says-cosmic-desktops-alpha-release-is-almost-here/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/juno-computers-launches-saturn-linux-laptop-with-ubuntu-and-nvidia-rtx-4070   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/slimbook-manjaro-gaming-laptop/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/cosmic-desktop-slated-to-debut-with-popos-24-04-lts/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/emborg-front-end-borg-backup/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/02/16/what_is_unix/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/freenginx-emerges-in-response-to-f5-management-decisions/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/iol-hat-enhancing-smart-sensor-integration-for-raspberry-pi-and-industrial-applications/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-fix-wordpress-critical-error-message/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-bluetooth-file-exchange/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/darktable-4-6-1-released-with-performance-improvements-and-bug-fixes   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/shrinking-long-or-multiple-commands-into-a-single-short-command/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/how-to-fix-drupal-clean-urls-not-working/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/02/16/freenginx_fork/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/news/security-vulnerabilities/runc-container-escape-flaws   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/npx-package-runner/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-surya-multilingual-document-ocr-toolkit-text-recognition/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/deep-learning-with-python-best-free-software/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/zfs-linux-unlocking-advanced-file-system-and-volume-management   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/setting-up-virtual-machines-with-qemu-kvm-and-virt-manager-on-debian-ubuntu   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/converting-virtualbox-ova-to-qcow2-for-qemu-kvm-deployment   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-24-04-lts-desktop-installer-will-be-updated-with-accessibility-features   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxhostsupport.com/blog/how-to-check-and-change-the-time-zone-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/21X   (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org   (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/svecc-events/   (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/   (MajB, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (63)
* stephenm (55)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:10 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:01 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:02 <stephenm> sorry I'm late

 04:02 <stephenm> +1

 04:02 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:02 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:02 <MajB> Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:03 <stephenm> news is scattered all around

 04:03 <stephenm> Ubuntu Tool Could Trick Users Into Installing Rogue Packages

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/news/hackscracks/ubuntu-tool-vulnerability

 04:03 <stephenm> Cinnamon vs. Mate vs. XFCE: The Best Linux Mint Edition

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/linux-mint-cinnamon-mate-xfce/

 04:03 <stephenm> System76 Says Cosmic Desktop’s Alpha Release Is Almost Here

 04:03 <stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2024/02/system76-says-cosmic-desktops-alpha-release-is-almost-here/

 04:03 <stephenm> Juno Computers Launches Saturn Linux Laptop with Ubuntu and NVIDIA RTX 4070

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/juno-computers-launches-saturn-linux-laptop-with-ubuntu-and-nvidia-rtx-4070

 04:03 <stephenm> Slimbook Launches Manjaro Gaming Edition Laptop

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/slimbook-manjaro-gaming-laptop/

 04:04 <stephenm> COSMIC Desktop Is Slated to Debut with Pop!_OS 24.04 LTS

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/cosmic-desktop-slated-to-debut-with-popos-24-04-lts/

 04:04 <stephenm> Emborg – Front-End to BorgBackup

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/emborg-front-end-borg-backup/

 04:04 <stephenm> Forgetting the history of Unix is coding us into a corner

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2024/02/16/what_is_unix/

 04:04 <stephenm> FreeNginx Emerges in Response to F5’s Management Decisions

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/freenginx-emerges-in-response-to-f5-management-decisions/

 04:04 <stephenm> IOL HAT: Enhancing Smart Sensor Integration for Raspberry Pi and Industrial Applications.

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/iol-hat-enhancing-smart-sensor-integration-for-raspberry-pi-and-industrial-applications/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Fix WordPress “Critical Error” Message

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-fix-wordpress-critical-error-message/

 04:05 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Bluetooth File Exchange

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-bluetooth-file-exchange/

 04:05 <stephenm> Darktable 4.6.1 Released with Performance Improvements and Bug Fixes

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/darktable-4-6-1-released-with-performance-improvements-and-bug-fixes

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Shrink Long or Multiple Commands into a Single Short Command

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/shrinking-long-or-multiple-commands-into-a-single-short-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Fix Drupal “Clean URLs” Not Working

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/how-to-fix-drupal-clean-urls-not-working/

 04:05 <stephenm> Nginx web server forked as Freenginx to escape corporate overlords

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2024/02/16/freenginx_fork/

 04:05 <stephenm> RunC Container Escape Flaws Grant Attackers Host Access

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/news/security-vulnerabilities/runc-container-escape-flaws

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Use NPX in Linux: A Step-by-Step Guide

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/npx-package-runner/

 04:06 <stephenm> Machine Learning in Linux: Surya – multilingual document OCR toolkit adds text recognition

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-surya-multilingual-document-ocr-toolkit-text-recognition/

 04:06 <stephenm> Deep Learning with Open Source Python Software

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/deep-learning-with-python-best-free-software/

 04:06 <stephenm> ZFS on Linux: Unlocking Advanced File System and Volume Management

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/zfs-linux-unlocking-advanced-file-system-and-volume-management

 04:06 <stephenm> Setting Up Virtual Machines with QEMU, KVM, and Virt-Manager on Debian/Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/setting-up-virtual-machines-with-qemu-kvm-and-virt-manager-on-debian-ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> Converting VirtualBox OVA to QCOW2 for QEMU/KVM Deployment

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/converting-virtualbox-ova-to-qcow2-for-qemu-kvm-deployment

 04:07 <stephenm> Ubuntu 24.04 LTS Desktop Installer Will Be Updated with Accessibility Features

 04:07 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-24-04-lts-desktop-installer-will-be-updated-with-accessibility-features

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Check and Change the Time Zone on Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxhostsupport.com/blog/how-to-check-and-change-the-time-zone-on-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm.  Good job

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 214 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> There are 29 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 9 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:08 <MajB> 22 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 02 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:09 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 March, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> 07 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 14 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <MajB> 14 March, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 16 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:10 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 17 March, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 28 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:11 <MajB> SCaLE  14-17 March 2024

 04:11 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/21X

 04:11 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS:

 04:11 <MajB> S. G.  Moore, joined 01 February.  Welcome her to the Local Community Team.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group

 04:12 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 14 March, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:12 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 19 March, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:12 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:12 <MajB> https://svecc.com/svecc-events/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting 13 March 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month),

 04:12 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group

 04:12 <MajB> https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 27 February 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:12 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:12 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:13 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:13 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
