{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 02 November – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Configured ipfire and centos on proxmox
* Discussed new features of 17.10
* Installed adobe acrobat on a laptop (add repo, apt install)
* Discussed vintage hardware (commodore 64, ISA bus cards)
* 04 November – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 4 attendees
* Attempted unsuccessfully to revive the Team Installfest server
* Updated and configured the Team proxmox server
* Created a new file server.  It will be activated at a later date
* Disabled wifi on Linux Mint 9 installation (since Linux Mint 9 is no longer supported)
* 05 November – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2005%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 12 November – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2012%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 16 November - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees (one new person)
* A report was presented on the two “House Calls” that members made on the 10th and 11th of November to conduct an installation of Ubuntu and provide assistance to a couple of Linux users on whose computers we had previously installed Ubuntu.
* Discussed how to sync the Group’s calendar with personal calendars.
* Discussed the possible dates for the next Sierra Vista Installfest in January and settled on the 20th.  Rex Bouwense will coordinate with the UA South for use of the Learning Resource Center on that date.
* 18 November - AZLOCO/PLUG installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Installed Raspberry Pi with OSMC program.
* Reloaded an ASUS laptop with a password reset and a re-install an OS.
* Attempted unsuccessfully to get the touch screen to work on Raspberry Pi.
* Installed Virtual Box
* Installed PROMOX & IP Fire on a server
* Installed Linux Mint on a laptop
* Worked on drive adapters on a desktop
* 19 November - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2019%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 26 November - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2026%2C%202017%20Meeting
