{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 19 Jul at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-07-19-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/07/14/ubuntu_openstack/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/elementary-os/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/7/home-temperature-raspberry-pi-prometheus   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/steam-client-on-linux-has-been-updated/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/container-image-differences   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-onlyoffice-desktop-editors-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-wordpress-on-almalinux-8/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/07/14/tails_linux_420/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-touch-ota-18-officially-released-with-performance-improvements-bug-fixes   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/7/rust-tools-linux   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/tune-linux-tips   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/add-user-to-group-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-rust-programming-language-on-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/07/13/gitops_explained/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/7/programming-read-write   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/7/python-3   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-owncloud-to-create-personal-storage-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/find-and-kill-running-processes-pid-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-modifying-existing-systemd-unit-file/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-setup-geoip-block-using-apache/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://lufthans.bigbluemeeting.com/b/plu-yuk-7xx   (MajB, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (63)
* stephenm (46)
* meetingology (2)
* Eleison23 (1)
* markthomas (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:35 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <Eleison23> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <toddc> *1

 04:03 <stephenm> News is scattered like always but has good information.

 04:03 <stephenm> Huh, it's as if something happened that made people not like CentOS so much

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/07/14/ubuntu_openstack/

 04:03 <stephenm> Elementary OS – A Linux Distro for Windows and macOS Users

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/elementary-os/

 04:04 <stephenm> Tried Elememtary once, wasn't a bad OS

 04:04 <stephenm> Monitor your home's temperature and humidity with Raspberry Pis and Prometheus

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/7/home-temperature-raspberry-pi-prometheus

 04:04 <stephenm> Steam Client on Linux Has Been Updated, Here’s What’s new

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/steam-client-on-linux-has-been-updated/

 04:04 <stephenm> What is the difference between a Linux container and an image?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/container-image-differences

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install ONLYOFFICE Desktop Editors in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-onlyoffice-desktop-editors-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install WordPress on AlmaLinux 8

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-wordpress-on-almalinux-8/

 04:05 <stephenm> Happy 4.20: Latest version of Tails bakes connection wizard into pro-privacy Linux distro

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/07/14/tails_linux_420/

 04:05 <stephenm> Ubuntu Touch OTA-18 Officially Released with Performance Improvements, Bug Fixes

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-touch-ota-18-officially-released-with-performance-improvements-bug-fixes

 04:06 <stephenm> 5 Rust tools worth trying on the Linux command line

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/7/rust-tools-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> 3 tips for Linux process performance improvement with priority and affinity

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/tune-linux-tips

 04:06 <stephenm> Add User to Group in Linux, How to Do It (with Examples)

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/add-user-to-group-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Rust Programming Language on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-rust-programming-language-on-ubuntu/

 04:07 <stephenm> What is GitOps? This is the technical introduction you've been looking for

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/07/13/gitops_explained/

 04:07 <stephenm> How different programming languages read and write data

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/7/programming-read-write

 04:07 <stephenm> 5 hidden gems in Python 3

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/7/python-3

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install OwnCloud to Create Own Cloud Storage in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-owncloud-to-create-personal-storage-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> Install And Configure Ansible In Linuxhttps://ostechnix.com/install-and-configure-ansible-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Find and Kill Running Processes in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/find-and-kill-running-processes-pid-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to modify an existing systemd unit file

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-modifying-existing-systemd-unit-file/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Setup GeoIP Block using Apache

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-setup-geoip-block-using-apache/

 04:09 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to MajB

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> The Team IRC channel, #ubuntu-us-az, has migrated from irc-freenode.net to irc-libera-chat.

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> 

 04:09 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 153 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 187 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 30 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:11 <MajB> 22 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 01 August, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> 05 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:11 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 12 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 12 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 15 August, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 21 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:12 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 August, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:12 <MajB> Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> 25 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:12 <MajB> 23 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  LuftHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:14 <MajB> 20 July:  The virtual Free Software Stammtisch is a social environment for GNU, Linux, *BSD and other Free Software enthusiasts.  Starts at 19:00 Arizona time (GMT-7). Feel free to invite friends and family to participate.   Currently using a hosted Big Blue Button instance.

 04:14 <MajB> https://lufthans.bigbluemeeting.com/b/plu-yuk-7xx

 04:14 <MajB> 12 August:  PLUG East Meeting 1900

 04:14 <MajB> 19 August:  Linux Security 1900

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:14 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:14 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month at the Sunland Village East computer lab 1800-1930.

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 24 July 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael St., Sierra Vista.

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:15 <MajB> Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.

 04:16 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
