{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #34 for the week February 4 - February 10.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Thirty-Fourth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-February 13, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday February 17, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the February 10, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:04 PM

There were no new members to introduce.

johnc4510 began the meeting with 2 announcements:

1. First off, we've had some instances of rude behavior and people attacking other people in the team channel (irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-us-az). This will not be tolerated!! We have never had this problem before, and it is not something we want happening. Anyone who continues to act in such a manner will be banned from the channel. This is not only a working ubuntu channel, it is our social channel too. Everyone _MUST_ make the effort to get along and stop this childish behavior.  i hate to have to say things like that but enough said i hope.

2. New in Hardy Heron: Clutch BitTorrent WebUI - Transmission will be the new torrent downloading app. in Hardy, and it is being teamed up with Clutch. Clutch is a way to control you torrents remotely. Yes remotely. You can interface with your torrents at home from any web browser. To learn more on this new app. in Hardy, visit this link: http://tinyurl.com/2geg8r

For our first order of business, johnc4510 announced that he has been working on the outline for our wiki page on the proposed open source conference to be held in the last half of the year. He should be able to preview it next week, along with things he has found out about it.

Our next order of business was installfests.  We need to start planning.  johnc4510 has set up a wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Installfest.  The first thing to decide was the date to hold the first one.  It was decided that a Saturday afternoon might be best, and the date and time were set for Saturday, May 17, 2008 between 1:00 pm and 5:00 pm.  A suggestion was made by word that we bring a legal copy of Microsoft Windows XP to the installfest, to demonstrate the difference in time and ease between the installation of that and Ubuntu Linux.  The suggestion was favorably met.

The question of location came up.  Things that we would need in a location include tables, chairs, internet connection and power.  enigmastrat mentioned that he holds LAN parties in Peoria, and suggested that he could hold one that day.  It's a big space.  This would be for the Phoenix Metro area.  Other possibilities included Pima Community College and University of Arizona for the Tucson area.

Advertising was another question, and the possibility of using local papers, public television/radio, and commercial television/radio were suggested.  The use of flyers was also suggested, and soldats offered to look at what we had for the possibility of using or modifying them.  We need time, date, well you know the constants and it should have info on our loco and ubuntu, and our team logo.  johnc4510 suggested that soldats make up a preliminary for the team to make suggestions about.  Another possible suggestion was that the Cox channel sometimes advertise for free.

Another important aspect was power cords and power strips, banner, and burned CD's.  There wouldn't be time, between when Hardy Heron is release and when the installfest takes place to get a shipment from Shipit.  johnc4510 said that he'd see about the Ubuntu event package that Ubuntu supplies for events like this.  It's his impression that it might include a banner.  Other things, like distinctive T-Shirts were also suggested.  The biggest thing needed, though is manpower. johnc4510 asked that people recruit in channel, and that he would be sending out a letter to the mailing list to also try to drum up interest.

== INSTALLFEST SUMMAARY ==

=== Material Requirements ===

* Man Power
* Install Disks
* Power Strips & Extension Cords
* Leaflets to pass out about our LoCo
* Signs, banners, and/or posters
* Some kind of cart to help people bring in the boxes
* Cameras

==== Phoenix ====

'''Date:''' Saturday, May 17, 2008 <<BR>>
'''Time:''' 1:00 PM to 5:00 PM <<BR>>
'''Location:'''  <<BR>>

==== Tucson ====

'''Date:''' Saturday, May 17, 2008 <<BR>>
'''Time:''' 1:00 PM to 5:00 PM <<BR>>
'''Location:'''  <<BR>>

The meeting was adjourned at 9:57 PM

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
