{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<Dazed_75> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<pjdamws> +1
<wmack> +1
<toddc> hate to go back to the heat
<toddc> +1
<Rich_> +1
* dwayne54 has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<Dazed_75> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<Dazed_75> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<Dazed_75> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<_erroric> +1
<Dazed_75> Yea, I hear that.  Hope you make the 6th, but we'll manage if not
<Dazed_75> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<Dazed_75> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<Dazed_75> Anybody here that is new tonight?  Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<toddc> highs of 75 deg
<Dazed_75>  . . . waiting for any new ones to type
<Dazed_75> lets start with the news!!
<Dazed_75> How to set up a Wireless Hotspot (Access Point Mode) in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/how-to-set-up-wireless-hotspot-access.html
<Dazed_75> Help improve the Product Search experience in Unity
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/ubuntu-design-team-ask-how-do-you-use-search
<Dazed_75>  --- and please do that even (or especially if you don't use it
<Dazed_75> Dual Monitor brightness controller for Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/dual-monitor-brightness-controller
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 13.10 Tweaks [Ed: screws up] Dash click behavior
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/the-new-click-behaviour-in-the-dash
<Dazed_75> Get a more useful New Tab page for Chrome with Humble New Tab
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/useful-new-tab-page-for-chrome/2013/06/16
<Dazed_75> How to automatically take screenshots in Ubuntu at a regular interval
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/take-screenshots-in-ubuntu-at-regular-interval/2013/06/17
<Dazed_75> Manage multiple SSH sessions using ClusterSSH (cssh) on Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/cssh/
<Dazed_75> Do-over for Linux Community Distro Poll
<Dazed_75>     http://fossforce.com/2013/06/do-over-for-linux-community-distro-poll/
<Dazed_75> Surveillance cameras start at $70 and run embedded Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxgizmos.com/surveillance-cameras-run-embedded-linux/
<Dazed_75> Open source as the default in government
<Dazed_75>     http://opensource.com/government/13/6/open-source-default
<Dazed_75> Oracle fixes the latest 40 Java security flaws
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/06/18/oracle-fixes-the-latest-40-java-security-flaws/
<Dazed_75> Growing popularity of OS X attracts cybercriminals
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/06/18/growing-popularity-of-os-x-attracts-cybercriminals/
<Dazed_75> Dropbox update delivers performance improvements, better notifications
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/06/18/dropbox-update-delivers-performance-improvements-better-notifications/
<Dazed_75> German Parliament tells government to strictly limit patents on software
<Dazed_75>     http://opensource.com/law/13/6/german-parliament-limits-patents
<Dazed_75> Cat-like robot runs like the wind -- on Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxgizmos.com/cat-like-robot-runs-real-time-linux/
<Dazed_75> Customized Ubuntu OS for kiosks and digital signs
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxgizmos.com/customized-ubuntu-os-for-targets-kiosks-and-digital-signs/
<Dazed_75> Defining the true success of Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux.com/news/featured-blogs/168-brian-proffitt/724309-reality-check-defining-the-true-success-of-linux/
<Dazed_75> Debian 7.1 update released
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/debian-7-1-update-released
<Dazed_75> A brief history and guide to Linux's touch experience
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/guide-to-linux-touch-experience/2013/06/18
<Dazed_75> 8 major(?) carriers join Ubuntu Touch Advisory Group
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/8-mobile-operators-give-backing-to-ubuntu-touch
<Dazed_75> Time to bend your head! How does a quantum computer work?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/165730/how-does-a-quantum-computer-work/
<Dazed_75> NOTE: I've not found a Linux program to do this but maybe there is one.  Does anyone know?
<Dazed_75> How to create a WiFi Heatmap for network analysis and better coverage
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/165614/how-to-create-a-wi-fi-heatmap-for-network-analysis-better-coverage-and-geek-cred-galore/
<Dazed_75> Onion Pi turns Raspberry Pi into a Tor proxy and wireless access point
<Dazed_75>     http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/06/onion-pi-turns-raspberry-pi-into-tor-proxy-and-wireless-access-point
<Dazed_75> Everything you need to know about printing from your Android Phone or Tablet
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/165778/everything-you-need-to-know-about-printing-from-your-android-phone-or-tablet/
<Dazed_75> The post-PC world is too slow for me
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/06/19/the-post-pc-world-is-too-slow-for-me/
<Dazed_75> Major update to LibreOffice due end of July
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/06/19/major-update-to-libreoffice-due-end-of-july/
<Dazed_75> Using BlinkStick with Raspberry Pi
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Blogs/Productivity-Sauce/Using-BlinkStick-with-Raspberry-Pi
<Dazed_75> How to change the UUID of a partition (and why you would want to)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/how-to-change-uuid-of-partition.html
<Dazed_75> Free to use multi-platform (Win, Mac, Linux) alternate to Microsoft Visio (not Open Source however)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/yed/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.yworks.com/en/products_yed_about.html
<Dazed_75> Linux-based quadrocopter gains a flight recorder
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxgizmos.com/ar-drone-2-quadrocopter-gains-cool-features/
<Dazed_75> The End User guide to dual-boot Windows 8 and Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/dual-boot-windows-8-and-ubuntu/2013/06/19
<Dazed_75> 6 things you should NOT do with SSDs (Solid State Drives)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/165472/6-things-you-shouldnt-do-with-solid-state-drives/
<Dazed_75> Oracle doesn't understand open source
<Dazed_75>     http://www.itwire.com/business-it-news/open-source/60370-oracle-doesnt-understand-open-source-monty
<Dazed_75> Shuttleworth: Still key to Ubuntu Linux, Canonical, Open Source?
<Dazed_75>     http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/shuttleworth-still-key-ubuntu-linux-canonical-open-source
<Dazed_75> Nvidia driver soon likely to support EGL, Mir
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5MjE
<Dazed_75> Linux shell: timeout
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/pills/linux-shelltimeout?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Javascript alternatives
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/06/19/dart_beta/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/06/18/typescript_update_0_9/
<Dazed_75> Setup a motion detection webcam in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/setup-motion-detection-webcam-ubuntu/2013/06/20
<Dazed_75> How to take a screenshot of the login screen of Linux Mint 15
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/how-to-take-screenshot-of-login-screen.html
<Dazed_75> Why Solid State Drives (SSDs) slow down as you fill them up
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/165542/why-solid-state-drives-slow-down-as-you-fill-them-up/
<Dazed_75> Why can Linux systems sometimes recover data Windows can't?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/163757/why-can-linux-systems-sometimes-recover-data-windows-cant/
<Dazed_75> Multiarch: How to use 32-bit packages on a 64-bit system (Debian 7 Wheezy)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/multiarch-how-to-use-32bit-packages-on-a-64bit-system-debian-7-wheezy
<Dazed_75> Canonical's Mir move doesn't sit well with some Linux developers
<Dazed_75>     http://www.networkworld.com/news/2013/062013-canonical-mir-271072.html
<Dazed_75> How Progress Bars work and why they are inaccurate most of the time
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/how-progress-bars-work/2013/06/21
<Dazed_75> -- NOTE: This can also be useful to save/backup the MBR before installing Linux
<Dazed_75> How to configure the Boot Menu of Windows 8 with EasyBCD
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/configure-the-boot-menu-windows-8/2013/06/21
<Dazed_75> Assessing the current Intel Haswell Linux experience
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5MzU
<Dazed_75> How to get a virtual keyboard in Linux Mint MATE
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/virtual-keyboard-linux-mint-mate.html
<Dazed_75> ... and thats the News unless anyone has something to add
<toddc> great news thanks
<wmack> I second
<_erroric> 3RD
<Dazed_75> Has anyone heard from Xorrito regarding a confirmation of a date for the next Tucson Ubuntu Hour?
<toddc> i is supposed to be a new location but no comfrmation
<Dazed_75> Hmmm, I am hesitant to announce anything for it then
<Dazed_75> Since Ubuntu/Canonical will no longer make cd/dvd for other than LTS to teams, we do need to decide if we want to design and make them 
<Dazed_75> with covers etc or drop them for other than LTS versions.
<toddc> he has tried to contact me on irc but i  missed him
<Dazed_75> and I have no updates for job listings so I don't want to post ones that are OLD.  XHans or toddc have any new ones?
<Dazed_75> Also jason has been doing this so I have no Android pick or Linux app.  Hopefully we will be back on track next week
<toddc> not from here or now i am still just on my phone
<pjdamws> I've got one for a DB analyst in tucson
<pjdamws> http://tucson.jobing.com/database-analyst-information-technology/job/3842833
<Dazed_75> cool, Thanks
<Dazed_75> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<Dazed_75> Azloco/PLUG installfest is Saturday July 6 and Saturday July 20 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building. 
<Dazed_75> For more info see
<Dazed_75>  calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28 
<Dazed_75> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<Dazed_75> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<Dazed_75>  -- err, that is Todd will :)
<Dazed_75> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up. 
<Dazed_75> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<Dazed_75> Thursday June 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<Dazed_75> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<Dazed_75> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!! 
<toddc> when did i volenteer?
<toddc> :)
<Dazed_75> Plug East side meeting Thursday July 11  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<Dazed_75> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday July 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<Dazed_75> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<Dazed_75> xHans, if you are here, do you have anything else?
<toddc> welcome to all the new people hanging out here!!!!!
<Dazed_75> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<Dazed_75>   and I will be logging out as soon as I update the logs
<wmack> Thank you Dazed_75!
<pjdamws> thanks Dazed_75
* pjdamws has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<toddc> thahks again Dazed_75 hope to see everyone on the 6th
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
