{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc1> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxmann> +1
<toddc1> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc1> +2?
* smccarthy has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<toddc1> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc1> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc1> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<scott_ev> +1
<toddc1> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc1> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc1> hi scott_ev
<scott_ev> allo
<toddc1> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc1> lets start with the news!!
<toddc1> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc1> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> Customize LightDM [login screen] with Themes and Backgrounds [Ubuntu]
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/customize-lightdm-themes/2013/05/25
* [R] has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<Dazed_75> UEFI Secure Boot Issues and a video series (note: 1st article links to the videos but 3rd link is wrong)
<Dazed_75>     http://techrights.org/2013/05/26/boot-support-debated/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eAnlhkbMang
<Dazed_75>     http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dwlbf1VRJ60
<Dazed_75>     http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_cEwj8bBBC4
<Dazed_75> Set up Samba Domain Controller with LDAP backend in Ubuntu 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.unixmen.com/setup-samba-domain-controller-with-openldap-backend-in-ubuntu-13-04/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 13.04 reviews
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxlibrary.org/ubuntu-13-04-complete-unity-desktop-review/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-ringtail-high-end.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxadvocates.com/2013/05/a-failing-grade-for-ubuntu-1304-raring.html
* wmack (~wmack@ip98-165-94-214.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Development plans for Ubuntu 13.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Development-plans-for-Ubuntu-13-10-1866071.html
<Dazed_75> Enterprise Linux growth outpaces Windows
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxfoundation.org/news-media/blogs/browse/2013/03/report-enterprise-linux-growth-outpaces-windows
<toddc1> hi wmack
<Dazed_75> A breach of public trust: Proprietary Google+ Hangouts
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxadvocates.com/2013/05/a-breach-of-public-trust-proprietary.html
<Dazed_75> ADD swap space on Linux servers [only? not desktops?] on the fly (CentOS/ RHEL / Fedora / Ubuntu)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/swap-space/
<Dazed_75> LXLE - Lubuntu eXtra Life Extension - A remastered LTS release for greater support of aging hardware
<Dazed_75>     http://www.lxle.net/index.php?showimage=61
<Dazed_75>     http://www.lxle.net/index.php?showimage=10
<Dazed_75> Record desktop in Linux using ffmpeg
<Dazed_75>     http://xpressrazor.wordpress.com/2013/05/26/record-desktop-in-linux-using-ffmpeg/
<Dazed_75> A new X.Org-free Wayland LiveCD Released
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM3ODY
<Dazed_75> Cirrus7 Nimbus Ubuntu PC Delayed - but finally gets priced
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/ubuntu-nimbus-pc-delayed-design-detailed
<Dazed_75> Forget Chromebooks: Chrome OS is coming to Windows, Linux, Macintosh
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/164257/forget-chromebooks-chrome-os-is-coming-to-windows/
<Dazed_75> Dear Linux, I'm leaving you -- for Windows 8
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/05/28/dear-linux-im-leaving-you-for-windows-8/
<Dazed_75> Counting cards: Cribbage in BASH (part 1: making a deck, shuffling, dealing a hand)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/counting-cards-cribbage
<Dazed_75> Optimizing BASH scripts
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux.org/article/view/optimizing-bash-scripts
<scott_ev> Dear Linux, I'm leaving you -- for Windows 8  - WTF???
<Dazed_75> TuxOnIce - Revolutionize the way you start your Linux system
<Dazed_75>     http://www.ubuntugeek.com/tuxonice-revolutionise-the-way-you-start-your-linux-system.html
<Dazed_75> Build a portable Android based Raspberry Pi Station
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Blogs/Productivity-Sauce/Build-a-Portable-Android-based-Raspberry-Pi-Station
<Dazed_75> The funny side of the command line
<Dazed_75>     http://www.unixmen.com/the-funny-side-of-linux-command-line-terminal/
<Dazed_75> Raspbery Pi's Raspian improves its performance
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM3OTc
<Dazed_75> and on a similar subject ... Wayland preview on Raspberry Pi
<Dazed_75>     http://www.raspberrypi.org/archives/4053
<Dazed_75> Zorin OS 7: This may be the Linux distro you're looking for
<Dazed_75> http://www.pcworld.com/article/2039804/zorin-os-7-this-may-be-the-linux-distro-youre-looking-for.html
<toddc1> 1 sec due techical issues
<Dazed_75> Humor or Horror?: US Entertainment Industry to Congress ...
<Dazed_75>     http://boingboing.net/2013/05/26/us-entertainment-industry-to-c.html
<Dazed_75> KeePass 2 AppIndicator extension for Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/keepass-2-appindicator-extension-for.html
<Dazed_75> Tiny Tiny RSS Ubuntu PPA (Google Reader Alternative)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/tiny-tiny-rss-ubuntu-ppa-google-reader.html
<Dazed_75> Sign up for Google's free online two week "Mapping with Google" course
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/164487/sign-up-for-googles-free-online-two-week-mapping-with-google-course/
<Dazed_75> You'll want a PC with Intel's new chip for the battery life alone
<Dazed_75>     http://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9239573/You_ll_want_a_PC_with_Intel_s_new_chip_for_the_battery_life_alone
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint 15 -- The best Linux distro gets better
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/05/30/linux-mint-15-the-best-linux-distro-gets-better/
<Dazed_75>     http://mindblowingidea.com/distrolist/2013/05/29/linux-mint-15-olivia-released-may-29th-2013/
<Dazed_75>     http://blog.linuxmint.com/?p=2366
<Dazed_75> Find memory and CPU utilization by a particular process/command in Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/unix-command/memory-cpu/
<Dazed_75> A beginner's guide to installing Arch Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/A-Beginners-Guide-to-Installing-Arch-Linux-352365.shtml
<Dazed_75> How to install 3rd party apps in Arch Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-Third-Party-Apps-in-Arch-Linux-356894.shtml
<Dazed_75> Windows 8 hardware has another problem for Linux (and its a doozy)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM4MDY
<Dazed_75>     http://mjg59.dreamwidth.org/24869.html
<Dazed_75> My favorite Linux terminal emulators
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/05/my-favorite-linux-terminal-emulators.html
<Dazed_75> Mark Shuttleworth marks Bug #! (Microsoft has a majority marketshare) fixed
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/mark-shuttleworth-marks-bug-1-fixed
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/05/30/ubuntus_shuttleworth_microsoft_no_longer_dominates_pc_biz/
<Dazed_75>     http://blogs.dailynews.com/click/2013/05/30/mark-shuttleworth-closes-ubuntus-bug-no-1-microsofts-hold-computing-declining/
<Dazed_75> Official Intel Linux graphics installer available for Ubuntu 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/intel-linux-graphics-installer.html
<Dazed_75> How to install MDM 1.2.5 from Linux Mint 15 in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/how-to-install-mdm-125-from-linux-mint.html
<Dazed_75> Angst and Anxiety over Ubuntu's chosen path
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Angst-and-Anxiety-Over-Ubuntus-Chosen-Path-78157.html
<Dazed_75> How to install Android in VirtualBox
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/164570/how-to-install-android-in-virtualbox/
<Dazed_75> Create a local repository on Ubuntu 13.04 Server
<Dazed_75>     http://www.unixmen.com/create-a-local-repository-on-unbuntu-13-04-server/
<Dazed_75> NOTE: I find the two paragraphs following the editing of /etc/apt/mirror list to be quite unclear as to specifics (the goal is clear, the lines to edit and the specifics are not).  If anyone can clear that up for me I would be grateful.  Larry aka Dazed_75
<Dazed_75> You want Ubuntu on your phone says this UN-scientific poll
<Dazed_75>     http://fossforce.com/2013/05/you-want-ubuntu-on-your-phone-says-poll/
<Dazed_75> How to easily create an encrypted directory in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/create-encrypted-directory-in-ubuntu/2013/05/30
<Dazed_75> Surface Pro Owner? Here's how to install Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/how-to-install-ubuntu-on-surface-pro
<Dazed_75>     http://www.geek.com/microsoft/how-to-install-ubuntu-on-the-surface-pro-1539262/
<Dazed_75> ... and that's it from AJ
<toddc1> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toddc1> City of Munich: "Migration to sustainable desktop completed successfully"
<toddc1> https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/city-munich-migration-sustainable-desktop-completed-successfully
<toddc1> JOB LIST
<toddc1> Senior Data Center Technician
<toddc1> http://concerts.livenation.com/careers/jobsearch.html
<toddc1> Jr. Network Engineer
<toddc1> http://www.jobscore.com/jobs/codero/jr-network-engineer/a2Cb7GXler4PGJiGakhP3Q?Board=CraigsList&PID=1215065
<toddc1> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc1> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc1> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<toddc1> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<toddc1> Linux App of the week
<toddc1> SimpleScreenRecorder
<toddc1> http://www.maartenbaert.be/simplescreenrecorder/
<toddc1> TUCSON Ubuntu Hour
<toddc1> June 8  11 at 2pm at Bookmans in Tucson 1930 E. Grant at Rd 2 pm.
<toddc1> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-arizona/2402-ubuntu-hour-tucson-az/
<toddc1> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc1> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday June 1 and Saturday June 15 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc1> For more info see
<toddc1>  calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc1> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc1> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc1> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc1> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<toddc1> Thursday June 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc1> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc1> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc1> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc1> ubuntu on air
<toddc1> ubuntu development hang out Tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
<toddc1> Jono Bacon O&A Wednesday 7-8 pm GMT
<toddc1> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc1> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc1> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc1> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc1> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc1> Plug East side meeting Thursday June 13  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc1> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday June 18 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc1> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc1> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc1> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
