{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 November - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 7 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2001%2C%202015%20Meeting
* 04 November - Westside Ubuntu Hour hosted by programmer317
* 3 attendees
* Discussed the new version of Ubuntu. 
* Conducted a demonstration install of the new version through Virtual Box. 
* Discussed firewalls and anti-virus. 
* Looked at Radio Tray.
* 05 November - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by pavlos
* 7 attendees
* Update on Ubuntu Developers Conference
* Discussed setting up accounting software on Linux (gnucash, dreamweaver)
* Discussed firewalls, ownCloud, openvpn, zentyal, respins & raspberry pi.
* 07 November - Linux Installfest co-sponsored by AZLOCO and PLUG
* 13 attendees
* 2 installs
* 08 November - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 13 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2008%2C%202015%20Meeting
* 15 November - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 13 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2015%2C%202015%20Meeting
* 19 November - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed advantages of  AZLOCO and CLUG membership
* Discussed various desktop environments available in Linux operating systems
* Discussed future topics that should be discussed at the Ubuntu Hour
* 19 November - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Worked on a proxmox project 
* Discussed team functions with the new person and general Linux discussions
* 21 November - Linux Installfest co-sponsored LOCO and PLUG
* 10 attendees
* Rebuilt the Team Server
* 22 November - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 10 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2022%2C%202015%20Meeting
* 29 November - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 11 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2029%2C%202015%20Meeting
