{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 21 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-01-21-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/how-enterprise-it-pros-can-contribute-to-open-source-projects-1901.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/opensuse-announces-three-new-tumbleweed-snapshots-2019-malware-google-play-using-motion 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/cnc-milling-open-source-software 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/bash-shell-utility-turns-5-0/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-handbrake-video-converter-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/how-to-replace-windows-7-with-linux-mint/ 
''LINK:'' https://linux4one.com/how-to-use-tail-command-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/linux/suse-server-arm-becomes-generally-available 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/mongodb-open-source-server-side-public-license-rejected/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/productivity-tool-sandstorm 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/01/how-to-install-cinnamon-desktop-on.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/nc-command-ncat-for-beginners/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/pritunl-vpn-raspberry-pi 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/introduction-ubuntu-lxd-containers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.eweek.com/welcomead?_qstu=%2Fsecurity%2Fattackers-take-new-approach-to-installing-cryptominers 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/1/kubernetes-security-4-tips-manage-risks 
''LINK:'' https://www.eweek.com/cloud/how-vmware-is-advancing-kubernetes-cloud-native-technology-with-heptio 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (64)
* stephenm (39)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* pirateP (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan 21 04:00:11 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <pirateP> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ariz/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> News begins out small and then gets to exciting things to learn.

 04:03 <stephenm> How enterprise IT pros can contribute to open source projects

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/how-enterprise-it-pros-can-contribute-to-open-source-projects-1901.html

 04:04 <stephenm> openSUSE Announces Three New Tumbleweed Snapshots for 2019, Malware in Google Play Using Motion Sensors to Avoid Detection, Leaked Android Q Features, deepen 5.9 Released and ZFS On Linux 0.8 Coming Soon

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/opensuse-announces-three-new-tumbleweed-snapshots-2019-malware-google-play-using-motion

 04:04 <stephenm> CNC milling with open source software

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/cnc-milling-open-source-software

 04:04 <stephenm> Bash shell utility turns 5.0

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/bash-shell-utility-turns-5-0/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install HandBrake Video Converter on Ubuntu

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-handbrake-video-converter-on-ubuntu/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to replace Windows 7 with Linux Mint

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/how-to-replace-windows-7-with-linux-mint/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Use Tail Command in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linux4one.com/how-to-use-tail-command-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> SUSE Server for Arm Becomes Generally Available

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/linux/suse-server-arm-becomes-generally-available

 04:05 <stephenm> MongoDB "open-source" Server Side Public License rejected

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/mongodb-open-source-server-side-public-license-rejected/

 04:05 <stephenm> Getting started with Sandstorm, an open source web app platform

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/productivity-tool-sandstorm

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Install Cinnamon Desktop On A Chromebook With Crouton

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/01/how-to-install-cinnamon-desktop-on.html

 04:06 <stephenm> NC command (NCAT) for beginners

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/nc-command-ncat-for-beginners/

 04:06 <stephenm> Turn a Raspberry Pi 3B+ into a PriTunl VPN

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/pritunl-vpn-raspberry-pi

 04:06 <stephenm> Introduction to Ubuntu's LXD Containers

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/introduction-ubuntu-lxd-containers/

 04:06 <stephenm> Attackers Take New Approach To Install Cryptominers, Palo Alto Reports

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.eweek.com/welcomead?_qstu=%2Fsecurity%2Fattackers-take-new-approach-to-installing-cryptominers

 04:06 <stephenm> Kubernetes security: 4 tips to manage risks

 04:06 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/1/kubernetes-security-4-tips-manage-risks

 04:07 <stephenm> How VMware Is Advancing Kubernetes Cloud-Native Technology With Heptio

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.eweek.com/cloud/how-vmware-is-advancing-kubernetes-cloud-native-technology-with-heptio

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for this week,  Back to you MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> There has been some discussion about eliminating or reducing the number of AZLOCO on line meetings.   The attendance at these meetings has dropped to 5 or 6 per meeting.  The minutes are emailed to the mailing list as a convenience to members who missed the meetings or for some reason do not attend them.  We would like some membership input.  Should we eliminate them entirely, reduce the number, or continue with weekly meetings?  A

 04:08 <MajB> ZLOCO is currently one of  the most active Teams in the United States and possibly the entire world holding 4-5 meetings a month, 2 installfests and 3 Ubuntu Hours each month.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 56 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 41 new jobs and a total of 130 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 32 new jobs and a total of 92 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:11 <MajB> 24 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 02 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:11 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 02 February, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Livia's Coffee, 2480 Wilcox Dr., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media.

 04:11 <MajB> You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:12 <MajB> 07 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 14 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 16 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:12 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 14 February 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:14 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 19 February 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thi

 04:14 <MajB> ngs tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:15 <MajB> PLUG Security Class on 21 February 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:15 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 27 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 01 February 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 13 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 26 January 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:15 <MajB> CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest on 02 February 1100-1500 p.m. Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Dr. Sierra Vista, AZ.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as ins

 04:15 <MajB> tall media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:16 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:16 <MajB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:16 <MajB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:16 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB

 04:16 <Ron_A> thank you stephenm

 04:17 <stephenm> welcome

 04:17 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
