{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #104 for the week August 10, August 16.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Fourth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-August 19, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday August 23, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the August 16, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09August16

johnc4510, began with some announcements:

"Greetings team! I hope everyone is looking forward to the installfest at the U of A on Sat. August 29th. You can find the details in the body of the newsletter below. I want to encourage all team members to attend if possible. This is a great chance to get in with the Computer Sciences Dept. at the University. They are thinking of doing this as a co-hosted event on a regular basis, which would be a real coup for our team. Of course anyone from Phoenix or any other place in the state is welcome to come to...the more the merrier!!!! If you need further help on the day of the event finding the location, I'll have my cell phone on...the number is 520-400-3040. I'm looking forward to seeing everyone there and catching up face to face, or meeting some of you for the first time.  See you there!!  johnc4510 "

* Karmic Alpha 4 has been released: Pre-releases of Karmic are *not* encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent breakage. Alpha 4 is the fourth in a series of milestone CD images that will be released throughout the Karmic development cycle. You can get the links to the downloads here: http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/karmic/alpha4 .  It should be getting fairly stable by now but use at your own risk.

* Another manufacturer is adding Ubuntu to it's netbook lineup. Za``Reason is now offering it's Terra A20 Netbook for $349 with ubuntu 9.04 pre-installed. http://www.zareason.com/shop/product.php?productid=16216

* I received the two free books that our loco was entitled too. One is on Ubuntu Desktop and the other is on Ubuntu Server. I'm planning on using these as give aways at the ABLEcon in Phoenix. I've also sent for our conference pack from Ubuntu. This usually has some good give aways. pens, stickers.

johnc4510 then began a discussion on the Tucson installfest:

We now have a location for the install fest:  Gould-Simpson Building 9th floor atrium (http://iiewww.ccit.arizona.edu/uamap/staticLarge/77.html ).  That's at 1040 East 4 Street in Tucson.  We'll have access to the building from 11 am to 5 pm.  We'll potentially have a room to do projected presentations (just a few short steps form the atrium).  Jan (pronounced John) is a student w/ the CSs dept, and will let us into Gould-Simpson at 10 am to setup. The CS Dept wants to do more Install``Fests, so I conceded on the ILC rooms with that thought.  The place is right by a wifi node so internet hookup should be good.  This place is right on 4th Ave. from the freeway you exit on St. Mary's and then turn left or East.

tyche mentioned that he had looked at the requirements to use the U of A logo, and that we'd get permission.  He said that he'd go ahead and just use text unless someone could come up with the permission. (The flier is now available at http://tinyurl.com/r5bx5j in .jpg format.  This is a full page flier, but may need to be adjusted to center up on your printer.)

A further discussion was held on the issue of parking availability and how to find where we need to go.  (scott-ev has since come up with a map of potential parking lots.  See http://tinyurl.com/pr75md )

johnc4510 then asked xHans for the PLUG announcements:

* Both Phoenix Stammtische are this week:  Tuesday in Tempe, Wednesday in Avondale.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

* Phoenix Installfest is _not_ this Saturday, it's next week.  The Installfest is the _last_ Saturday of the month.

* MCC classes start in a week.  We really need students for the shell scripting and Open``Office.org classes.  The Open``Office.org class is online, so can be taken from anywhere that has a network connection.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes

* ABLEconf has a call for presentations going out this week.  We added Linux``Journal as a media sponsor.  Meetings in IRC every Sunday at 20:00, the hour before the loco meeting.  http://www.ABLEconf.com/participate

johnc4510 thanked xHans for his announcements.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:54.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
