{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #96 for the week May 31, June 7.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Ninety Sixth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-June 10, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday June 14, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the June 7, 2009 meeting ====

tyche called the meeting to order at 9:09 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09June07

tyche then started with an announcement:

* As many of you know, johnc4510 has had his appendix removed May 23.  He was in the hospital, in Missouri, until May 27, and didn't start for Arizona until June 1.  He finally got home Thursday, June 4.  We didn't hear any of this until around 9:20 AM on Friday, June 5. He's still sore, and said that he probably would not be doing much for the next week.  I, for one, don't blame him.  Appendicitis is rough on us older guys.  Having been through it myself, I am well qualified to be sympathetic to his condition.  I hope all of you will join me in wishing him a speedy recovery.  A big thanks goes to hutchnate, who managed to get hold of johnc4510, to be able to get us the information.

tyche then asked xHans for any PLUG announcements:

* PLUG east side meeting is this Thursday.  presentations will be getting involved in the community from matthewmpp and the Dell Mini from me.

* PLUG east side meeting is this Thursday.  presentations will be getting involved in the community from matthewmpp and the Dell Mini from me.

* PLUG security hackfest this Saturday.  Steven D Kaplan, MSCS, BSEE, CISSP will do a presentation on FreeIPA, an integrated security information management solution.

* Sunday MatthewMPP will be throwing another BlenderCAD bash at his place, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/774 .  Ask MatthewMPP if you have questions about that.

* Both Stammtische are next week.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:20 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
