{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# Chat

=== Log ===
This week's links are available <nowiki>[[#links|below the log]]</nowiki>.
<pre>
[21:00]  <scott_ev> Good evening everyone, thanks for being here and welcome to the weekly meeting of the Arizona Ubuntu LoCo Team. Please let us know you're here with a +1.
[21:00]  <scott_ev> Flakeparadigm: please log this meeting and email it to me after
[21:00]  <scar> +1
[21:00]  <Flakeparadigm> scott_ev: got it
[21:00]  <Flakeparadigm> +1
[21:00]  <scott_ev> wow, is that it?
[21:01]  <Flakeparadigm> Yorkobi?
[21:01]  <scott_ev> I missed the last two weeks and everyone left?
[21:01]  <Flakeparadigm> Yorokobi**?
[21:01]  <Yorokobi> I was right. In perl, ** is the unary exponent operator
[21:01]  <Yorokobi> oh, +1
[21:01]  <scott_ev> Is there anyone here for the first time ?  Please introduce yourself and tell us a little about you.
[21:01]  <scott_ev> scar...first meeting?
[21:01]  <scar> no
[21:01]  <scott_ev> Feel free, at any time during the meeting, to ask questions, make productive comments or observations: we want your input.
[21:02]  <scott_ev> Ok, cool.  well, I'll run through a bunch of announcements and news forst
[21:02]  <scott_ev> first
[21:02]  <scott_ev> narmally people just open the links as the meeting goes and read after if they want to
[21:02]  <scott_ev> Ubuntu Mentioned on CBS's The Big Bang Theory
[21:03]  <scott_ev> There have been several people in the community who have pointed to Sheldon mentioning his favorite Linux OS in an episode of CBS's The Big Bang Theory.
[21:03]  <Flakeparadigm> Obviously I'm different with the links :P
[21:03]  <scott_ev> If you haven't seen the clip you can now go to: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G1-Q_8EbB8A
[21:03]  <scott_ev> no, you're just different
[21:03]  * scar uses youtube-dl
[21:03]  <scott_ev> Why Launchpad Rocks
[21:03]  <scott_ev> Jono Bacon, the Opportunistic Developer, tells the community why Launchpad rocks. I this article Jono describes the opportunistic developer as well as what he has tried before and the balance launchpad offers other opportunistic developers.
[21:03]  <scott_ev> To find out more about "Why Launchpad Rocks" go to: http://www.jonobacon.org/category/why-launchpad-rocks/
[21:03]  <scott_ev> Ubuntu Uruguay Approved Team
[21:03]  <scott_ev> http://pablorubianes.wordpress.com/2010/05/18/ubuntu-uruguay-approved-team/
[21:04]  <scott_ev> go uraguay!!!
[21:04]  <scott_ev> w00t
[21:04]  <scott_ev> haha
[21:04]  <scott_ev> LoCo Items for Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter
[21:04]  <scott_ev> Amber Graner, Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Editor, sent out a reminder to the loco-contacts mailing list letting the LoCo teams know how to ensure the posts about the LoCo teams are considered for publication in the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter. In this announcement Graner lists all the places you can send your information and what to include in that email, or put on the ideas wiki page and even what IRC channel the news team can be found in.
[21:04]  <scott_ev> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2010-May/004521.html
[21:04]  <scott_ev> Daniel Holbach: Debian and Ubuntu
[21:04]  <scott_ev> http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.debian.devel.project/17588
[21:04]  <scott_ev> http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=682
[21:04]  <scott_ev> Daniel Holbach: Archive / Permissions Reorg confusion
[21:04]  <scott_ev> For a few development cycles we have been working on reorganising the Ubuntu archive and developer permissions. There were a lot of changes that were suggested and discussed and it proved to be quite a bit of work
[21:04]  <scott_ev> http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=684
[21:05]  <scott_ev> Clearing the air around Ubuntu and Chrome
[21:05]  <scott_ev> Trevan McGee of Ubuntu User says reports that Ubuntu would ditch longtime default browser Firefox for Google's Chrome browser were put to rest with a resounding "sort of." A recent blog post by Ubuntu Community team member Jorge Castro explained that while Canonical has considered a Firefox alternative, it isn't Google Chrome, but rather Chromium, the open source version of the Chrome browser.
[21:05]  <scott_ev> http://www.ubuntu-user.com/Online/News/Clearing-the-air-around-Ubuntu-and-Chrome
[21:05]  <scott_ev> Teo, the New Tough Linux Netbook From ZaReason
[21:05]  <scott_ev> http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/reviews/7070/2/
[21:05]  <slofgren> >.>
[21:05]  <slofgren> <.<
[21:05]  <scott_ev> this one is for you Yorokobi :
[21:05]  <scott_ev> Is Arch Linux Really Faster Than Ubuntu?
[21:05]  <scott_ev> At least when both Arch and Ubuntu are put in as much a stock configuration as possible to reflect the "out of the box" experience encountered by most users, the numbers shown on this Intel Core 2 Duo notebook show the performance to be about the same.
[21:05]  <Flakeparadigm> Hullo slofgren
[21:05]  <scott_ev> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_arch_faster&num=6
[21:05]  <scott_ev> welcome sloffy
[21:06]  <scott_ev> Early Release Schedules For Ubuntu 11.04, 11.10, 12.04 LTS https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseSchedule
[21:06]  <scott_ev> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=ODI1OQ
[21:06]  <scott_ev> Ubuntu vs. Fedora: The Latest Versions Square Off
[21:06]  <scott_ev> http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/osrc/article.php/12068_3882881_3/Ubuntu-vs-Fedora-The-Latest-Versions-Square-Off.htm
[21:06]  <scott_ev> Lubuntu Netbook Remix: A Look
[21:06]  <scott_ev> http://www.workswithu.com/2010/05/18/lubuntu-netbook-remix-a-look/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+WorksWithU+%28Works+With+U%29
[21:06]  <scott_ev> Proposed Lubuntu 10.10 Release Schedule
[21:06]  <scott_ev> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/proposed-lubuntu-1010-release-schedule.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28Omg!+Ubuntu!%29
[21:06]  <Flakeparadigm> Lubuntu has EXCELENT potential
[21:07]  <scott_ev> OK, short week news wise
[21:07]  <scott_ev> I agree
[21:07]  <scott_ev> the only problem I have with it is that it's bloated a little
[21:07]  <scott_ev> they added all the gnome libs for one app
[21:07]  <Flakeparadigm> 10.10 w/Chrome will be nice - no more putting in nightly builds repo every time I install
[21:07]  <scott_ev> debian with lxde is much lighter
[21:08]  <scott_ev> does anyone have any team related announcements?
[21:08]  <scar> what's it like compared to xubuntu?
[21:08]  <scott_ev> slofgren: why don't you take a minute to explain the test server
[21:08]  <Flakeparadigm> scar: much lighter but not as developed
[21:08]  <scott_ev> it's like lightning compared to xubuntu
[21:09]  <slofgren> uh
[21:09]  <slofgren> it is a server we can use to test stuffs
[21:09]  <slofgren> i can setup an ssh account for anyone
[21:09]  <slofgren> they need to be a regular member
[21:10]  <slofgren> soon I will need to install the new version of ubuntu on it
[21:10]  <scar> is it ubuntu-server?
[21:10]  <slofgren> yes
[21:10]  <slofgren> 8.04 LTS server
[21:11]  <scott_ev> scar: since you're the newest member here do you have any questiuons about what we do?  or about what's available to you?
[21:11]  <scott_ev> when will you upgrade it to 10.04?
[21:11]  <scott_ev> slofgren:
[21:11]  <slofgren> more info on our servers - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server
[21:11]  <scar> scott_ev, not really... i'm very busy lately
[21:12]  <Flakeparadigm> I'll take your place, scar. I have a HUGE ammount of free time
[21:12]  <scott_ev> scar: OK, I just want you to know that we have alot more going than just IRC
[21:12]  <slofgren> I need to eat...bbl
[21:13]  <scott_ev> we have the website azloco that is hosted at DeVry and slofgren donated it and the test server last year
[21:13]  <scott_ev> we have a wiki if you haven't seen it
[21:13]  <Flakeparadigm> Much thanks, slofgren
[21:13]  <scott_ev> and a forum
[21:13]  <scott_ev> do you know about these?
[21:14]  <scar> i think i just knew about the wiki
[21:14]  <scott_ev> anyway, Flakeparadigm I'd like you to help me get the wiki up to date.
[21:14]  <Flakeparadigm> Mkay, what do I need to do?
[21:14]  <scott_ev> scar: on the azloco.com site there's a link to the forum on the top right side of the page
[21:14]  <Flakeparadigm> (Your long continues...)
[21:14]  <scar> oh well the forum is on ubuntuforums.org isnt it?
[21:15]  <Flakeparadigm> log**
[21:15]  <scott_ev> scar: yes
[21:15]  <scott_ev> it's kind of a sub-section
[21:15]  <scar> ok yeah i knew about that in the back of my head
[21:15]  <scott_ev> kk
[21:15]  <scott_ev> where do yoou live, I forget
[21:15]  <scar> west tucson
[21:15]  <scott_ev> kk
[21:16]  <Flakeparadigm> scar: same here.
[21:16]  <scott_ev> I come down to Tucson once in awhile
[21:16]  <scar> Flakeparadigm, orly?
[21:16]  <Flakeparadigm> Yup. Right at the Cortaro exit
[21:16]  <scott_ev> I'll let you know when I'm commin next.  It might be nice to get the Tucson folks together for lunch some saturday
[21:16]  <scar> lol i consider that northwest
[21:17]  <scott_ev> that's way noirth
[21:17]  <scott_ev> north
[21:17]  <scar> i live by the st. mary's exit
[21:17]  <Flakeparadigm> it's still west, though.
[21:17]  <scott_ev> barely west
[21:17]  <Flakeparadigm> I will be trying to joing you for lunch
[21:17]  <scott_ev> scar: are you usually free on saturdays?
[21:18]  <scar> as of late, things are kind of up in the air.. but fairly free on the weekends
[21:18]  * [R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:18]  <scott_ev> welcome [R]
[21:18]  <scott_ev> you here for the meeting?
[21:18]  <[R]> um, sure
[21:18]  <scott_ev> cool
[21:18]  <scott_ev> we're just kind of randomly chatting
[21:18]  <scott_ev> I've done the announcement
[21:19]  <scott_ev> s
[21:19]  <scott_ev> there are no upcoming events right now except for the monthly installfest at UAT
[21:19]  <xHans> that's this Saturday
[21:19]  <scott_ev> will you be there this time [R] ?
[21:19]  <scott_ev> thanks xHans
[21:19]  <xHans> bitte
[21:20]  <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/171
[21:20]  <scott_ev> sweet
[21:21]  <[R]> scott_ev: probably
[21:21]  <scott_ev> Right now, I'm pretty tired and can't think of much else.  I'm sorry this isn't much of a meeting, but unless anyone has anything to contributer, I'll turn the meeting over to xHans for PLUG annou9ncements
[21:21]  <scott_ev> [R]: good, it'll be good to see you again
[21:22]  <scott_ev> Flakeparadigm: I'll get with you tomorrow to discuss the wiki
[21:23]  <Flakeparadigm> alright
[21:23]  <scott_ev> xHans: any PLUG stuff?
[21:23]  <xHans> scott_ev: sure, a few things
[21:23]  <xHans> West Side meeting this Wednesday
[21:23]  <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/343
[21:23]  <xHans> PLUG/AZLoCo Installfest this Saturday
[21:24]  <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/171
[21:24]  <xHans> PLUG devel is a week from Thursday
[21:24]  <xHans> Paul will be covering automake and other GNU build tools
[21:24]  <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/549
[21:24]  <xHans> the next PLUG IRC planning meeting is in two weeks
[21:24]  <xHans> it's at 20:00, the hour before the LoCo meeting, in #PLUGaz
[21:24]  <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2280
[21:24]  <xHans> planning meetings for ABLEconf 2010 will start in June
[21:24]  <xHans> please join the ABLEconf discuss mailing list
[21:25]  <xHans> that's the main communication mechanism and we'll likely start in before June
[21:25]  <xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/
[21:25]  <xHans> that's it
[21:25]  <scott_ev> thanks
[21:25]  <xHans> danke :)
[21:25]  <[R]> when is ableconf?
[21:25]  <scott_ev> it's great that we can share so much between teams
[21:26]  <xHans> [R]: that's part of the planning, but probably again in Sep or Okt
[21:26]  <[R]> ah
[21:26]  <scott_ev> Yorokobi: what's new in Arch Linux land?
[21:26]  <xHans> we need lots of help for it this year
[21:27]  <Yorokobi> They released a new installer. They switched from gzip to xz for package compression to increase download times.
[21:27]  <scott_ev> xHans: I'll be helping this year
[21:27]  <scott_ev> haha
[21:27]  <scott_ev> what's teh new installer like?
[21:27]  <Yorokobi> http://www.archlinux.org/news/500/
[21:28]  <Yorokobi> http://www.archlinux.org/news/490/
[21:28]  <scott_ev> xHans: I have a question:
[21:29]  <Yorokobi> I have yet to use the new installer. I'm debating between switching my server back to 32bit Arch or OpenBSD.
[21:29]  <scott_ev> I have  new NAS right, and it's running Linux of some sort but I hate their UI so I'm considering installing Ubuntu server since I've read that debian will install on this hardware
[21:30]  <scott_ev> OK, it's installed on a DOM and I can't find a way to install it wigh the DOM in the NAS
[21:30]  <scott_ev> so I'm thinking about pulling the dom and installing it then putting it back in the nas
[21:30]  <scott_ev> is that reasonable?
[21:31]  <scott_ev> it should pick up the hardware, right
[21:32]  <scott_ev> Yorokobi: I just recently installed OpenBSD for the first time in years
[21:32]  <scott_ev> it's much easier than I remenber
[21:32]  <Flakeparadigm> oooh! I don't know if this has been posted in the past...
[21:32]  <Flakeparadigm> Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, the new release from Ubuntu, is code-named the Lucid Lynx. Unfortunatley the Iberian lynx is endangered with some estimates putting the numbers as low as 150 animals remaining. So at Canonical we've decided to give our users the chance to help the people at the charity SOS Lynx.
[21:32]  <Flakeparadigm> http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/music-store-lynx
[21:32]  <Flakeparadigm> http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/music-store-lynx
[21:32]  <Flakeparadigm> woops, sorry for the double post
[21:32]  <scott_ev> but, dang, never do fsck on OpenBSD, it takes forevar because of the encryption
[21:33]  <Yorokobi> heh, don't encrypt the file system. :)
[21:33]  <scott_ev> it's by default
[21:33]  <scott_ev> thanks flake
[21:33]  <Yorokobi> Score one more for OpenBSD
[21:34]  <scott_ev> Yorokobi: perhaps you can answer the question I asked xHans
[21:34]  <scott_ev> oh, definitely I like OpenBSD for certain applications
[21:34]  <Yorokobi> Ask, but I don't promise any answers.
[21:34]  <scott_ev> scroll up
[21:35]  <Yorokobi> About the NAS?
[21:35]  <scott_ev> yes
[21:35]  <Yorokobi> I have no idea.
[21:35]  <scott_ev> kk
[21:35]  <Yorokobi> <-- Doesn't play with NAS
[21:35]  <scott_ev> the question is whether ubuntu server is plug n play really
[21:36]  <Yorokobi> Could be
[21:36]  <scott_ev> like can I pull a HDD and put it into another box and it will pick up on the different hardware
[21:36]  <Yorokobi> Considering plug-n-play is a misnomer for Linux. If the kernel supports the hardware (or there are modules available), it should work.
[21:36]  <xHans> scott_ev: DOM?
[21:37]  <scott_ev> yeah, that's raeally what I meant
[21:37]  <scott_ev> ]disk onmodule
[21:37]  <xHans> scott_ev: it'll be great to have you helping with ABLEconf
[21:37]  <scott_ev> disk on module
[21:37]  <Yorokobi> Suns won tonight
[21:37]  <xHans> ah, dunno that, but if you can install on it and have lots of loadable kernel modules you should be fine
[21:37]  <xHans> you might also just be able to change out the UI
[21:38]  <scott_ev> it's a solid state drive that plugs into a ribbon slot
[21:38]  <scott_ev> true.  as of right now I can't ssh into it
[21:38]  <xHans> ah
[21:38]  <xHans> does the NAS have bootable USB slots?
[21:38]  <scott_ev> I have to install a module to add sshd
[21:39]  <scott_ev> the documentation doesn't say
[21:39]  <xHans> sounds like a good module to have :)
[21:39]  <scott_ev> definitely
[21:39]  <xHans> make a bootable thumb drive and try just for fun
[21:39]  <scott_ev> it's a must
[21:39]  <scott_ev> yeah, good idea, thanks
[21:39]  <scott_ev> that could solve my whole dilema
[21:39]  <xHans> if it will boot off a thumb drive you can use the thumb drive to install on the DOM
[21:39]  <scott_ev> exactly
[21:40]  <xHans> presuming the DOM is only the OS and not the data, I would suggest first dding the DOM
[21:40]  <scott_ev> then I could use OpenFiler
[21:40]  <xHans> dd if=/dev/sda of=/some/path/nas_dom.img
[21:40]  <scott_ev> teh DOM is only OS
[21:40]  <xHans> /dev/sda if you want the whole drive, /dev/sda1 to get only a partition
[21:41]  <xHans> figuring out what values to use for sda and sda1 is an exercise left for the reader ;-)
[21:41]  <scott_ev> OK, well, if no one has anything further, we'll shut down a little bit early
[21:41]  <scott_ev> xHans: yup
[21:41]  <xHans> ok
[21:41]  <scott_ev> if I can boot to one of the USB ports
[21:41]  <xHans> almost time to work anyway
[21:41]  <scott_ev> I will have some fun ahead of me
[21:41]  <scott_ev> thanks everyone for coming
[21:42]  <scott_ev> be here next week for more
[21:42]  <scott_ev> adjourned
</pre>

=== Links ===
Links mentioned in this week's meeting.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G1-Q_8EbB8A|Sheldon's favorite linux based operating system]]</nowiki> - Sheldon mentioning his favorite Linux OS in an episode of CBS's The Big Bang Theory.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/category/why-launchpad-rocks/|Why Launchpad Rocks]]</nowiki> - In this article Jono describes the opportunistic developer as well as what he has tried before and the balance launchpad offers other opportunistic developers.
* <nowiki>[[http://pablorubianes.wordpress.com/2010/05/18/ubuntu-uruguay-approved-team/|Ubuntu Uruguay Approved Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2010-May/004521.html|Reminder to the loco-contacts mailing list]]</nowiki> - In this announcement Graner lists all the places you can send your information and what to include in that email, or put on the ideas wiki page and even what IRC channel the news team can be found in.
* Debian and Ubuntu relationships explained by <nowiki>[[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.debian.devel.project/17588|An email from Stefano Zacchiroli]]</nowiki> and at <nowiki>[[http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=682|Daniel Holbach's Blog]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=684|Archive / Permissions Reorg confusion]]</nowiki> - "For a few development cycles we have been working on reorganising the Ubuntu archive and developer permissions. There were a lot of changes that were suggested and discussed and it proved to be quite a bit of work.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-user.com/Online/News/Clearing-the-air-around-Ubuntu-and-Chrome|Clearing the Air About Ubuntu and Chrome]]</nowiki> -  Trevan McGee of Ubuntu User says reports that Ubuntu would ditch longtime default browser Firefox for Google's Chrome browser were put to rest with a resounding "sort of." A recent blog post by Ubuntu Community team member Jorge Castro explained that while Canonical has considered a Firefox alternative, it isn't Google Chrome, but rather Chromium, the open source version of the Chrome browser.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxplanet.com/linuxplanet/reviews/7070/2/|Teo, the New Tough Linux Netbook From ZaReason]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_arch_faster&num=6|Is Arch Linux Really Faster Than Ubuntu?]]</nowiki> - At least when both Arch and Ubuntu are put in as much a stock configuration as possible to reflect the "out of the box" experience encountered by most users, the numbers shown on this Intel Core 2 Duo notebook show the performance to be about the same.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseSchedule|Updated Release Schedules]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=ODI1OQ|Early Release Schedules]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/osrc/article.php/12068_3882881_3/Ubuntu-vs-Fedora-The-Latest-Versions-Square-Off.htm|Ubuntu vs. Fedora: The Latest Versions Square Off]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.workswithu.com/2010/05/18/lubuntu-netbook-remix-a-look/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+WorksWithU+%28Works+With+U%29|Lubuntu Netbook Remix: A Look]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/proposed-lubuntu-1010-release-schedule.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28Omg!+Ubuntu!%29|Proposed Lubuntu 10.10 Release Schedule]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server|Info about the AZloco's servers]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/music-store-lynx|Save the Lynx]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, the new release from Ubuntu, is code-named the Lucid Lynx. Unfortunatley the Iberian lynx is endangered with some estimates putting the numbers as low as 150 animals remaining. So at Canonical we've decided to give our users the chance to help the people at the charity SOS Lynx.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
