{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 25 Jul at 03:59 &mdash; 04:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-07-25-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2016/07/mozillas-dave-herman-building-open-source-research-lab/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itwire.com/open-sauce/73946-feral-linux-users-should-learn-when-to-shut-up.html 
''LINK:'' http://news.tecmint.com/linux-in-the-mainstream/ 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2016/07/linux-itunes-replacement/ 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2016/07/eff-sues-us-government-saying-copyright-rules-on-drm-are-unconstitutional/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/why-and-how-use-ring-instead-skype-linux%20 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/graduates-how-get-your-dream-open-source-job%20 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/hack-world 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/keeweb-a-linux-password-manager 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/7/linux-theoretical-physics 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/7/intro-limesurvey 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/easily-encrypt-your-flash-drives-linux 
''LINK:'' https://sysdig.com/blog/linux-troubleshooting-cheatsheet/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/10-essential-skills-novice-junior-and-senior-sysadmins%20%20 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/maintaining-remote-web-sites-with-sitecopy-on-ubuntu-16-04/. 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/7/interview-david-wheeler-making-foss-more-secure 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/fix-bugs-go-fast-and-update-3-approaches-container-security%20 
''LINK:'' http://rhelblog.redhat.com/2016/07/22/container-image-signing/ 
''LINK:'' http://blog.kubernetes.io/2016/07/minikube-easily-run-kubernetes-locally.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/chrooting-apache-2.4-with-mod_unixd-on-debian-8-jessie/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://70.190.179.165:8081/ 
''LINK:'' https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.picmonic.com/pages/careers/software-developer/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lBl54D4Eon0 
''LINK:'' http://www.recalbox.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/henryboldi/felony 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (78)
* stephenm (52)
* MajB (28)
* FernHans (18)
* Ron_A (4)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* mark91 (1)
* dennisk (1)
* AZ_Fox (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul 25 03:59:34 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <stephenm> that was fsat

 03:59 <stephenm> *fast

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <AZ_Fox> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 94165.71

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> News begins from novice to expert

 04:02 <stephenm> Mozilla’s Dave Herman on Building an Open Source Research Lab

 04:02 <stephenm> http://fossforce.com/2016/07/mozillas-dave-herman-building-open-source-research-lab/

 04:02 <stephenm> Feral Linux users should learn

 04:02 <stephenm> http://www.itwire.com/open-sauce/73946-feral-linux-users-should-learn-when-to-shut-up.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux in the Mainstream. What Will it Take?

 04:03 <stephenm> http://news.tecmint.com/linux-in-the-mainstream/

 04:03 <stephenm> ^ important question

 04:03 <stephenm> In Search of a Linux iTunes Replacement

 04:03 <stephenm> http://fossforce.com/2016/07/linux-itunes-replacement/

 04:03 <stephenm> EFF Sues US Government, Saying Copyright Rules on DRM Are Unconstitutional

 04:03 <stephenm> http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2016/07/eff-sues-us-government-saying-copyright-rules-on-drm-are-unconstitutional/

 04:03 <stephenm> ^ This wasn't a bad article

 04:03 <stephenm> Why and How to Use Ring Instead of Skype on Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/why-and-how-use-ring-instead-skype-linux%20

 04:04 <stephenm> Graduates: How to Get Your Dream Open Source Job

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/graduates-how-get-your-dream-open-source-job%20

 04:04 <stephenm> Hack The World

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/hack-world

 04:04 <stephenm> If only I knew a little more hacking and had the time

 04:04 <stephenm> Keeweb A Linux Password Manager

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/keeweb-a-linux-password-manager

 04:04 <stephenm> How I use Linux for theoretical physics

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/7/linux-theoretical-physics

 04:04 <stephenm> Intro to LimeSurvey: An open source, feature-rich polling platform

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/business/16/7/intro-limesurvey

 04:05 <stephenm> Easily Encrypt your Flash Drives with Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/easily-encrypt-your-flash-drives-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> ^ important article

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Troubleshooting Cheatsheet: strace, htop, lsof, tcpdump, iftop & sysdig

 04:05 <stephenm> https://sysdig.com/blog/linux-troubleshooting-cheatsheet/

 04:05 <stephenm> 10 Essential Skills for Novice, Junior and Senior SysAdmins

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/10-essential-skills-novice-junior-and-senior-sysadmins%20%20

 04:05 <stephenm> Maintaining remote web sites with sitecopy on Ubuntu 16.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/maintaining-remote-web-sites-with-sitecopy-on-ubuntu-16-04/.

 04:06 <stephenm> Preventing the next Heartbleed and making FOSS more secure

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/7/interview-david-wheeler-making-foss-more-secure

 04:06 <stephenm> Fix Bugs, Go Fast, and Update: 3 Approaches to Container Security

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/fix-bugs-go-fast-and-update-3-approaches-container-security%20

 04:06 <stephenm> Container Image Signing

 04:06 <stephenm> http://rhelblog.redhat.com/2016/07/22/container-image-signing/

 04:06 <stephenm> Minikube: Easily Run Kubernetes Locally

 04:06 <stephenm> http://blog.kubernetes.io/2016/07/minikube-easily-run-kubernetes-locally.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Chrooting Apache 2.4 with mod_unixd on Debian 8 (Jessie)

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/chrooting-apache-2.4-with-mod_unixd-on-debian-8-jessie/

 04:06 <stephenm> That is all the news for tonight folks

 04:06 <Ron_A> Thank you stephenm looks like good stuff

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <stephenm> you're welcome

 04:07 <toddc> November  05 2016 UAT has all school event so we will need to locate another place

 04:07 <toddc> September 03 2016 labor day

 04:07 <toddc> September 04 2016 meeting

 04:09 <MajB> Hello mark91

 04:09 <toddc> Pscion: has a image up and starting to test and improve it but it has only been online for a few hours

 04:09 <mark91> Hi MajB

 04:10 <MajB> An image?

 04:10 <toddc> this is the instalfest DB so he can use some help with MySQL

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> Linux Air

 04:11 <toddc> Disgruntled employees of all the other OS airlines decide to start their own airline. They build the planes, ticket counters, and pave the runways themselves.

 04:11 <stephenm> I know MySQL just a little rusty

 04:11 <MajB> Do we have a URL for Pacion's data base?

 04:11 <toddc> 1 sec

 04:11 <MajB> Pscion^

 04:11 <toddc> http://70.190.179.165:8081/

 04:12 <stephenm> good start

 04:12 <toddc> contact myself or Pscion is you would like to help!

 04:13 <toddc> Linux Air

 04:13 <toddc> Disgruntled employees of all the other OS airlines decide to start their own airline. They build the planes, ticket counters, and pave the runways themselves.

 04:13 <toddc> They charge a small fee to cover the cost of printing the ticket, but you can also download and print the ticket yourself.

 04:13 <toddc> When you board the plane, you are given a seat, four bolts, a wrench and a copy of the Seat-HOWTO.html. Once settled, the fully adjustable seat is very comfortable

 04:13 <toddc> the plane leaves and arrives on time without a single problem, the in-flight meal is wonderful.

 04:14 <toddc> You try to tell customers of the other airlines about the great trip, but all they can say is, "You had to do what with the seat?"

 04:14 <MajB> Rah!!

 04:14 <toddc> Local jobs

 04:14 <toddc> PayPal is looking to hire an Information Security Engineer.

 04:14 <toddc> Top 3 requirements: Splunk Experience, SysLog-NG experience, Linux experience.

 04:14 <toddc> Aldini, Nicholas <naldini@teksystems.com>

 04:14 <toddc> Software Developer and Technical Support Specialist and Java dev

 04:14 <toddc> https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/

 04:15 <toddc> 35 current canonical Jobs today

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:15 <toddc> Sr. Software Developer

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.picmonic.com/pages/careers/software-developer/

 04:15 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:15 <toddc> Ford Fusion with Raspberry PI war driveing

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lBl54D4Eon0

 04:15 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:16 <toddc> Recalbox allows you to re-play a variety of videogame consoles and platforms in your living room PI

 04:16 <toddc> http://www.recalbox.com/

 04:16 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:16 <toddc> Felony is an open-source pgp keychain built on the modern web with Electron, React, and Redux. Felony is the first PGP app that’s easy for anyone to use

 04:16 <toddc> https://github.com/henryboldi/felony

 04:16 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:17 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:17 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:17 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:17 <MajB> 28 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:17 <MajB> 28 July, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:18 <MajB> 04 August, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> 06 August, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software

 04:18 <MajB> 20 August, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software

 04:18 <MajB> That should do it for tonight

 04:19 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:19 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:19 <toddc> Lubuntu Bug Day Q&A      (MajB take note)

 04:19 <toddc> Mon, July 25 7-8 PM GMT

 04:19 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:19 <toddc> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:19 <toddc> When Tue, July 26, 8-9am

 04:19 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:19 <MajB> That would be 1-2 pm our time

 04:19 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:20 <FernHans> ja, danke

 04:20 <FernHans> Tucson has a Free Software meeting next Sunday at Cafe Lucé, the one at main gat

 04:20 <FernHans> e square

 04:20 <FernHans> see the TFUG mailing list for more details

 04:20 <FernHans> SeaGL cfp is closing next weekend: http://seagl.org/news/2016/05/13/CFP-Open.html

 04:20 <FernHans> SCaLE cfp is open: http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp

 04:20 <FernHans> let me know if you would like help submitting proposals

 04:20 <FernHans> that's it for tonight, thanks for the continued cross-group cooperation!

 04:20 <FernHans> in August PLUG has 3 presentations:

 04:20 <FernHans> Title: Alerting and Rhythm from Chris @ Elastic.Kibana

 04:20 <FernHans> Title: Bluetooth beacons from Ed N

 04:20 <FernHans> Title: ~surprise topic~ from Bryan O'Neal

 04:21 <FernHans> September is Someone Else's Problem month with two cloud computing topics

 04:21 <FernHans> OpenStack

 04:21 <FernHans> dynamically allocating virtual infrastructure

 04:22 <FernHans> the resume event at Stammtisch went really well, the place was hopping. I did not personally get to everyone wishing resume assistance, but we had multiple people helping and I believe everyone got some feedback

 04:22 <FernHans> that's it, thanks again for the cross-group coordination!

 04:22 <toddc> Thank you FernHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:22 <FernHans> bitte

 04:23 <toddc> Dennisk did you have any other events to add or talk about?

 04:23 <dennisk> There is a blockchain mini conference and hackfest at Gangplank on the 30th. Details at the Desert Blockchain site.

 04:24 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS thanks to MajB

 04:24 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:24 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:24 <toddc> thanks dennisk

 04:24 <MajB> Brand new right off the wire.  Tucson Free UNIX Group meeting on 31 July 3-4 pm.  Cafe Luce, Main Gate Square (by the U of A), Tucson AZ.

 04:25 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 05 August 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:25 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 09 August 6:30-9:30 pm.  Bill's Pizza, 107 S. Cortez St., Prescott AZ.

 04:25 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 10 August 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:25 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 10 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:26 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 27 August 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:26 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 28 August 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:26 <MajB> That is all that I have for now.

 04:26 <Ron_A> Good work MajB

 04:26 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:26 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:27 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:27 <MajB> I think that I will be attending the TFUG meeting next Sunday

 04:28 <toddc> can we get a small report

 04:28 <Ron_A> Good meeting guys

 04:28 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:28 <MajB> You most certainly can.

 04:28 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
