{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===

<pre>
[20:58]	toddc2	Please note that I am in Page AZ tonight, 88 deg but very intermittent wifi so please bear with any drops that may occur.
[20:59]	Siph0n	+1
[20:59]	Siph0n	lol no one else here?
[20:59]	toddc2	yes
[20:59]	dennisk	+1
[20:59]	Eric-A	+1
[20:59]	toddc2	is my clock slow
[21:00]	toddc2	I show 857
[21:00]	toddc2	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddc2	+1
[21:00]	toddc2	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:00]	toddc2	Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself.
[21:01]	toddc2	I will also try to be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me during the meeting
[21:01]	toddc2	Here is new news from ubuntu news:
[21:01]	toddc2	firefox 5 installer
[21:01]	toddc2	http://techie-buzz.com/foss/firefox-5-ubuntu-main-repo.html
[21:01]	toddc2	Ubuntu Certification going forward to be ready for Oneirick
[21:01]	toddc2	http://victorpalau.net/2011/06/06/ubuntu-certification-going-forward/
[21:02]	toddc2	official 10.10 manual now available for free download
[21:02]	toddc2	http://ubuntu-manual.org/
[21:02]	toddc2	ubuntu 11.10 will be hybrid cd/usb image
[21:02]	toddc2	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Ubuntu-11-10-ISOs-to-be-hybrid-CD-USB-images-1261923.html
[21:02]	toddc2	Canonical builds 42 core ARM cluster server for ubuntu to host arm testing
[21:02]	toddc2	http://www.geek.com/articles/chips/canonical-builds-a-42-core-arm-cluster-server-box-for-ubuntu-20110613/
[21:02]	toddc2	install Oracle Database 10g Express in ubuntu
[21:02]	toddc2	http://www.devshed.com/c/a/Oracle/Install-Oracle-Database-10g-Express-in-Ubuntu/
[21:03]	toddc2	boot repair guide grub2
[21:03]	toddc2	http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/boot-repair-fix-ubuntu-boot-issues.html
[21:03]	toddc2	Team Status is still in question and has started to move again thanks to Dazed_75 and I have updated the azloco site and wiki a bit and Dennis will be heading up the education Team and wiki and Rav will be taking the membership team I think. I know we must go before the loco counsel on July 19 but I am not sure what we need to do or show so if someone finds any info let me know.
[21:03]	toddc2	this needs to be done if we want to keep active status as a Team we will also need to show events like the installfests and keep up your personal wiki's
[21:03]	dennisk	Still with us, Todd?
[21:04]	toddc2	yes
[21:04]	toddc2	dennisk is this not showing up?
[21:05]	-->|	toddcnb (~chatzilla@72-24-154-51.cpe.cableone.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:06]	toddc2	everyone able to see this?
[21:06]	Eric-A	I can
[21:06]	toddc2	ok and i can see on spare laptop
[21:06]	toddc2	JOB LIST
[21:06]	toddc2	local motors is looking for a PHP programmer
[21:07]	toddc2	<http://internaljobs.schwab.com/startsubmission.html?erjob=205727>
[21:07]	toddc2	Job ID: 0610-4409
[21:07]	toddc2	Description:
[21:07]	toddc2	Application Deadline: 6/30/2011
[21:07]	toddc2	SR linux/unix admin
[21:07]	toddc2	contact Eric Shubes About
[21:07]	toddc2	http://phoenix.jobing.com/it-administrator/job/2813833
[21:07]	toddc2	I have a contract to hire a position for a client in Scottsdale, AZ. The client is looking for a Linux Administrator with RHEL and SUSE experience. If interested please email your resume to Asad@midcom.com or feel free to call me at (800) 737-1632 ext. 3717. Thanks.
[21:07]	toddc2	http://jobs-apollo.com/arizona/information-technology/jobid1515184-systems-administrator-ii-jobs
[21:07]	toddc2	TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:08]	toddc2	test.azloco.com server has been updated to 10.04 so if anyone would like to test with it see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server and let us know or help with your project.
[21:08]	toddc2	TEMPE INSTALLFEST NEWS
[21:08]	toddc2	the installfest was very busy and we ran out of table space last Saturday so maybe a bigger room is in the future?
[21:08]	toddc2	UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:08]	toddc2	Friday, July 8
[21:08]	toddc2	4:30pm
[21:08]	toddc2	 Q and A with Jonathan Lange on Launchpad
[21:09]	toddc2	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:09]	toddc2	I was thinking about a 11.10 release party/ meet and greet Oct 11 but need Idea's as to where?
[21:09]	toddc2	Some thoughts are UAT or a bar/ coffee shop or I hear there is wifi at Tempe Town lake maybe a BBQ
[21:09]	toddc2	??????????????????????????????
[21:09]	toddc2	108 days till 11.10
[21:10]	toddc2	Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
[21:10]	toddc2	PLUG EVENTS
[21:10]	toddc2	The Developer Meeting will be held on Thursday, July 7 at 7:30pm at uat
[21:10]	toddc2	XHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:11]	toddc2	dennisk do you have any news for us?
[21:12]	toddc2	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:12]	|<--	dennisk has left freenode (Ping timeout: 264 seconds)
[21:13]	toddc2	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
[21:13]	-->|	dennisk (~dennisk@ip70-162-80-2.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:14]	Eric-A	wb dennisk
[21:14]	toddc2	dennisk working now?
[21:14]	dennisk	Yes
[21:14]	toddc2	any new for us dennisk
[21:15]	toddc2	news
[21:15]	dennisk	Did my FYI make it to the list?
[21:15]	toddc2	no
[21:15]	dennisk	FYI: Bradley Kuhn and Karen Sandler's oggcast has moved to faif.us. They cover legal issues around FOSS. Karen is also the new exec. director of the GNOME Foundation.
[21:15]	-->|	Dazed_75 (~larry@173-16-160-52.client.mchsi.com) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:16]	toddc2	hi Dazed_75
[21:16]	Dazed_75	Hi, sorry I forgot
[21:16]	dennisk	Karen has both a law degree and an engineering degree. Formerly with the SFLC.
[21:17]	dennisk	She's a very dynamic person and a great choice to head up GNOME.
[21:17]	toddc2	np Dazed_75 I logged
[21:17]	Dazed_75	good, cuz I don't have the info
[21:20]	toddc2	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
[21:21]	xHans	PLUG devel a week from Thursday: code pizza party
[21:21]	xHans	PLUG east side two weeks from Thursday has two presentations: Open Source programs for virtual worlds from lawyer Connie J Mableson and Blender presentation from MCC instructor Phillip Waclawski
[21:21]	xHans	sorry, jumped about a bit in scrollback and didn't see my queue
[21:22]	xHans	I'm really excited by July's east side meeting
[21:23]	Eric-A	sounds good
[21:23]	toddc2	hope I can be back by then
[21:24]	toddc2	Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
[21:25]	dennisk	I'm having trouble connecting to BBB. It's at my end, I suspect.
[21:25]	toddc2	three of use are in there right now
[21:26]	dennisk	Firefox is attempting to reconnect. . . .
[21:26]	|<--	toddcnb has left freenode (Quit: ChatZilla 0.9.87 [Firefox 4.0.1/20110413222027])
[21:27]	dennisk	flaky wifi tonight
[21:29]	Dazed_75	DennisK: you do know you must log out and back in to BBB after losing conn and trying ti reconnect?
[21:30]	dennisk	yep.
[21:33]	dennisk	Na, OK, ich gebe auf. Gute Nacht, Jungs!
[21:33]	toddc2	nite
[21:33]	<--|	dennisk has left #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:46]	Eric-A	lost the link guys
[21:46]	Dazed_75	lost todd too
[21:46]	Eric-A	I'll have to buy me a new headset
[21:46]	Dazed_75	bbb is playing some spanish guitar tjo
[21:46]	Dazed_75	tho
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
