{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 19 Jan at 03:58 &mdash; 04:30 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2015/ubuntu-us-az.2015-01-19-03.58.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' http://rt.com/news/222891-pirate-hacker-nipe-network/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/article/2871658/why-some-apple-customers-run-linux-on-macbooks-instead-of-os-x.html 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2015/01/linux-distros-well-never-see/ 
''LINK:'' https://insights.ubuntu.com/2015/01/14/announcing-snappy-ubuntu-core-on-vagrant-cloud/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Systemd-and-Upstart-Comparison-and-Usage-on-Ubuntu-15-04-Detailed-In-Great-New-Wiki-469685.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/business/2015/01/linus-torvalds-responds-to-ars-about-diversity-niceness-in-open-source/ 
''LINK:'' https://tails.boum.org/news/version_1.2.3/index.en.html 
''LINK:'' http://opensource.com/business/15/1/openstack-tutorials 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/firefox-35-gets-performance-boost-bug-fixes.html 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/GOG-com-Ditches-Password-Protected-Archives-For-the-Sake-of-Linux-Users-469933.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.cyberciti.biz/cloud-computing/7-awesome-open-source-cloud-storage-software-for-your-privacy-and-security/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2014/12/how-today-s-young-it-talent-different-previous-generations 
''LINK:'' http://opensource.com/life/15/1/calibre-ebook-management 
''LINK:'' https://krita.org/item/goodbye-photoshop-and-hello-krita-at-university-paris-8/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/article/2871754/scary-steam-for-linux-bug-erases-all-the-personal-files-on-your-pc.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/article/2833808/microsoft-to-bring-docker-to-windows-server.html 
''LINK:'' http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2015/01/my-business-has-been-saved-by-zorin-os.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/why-you-should-or-shouldnt-switch-to-each-leading-linux-desktop-1.html 
''LINK:'' http://comptechconf.com and have invited PLUG to attend
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.pepid.com/company/careers.asp?jobcode=it 
''LINK:'' http://cybersponse.com/careers 
''LINK:'' http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.mars-one.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/insomniac34/StarFaux 
''LINK:'' http://douaneapp.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (147)
* MajB (12)
* stephenm (10)
* meetingology (7)
* wmack (4)
* markthomas (1)
* tuxmann (1)
* Ron_A (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:58 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:58 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan 19 03:58:16 2015 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:58 <meetingology> 

 03:58 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:58 <stephenm> +1

 03:59 <toddc> stephenm: is in a hurry tonight?

 03:59 <MajB> Hot date?

 04:00 <meetingology> toddc: Error: Can't start another meeting, one is in progress.

 04:00 <stephenm> nope just wanted to see if anything is going on

 04:00 <stephenm> plus it is getting a better warm in Phoenix lately

 04:00 <toddc> welcome to the azloco weekley meeting please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <tuxmann> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 92652.81

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news!! till everyone gets here

 04:03 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:03 <toddc> the news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:03 <MajB> I got a little news.

 04:03 <toddc> Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:03 <toddc> Fake Wi-Fi network fools top Swedish security experts

 04:03 <toddc> http://rt.com/news/222891-pirate-hacker-nipe-network/

 04:03 <Ron_A> +1

 04:03 <toddc> Why some Apple customers run Linux on Macbooks instead of OS X

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.itworld.com/article/2871658/why-some-apple-customers-run-linux-on-macbooks-instead-of-os-x.html

 04:03 <toddc> Linux Distros We’ll Never See

 04:04 <toddc> http://fossforce.com/2015/01/linux-distros-well-never-see/

 04:04 <toddc> Announcing snappy Ubuntu Core on Vagrant cloud

 04:04 <toddc> https://insights.ubuntu.com/2015/01/14/announcing-snappy-ubuntu-core-on-vagrant-cloud/

 04:04 <toddc> Systemd and Upstart Comparison and Usage on Ubuntu 15.04 Detailed in Great New Wiki

 04:04 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Systemd-and-Upstart-Comparison-and-Usage-on-Ubuntu-15-04-Detailed-In-Great-New-Wiki-469685.shtml

 04:04 <toddc> Linus Torvalds responds to Ars about diversity, niceness in open source

 04:05 <toddc> http://arstechnica.com/business/2015/01/linus-torvalds-responds-to-ars-about-diversity-niceness-in-open-source/

 04:05 <toddc> Tails 1.2.3 is out

 04:05 <toddc> https://tails.boum.org/news/version_1.2.3/index.en.html

 04:05 <toddc> 5 new guides for using OpenStack

 04:05 <toddc> http://opensource.com/business/15/1/openstack-tutorials

 04:05 <toddc> Firefox 35 Gets Performance Boost, Bug Fixes

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/firefox-35-gets-performance-boost-bug-fixes.html

 04:05 <toddc> GOG.com Ditches Password-Protected Archives for the Sake of Linux Users

 04:06 <wmack> +1

 04:06 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/GOG-com-Ditches-Password-Protected-Archives-For-the-Sake-of-Linux-Users-469933.shtml

 04:06 <toddc> 7 Awesome Open Source Cloud Storage Software For Your Privacy and Security

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.cyberciti.biz/cloud-computing/7-awesome-open-source-cloud-storage-software-for-your-privacy-and-security/

 04:06 <toddc> How today’s young IT talent is different from previous generations

 04:06 <toddc> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2014/12/how-today-s-young-it-talent-different-previous-generations

 04:06 <toddc> How-to: tackling information overload with open-source calibre

 04:06 <toddc> http://opensource.com/life/15/1/calibre-ebook-management

 04:07 <toddc> ‘Goodbye Photoshop’ and ‘Hello Krita’ at University Paris 8

 04:07 <toddc> https://krita.org/item/goodbye-photoshop-and-hello-krita-at-university-paris-8/

 04:07 <toddc> Scary Steam for Linux bug erases all the personal files on your PC

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.itworld.com/article/2871754/scary-steam-for-linux-bug-erases-all-the-personal-files-on-your-pc.html

 04:07 <toddc> Microsoft to bring Docker to Windows Server

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.itworld.com/article/2833808/microsoft-to-bring-docker-to-windows-server.html

 04:07 <toddc> My business has been saved by Zorin OS

 04:08 <toddc> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2015/01/my-business-has-been-saved-by-zorin-os.html

 04:08 <toddc> Why You Should (or Shouldn't) Switch to Each Leading Linux Desktop

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/why-you-should-or-shouldnt-switch-to-each-leading-linux-desktop-1.html

 04:08 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:08 <toddc> over to MajB for some Southern Az news.

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you.

 04:09 <MajB> The Cyber Patriot Competition is for middle schools and high schools.  There are open divisions and service (JROTC - Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Civil Air Patrol, and Coast Guard I think) divisions.  It is a national competition.  Each team consists of 2-5 members with an optional alternate.  The Competition is almost over for this year.

 04:09 <MajB> What they are doing is teaching these students about cyber security in Linux (Ubuntu this year) and Microsoft Windows and then they compete to see if they have done a good job learning.  Their competition tests them as system administrators.  I believe it is anticipated that this will peak their interest and gently push them toward an education in computer technology, mathematics, and other sciences.

 04:10 <MajB> Anyway there are 43 teams registered this year that are participating from all over the state.  Sixteen of those teams, over 37%, are from Cochise County (out in the boonies.)  So far, at the high school level, Buena High School (Sierra Vista) has the the top two teams in the Open and the Service Divisions in Arizona.  At the Middle School level, 3 teams from Smith Middle School (Fort Huachuca) and one from Valley View Elementary (Hereford)

 04:10 <MajB> That's all I have.

 04:11 <wmack> impressive rep of s az!

 04:11 <toddc> thank you MajB for all the events and news from there!

 04:11 <stephenm> thats great to hear

 04:11 <toddc> should we cancel the installfest on July 04?

 04:11 <wmack> +1

 04:11 <toddc> #vote

 04:11 <meetingology> Please vote on:

 04:11 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 04:11 <wmack> +1

 04:11 <toddc> +1

 04:12 <MajB> +1

 04:12 <stephenm> 0

 04:12 <toddc> voting will be open a while

 04:12 <toddc> Several members are planning to give talks at the Computer Technology Conference. http://comptechconf.com

 04:12 <toddc> February 19 20 21 We will holding the Linux Installfest at the event that week-end and Scale is that week-end also but If anyone would like to give a talk or presentation or assist let us know.

 04:13 <toddc> We have recived a ubuntu conf pack so that we will have some swag to hand out and we will be running a booth also.

 04:13 <toddc> http://comptechconf.com and have invited PLUG to attend

 04:13 <stephenm> I will be there to help with the booth but I'm not a public speaker

 04:13 <toddc> I have recived money from Ubuntu community to cover booth fees.

 04:13 <toddc> And will pay that this week. Thanks to programmer317 for the assistance with this.

 04:13 <toddc> the booth will need to be staffed Thursday Friday and Saturday.

 04:14 <toddc> Collie will head up the booth staffing so if you have time to help??

 04:14 <toddc> I will let him know stephenm

 04:14 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:15 <toddc> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.

 04:15 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:15 <toddc> #endvote

 04:15 <meetingology> No vote in progress

 04:15 <toddc> JOB list

 04:15 <toddc> 44 current canonical Jobs today

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:16 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:16 <toddc> http://www.pepid.com/company/careers.asp?jobcode=it

 04:16 <toddc> Several jobs at Cybersponce

 04:16 <toddc> http://cybersponse.com/careers

 04:16 <toddc> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data)

 04:16 <toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:16 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:16 <toddc> http://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/

 04:17 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:17 <toddc> Mars One Project is powered by linux. (Ubuntu Unity)

 04:17 <toddc> http://www.mars-one.com/

 04:17 <stephenm> interesting

 04:17 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:17 <toddc> StarFaux A Remake of Star Fox for SNES using OpenGL/GLUT

 04:17 <toddc> https://github.com/insomniac34/StarFaux

 04:18 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:18 <toddc> Douane Personal Firewall

 04:18 <toddc> http://douaneapp.com/

 04:18 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:18 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:19 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:19 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:19 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  Thursday January 22. 2014 17:30 - 18:30 MST , 5:30pm – 6:30pm

 04:19 <toddc> Sierra Vista Public Library (foyer) 2600 East Tacoma St. Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:19 <toddc> Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your

 04:19 <toddc> personal computer and the FREE software that is available as an

 04:19 <toddc> alternative to Microsoft Windows and other software that you must buy.

 04:20 <toddc> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:20 <toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:20 <toddc> Thursday January 22 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock

 04:20 <toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:20 <toddc> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:20 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be Febuary 04 7pm – 9pm at Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA   http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:21 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:21 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:21 <toddc> Tempe Installfest

 04:21 <toddc> Plug/Loco installfest is Saturday Febuary 07 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 206/207 this month 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the

 04:21 <toddc> front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:22 <toddc> LINUX TRAINING

 04:22 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/

 04:22 <toddc> LFS540 Linux KVM Virtualization

 04:22 <toddc> 26 Jan » 29 Jan – Virtual

 04:22 <toddc> LFS426 Linux Performance Tuning

 04:22 <toddc> 26 Jan » 29 Jan - Virtual

 04:22 <toddc> Ubuntu On-Air

 04:23 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:23 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:23 <toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net

 04:23 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:23 <toddc> WhenTue, January 20, 9am – 10am

 04:23 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:24 <toddc> OTHER  LUG EVENTS

 04:24 <toddc> Lugy (Precott users group)

 04:24 <toddc> Tue, Febuary 10, 6:30pm – 9:00pm

 04:24 <toddc> Raven Cafe 142 N. Cortez St Prescottt AZ 86301 928-717-0009

 04:24 <toddc> SLUG Sunland Village East Computer Club

 04:24 <toddc> Febuary 11 6-8 PM in the Computer Club Training Facility 2145 So. Farnsworth Mesa AZ 85209

 04:25 <toddc> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:26 <toddc> PLUG EVENTS

 04:26 <toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday January 20 at  7:00PM Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210 7PM till ??

 04:27 <toddc> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:27 <toddc> Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux. Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:27 <toddc> If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem...

 04:27 <toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday Febuary 12 7-9 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226 Misc presentations and chat about linux and open source projects.

 04:28 <stephenm> Is there enough room at this Borders?  I've only been to the one on Roosevelt

 04:28 <toddc> I have not been to this new onwe but it looks very big

 04:28 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:29 <MajB> Before everyone departs for the evening, Does anyone have a Linux Security presentation laying around or perhaps sitting on their hard drive?

 04:29 <toddc> you missed him MajB

 04:29 <MajB> I really need one.

 04:29 <stephenm> sorry no

 04:29 <toddc> I will try to ask him this week I should see him

 04:29 <MajB> How can you ambush someone that isn't at the correct ambush site.

 04:30 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:30 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
