{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

03 December - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed Rescuezilla to backup/restore images
* Set azloco.org new admin
* Discussed new donated hardware and server racks
* Discussed the pros and cons of Starlink Satellite Internet
05 December - Virtual Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 12 attendees
* Completed a migration of email from POP3 to IMAP
* Discussed the difference between the command "apt" and "apt-get"
* Discussed what the commands "clean", "autoclean", and "autoremove" actually do
* Assisted in a configuration problem with a Raspberry Pi
* Solved a dependency problem with a Raspberry Pi install 
* Attempted to discover why a Canon printer would not print in Linux but would print in Win10 dual boot (unresolved)
* Attempted to discover why a Excel document would not display all the data when opened with impress in a dual boot machine (unresolved)
06 December – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2006%2C%202020%20Meeting
10 December – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees
* There are 9 computers that have been upgraded, had a Linux system installed on them, and are ready to be donated. Six are 32 bit and 3 are 64 bit. The 32 bit computers can support Linux Mint 19.3, LXLE18.04, or AntiX 19.3.   The 64 bit computers have Lubuntu or Xubuntu 20.04.1 installed on them.
* Tommy passed out some hand made USB flash drive storage blocks. Each one will store 6 flash drives. 
* Discussed the update of the computers in the Warrior Healing Center Computer Lab. All now have Ubuntu 20.04.1. 
* Discussed the Bisbee/Douglas projects. No progress has been made. We are still willing to support the installation of a Linux OS on their computers when they are ready. 
* There was a request for members to suggest topics for future presentations and/or offer to conduct a presentation themselves at future meetings.
10 December - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed VPN Vlan trunks and PC components
19 December - Virtual Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Configured backup of several systems daily using rsync
* Software to document topology of systems (eg. lucidchart)
* Discussed the solarwinds breach and CentOS stream
* Talked about home security alarms, ring, webcams
* Talked about Yubikey, U2F (see azloco.org article), DroidCAM
* Fixed Cinnamon prefs to open files and video
* Troubleshoot usb nvme adapter issues
20 December - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2020%2C%202020%20Meeting
