{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
 
<pre>
<toddc2> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> I was just starting to watch Archer and then the awesomeness must have overloaded the circuits.
<spinrage> +1
<pjdamws> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc2> +1
<avenger> +1
<toddc2> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc2> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc2> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=4459
<Rich_> +1
<toddc2> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc2> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc2> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<_ericcc> +1
<toddc2> UBUNTU NEWS
<dennisk_> +1
<toddc2> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> Terra terminal update brings improved stability and new features
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/03/terra-terminal-update-brings-improved.html
* turbidtux (~chatzilla@ip68-2-129-164.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Make an old Android phone into a networked security camera
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/139373/how-to-turn-an-old-android-phone-into-a-networked-security-camera/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu to use its own display server called Mir, Unity to be ported to Qt/QML
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/03/ubuntu-to-build-its-own-display-server.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/03/ubuntus-new-display-server-mir-gets-demoed-video (video does not work for me - LT)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/03/08/ubuntu-is-not-a-community-distribution/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTMyMjM
<toddc2> turbidtux: hi
<Dazed_75> Opinion/analysis: For Shuttleworth, Mir is just another means of control
<Dazed_75>     http://www.itwire.com/opinion-and-analysis/open-sauce/58982-for-shuttleworth-mir-is-just-another-means-of-control
* scott_ev (~scott_ev@ip68-106-1-177.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
* scott_ev has quit (Changing host)
* scott_ev (~scott_ev@ubuntu/member/scottev) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint plans to continue with Xorg
<Dazed_75>     http://www.thepowerbase.com/2013/03/linux-mint-not-in-the-business-of-picking-winners-continues-with-xorg/
<toddc2> scott_ev: hi
<scott_ev> +1
<Dazed_75> Install LibreOffice 4.0 in Ubuntu 12.04, 12.10, or 13.04 via PPA
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/03/install-libreoffice-40-in-ubuntu-1204.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/LibreOffice-4-0-1-delivers-Android-remote-for-all-1817680.html
<turbidtux> toddc: hey
<Dazed_75> Every install should be minimal (opinion piece)
<Dazed_75>     http://ostatic.com/blog/every-install-should-be-minimal#buzz
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu UDS to discuss rolling release
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/02/ubuntu-to-discuss-rolling-release-move-at-next-weeks-uds
<Dazed_75>     http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1228
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/03/ubuntu-13-04-still-on-course-for-april-release
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTMyMjI
<Dazed_75> Appindicator support for Gnome shell with a new extension
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/03/appindicator-support-for-gnome-shell.html
<Dazed_75> Why Android geeks buy Nexus devices
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/139391/htg-explains-why-android-geeks-buy-nexus-devices/
<Dazed_75> How to turn a Raspberry Pi into a low power NAS (Network Attached Storage) device
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/139433/how-to-turn-a-raspberry-pi-into-a-low-power-network-storage-device/
<Dazed_75> US colleges with Linux courses and degree programs (not a very comprehensive list)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/03/us-colleges-with-linux-courses-and.html
<Dazed_75> Precise Puppy is a fast, furious distro
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/77456.html
<Dazed_75> How to turn an old computer into a file-sharing server
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/03/how-to-turn-an-old-computer-into-a-file-sharing-server
<Dazed_75> Linux and Android are now the chosen OS's fro embedded developers
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/03/linux-and-android-are-now-chosen.html
<Dazed_75> 2% of Steam users now using Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/03/2-of-steam-users-now-using-linux.html
<Dazed_75> What does the future hold for ARM based servers?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.crn.com/news/data-center/240149813/what-does-the-future-hold-for-arm-based-servers.htm
<Dazed_75> Alternative commands to improve your command line productivity
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/alternatives-commands-to-improve-command-line-productivity/2013/03/09
<Dazed_75> 13.04 Stuff
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/03/new-unity-shutdown-dialogs-on-way-to-ubuntu-13-04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/03/gnome-38-beta-available-in-ppa-for.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/03/unity-to-get-new-shutdown-dialogs.html
<Dazed_75> Hope thaat was useful to someone.  Thats all from AJ
<toddc2> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc2> HP launches a cheap Pavilion all-in-one PC running Ubuntu
<toddc2> http://www.geek.com/articles/chips/hp-launches-a-cheap-pavilion-all-in-one-pc-running-ubuntu-2013034/
<toddc2> JOB LIST
<toddc2> Virtualization Engineer
<toddc2> recruitingtechies@gmail.com
<toddc2> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc2> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc2> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc2> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc2> Tech Salary Trends Reveal Surprising Winners, Losers
<toddc2> http://news.dice.com/2013/03/04/it-salaries-winners-losers/
<toddc2> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc2> Turbidtux joined last week
<toddc2> Android app Pick
<toddc2> Humble Bundle with Android 5 has landed!
<toddc2> http://blog.humblebundle.com/post/44641397764/humble-bundle-with-android-5-has-landed
<toddc2>  Linux app of the week
<toddc2> Gobby a collaborative test editor
<toddc2> http://gobby.0x539.de/trac/
<toddc2> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc2> Thursday March 28 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc2> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc2> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc2> we are also close to announcing a Tuscan Ubuntu hour possibly next month
<toddc2> TEAM MEETING
<toddc2> We are in the process of adding a Monthly Team Meeting   _ericc do you have any comments?
<xHans> test editor? or text editor?
<scott_ev> Tucsan? as in Tuscany, Itally?
<toddc2> text editor
<toddc2> spelling is not our strong point here
<toddc2> my
<xHans> that's what I thought it was, but didn't know if the project had changed :)
<scott_ev> agreed, I didn't even get it righnt
<avenger>  ha ha funny guys back to the pointtttt
<toddc2> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc2> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is April 6  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc2> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc2> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc2> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday March 16 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the rear of the  front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc2> this Saturday
<toddc2> For more info see
<toddc2> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc2> Please note that that we have had to cancel the April 13th Tagose event since UAT will be need all of there rooms that day. But we are looking into alternative locations
<toddc2> yes yes needing !!!
<toddc2>  We have also had to cancel the April 20 installfest for the same reason
<toddc2> UBUNTU TRAINING
<xHans> Iguana Mack's?
<toddc2> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc2> ubuntu deveopment hang out tuesday and Thursday 4PM
<toddc2> FUTURE EVENTS
<Dazed_75> Not going to do an installfest at Iguana Macks
<toddc2> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<scott_ev> hha
<toddc2> xHans over to you
<xHans> ok
<xHans> PLUG east side this Thursday
<xHans> this month we'll be meeting at Iguana Mack's where we normally meet for Stammtisch
<xHans> http://www.IguanaMacks.com/, 1371 N Alma School Rd, Chandler
<xHans> http://phxlinux.org/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/106-important-new-location-this-month.html
<xHans> Next month we'll be meeting at the Desert Breeze Substation
<xHans> 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd 85226
<xHans> Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
<xHans> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> CactusCon is full. I've heard that they're requesting you to turn in your reservation if you can't make it so they can make room for someone else
<toddc2> Developer Meeting Thursday April 4  7-9pm
<toddc2> University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc2> The developer group is adding bar code reading features to cheese
<toddc2> xHans any new classes that we need to know about?---or dennisk_
<scott_ev> turbidtux: you have a pm
<xHans> toddc: classes start a week from Monday
<xHans> everyone should take CIS271DL, security, but I believe it's sold out this quarter
<xHans> :)
<xHans> dennisk_: might still have room in his CIS238DL class, GNU/Linux system administration
<turbidtux> scott_ev:     uh, its not AM
<_ericcc> when will the next time CIS271 will happen?
<xHans> _ericcc: that's in flux, potentially Oktober, January or March
<scott_ev> turbidtux: does that mean no?
<Dazed_75> pm=personal message?
<scott_ev> yes
<oda> scott_ev, Did you get PM?
<toddc2> xHans did you have more info?
<turbidtux> scott_ev: I'm not sure what you mean, no?  oh where pm. I'm trying to pay attention to meeting....
<xHans> toddc: yes, but nothing on topic :)
<toddc2> xHans Thanks for keeping us up to date on plug and classes!!
<xHans> bitte
<toddc2> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<dennisk_> CIS238DL has a couple of seats left Call Jessica 480 461 7771 (CIS126DL or instructor permission required)
<toddc2> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
* pjdamws has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<scott_ev> yes, I'd like a ride to the server installfest if anyone in the east valley is willing to take me
<dennisk_> MCC has a new Linux Adjunct instructor -- JD Austin
<toddc2> avenger we are looking into wiki issues right now
<scott_ev> dennisk_: nicew
<xHans> hmm, black helicopters and a voice coming down from on high
<toddc2> dennisk_: cool invite him over
<avenger> good I am here, let me know what you find
<xHans> if one letter keeps repeating it's because I tossed something on the keyboard on my way into the panic room
<xHans> save yourselves!
<xHans> :)
<scott_ev> xHans immitating Orson Wells?
<toddc2> tin foil hats for all?
<scott_ev> already wearing mine
<scott_ev> and lead lined boxers
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
