{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 17 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-10-17-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2016/10/shendy-low-cost-arsenic-detector/ 
''LINK:'' http://devproconnections.com/development/federal-judge-says-alice-death-knell-software-patents 
''LINK:'' https://fossbytes.com/linux-lexicon-watch-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/mod-duo-multiple-guitar-stomp-boxes-single-device 
''LINK:'' http://gizmodo.com/we-were-very-wrong-about-the-number-of-galaxies-in-the-1787750693 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/10/power-open-source-customer-freedom 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/animation-krita 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/3-file-conversion-tools-linux-command-line 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/best-open-source-cms.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/-onlyoffice-create-a-single-workspace-for-all-your-documents-on-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/working-network-configurations-command-line 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Googles-New-Fonts-Chip-Away-at-Written-Language-Barriers-83979.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/NEWS/SMART-LINUX-HOME-HUBS-MIX-IOT-AI 
''LINK:'' http://www.2daygeek.com/linux-directory-structure-file-system-hierarchy/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/awk-filter-text-or-string-using-patterns/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/support-issues 
''LINK:'' http://wwpi.com/2016/10/11/red-hat-announces-open-source-release-of-ansible-galaxy-with-aim-of-advancing-automation/ 
''LINK:'' https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68 
''LINK:'' https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1101 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/c0bikjafj9q0h5nqivjcl2e8vm0 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/ce4980qo6g3frtvjj4gnmvtbmjk 
''LINK:'' https://osem.seagl.org/conference/seagl2016/schedule 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/what-do-you-have-to-say-share-it-at-libreplanet-2017 
''LINK:'' http://hubs.ly/H04sBRL0 
''LINK:'' https://lists.debconf.org/lurker/message/20160902.125635.8129251b.en.html 
''LINK:'' https://softwarefreedom.org/events/2016/sflc-fall-conference/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (73)
* stephenm (49)
* FernHans (24)
* Ron_A (6)
* packetlock (4)
* toddc (4)
* meetingology (3)
* mark91_ (2)
* pavlos (1)
* markthomas (1)
* wmack (1)
* `Eric (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 17 04:00:11 2016 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <mark91_> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <`Eric> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at http://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see/talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Star Date 94395.53

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <pavlos> +1

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <MajB> The news is for beginner to expert users.  Pick and choose what to read, test, and try.

 04:04 <stephenm> hey that's my line

 04:04 <MajB> Yes it is

 04:04 <stephenm> Shendy: A Low Cost Arsenic Detector for Drinking Water

 04:04 <stephenm> http://fossforce.com/2016/10/shendy-low-cost-arsenic-detector/

 04:04 <Ron_A> lol

 04:04 <stephenm> Federal Judge Says Alice 'Death Knell for Software Patents.'

 04:04 <stephenm> http://devproconnections.com/development/federal-judge-says-alice-death-knell-software-patents

 04:04 <stephenm> Use Watch Command To Run A Command Every X Seconds

 04:04 <stephenm> https://fossbytes.com/linux-lexicon-watch-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> this is actually a cool command to run

 04:05 <stephenm> MOD Duo: Building an open source guitar stomp box

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/mod-duo-multiple-guitar-stomp-boxes-single-device

 04:05 <stephenm> We Were Very Wrong About the Number of Galaxies in the Universe

 04:05 <stephenm> http://gizmodo.com/we-were-very-wrong-about-the-number-of-galaxies-in-the-1787750693

 04:05 <stephenm> We were very wrong

 04:05 <stephenm> The power of open source is customer freedom

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/business/16/10/power-open-source-customer-freedom

 04:05 <stephenm> If you know anything about business this article is actually pretty true

 04:06 <stephenm> How to make animated videos with Krita

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/animation-krita

 04:06 <stephenm> 3 command-line file conversion tools for Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/3-file-conversion-tools-linux-command-line

 04:06 <stephenm> Useful tools if you are in a command line OS

 04:06 <stephenm> Best Open Source CMS

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/best-open-source-cms.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Create a Single Workspace for All Your Documents on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/-onlyoffice-create-a-single-workspace-for-all-your-documents-on-linux

 04:07 <stephenm> This is kinda like Google Docs almost but looks based off of OwnCloud

 04:07 <stephenm> Working with Network Configurations from the Command Line

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/working-network-configurations-command-line

 04:07 <stephenm> Google's New Fonts Chip Away at Written Language Barriers

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Googles-New-Fonts-Chip-Away-at-Written-Language-Barriers-83979.html

 04:07 <stephenm> Everywhere is going to be English soon

 04:07 <stephenm> Smart Linux Home Hubs Mix IoT with AI

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/NEWS/SMART-LINUX-HOME-HUBS-MIX-IOT-AI

 04:07 <stephenm> I don't know how I feel about this, robots controlling the home

 04:08 <stephenm> Linux Directory Structure (File System Hierarchy) Explained with Examples

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.2daygeek.com/linux-directory-structure-file-system-hierarchy/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Use Awk to Filter Text or Strings Using Pattern Specific Actions

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/awk-filter-text-or-string-using-patterns/

 04:08 <stephenm> The 5 most common support issues for open source developers

 04:08 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/support-issues

 04:08 <stephenm> Red Hat announces open source release of Ansible Galaxy with aim of advancing automation

 04:08 <stephenm> http://wwpi.com/2016/10/11/red-hat-announces-open-source-release-of-ansible-galaxy-with-aim-of-advancing-automation/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight folks.

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <MajB> Good job

 04:09 <Ron_A> Good job stephenm

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:09 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:10 <stephenm> welcome

 04:10 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:10 <wmack> +1

 04:10 <toddc> hello wmack

 04:10 <Ron_A> Hi wmack

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX QUOTES AND JOKES:

 04:10 <stephenm> I’ll tell you a DNS joke but be advised, it could take up to 24 hours for everyone to get it.

 04:10 <MajB> Anyone

 04:11 <MajB> Good one

 04:11 <stephenm> :D

 04:11 <MajB> JOB LIST:

 04:11 <MajB> Software Engineer - Platform

 04:11 <MajB> DevOps Engineer

 04:11 <MajB> https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68

 04:12 <MajB> Tech Support Engineer

 04:12 <MajB> https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1101

 04:12 <MajB> 31 current canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <MajB> 117 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix AZ

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:13 <MajB> Plus 35 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:13 <MajB> What does the fox say tonight?

 04:14 <MajB> TEAM SERVER NEWS:

 04:14 <MajB> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:14 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:15 <MajB> 27 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 27 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 03 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 05 November, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 .  Gangplank, 260 S Arizona Avenue, Chandler, AZ.  There is free public parking just across the street next to Circle K.   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer yo

 04:16 <MajB> 17 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista. *** Notice*** This is a date change because of Thanksgiving.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet

 04:16 <MajB> 17 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.          *** Notice*** This is a date change because of Thanksgiving. Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 19 November, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:18 <MajB> FernHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <FernHans> ja, danke

 04:18 <FernHans> Stammtisch is Tuesday and starts at 19:00

 04:18 <FernHans> We also have a jobs networking event starting at 18:00 before Stammtisch

 04:18 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/events/c0bikjafj9q0h5nqivjcl2e8vm0

 04:18 <FernHans> Stammtisch

 04:18 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/events/ce4980qo6g3frtvjj4gnmvtbmjk

 04:18 <FernHans> both at Boulders in Southern

 04:18 <FernHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ 85204

 04:19 <FernHans> For November we have dynamic environment creation for security testing and CLI finance tools for PLUG on Thursday the 10th

 04:19 <FernHans> SeaGL 2016 schedule was posted, conference is 2016Nov11-12

 04:19 <FernHans> https://osem.seagl.org/conference/seagl2016/schedule

 04:19 <FernHans> SCaLE 15x cpf is open until 2016Nov15

 04:19 <FernHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp

 04:19 <FernHans> Next year SCaLE is at the beginning of March

 04:19 <FernHans> LibrePlanet cfp is open until 2016Nov14

 04:19 <FernHans> https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/what-do-you-have-to-say-share-it-at-libreplanet-2017

 04:19 <FernHans> Percona Live cpf is open until 2016Oct31

 04:19 <FernHans> http://hubs.ly/H04sBRL0

 04:20 <FernHans> Debconf 2017 is looking for new speakers

 04:20 <FernHans> https://lists.debconf.org/lurker/message/20160902.125635.8129251b.en.html

 04:20 <FernHans> Software Freedom Law Center's fall conference on 2016Oct28 will live stream

 04:20 <FernHans> https://softwarefreedom.org/events/2016/sflc-fall-conference/

 04:20 <FernHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:20 <MajB> Thank you FernHans

 04:20 <FernHans> bitte

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 22 October 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 23 October 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 23 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:21 <MajB> 

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 04 November 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org/

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 06 November 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:22 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 08 November 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD (See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest update on location), Prescott, AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 09 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, Room B159, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 09 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:23 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:

 04:23 <MajB> The International Technology Conference will take place at the Palace Station Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas NV 21-23 October.  Register at http://2016apcugconf.eventbrite.com/

 04:23 <MajB> See http://apcug2.org/apcug-2016-conference/ for additional information.

 04:23 <MajB> AZLOCO and CLUG will be co-sponsoring and Installation Festival in Sierra Vista AZ on 28 January 2017, 10-4 pm. University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, Resource Learning Center commons area, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:24 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:24 <MajB> That is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:25 <Ron_A> Just thank you MajB

 04:25 * packetlock arriving late, peeks around at the meeting

 04:25 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:25 <stephenm> thanks MajB and FernHans

 04:25 <toddc> welcome packetlock

 04:25 <MajB> Hi packetlock.  better late than never.

 04:25 <packetlock> Thanks

 04:25 <packetlock> lol

 04:25 <Ron_A> HELLO and WELCOME

 04:25 <mark91_> Thank you MajB, Stephenm and FernHans

 04:25 * packetlock waves

 04:26 <stephenm> welcome

 04:26 <MajB> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
