{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 18 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-11-18-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/find-video-frames-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/calibre-7-21-ebook-management-tool/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cnx-software.com/2024/11/16/orange-pi-4a-low-cost-octa-core-sbc-is-powered-by-allwinner-t527-cortex-a55-ai-soc-with-a-2tops-npu/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/dual-boot-issues/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/niri-0-1-10-tiling-wayland-compositor/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/vmware-workstation-and-fusion-go-free/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/hyprland-0-45-tiling-window-manager/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/linkwarden-2-8-bookmark-manager/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxhostsupport.com/blog/grep-command-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-scikit-learn-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/generate-verify-check-files-md5-checksum-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-scheme-static-site-generators/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-use-rsnapshot-for-backup-and-restore-on-linux-servers/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/dreamquest-n100-mini-pc-running-linux-introduction/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-home-server-os-for-self-hosted-apps/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/features/examining-open-source-benefits-security-challenges   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://dmpop.xyz/page.php?id=Home-server-with-Docker   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/uptime-kuma-monitoring-tool-setup-guide/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/change-file-timestamps-to-specific-date-and-time-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-use-vuls-vulnerability-scanner-on-ubuntu-24-04/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-network-intrusion-detection-systems/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/microsoft-released-dot-net-9-developer-platform/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org   (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/svecc-events/   (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/   (MajB, 04:13)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (62)
* Stephenm (53)
* toddc (4)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:02 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> me too

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <toddc> didi you miss me?

 04:00 <toddc> I will

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Yes we did

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:01 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeamTeam membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <Stephenm> Random news articles

 04:02 <Stephenm> How to Count Total Frames in a Video on Linux Using FFmpeg

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/find-video-frames-in-linux/

 04:02 <Stephenm> Calibre 7.21 Adds Read Aloud with Sentence Tracking for EPUBs

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/calibre-7-21-ebook-management-tool/

 04:02 <Stephenm> Orange Pi 4A low-cost octa-core SBC is powered by Allwinner T527 Cortex-A55 AI SoC with a 2TOPS NPU

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://www.cnx-software.com/2024/11/16/orange-pi-4a-low-cost-octa-core-sbc-is-powered-by-allwinner-t527-cortex-a55-ai-soc-with-a-2tops-npu/

 04:03 <Stephenm> 7 Problems You Might Face After Dual Booting Linux and Windows [And How to Fix Them]

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/dual-boot-issues/

 04:03 <Stephenm> Niri 0.1.10: Interactive Window Moving, Tablet Mode Switch, and More

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/niri-0-1-10-tiling-wayland-compositor/

 04:03 <Stephenm> VMware Workstation and Fusion Go Free

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/vmware-workstation-and-fusion-go-free/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Health

 04:04 <Stephenm> \https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-health/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Hyprland 0.45: Smoother Rounding, New Configs, and Key Fixes

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/hyprland-0-45-tiling-window-manager/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Linkwarden 2.8 Bookmark Manager: Custom Icons, Browser Sync, and More

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/linkwarden-2-8-bookmark-manager/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Grep Command in Linux

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxhostsupport.com/blog/grep-command-in-linux/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Install and Use Scikit-Learn in Linux

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-scikit-learn-in-linux/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Generate and Verify Files with MD5 Checksum in Linux

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/generate-verify-check-files-md5-checksum-linux/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 3 Best Free and Open Source Scheme Static Site Generators

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-scheme-static-site-generators/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Use Rsnapshot for Backup and Restore on Linux Servers

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-use-rsnapshot-for-backup-and-restore-on-linux-servers/

 04:05 <Stephenm> DreamQuest N100 Mini PC Running Linux: Introduction

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/dreamquest-n100-mini-pc-running-linux-introduction/

 04:06 <Stephenm> The Best Home Server OS For Your Self-hosted Apps

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-home-server-os-for-self-hosted-apps/

 04:06 <Stephenm> The Dual Edge of Open Source: Examining Key Benefits and Security Challenges

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/features/examining-open-source-benefits-security-challenges

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Set Up an Okay Docker Home Server

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://dmpop.xyz/page.php?id=Home-server-with-Docker

 04:06 <Stephenm> Uptime Kuma Docker Setup Guide: Installation and Configuration

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/uptime-kuma-monitoring-tool-setup-guide/

 04:07 <Stephenm> How To Change File Timestamps To Specific Date And Time In Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/change-file-timestamps-to-specific-date-and-time-in-linux/

 04:07 <Stephenm> How to Install and Use Vuls Vulnerability Scanner on Ubuntu 24.04

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-use-vuls-vulnerability-scanner-on-ubuntu-24-04/

 04:07 <Stephenm> 8 Best Free and Open Source Network Intrusion Detection Systems

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-network-intrusion-detection-systems/

 04:07 <Stephenm> .NET 9 Developer Platform Released, Here’s What’s New

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/microsoft-released-dot-net-9-developer-platform/

 04:08 <Stephenm> back to MajB now

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephen.

 04:08 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> As of January 2025, AZLOCO will be moving to one regular team meeting per month.  It will occur on the 1st Sunday of each month from 2100-2130 (9-9:30 pm) on this channel (#ubuntu-us-az).  Of course should additional team meetings be required they will be scheduled.  The meetings that were to take place on the 3rd Sunday have been officially canceled.

 04:08 <MajB> Please take note Stephenm

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <Stephenm> OK thanks

 04:09 <Stephenm> I

 04:09 <MajB> The last 3rd Sunday meeting will be in December

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 258 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 23 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <Stephenm> I'll have to see about putting on my calendar

 04:10 <MajB> There are 5 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:11 <MajB> 01 December, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> 05 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:11 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 December, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 15 December, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 21 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:12 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> 28 November, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour (conflicts with Thanksgiving)

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group

 04:13 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 19 November, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 12 December, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:13 <MajB> https://svecc.com/svecc-events/

 04:13 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:13 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S. Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group

 04:13 <MajB> https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 26 November, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:13 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have.

 04:14 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:14 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
