{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #87 for the week March 23, March 29.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Eighty Seventh Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-April 1, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday April 5, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the March 29, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:04 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09March29

johnc4510 began the meeting with some announcements:

* Jaunty countdown banners:  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/countdown .  There are 4 different ones:  one animated.  You can add them to your webpage.  I added the animated one to our site: http://azloco.com/ .  johnc4510 suggested to kennymc0 that we needed a new poll on the website.

* OK, anyone still using Gutsy, 7.10?  Because security updates will stop on April 18th.

* Next QA testing day is March 30th.  They will be testing Ubuntu installers:  the Debian one for the alternate CDs and unbiquity for the LiveCDs.  Info at the link:  http://blog.qa.ubuntu.com/node/43

johnc4510 then asked xHans when his release party for Jaunty Jackalope would be, or if it would be an install fest.  xHans replied, "I was suggesting the LoCo do a release party at the Install Fest."  The PLUG install fests are the last Saturday of each month at UAT.  The next one would be the end of April.  johnc4510 remembered that there was some question about whether or not they'd receive a shipment of CDs by then.  Especially since there hasn't been any word about ordering them, yet.  He felt there should be more word by next week.  We've had some ideas on the planning page:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/JauntyEvents .  Bbq, Peter Pipers like last time, and maybe with Red Seven, and of course with PLUG.  OK, I'll do some filling in of the planning page this week. since i'm planning on feeling better.

johnc4510 then asked for PLUG announcements from xHans.

* Just a reminder that we need to move on the Tucson ABLEconf if we want it to happen.

* For those in the valley there's a career expo at Mesa Community College this Wednesday, but I don't yet have info on who can attend, etc.  Keep an eye on my home page to see if I can announce it to everyone.

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:32 PM.

[Editor's Note:  For all of you that thought I'd do something funny to the newsletter because it's coming out on April 1st:  FOOLED YOU!!!!]

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
