{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
21:02 < johnc4510> ok, lets get going
21:02 < matthewmpp> cool.
21:02 < Mauricio1> +1
21:02 < johnc4510> any new folks to intro?
21:03  * slofgren peers around
21:03 < johnc4510> ok, then lets get to it, i'm tired as usual hee hee
21:03 < johnc4510> slofgren: hey
21:03 < johnc4510> :)
21:03 < slofgren> hey...yeah I am tired too ;)
21:03 < tyche> I'm already yawning.
21:03 < johnc4510> last week we started planning on the tucson installfest
21:04 < johnc4510> did we set the date as the 1st of aug?
21:04 < johnc4510> i think
21:04 < tyche> As far as I could determine, yes
21:04 < johnc4510> k
21:04 < johnc4510> i thought so
21:05 < tyche> See the Team newsletter for last week.  Hee hee
21:05 < johnc4510> and i was to email lenard's, which i did, but i haven't heard back yet
21:05 < johnc4510> i did that wed.
21:05 < johnc4510> right
21:06 < johnc4510> so if he doesn't get back to me i should contact oscr and see if they are interested
21:06 < tyche> Sounds good
21:06 < johnc4510> oscr = office of student computer resources
21:06 < johnc4510> u of a campus
21:07 < slofgren> lol
21:07 < johnc4510> :)
21:07 < johnc4510> we have the cds
21:07 < scott_ev> +1
21:07 < johnc4510> and equip. we need
21:07 < slofgren> wb scott_ev
21:07 < scott_ev> thx
21:07 < johnc4510> other than maybe a hub...which they are likely to have
21:07 < johnc4510> scott_ev: hey
21:07 < johnc4510> :)
21:07 < scott_ev> hey johnc4510
21:08 < slofgren> hub?
21:08 < matthewmpp> scott_ev: welcome back
21:08 < slofgren> you mean switch
21:08 < johnc4510> slofgren: yes, thx
21:08 < scott_ev> thx matthewmpp
21:09 < matthewmpp> johnc4510: i have not received a set of cd's yet.
21:09 < johnc4510> one thing i'd like to arrange is some kind of draw in the form of a demo and/or talk
21:09 < johnc4510> ah, matthewmpp sorry...i had my appendix out and forgot sorry
21:10 < johnc4510> i have them ready to go
21:10 < johnc4510> will mail them tomorrow or tuesday
21:10 < matthewmpp> cool, thx
21:11 < johnc4510> any ideas on a demo or talk that would create a stir with the college age folks??
21:11 < matthewmpp> do you mean a talk on a drawing program?
21:11 < scott_ev> ummm, get phish to do a reunion show?
21:12 < xHans> johnc4510: netbook demos
21:12 < scott_ev> no, he means how to draw people to the event
21:12 < johnc4510> not necessarily...more like a demo of something or a talk on a subject that ubuntu does better than windows
21:12 < xHans> johnc4510: gaming demos
21:12 < johnc4510> nods
21:12 < matthewmpp> how about cedega?
21:13 < johnc4510> !cedega
21:13 < ubot4> cedega is a project based on WINE, aimed at running Windows games on Linux. For more info, see http://help.ubuntu.com/community/Cedega
21:13 < xHans> johnc4510: see if Zach can help build out the game demos like ASULUG gets
21:13 < johnc4510> xHans: good idea
21:14 < johnc4510> slofgren: could we put that on the test server for a day to use at the installfest?
21:15 < johnc4510> ok, we can mull that one over
21:15 < johnc4510> next
21:15 < johnc4510> i need an idea of who will be here for the event
21:15 < johnc4510> i know soldats and i for sure
21:15 < scott_ev> I'm planning on attending
21:15 < johnc4510> i think lenards if we get thru to him
21:15 < johnc4510> thx scott_ev
21:16 < scott_ev> have yiou emailed lenards?
21:16 < azmike> Aug 1st?
21:16 < johnc4510> yes, awaiting reply
21:16 < scott_ev> k
21:16 < johnc4510> azmike: yes
21:16 < johnc4510> saturday
21:16 < johnc4510> like 10-4
21:16 < azmike> 17 th anniversary
21:16 < johnc4510> ah
21:16 < johnc4510> :)
21:16 < johnc4510> bring her
21:16 < johnc4510> lol
21:17 < azmike> maybe
21:17 < johnc4510> :)
21:18 < johnc4510> hmmm, lost my train of thought
21:18 < johnc4510> lol
21:18 < johnc4510> old age again
21:18 < johnc4510> :)
21:18 < scott_ev> ayup
21:18 < matthewmpp> announcements?
21:19 < johnc4510> ok, so it looks like at least 4 of us which is a good start
21:19 < slofgren> johnc4510: sorry was away
21:19 < johnc4510> we can enlist more as we go
21:19 < slofgren> johnc4510: that is what the test server is for
21:19 < scott_ev> matthewmpp: we should car pool
21:19 < slofgren> no on eis using it
21:19 < azmike> i will still promote it
21:19 < johnc4510> slofgren: great, i thought it would be a great way to use it
21:20 < matthewmpp> Yeah. we should do that.
21:20 < johnc4510> we'll confer on that after i get with zach
21:20 < tyche> johnc4510: I can't guarantee at this time, but if I can I will be there.
21:20 < johnc4510> tyche: great...we would love to have you and your shinning face  :)
21:20 < johnc4510> lol
21:21 < johnc4510> really, i appreciate it
21:21 < johnc4510> :)
21:21 < johnc4510> but isn't paula due for surgery soon?
21:21 < xHans> tyche: will they recognize you because you'll be the one with a jeep with a sword rack in the back window?
21:21 < tyche> Paula probably wouldn't be able to come.  Too soon after her surgery.  She'll see when she gets past the surgery whether or not she can take the drive.
21:22 < tyche> And anyone else brave enough to ride with me.  HEH HEH HEH
21:22 < scott_ev> +1
21:22 < johnc4510> tyche: i figured, but wondered if she would need you
21:22  * xHans hopes Paula's surgery goes well
21:22 < johnc4510> as a nurse...disturbing idea  :)
21:22  * br24 comes back
21:22 < johnc4510> xHans: you have announcements?
21:23 < johnc4510> br24: evening bud
21:23 < matthewmpp> tyche: +1
21:23 < tyche> That should be a couple of weeks after the surgery.  She should be able to do some things for herself, at least, by then.
21:23 < slofgren> BILLY MAYS :(  http://digg.com/celebrity/RIP_Billy_Mays_Dead_at_50
21:23 < johnc4510> saw that
21:23 < slofgren> thats all I got
21:23 < johnc4510> tyche: k
21:23 < br24> hey johnc4510
21:23 < xHans> johnc4510: just a couple
21:23 < johnc4510> k
21:23 < br24> you guys are awesome
21:23 < johnc4510> lol
21:23 < johnc4510> you too bud
21:23 < br24> nah
21:23  * slofgren throws wings at br24
21:23 < xHans> we have a tentative date for ABLEconf, the 24th of Oktober at UAT
21:23 < scott_ev> and they land in his pocket
21:23  * br24 runs for the blue ranch
21:24 < johnc4510> aug 1st on installfest if you can make it br24
21:24 < xHans> we plan on having the date set for certain in 3 weeks
21:24 < br24> I might be able to
21:24 < johnc4510> cool
21:24 < johnc4510> :)
21:24 < br24> johnc4510: I want to talk with you
21:25 < slofgren> xHans: I marked my calendar
21:25 < xHans> we have several key volunteer positions that need to be filled: promo committee, sponsor committee and promo dispersion
21:25 < xHans> slofgren: danke
21:26 < xHans> the latter are essentially representatives from various organizions such as LUGY that take PR announcements from us and post them to local lists as appropriate
21:26 < johnc4510> not a hard job...since press announcements will already be put together
21:26 < xHans> that same dispersion list could be used to promote other events. Maybe like if one of the participating groups was trying to hold and Installfest sometime in the near future... :)
21:26 < johnc4510> just a matter of posting
21:27 < xHans> johnc4510: yeah
21:27 < johnc4510> nods
21:27 < xHans> although, if the disperser feels they need to be reworked for the particular audience or only part of the announcement should go out, that's up to the disperser
21:28 < xHans> there's a PLUG devel meeting this Thursday, but I don't know the topic
21:28 < Mauricio1> xHans: I have time and interest to help PLUG's maybe I can help with that activity
21:28 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/560
21:29 < xHans> matthewmpp: is doing the BlenderCAD meetings every Sunday during the day
21:29 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/778
21:29 < xHans> Mauricio1: cool, danke
21:29 < xHans> Mauricio1: you mean the promo dispersement?
21:30 < xHans> http://lists.ABLEconf.com/listinfo.cgi/promo-announce-ableconf.com
21:30 < Mauricio1> Yes
21:31 < xHans> ok, please join that mailing list
21:32 < xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2008Phx/Promotion
21:32 < xHans> please also add yourself to that list for any groups you'd like to help with
21:32 < xHans> please put 2009 with your name/nick in the contact box so we know it's for this year
21:33 < matthewmpp> next ESM Larry is giving a presentation on a netbook and...
21:33 < xHans> we still have a bit of spring cleaning to do :)
21:33 < johnc4510> k
21:33 < xHans> matthewmpp: yup in two weeks
21:33 < matthewmpp> I am giving a presentation on Mozilla programs...
21:34 < matthewmpp> Firefox, Thunderbird, Lightning, Songbird, & ChatZilla
21:34 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/131
21:34 < xHans> we still need to get up the details matthewmpp is mentioning
21:34 < br24> hey xHans
21:35 < xHans> moin moin br24
21:35 < br24> danke fuer deine Hilfe
21:35 < johnc4510> matthewmpp: nice
21:35 < matthewmpp> i thought I emailed it to you.
21:35 < xHans> Lisa already has a topic for July's Hackfest: FreeIPA is an integrated security information management solution
21:35 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/658
21:36 < xHans> matthewmpp: you did
21:36 < xHans> br24: aber bitte :)
21:36 -!- Odameyer [n=Odameyer@ip68-227-254-214.ph.ph.cox.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-az
21:36 < xHans> ok, that's all I have for this week
21:36 < johnc4510> xHans: thx bud, we appreciate it
21:36 < johnc4510> :)
21:36 < Odameyer> xHans, did I miss a meeting?
21:37 < johnc4510> Odameyer: pretty much
21:37 < matthewmpp> it is still going.
21:37 -!- hobbet1 [n=frank@ip68-98-98-58.ph.ph.cox.net] has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
21:37 < Odameyer> hello hobbet1
21:37 < johnc4510> Odameyer: where are you located at??
21:37 < xHans> Odameyer: yes, but we assigned your goldfish to head the PR committee, expect early morning phone calls :)
21:37 < johnc4510> lol
21:37 < Odameyer> johnc4510, im in tucson but im moving to tempe tuesday
21:37 < Odameyer> xHans, goldfish?
21:38 < scott_ev> haha
21:38 < scott_ev> ayup, the Radioactive goldfish
21:38 < johnc4510> Odameyer: dang, we need you aug 1st for the installfest in tucson
21:38 < word> Odameyer: you got your goldfish to use linux? nice, must've been a tough switch for it.
21:38 < johnc4510> lol
21:38 < [R]> what kernel is ubuntu 9.04 on?
21:38 < johnc4510> word: hey bud
21:38 < xHans> Odameyer: the ABLEconf mtg was late and disorganized this week due to my mistakes, but we'll be moving some of that to the ABLEconf discuss mailing list
21:38 -!- tcole3737 [n=user@72-24-202-159.cpe.cableone.net] has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
21:38 < Odameyer> uhhhh
21:38 < johnc4510> 2.6.28-13
21:38 < Odameyer> ok
21:38  * [R] does a mr burns
21:38 < [R]> excellent...
21:38 < johnc4510> [R]: ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
21:39 < xHans> Odameyer: figured it wouldn't accidentally trigger a bad memory or allergic reaction :)
21:39 < matthewmpp> Odameyer: you should post mone until after the installfest.
21:39 < hobbet1> hello all, trying to get used to pidgin, instead of using opera
21:39 < scott_ev> hey hobbet1
21:39 < johnc4510> hobbet1: evening, and welcome
21:39 < Odameyer> matthewmpp, post mone?
21:39 < [R]> hobbet1: what does an im client have to do with a web browser?
21:39 < word> [R]: irc client
21:39 < Odameyer> Odameyer, what's going on
21:39 < tcole3737> late what did I miss?
21:39 < hobbet1> opera is an all in one, you can use irc on it
21:39 < word> hobbet1: should try konversation ;)
21:39 < [R]> opera has irc?
21:39 < Odameyer> DID I JUST GET PUNK'D!?
21:39 < scott_ev> tcole3737: all of it
21:39 < Odameyer> XD
21:40 < scott_ev> nite all
21:40 < johnc4510> we were working on the tucson installfest set for the 1st of aug
21:40 < xHans> Odameyer: PLUG meeting a week from Thursday: http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/131
21:40 < johnc4510> scott_ev: night
21:40 < word> johnc4510: yo, sorry i'm late, watched ice road truckers heh.
21:40 < Odameyer> xHans, yaaay
21:40 < hobbet1> yes it does and seems easier, you can and look at all windows at same time
21:40 < Odameyer> word, that's a good show man
21:40 < johnc4510> word: that's a cool show
21:40 -!- Mauricio11 [n=mauricio@141.phoenix-02rh16rt-03rh15rt.az.dial-access.att.net] has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
21:40 < matthewmpp> Odameyer: postpone moving until after the installfest.
21:41 < Mauricio11> I am sorry, I back
21:41 < johnc4510> or come back for a visit that day   hee hee
 </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
