{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 04 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-04-04-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/xfces-apps-update-for-march-2022-new-releases-of-orange-xfdashboard-xfce-terminal   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/gparted-1-4-released-with-labeling-support-for-mounted-btrfs-ext4-and-xfs-filesystems   (toddc, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/web/d/phoenix-junior-full-stack-developer/7393947065.html   (toddc, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.ziyotek.com/   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/System76-Releases-AMD-Powered-Kudu-Laptop   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/create-linux-disk-partitions-with-fdisk/   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/ubuntu-22-04-beta-release/   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (62)
* MajB (31)
* meetingology (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:14 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <toddc> me too+1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 99853.85

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> hi markthomas

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL TWEED DAY

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> missing stephenm tonight?

 04:03 <toddc> https://9to5linux.com/xfces-apps-update-for-march-2022-new-releases-of-orange-xfdashboard-xfce-terminal

 04:03 <toddc> Lutris Game Manager Adds Steam Deck Support, EA Origin and Ubisoft Connect Integration

 04:03 <toddc> LibreOffice 7.3.2 Office Suite Is Now Available for Download with 74 Bug Fixes

 04:03 <MajB> Daylight savings time might have complicated the situation in Texas

 04:04 <toddc> Ubuntu Users Get Small Linux Kernel Security Update with Only Two Flaws Patched

 04:04 <toddc> MajB: true but soon to be no longer a isssue

 04:04 <MajB> Perhaps

 04:05 <toddc> https://9to5linux.com/gparted-1-4-released-with-labeling-support-for-mounted-btrfs-ext4-and-xfs-filesystems

 04:05 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:05 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:05 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:05 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:05 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:05 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:06 <toddc> I switched from Windows to Linux today...

 04:06 <toddc> I feel Libreated.

 04:06 <toddc> How did the Linux admin commit assault?

 04:06 <toddc> He sudo bashed someone.

 04:07 <toddc> You go in for an interview for a Linux programming job...

 04:07 <toddc> ...and you are asked for an example of your linux programming abilities,

 04:07 <toddc> so you type into the terminal "sudo apt-get JOB"

 04:07 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:07 <toddc> Junior Full Stack Developer (Phoenix AZ)

 04:07 <toddc> https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/web/d/phoenix-junior-full-stack-developer/7393947065.html

 04:08 <toddc> DevOps Engineers

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.ziyotek.com/

 04:08 <toddc> Canonical has 148 open positions

 04:08 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:09 <toddc> Runs linux--- what does not run on linux?

 04:09 <toddc> System76 Releases AMD-Powered Kudu Laptop

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/System76-Releases-AMD-Powered-Kudu-Laptop

 04:09 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:09 <toddc> How To Create And Manage Disk Partitions With Fdisk In Linux

 04:09 <toddc> https://ostechnix.com/create-linux-disk-partitions-with-fdisk/

 04:09 <toddc> Ubuntu 22.04 Beta is Available Now for Earlybirds

 04:09 <toddc> https://news.itsfoss.com/ubuntu-22-04-beta-release/

 04:10 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:10 <toddc> LuftHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 14 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 14 April, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 16 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:11 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 17 April,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 28 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> I also have the lug events if you want them now

 04:13 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:13 <MajB> Most events are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:13 <MajB> 14 April PLUG East Meeting

 04:13 <MajB> 19 April Free Software Stammtisch

 04:13 <MajB> 21 April Linux Security

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:13 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month, 1800-1930, Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 23 April, 1300-1500,  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:14 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:14 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:14 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022

 04:14 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:14 <MajB> If you would like to help send an email to participate@seagl.org or go to #SeaGl , their IRC channel om Liberia.chat and you will receive an invitation to join their organization meetings conducted every other Tuesday at 1800 PST (UTC -7).

 04:14 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:15 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:15 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:15 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
