{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
[21:01]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:01]	toddc	+1
[21:01]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
[21:02]	toddc	Let's start with the news till everyone gets here
[21:02]	toddc	Ubuntu and Android Users Should Jump On New Firefox Updates
[21:02]	toddc	http://ostatic.com/blog/ubuntu-and-android-users-should-jump-on-new-firefox-updates
[21:02]	toddc	Indicate Mail Accounts On Your Desktop
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.howtoforge.com/indicate-mail-accounts-on-your-desktop-ubuntu
[21:03]	toddc	Sick of smudges on your screen? Get a candle
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.extremetech.com/electronics/108115-sick-of-smudges-on-your-smartphone-get-a-candle?obref=obinsite
[21:03]	toddc	For Ubuntu’s Mobile Endeavors, Android Has Some Bitter Lessons to Offer
[21:03]	toddc	http://techlaze.com/2011/12/ubuntu-android-mobile-lessons/
[21:03]	toddc	Good Ubuntu History and the Search for Unity
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.h-online.com/open/features/HealthCheck-Ubuntu-The-search-for-unity-1377292.html
[21:03]	toddc	How to Set Up an Ubuntu Web Server on a Remote Host
[21:03]	toddc	http://maketecheasier.com/how-to-setup-a-ubuntu-web-server-on-a-remote-host/2011/11/28
[21:04]	toddc	Some Common Linux Network Commands for Ubuntu / Debian
[21:04]	toddc	http://shibuvarkala.blogspot.com/2011/11/useful-linux-network-commands-for.html
[21:04]	toddc	15 Things I Did After Installing New Ubuntu 11.10 Oneiric Ocelot
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/10/15-things-i-did-after-installing-new.html
[21:04]	toddc	Ubuntu will now track Mozilla updates
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Ubuntu-will-now-track-Mozilla-updates-1386831.html
[21:04]	toddc	Creating Your Own Distributable Ubuntu DVD
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.howtoforge.com/creating-your-own-distributable-ubuntu-dvd
[21:04]	toddc	Thank Dazed_75 for the news tonight
[21:05]	toddc	TEAM NEWS
[21:05]	toddc	If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
[21:05]	toddc	We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
[21:05]	toddc	if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know?
[21:05]	toddc	We now have 11.10 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word of Linux/open source and or installfests
[21:05]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:06]	toddc	IT Technician - Cloud / SaaS Systems (Scottsdale)
[21:06]	toddc	Technology Analyst (Mesa)
[21:06]	toddc	lvergara@verengosolar.com
[21:06]	toddc	Systems Admin (Chandler, AZ)
[21:06]	toddc	job-77ym3-2728930501@craigslist.org
[21:06]	toddc	no ubuntu classroom training this week
[21:07]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:07]	toddc	December 25th meeting is canceled due to falling on Dec 25 Merry Xmas
[21:07]	toddc	January 1st meeting will also be canceled due to the new year
[21:07]	toddc	xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:07]	xHans	woohoo! 2 weeks off!
[21:08]	toddc	yep
[21:08]	xHans	er, I'll miss everyone
[21:08]	xHans	I've got a few things
[21:08]	xHans	ABLEconf Call for Proposals deadline was extended to next Sunday
[21:08]	xHans	http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/CfP
[21:08]	xHans	please get your proposals in
[21:08]	xHans	Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
[21:08]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:09]	xHans	There is an ABLEconf in person meeting at 18:00 before the Stammtisch
[21:09]	xHans	and that's it for this week
[21:09]	toddc	Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and ABLEconf.org
[21:09]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:10]	toddc	if there is nothing else?
[21:10]	toddc	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question

 </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
