{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #46 for the week May 6, May 11, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Forty Sixth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-May 14, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday May 18, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the May 11, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

johnc4510's mother has been in the hospital (is now back home and better) so he has been unable to search for a place in Tucson to hold the installfest.  He discussed this with some of the tucson folks and they thought with the shortness of time it might be better to postpone or cancel the tucson event rather than have something nobody knows about.

Some of the tucson folks expressed an interest in going to phoenix for theirs, which he's all for.  He's not sure he can go, with having to keep an eye on his mother.  But, we need some people to help keep tyche out of trouble.  Anyone wanting to go, should get together and carpool to Phoenix.  paul928 added, "also anyone from the Yuma are that would like to go, please let me know".  Anyway, if you or anyone needs a ride, check here in the channel, or send an email to the team mailing list to let us know.  We'll try to coordinate rides if needed.

johnc4510 again stressed the need to get fliers out, and maybe make sure that plugaz knows about it.  paul928 added this week should be the important week for publicity.  People won't remember a flyer they saw weeks before.  kennmc0 was asked to make sure that plugaz knew about the installfest in Phoenix.

johnc4510 then checked to be sure that people knew about the things they needed to bring.  Cat 5 cables, power cords and power strips, cameras and batteries, duct tape, and CD's.  tyche was asked to make up some more of the table placards.

Watch the mail list for updates, etc.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:20 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

