{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


03 September – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* Worked on fw rules to access blue network.
* Discussed Net priority (Netflix, Youtube, AT&T)
05 September - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 11 attendees
* Repaired and updated member’s fixed weather station
* Updated Linux Mint laptop
* Installed chrome extensions on laptop
* Removed chrome since popups where not blocked
* Assisted a member on ZFS list to see snapshots of Vms
* Discussed IPFire Location block
06 September - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2006%2C%202020%20Meeting
10 September - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 14 attendees (two new persons)
* Discussed a problem that a member had with his computer not shutting down after he told it to power off.  Since the situation was sporadic no good solution could be offered without the computer being present.  He was advised to look at the error logs in /var/log to see where the problem might lie.
* Discussed how to make a bootable USB flash drive and a bootable DVD.
* Discussed the proper use of the Boot Repair PPA.
* Discussed the information contained in the website and how it could be of use to individuals.
* Distributed AZLOCO and CLUG information to the new attendees.
10 September - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* NO DATA AVAILABLE
19 September - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* NO DATA AVAILABLE
20 September - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2020%2C%202020%20Meeting
24 September - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* Solved internet access problem of PF Sense VM behind IPFire firewall 
* Discussed how to add themes to customize Ubuntu 20.04
