{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 01 June - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest
* 18 attendees (5 new people)
* 12 installs (8 Ubuntu, 1 Lubuntu, 1 Manjero, and 2 Microsoft Windows)
* Worked on a PXE server (90% complete)
* Conducted 1 boot repair
* Updated two servers
* Conducted update training for 4 people
* 02 June - AZLOCO Team meeting hosted by Ron Ash
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2002%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 06 June – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Setup a laptop to share network so we could download files
* Completed pxe server setup, verified and tested pxe boot
* Assisted a user reset her account on Amazon and re-register
* Discussed locations for West Side Meetings
* 13 June – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees (1 new person)
* Discussed the After Action Report of the Laptop Repair Session that was conducted on 08 June 2019.
* Announced the scheduled release of the next version of Ubuntu (19.10, Eoan Ermine) on 17 October 2019.
* Discussed the advantages of a Linux operating system over a Microsoft Windows system with the new attendee and distributed information on Linux and Ubuntu to him.
* 13 June - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour (Test) hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
* This was a test to determine if the venue was suitable for a Ubuntu Hour
* The wireless internet, food, and drink were determined to be acceptable as was the available space
* Possible problem with the beer.  It disappeared too fast which could lead to future problems.
* 16 June - AZLOCO Team Meeting hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2016%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 27 June - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 8 attendees
* Fixed GPG errors and configured PIA on a laptop
* Generated IPFire certificate and tested over VPN
