{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 03 Nov at 03:59 &mdash; 04:21 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-11-03-03.59.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/best-linux-init-systems/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/the-only-thing-stopping-you-from-switching-to-linux-is-your-mindset/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/open-linux-terminal/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-web-based-linux-file-managers/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-go-linter-tools/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi5-desktop-mini-pc-music-player/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/zorin-os-18-officially-released-specifically-tailored-for-windows-10-expats   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/append-text-file-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/system76-ceo-carl-richell-reveals-cosmic-desktop-launch-date/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/X.Org-Server-3-Vuln-Oct-2025   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/extract-text-from-screenshots-images-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/10/how-to-run-windows-apps-on-linux-using-bottles/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/linux-utmp-wtmp-btmp-files/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/ls-vs-dir-command/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/drop-in-d-directories-linux-configuration-explained/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/shell/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/comments-shell-script/https://linuxtldr.com/comments-shell-script/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/10/29/ubuntu_unity_child_maintainer/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/wisu-modern-interactive-directory-viewer-rust/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/docker-vs-virtual-machine/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/root-account/.   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/debian-tc-overrules-systemd-maintainers-on-var-lock-permissions/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2025/10/15/maltrail-open-source-malicious-traffic-detection-system/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.equinoxpayments.com/about-equinox/careers-at-equinox/   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.elitetechnicaljobs.com/Canonical Jobs 278 most are remote  (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.18-HID   (toddc, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/linux-command-help-guide/   (toddc, 04:16)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (80)
* Stephenm (51)
* MajB (3)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started at 03:59:57 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> stardate -297162.1004566209

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY

 04:01 <toddc> Y

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL DEVILED EGG DAY

 04:02 <toddc> have you had some today?

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> Y

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> Stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <Stephenm> News is random, but take what you like.

 04:04 <Stephenm> 6 Best Modern Linux ‘init’ Systems (1992-2025)

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/best-linux-init-systems/

 04:04 <Stephenm> The Only Thing Stopping You from Switching to Linux Is Your Mindset

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/the-only-thing-stopping-you-from-switching-to-linux-is-your-mindset/

 04:04 <Stephenm> How to Open Linux Terminal

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/open-linux-terminal/

 04:04 <Stephenm> 15 Best Free and Open Source Web-Based Linux File Managers

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-web-based-linux-file-managers/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 5 Best Free and Open Source Go Linter Tools

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-go-linter-tools/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Raspberry Pi 5 Desktop Mini PC: Music Player

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi5-desktop-mini-pc-music-player/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Zorin OS 18 Officially Released, Specifically Tailored for Windows 10 Expats

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/zorin-os-18-officially-released-specifically-tailored-for-windows-10-expats

 04:05 <Stephenm> Effective Ways to Append Text to Files in Linux

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/append-text-file-linux/

 04:05 <Stephenm> System76 CEO Carl Richell Reveals COSMIC Desktop Launch Date

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/system76-ceo-carl-richell-reveals-cosmic-desktop-launch-date/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Three More X.Org Server & XWayland Security Vulnerabilities Made Public

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/X.Org-Server-3-Vuln-Oct-2025

 04:06 <Stephenm> How To Extract Text From Screenshots And Images In Linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/extract-text-from-screenshots-images-linux/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Run Windows Apps on Linux Using Bottles

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/10/how-to-run-windows-apps-on-linux-using-bottles/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Purpose of utmp, wtmp, and btmp files in Linux (with an Example)

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/linux-utmp-wtmp-btmp-files/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Difference between “dir” and “ls” Commands (with an Example)

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/ls-vs-dir-command/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Drop-In (.d) Directories In Linux Explained: A Safer Way to Manage Config Files

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/drop-in-d-directories-linux-configuration-explained/

 04:07 <Stephenm> What is Shell? | CLI vs GUI | Shell Scripting Explained

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/shell/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Writing Single-line, Inline, and Multi-line Comments in Linux Shell Script

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/comments-shell-script/https://linuxtldr.com/comments-shell-script/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Ubuntu Unity hanging by a thread as wunderkind maintainer gets busy with life

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/10/29/ubuntu_unity_child_maintainer/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Wisu: A Modern, Rust-based Interactive Directory Viewer For Developers

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/wisu-modern-interactive-directory-viewer-rust/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Docker vs. Virtual Machine: Which One You Should Use

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/docker-vs-virtual-machine/

 04:08 <Stephenm> What is Root Account in Linux

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/root-account/.

 04:08 <Stephenm> Debian TC Overrules systemd Maintainers on /var/lock Permissions

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/debian-tc-overrules-systemd-maintainers-on-var-lock-permissions/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Maltrail: Open-source Malicious Traffic Detection System

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2025/10/15/maltrail-open-source-malicious-traffic-detection-system/

 04:09 <Stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <toddc> Great job Stephenm! Thank You

 04:09 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <Stephenm> welcome MajB and toddc

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> Getting information off the Internet is like taking a drink from a fire hydrant.

 04:11 <toddc> Getting information off the Internet is like taking a drink from a fire hydrant.

 04:12 <toddc> Its not a bug. Its an undocumented feature

 04:12 <toddc> Yesterday I changed the name of my wifi to "Hack_it_if_you_can".

 04:12 <toddc> Today I found it named: "Challenge_accepted".

 04:13 <toddc> No keyboard detected: Press any key to continue.

 04:13 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:14 <toddc> Linux System Administrator - AZ Only

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.equinoxpayments.com/about-equinox/careers-at-equinox/

 04:14 <toddc> Linux and Cloud Application Support Specialist

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.elitetechnicaljobs.com/Canonical Jobs 278 most are remote

 04:14 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:14 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 278 most are remote

 04:14 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:15 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 32 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:15 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:15 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:15 <toddc> Haptic Touchpad Support Makes It Into Linux 6.18

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.18-HID

 04:15 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:16 <toddc> How To Find Command Help In Linux (Man, Info, Apropos, Whatis, ???help)

 04:16 <toddc> https://ostechnix.com/linux-command-help-guide/

 04:16 <toddc> MajB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <toddc> Training info

 04:17 <toddc> one second he has a connection issue and will be right back

 04:18 <toddc> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:18 <toddc> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:18 <toddc> 06 November,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <toddc> 13 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal

 04:18 <toddc> desires.

 04:18 <toddc> 13 November, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:18 <toddc> 15 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue

 04:19 <toddc> 13 November, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:19 <toddc> 15 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply

 04:19 <toddc> discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:19 <toddc> 04 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:19 <toddc> 06 December, Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop,  1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply

 04:19 <toddc> discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:19 <toddc> 07 December. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:19 <toddc> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:19 <toddc> Detailed information for LUG events and activities with map locations can be found on their websites.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG???s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities.

 04:19 <toddc> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:20 <toddc> 13 November, PLUG East meeting, 1900-2200, 1702 E. Highland Ave. (3rd floor), Phoenix, AZ (2nd Thursday of each month)

 04:20 <toddc> 18 November, Free Software Stammtisch, 1900-2200, BOULDERS ON SOUTHERN, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ (3rd Tuesday of each month)

 04:20 <toddc> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:20 <toddc> 25 November, monthly meeting, 1700-1830, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ (4th Tuesday of each month)

 04:20 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:20 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:21 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:21 <MajB> I am back

 04:21 <Stephenm> night all

 04:21 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:21 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
