{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===

{{{
[21:00]<toddc>Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]<Siph0n>+1
[21:00]<toddc>+1
[21:00]<kennymc0>+1
[21:00]<LostPenguin>++
[21:00]<Dazed_75>+1
[21:00]<toddc>Our launch pad site https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona 
[21:00]<toddc>Our web site is azloco.com 
[21:00]<toddc>azlocobbb.banditti.com Big Blue Button sever-- Audio Video Chat with others but still in testing
[21:00]<toddc>Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:00]<toddc>Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:01]<toddc>Here is new news from ubuntu news: 
[21:01]<toddc>computer for schools or low income built the size of a usb with ubuntu preinstalled cool pc for 25$
[21:01]<toddc>http://www.geek.com/articles/games/game-developer-david-braben-creates-a-usb-stick-pc-for-25-2011055/
[21:01]<toddc>10 Things to love about Ubuntu 11.04
[21:01]<toddc>http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10things/10-things-to-love-about-ubuntu-1104/2468
[21:02]<toddc>16 things to change in ubuntu 11.04
[21:02]<toddc>http://www.techradar.com/news/software/operating-systems/16-things-we-d-change-about-ubuntu-945990
[21:02]<toddc>10 Ubuntu 11.04 pre installed laptop and netbooks
[21:02]<toddc>http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/05/10-ubuntu-1104-pre-installed-laptops.html
[21:02]<toddc>The perfect Server-Ubuntu 11.04 [ISPConfig3]
[21:02]<toddc>http://www.howtoforge.com/perfect-server-ubuntu-11.04-ispconfig-3
[21:03]<toddc>Macs are for those who don't want to know why their computer works.
[21:03]<toddc>Linux is for those who want to know why their computer works.
[21:03]<toddc>DOS is for those who want to know why their computer doesn't work.
[21:03]<toddc>Windows is for those who don't want to know why their computer doesn't work.
[21:03]<toddc>Virtualization with KVM On Ubuntu 11.04 giude
[21:03]<toddc>http://www.howtoforge.com/virtualization-with-kvm-on-ubuntu-11.04
[21:03]<toddc>Ubuntu 11.04 Target Audience: Casual Windows Users—A great article on why ubuntu used Unity and the future direction of ubuntu and open source
[21:03]<toddc>http://www.zdnet.com/blog/open-source/ubuntu-linux-1104s-target-audience-casual-windows-users/8723?tag=mantle_skin;content
[21:03]<toddc>JOB LIST
[21:04]<toddc>Nicole.Modzeleski@symphonysv.com
[21:04]<toddc>Hello,
[21:04]<toddc> 
[21:04]<toddc>I have an immediate opening in Poway, CA. Please see below and let me know
[21:04]<toddc>if you are interested in this project or if you know of anyone who is
[21:04]<toddc>interested! I hope to hear from you soon! Sorry for all the info on these
[21:04]<toddc>jobs, we are super busy with projects!
[21:04]<toddc> 
[21:04]<toddc>Embedded Linux Expert/Guru Developer
[21:04]<toddc>Low Level Development
[21:04]<toddc>C++
[21:04]<toddc>They are working on integrating a new product and are at a critical phase.
[21:04]<toddc> Need someone to reduce their risks. Product they will be working on is
[21:04]<toddc>acoustic dopplers to measure currents of water in rivers and oceans. The
[21:04]<toddc>product has a web server, smart card and WiFi. They are using a "shaved
[21:04]<toddc>down" Kernel by Atmel so Kernel experience is not required.
[21:04]<toddc>TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:05]<Siph0n>I know that Lifelock in Tempe is hiring for a Python QA/Developer.
[21:05]<toddc>Ubuntu 8.04 End of life on may 12 2011
[21:05]<toddc>I heard that and should have added it
[21:06]<toddc>I also would like some help copying meeting logs to out team wiki and azloco this would be weekly and should only take a few minutes
[21:07]<toddc>that is all I had for planned info but we do need to keep up the wiki and pewrsonal wikis if we want to keep our position with Lanunch pad as a team
[21:08]<toddc>PLUG EVENTS
[21:08]<toddc>plug east sidemeeting thursday 7-9pm at mcc
[21:08]<Dazed_75>www.HostGator.com/jobs is looking for linux folks. Big sign on Apache Trail
[21:08]<toddc>Linux Security Hackfest 12-3 Sat AT Gangplank see azloco.com calender for more info I plan on attending
[21:09]<toddc>XHans if you are here do you have any news for us? 
[21:10]<Dazed_75>anyone doing any interesting projects? Todd and I are both working on PXE servers
[21:10]<toddc>host gator was looking in Texas I thought when I checked
[21:10]<Dazed_75>I did not check - sorry
[21:10]<toddc>reading up on Ipxe now
[21:11]<Siph0n>I am looking at java so I can program for the android phones.
[21:11]<Dazed_75>just saw the sign driving down the stree here in AJ/Mesa
[21:12]<Dazed_75>Siph0n: for yourself or to make android apps?
[21:12]<toddc>there have been a lot of people looking for android development lately a good area
[21:13]<toddc>if there is nothing else? 
[21:13]<Siph0n>Dazed_75, right now just to make an app for myself... but eventually I wanna put some apps in the market
[21:13]<toddc>thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question }}}
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
