{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements

1. Agenda for next week

=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> I must apologize I/we failed to get team renewal with Ubuntu; I failed to find all of the procedures
<toddc> to get renewed.  Dazed_75 has been able to get more details and was at the council meeting. Dazed_75 would you like to share what your learned?
<toddc> Ubuntu 10.04.3 released LTS please update your installers
<toddc> desktop: http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download
<toddc> server: http://www.ubuntu.com/download/server/download
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.10 Alpha2 release
<toddc> 11.10 to have Mozilla Thunderbird email to be default email client
<toddc> install guide for LibreOffice 3.4
<toddc> http://www.libre-software.net/how-to-install-libreoffice-on-ubuntu-linux-mint
<toddc> early reviews show 10.10 super fast and friendly
<toddc> http://www.crn.com/news/applications-os/231002339/ubuntu-11-10-fast-and-friendly.htm;jsessionid=2pdeN4QBIo55kKPY9iUgsg**.ecappj02
<toddc> 80 Days till 11.10
<toddc> We have been contacted by the International School in Tucson about ubuntu and found that it is one of their main OS's and we will be listing them as a Ubuntu user on the azloco.com page and are checking to see what else we can do to support them. So, another Tucson installfest or trip may be in the future.
<toddc> I am planning on a Global Jam event and need to set a date so more to follow
<toddc> Recommended Dates are 2-4 of September 2011
<toddc> http://www.jonobacon.org/2011/07/20/calling-those-to-rock-the-ubuntu-11-10-global-jam/
<toddc> Thanks to Dazed_75 for keeping up the logs and dennisk for taking on education team and wiki and helping develop azloco.com
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thanks to Shane Lofgren for getting both the azloco.com and test.azloco servers up to 10.04
<toddc> this is a bit of work so thank him if you see him in the channel.  He will also be updating  the Drupal soon so any Ideas to update the site please let us know.  We do hope to add our big blue button server
<toddc> to it as a user access from azloco.com
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated.  So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is next weekend 7/30 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from
<toddc> Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Q and A with Jonathan Lange on the Application Developer Programme
<toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> I am planning on attending LUGY (Prescott LUGS)meeting August 9 7-9 PM if anyone else would like to go it should be a nice drive up
<toddc> Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
<toddc>  
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> plug west side meeting  July 27 at Devrey room 315 see azloco.com calender  or plugaz for more info
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<Dazed_75> We did not manage to get the LoCo re-approved by the ubuntu council.  Basically, we did not fully understand the process.  Worse, we have officially LOST that approval until such time as we can get re-certified.
<xHans> PLUG dev is planning a new meeting that will specifically for coding
<Dazed_75> Go ahead Hans
<xHans> I don't have more details yet, join the PLUG-devel mailing list if you're interested
<Dazed_75> xHans: tell me when you are done and I will report on the LoCo re-up
<xHans> done
<xHans> sorry, I misunderstood :)
<Dazed_75> We did not manage to get the LoCo re-approved by the ubuntu council.  Basically, we did not fully understand the process.  Worse, we have officially LOST that approval until such time as we can get re-certified.
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
<Dazed_75> Part of the problem is our poor access to the people whi accomplished approval the first time.
<Dazed_75> Another factor is that the information seems to be scattered ib different places making it difficult to track down.
<Dazed_75> And it does not help that Todd and I are bother very busy most of the time.
<Dazed_75> During the night before the re-approval meeting, a number of us received notice that the LoCo had lost its approval.  Todd got a notice right after midnight on the Launchpad bug that was tracking re-approval that our deadline had passed and we were un-approved.
<Dazed_75> We did not understand since that was 13 hours before the IRC meeting we were going to attend for the re-approval. 
<Dazed_75> As Todd was taking time off from work for that meeting, he did not attend.  But I was at home so I logged into it anyway.  It took significant dialog to learn that we were supposed to have added ourselves to the LoCo Council Agenda at least three days before the meeting.  We did not know that.
<Dazed_75> In addition, we were to have submitted the re-application (I presume a link to the web page) at that time.  I don't think we realized that either.
<Dazed_75> In summary, we will need to re-submit for the next council meeting.  We need to be as sure as possible to do the best job we can so we will want all you folks to review the application and make suggestions.
<Dazed_75> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved is a useful page about the process with some good links to examine.  Sounds like they are fairly strict about form so take a good look.
<Dazed_75> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/TeamApprovalGuidelines talks about what is expected of the LoCo
<Dazed_75> So we will have work to do but keeping fingers crossed
<Dazed_75> 30
<Dazed_75> The ABLEconf committe is planning to use our BigBlueButton server for about half of their meetings.  Would be nice if we were to use it too.  Biggest issue may be using both audio and the IRC-like chat feature and trying not to leave some folks out.  
<Dazed_75> Using headsets solves that.  And the no one really needs to use their webcams if they choose not to.
<Dazed_75> 30
<Dazed_75> That's all from me
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75  so I hope to be  better prepared for the next meeting
<xHans> for the ABLEconf mtgs
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.04 CD's are in, get with me to help Distribute them
<xHans> those will be the first Tuesday of the month at 19:00
<toddc> cool I will try to look in
<xHans> thanks to the LoCo for participating in the larger community and helping us out!!!
<toddc> np glad to help
<Dazed_75> Thanks xHans, I should have said that
<toddc> a few more notes on team reapproval
<toddc> Please look over the following applications and add testimonials or improve it if you can help
<toddc> his what our application should look like https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrenchTeam/ApprovalApplication
<toddc> his is our currant application  https://wiki.kubuntu.org/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplicationrenewal#preview
<toddc> I also wanted to set up the Team in such a manor that if one person leaves that others can take over
<toddc> with greater ease, so Dazed 75 will be listed with Ubuntu loco Teams as co Team leader. Congratulations Dazed_75
<toddc> virtual raise is in order!
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<xHans> thanks to both toddc and Dazed_75 for their work for the LoCo
<toddc> thanks xHans
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Meeting ajorned!
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
