{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

02 January – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* Event canceled
04 January – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Assisted with the creation of a project to translate flash cards from French to other languages.
05 January – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2005%2C%202025%20Meeting
09 January - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Discussed installing a Linux operating system on an ACER Chromebook.  Decided that it might be a good demonstration for a future meeting.
* Briefly discussed Bluefin as an OS for newbies.
09 January - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
18 January - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* Assisted attendee with screen flashing problem during gaming
* Discussed Chromebook problems
* Received update on Flash card project
23 January – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed disposition of SWAG that is on hand
* Discussed Linux get-together scheduled for 16 March
* Discussed distribution of the 12 donated commercial servers
* 7 attendees
* Assisted attendee with screen flashing problem during gaming
* Discussed Chromebook problems
* Received update on Flash card project
