{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

Welcome to the Arizona LoCo Team Installfest planning page for the Intrepid Ibex 8.10 release. The link below shows general guidelines and suggestions from Ubuntu on running this type of event.

* Ubuntu Guidelines for Installfests: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoRunningInstallfests|Ubuntu Installfests]]</nowiki>

=== Plans ===

* This is to be an event at the University of Arizona Campus.

* Initial plans are to have the Installfests between 4 to 6 weeks after the introduction of the next Ubuntu release. Intrepid Ibex 8.10 is the next release, and it is due out in October of 2008.

* Finding a location in Phoenix is of major concern. Size is not of great concern, but internet access, plenty of outlets, bathroom facilities, solid tables, chairs, access to food and drink, and the ability to display some kind of signs, banners, or posters is necessary.

* Advertising should be of importance if we want to have a successful event. Local radio, colleges, libraries, newspapers, coffee shops, etc. should be informed and/or small window posters distributed too.

* We should consider looking into having some cheap silkscreen T-shirts made up for the team members to wear, making us visible to the people looking for help.

* I also believe we can request an "Event Package" from Ubuntu that I believe includes a banner. (I will look into that and see what is offered)

=== Material Requirements ===

* Manpower
* Install Disks (Default and Alternate)
* Power Strips & Extension Cords
* Leaflets to pass out about our LoCo
* Signs, banners, and/or posters
* Some kind of cart to help people bring in the boxes
* Cameras
* GPG Key-signing materials(if we so decide)

=== Location ===

==== University of Arizona - Tucson ====

'''Date:'''  Feb. 14th, 2009<<BR>>
'''Time:'''  10:00AM - 4:00PM<<BR>>
'''Location:'''

University of Arizona
ECE Building #104 <<BR>>
Room 232 (Computer Lab)
1230 E. Speedway <<BR>>
Tucson, AZ <<BR>>

==== Summary ====

We had some glitches on this event. Address in flyer was incorrect, and once at the campus they moved our team to another building that only had entrance in the rear of the building. This didn't help much. This combination of factors rendered our effort moot in our opinion. We decided to use the time as a Tucson meet-up, and used the time for helping team members with problems and upgrades on their computers. We also took advantage of the time to further discuss our new team Drupal website that we are putting together. User access, permissions, modules, blog parameters, branding, etc. were decided upon. Future events at the University will have to be with the understanding that the original building and room need to be adhered to.

==== Pictures ====

<nowiki>[[http://s263.photobucket.com/albums/ii134/kennymc0/Tucson%20intrepid%20install%20fest/|Install Fest Pictures]]</nowiki>
