{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #68 for the week October 13, October 19.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Sixty Eighth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-October 15, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday October 19, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the October 12, 2008 meeting ====
''' 75th meeting of the Arizona Loco Team '''

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08October12

johnc4510 first asked virginpidgin to introduce herself.

"My name is Sarah, I'm the privilaged girlfriend of azteech (Steve) and I attended the conference in Phoenix, met alot of great people-which encouraged me to look into this whole linux/ubuntu thing a little deeper. So, far I've enjoyed it, I've got a long way to go, but look forward to making & growing some friendships that I haven't had up to this point. I want to thank you all for your encouragement & "advice"."  Team members welcomed virginpidgin to the Team.  xHans added that she was very helpful at ABLEconf.

johnc4510 then asked c0n3 to introduce himself:

"My name is Jason, I work as a network / security analyst in Scottsdale. I still consider myself a linux noob. I am the one in charge of the linux systems at work as well."  The Team welcomed c0n3 to the Team.

johnc4510 then gave his announcement:

* The ubuntu countdown banner has been modified for Word``Press bloggers at http://nancib.wordpress.com/2008/10/05/ubuntu-countdown-to-intrepid-modified-for-wordpress-users/.  Information on how to add it to your blog is at the link.

johnc4510 then asked Fern``Hans to make his announcements:

* We over-filled the room for the Hackfest yesterday.  Thanks to those who showed up.  There were some setup problems, but otherwise it went well.
* We'll be back at UAT one the second Saturday of next month, but likely move to a room on the first floor.
* ASULUG's Installfest was going well when I stopped in after the Hackfest. Not certain there were many installs, but lots of people.  Talked to some ASULUGgers about bringing their games to the Free Software Stammtisch in Tempe a week from Tuesday.  johnc4510 asked if they had a LAN party going, and xHans replied, "yes, of sorts."
* From there I went to the authentic Oktoberfest from the germanic community, so it was a festive day for me.
* Free Software Stammtisch is in Avondale Wednesday.  Normally the Avondale location meets after the Tempe location, but this month started on a Wednesday, so they're up first.
* GNU/Linux Security and other classes start a week from Monday.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/.  Both the BII in Mesa and Estrella Mountain CC in Avondale have quarterly classes.  Both locations have several classes starting.  I need a few more students for my security class.
* Red Seven is going to do an Ibiz release party on the 30th.  See http://www.redsevenlinux.com/events/ for more information.
* One last thing, thanks to johnc4510 and tyche and the others who put in work behind the scenes every week for the LoCo and the rest of the Ubuntu community.

johnc4510 responded with, "thanks to xHans as usual for keeping us up to date on other goings on in the state."

johnc4510 then moved on to the Installfest.  johnc4510 felt that he didn't have much to report.  The Installfest will be on November 15th, and will be at ASU and U of A.  zach is his contact at ASU and nock at the U of A.  He got emails back from both, and they are checking availability, but didn't think it would be a problem.  johnc4510 didn't get a chance to get the press release done.  He'll have it up on the AZ Forums by Tuesday, so check for new posting then.  johnc4510 got conformation on the bulk CDs from Canonical, so if all goes well, they should arrive just before the installfest.  They said "for arrive within 2 wks of the release", so they should be here around the 13th.  johnc4510 mentioned to tyche that he'd have to send them to Phoenix, express, for the Installfest.  azteech suggested that some be sent to paul in Yuma, too.  He added, "also, what about a couple down jsonders way?"  xHans suggested that we need to get the word out via ABLEconf announcement lists.

johnc4510 then mentioned that the flier and team handout are done, but someone in each local will have to oversee printing some up.  tyche reminded him that there is still information that needs to be added to the flier.  johnc4510 responded that we also need it for the press release, and that when he got confirmation we would send that out, too.  We would also inform all the state user groups.  johnc4510 also asked kennymc0 if the Team could borrow his tables.  They probably wouldn't be needed, but just in case.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:45 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
