{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<toddc> +2
<Rich__> +1
<toddc> +9
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Some of us are in   http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/     tonight if you want to talk or see us!
<toddc>  Linux: The choice of a new generation.
<SlickMcRunFast> +!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight!
<Dazed_75> US-CERT Discloses Security Flaw in Intel 64 Bit Chips
<Dazed_75> http://www.csoonline.com/article/708568/us-cert-discloses-security-flaw-in-intel-chips
<toddc> hay SlickMcRunFast
<SlickMcRunFast> hey toddc
<Dazed_75> How to Disable Unity Launcher and Use Your Own Dock
<Dazed_75> http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/06/how-to-disable-unity-launcher-and-use.html
<Dazed_75> These are the biggest problems with Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTEyMTQ
<Dazed_75> Ubunru Launches App Creation Competition With Big Prizes Up For Grabs
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/ubuntu-launch-app-creation-competition-with-big-prizes-up-for-grabs
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/ubuntu-app-contest-rescinds-quickly-requirement
<Dazed_75> Skype for Linux Hits 4.0 and Loses the Beta Tag
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/skype-for-linux-loses-beta-tag-bumps-to-4-0
<Dazed_75> Opera 12 Released
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/opera-12-released-adds-new-themes-minor-features
<toddc> the biggest problem with linux is my operator error :)
<Dazed_75> Unity Window Quicklists: Switch Between Open Windows via Quicklists
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/unity-window-quicklists-switch-between.html
<Dazed_75> Download Ubuntu 12.04 LTS Media Cover Art Suite
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/download-ubuntu-12-04-lts-media-cover-suite.html
<Dazed_75> Easily Add Custom Right-Click Options to Ubuntu's File Manager Nautilus
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/116807/how-to-easily-add-custom-right-click-options-to-ubuntus-file-manager
<Dazed_75> 8 Ways to Tweak and Configure Sudo on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/116757/8-ways-to-tweak-and-configure-sudo-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Research Shows Potential Improvements for SSDs
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/computing/131202-japanese-team-boosts-nand-flash-durability-and-performance-with-reram-buffer
<Dazed_75> Cross Platform Project Management Tool
<Dazed_75> http://www.ganttproject.biz/
<Dazed_75> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GanttProject
<Dazed_75> Unity (not Ubuntu Unity) 3D Game Engine Adds Linux Support
<Dazed_75> http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/06/finally-unity-3d-game-engine-adds-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://news.cnet.com/8301-1023_3-57455039-93/unity-4-gives-game-coders-animation-flash-linux-support/?part=rss&subj=news&tag=title
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/unity3d-4-will-be-the-first-mass-market-games-engine-to-support-linux
<Siph0n> Here
<Mikeofmany> Greets all
<Dazed_75> Track KVM Guests with Libvirt and the Linux Audit Subsystem
<Dazed_75> http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/l-kvm-libvirt-audit/index.html
<Dazed_75> Windows RT License, Can They Make it Optional?
<Dazed_75> http://armdevices.net/2012/06/17/85-windows-rt-licence-can-they-make-it-optional-dual-booting-free-android/
<Dazed_75> WINE 1.4.1 Released
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntugamingproject.blogspot.it/2012/06/wine-141-released.html
<Dazed_75> Secire Linux: Part 1. SELinux - History of development, architecture and operating principles
<Dazed_75> http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/l-secure-linux-ru/index.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu pre-loaded Dell Computers Go On Sale in India
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/ubuntu-dell-laptops-go-on-sale-in-india
<Dazed_75> Search OMGubuntu Directly from Gnome Shell
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/how-to-search-omg-ubuntu-from-gnome-shell
<Dazed_75> 'Ubuntu Accomplishments' Makes Getting Involved un Ubuntu Fun
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/ubuntu-accomplishments-makes-getting-involved-in-ubuntu-fun
<Dazed_75> Fix GNOME Panels on Top of Fullscreen Flash Player Bug in Ubuntu 12.04 Classic Gnome Session
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/fix-gnome-panels-on-top-of-fullscreen.html
<Dazed_75> 7 Tips to Get the Most Out of BleachBit (a CCleaner for Linux)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/116971/7-tips-to-get-the-most-out-of-bleachbit-a-ccleaner-for-linux
<Dazed_75> How to Share Files Online with Ubuntu One
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117064/how-to-share-files-online-with-ubuntu-one
<Dazed_75> Get Your PhD in Googling
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117069/get-your-phd-in-googling-slideshow
<Dazed_75> How to Activate VLCs Web Interface, Control VLC From a Browser, & Use Any Smartphone as a Remote
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117261/how-to-activate-vlcs-web-interface-control-vlc-from-a-browser-use-any-smartphone-as-a-remote
<Dazed_75> Run Your Own Code & Experiments on an Arduino Based Satellite
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/131396-arduino-based-ardusat-will-run-your-code-in-space
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu to Replace Grub2 for UEFI Boot Machines
<Dazed_75> http://blog.canonical.com/2012/06/22/an-update-on-ubuntu-and-secure-boot/
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/computing/131628-canonical-explains-decision-to-ditch-grub-2-on-uefi-systems
<Dazed_75> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2012-June/035445.html
<Dazed_75> Easily Share Files Over Local Network
<Dazed_75> http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/06/easily-share-files-over-local-network.html
<Dazed_75> Nvidia Employee Asks How They Can Improve Linux Support
<Dazed_75> http://www.muktware.com/3744/nvidia-employee-asks-how-they-can-improve-linux-support
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.10 Prepares to Improve Linux Performance
<Dazed_75> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1210_ups&num=1
<Dazed_75> Xenity or Zenity?  Zenirty is great and familiar.  Not so sure about Xenity (first article)
<Dazed_75> http://unixb4coffee.hubpages.com/hub/Linux-for-Users-A-Text-Entry-Dialog-that-Makes-Shell-Script-Input-Easy
<Dazed_75> http://linux.byexamples.com/archives/259/a-complete-zenity-dialog-examples-1/
<Dazed_75> http://linux.byexamples.com/archives/265/a-complete-zenity-dialog-examples-2/
<Dazed_75> This piece is more about GUI diffusion and fragmentation than OpenSuse so read it anyway
<Dazed_75>    http://anditosan.blogspot.com/2012/06/opensuse-and-identity.html
<Dazed_75> Fix the "Package Information Was Last Updated x Days Ago" Error in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>    NOTE: 1st Try Doing an Update - This Article is About Getting That Message WITH "No Updates" Msg
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/fix-the-package-information-was-last-updated-days-ago-error-in-ubuntu/2012/06/22
<Dazed_75> "Dark Ambiance" Reintroduces Dark Touchesto Ubuntu's Default Theme
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/dark-ambiance-reintroduces-dark-touches-to-ubuntus-default-theme
<Dazed_75> ScreenCloud Lets You Take and Share Screenshots Quickly
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/screencloud-lets-you-take-share-ubuntu-screenshots-quickly
<Dazed_75> NitroTasks Updated to Add Theme and Feature Improvements
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/nitrotasks-update-adds-theme-feature-improvements
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu App Showdown Progress
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/ubuntu-app-showdown-progress
<Dazed_75> How to Install Emerald Window Decorator on Ubuntu 12.04 LTS
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/how-to-install-emerald-window-decorator-on-ubuntu-12-04-lts.html
<Dazed_75> Increase the Startup Speed of Frequently Used Applications in Ubuntu 12.04 LTS With Preload
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/increase-the-speed-ubuntu-12-04-lts-with-preload.html
<Dazed_75> Quick Way to Reset Windows Passwords with Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/heres-a-quick-way-to-reset-windows-password-with-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> and that is FINA::Y it from me
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<Dazed_75> FINALLY
<toddc> I have a couple more to add!
<toddc> Chrome vs. Firefox for Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.unixmen.com/chrome-vs-firefox-for-ubuntu/
<toddc> Ubuntu 12.10 Sets To Make ARM Even Stronger
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1210_arm1&num=1
<toddc> wonders if windows has that much new stuff going on?
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> We now have 12.04 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 Adrenaline or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> System Administrator
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> NOC Services Technician (T1)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit/?id=1560271
<toddc> Full-time Linux SA opportunity with a 3RP client in Chandler
<toddc> send resumes to - chad@3rp.com
<toddc> Linux System- Team Lead (Los Angeles)
<toddc> la-systems-jobs@inmotionhosting.com
<toddc> Lots of jobs in linux land
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> this thursday June 28 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extream Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> REPEAT THIS THURSDAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is July 7  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on Saterday July 14 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday July 21 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thanks to Dewayne and Justin  we have cleaned up the server cabnet and verified three extra IP's to play with and tested bandwith at 33M down 17 up per IP Thanks guys!!!
<toddc> if some one has a few minuets and some drupal knowledge need some web redesign
<toddc> please contact adrenaline or myself
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING   FREE TRAINING!!!!
<toddc> June 23-24 on IRC freenode #ubuntu-classroom or just install Lernid
<toddc> See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
<toddc> crud I missed it :(
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?  or FernHans
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Developer Meeting July 5, 7-9pm at University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday July 12 7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc> plug server emphasis installfest is July 21 10-4PM  at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday July 17 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> anyone have any new ideas?????
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<Dazed_75> I have a question:  Do any of the attendees find the News very useful?
<Rich__> yes
<toddc> +1
<SlickMcRunFast> I few of the  articles I missed in my regular Linux new search
<SlickMcRunFast> i = a
<Dazed_75> Thanks - it's good to hear
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
