{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 05 January – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 11 attendees, 4 new people
* Provided flyers and meeting info to the new people
* Discussed Internet Protocol version 6, arp-scan, Big Blue Button, Socket descriptors, and cli updates
* Installed Apache2, MySQL, PHP, and WordPress for one of the new attendees
* Assisted an attendee to configure Remmina for use with his home desktop computer
* 07 January - AZLOCO Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 24 attendees
* 5 installs (2 Ubuntu, Mint, Debian, and Centos)
* Installed Chirp on an attendee’s computer as well as practice questions for the Ham radio license
* Downloaded Mint 18 and Ubuntu 16.04 for an attendee for use in a Virtual Machine
* Repaired a scanner for an attendee – downloaded and installed the correct driver
* Added Internet wireless capability for an attendee on a desktop computer
* Installed Ubuntu on Virtual Box for an attendees
* Unsuccessfully attempted to repair a Chrome OS – known bug
* Upgraded the kernel of a Linux Mint install
* 08 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 12 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2008%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 15 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2015%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 21 January – AZLOCO Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 16 attendees
* 22 January – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2022%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 26 January – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees – one new person
* Distributed install media and information to the new attendee
* Discussed upcoming AZLOCO and CLUG events to include the Installfest on Saturday 28 January.
* Discussed the pros and cons of using a Linux operating system over a Windows operating system.
* Gave a demonstration of capabilities of Lubuntu for the new attendee.
* 26 January – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Discussed proxmox, Ubuntu team projects and the Sierra Vista installfest/workshop
* Worked on zentyal configuation Ubuntu install, virtualbox install of Ubuntu
* Installed openvpn on Mint operating system.
* 28 January – AZLOCO/CLUG Sierra Vista Installfest
* 22 Attendees
* Conducted 7 Ubuntu installs:  2 dual boots (Ubuntu with WinVista and Ubuntu Mate with WinXP), 2 Ubuntu, 2 Lubuntu, and 1 Ubuntu Mate.
* 29 January – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2029%2C%202017%20Meeting
