{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 08 Jun at 04:00 &mdash; 04:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-06-08-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/turn-raspberry-pi-into-music-server/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/6/pandas-python 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/20/6/scaling-energetic-community 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/6/java-kotlin 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/6/c-python-cli 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/programming-languages-rust-enters-top-20-popularity-rankings-for-the-first-time/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/from-earth-to-orbit-with-linux-and-spacex/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/5-beautiful-icon-themes-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://techrights.org/2020/06/01/discarding-linux-foundation/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/raspberry-pi-os-heres-whats-new-in-latest-software-update/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/06/setup-python-environment-ubuntu-fedora/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-enable-ssh-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/lenovo-believes-in-the-linux-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/create-multiple-choice-menu-bash.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-vmware-workstation-on-ubuntu-20-04-focal-fossa-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/install-kvm-on-ubuntu-20-04-lts-server/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/how-to-use-chown-command-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/four-tips-df 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/format-exfat-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/route-ip-route 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-snap-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-reset-mysql-root-user-password-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/protect-systems-fail2ban 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-encrypt-directories-with-ecryptfs-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/linux-networking-commands/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/synaptic-package-manager/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2020-20/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.volt.com/en-US/job/data-center-technician-ii/J3W2GJ77LRVN4YFDCFC?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/linux-based-mini-pc/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.pcmag.com/news/lenovo-adding-linux-option-to-thinkstation-and-thinkpad-p-series 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/2020-will-be-the-year-of-linux-on-the-windows-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/17/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/5235/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://SeaGL.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://berlinbuzzwords.de/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/. Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (66)
* stephenm (59)
* xHans (30)
* MajB (29)
* meetingology (3)
* programmer317 (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun  8 04:00:05 2020 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 98034.41

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Hi programmer317

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <programmer317> Hi MajB

 04:02 <programmer317> +1

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight! All the way from TX

 04:03 <stephenm> The news is general then gets into Linux.

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Turn Your Raspberry Pi into a Music Server with Volumio

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/turn-raspberry-pi-into-music-server/

 04:04 <markthomas> +1

 04:04 <stephenm> Was planning on doing this but more important things have come up.

 04:04 <stephenm> Using pandas to plot data in Python

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/6/pandas-python

 04:04 <stephenm> How to scale an open, energetic community

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/20/6/scaling-energetic-community

 04:04 <stephenm> Why I switched from Java to Kotlin

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/6/java-kotlin

 04:04 <stephenm> Looks interesting but it's been a while since I've played with Java

 04:05 <stephenm> When to choose C or Python for a command-line interface

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/6/c-python-cli

 04:05 <stephenm> Rust Programming Languages Enters Top 20 Popularity Rankings for First Time

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/programming-languages-rust-enters-top-20-popularity-rankings-for-the-first-time/

 04:05 <stephenm> From Earth to orbit with Linux and SpaceX

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/from-earth-to-orbit-with-linux-and-spacex/

 04:05 <stephenm> Awesome read, never expected they'd use old processors to drive a rocket though

 04:06 <stephenm> 6 Beautiful Linux Icon Themes You Should Install

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/5-beautiful-icon-themes-for-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Goofy but kinda interesting themes

 04:06 <stephenm> What It Would Take for Linus Torvalds to Leave Linux Foundation Without the Linux Trademark and Without Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> http://techrights.org/2020/06/01/discarding-linux-foundation/

 04:06 <stephenm> Not a pretty thought

 04:06 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi: Here's what's new in latest operating system update

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/raspberry-pi-os-heres-whats-new-in-latest-software-update/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Setup Python Development Environment in Ubuntu and Fedora

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/06/setup-python-environment-ubuntu-fedora/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Enable SSH on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-enable-ssh-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:07 <stephenm> Lenovo believes in the Linux desktop

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/lenovo-believes-in-the-linux-desktop/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Create a Multiple Choice Menu in Bash Scripts

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/create-multiple-choice-menu-bash.html

 04:07 <stephenm> How to install VMware Workstation on Ubuntu 20.04 Focal Fossa Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-vmware-workstation-on-ubuntu-20-04-focal-fossa-linux

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install KVM on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS Server (Focal Fossa)

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechi.com/install-kvm-on-ubuntu-20-04-lts-server/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to use Chown Command in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/how-to-use-chown-command-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> 4 tips to help you get the most out of the Linux df command

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/four-tips-df

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Format a USB Disk as exFAT on Linux [Graphically and Command Line]

 04:08 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/format-exfat-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> I need to try this because I never knew you could get exFAT other then through gparted ui

 04:08 <stephenm> Lnux networking: To route or to ip route?

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/route-ip-route

 04:09 <stephenm> A Beginner's Guide to Snaps in Linux Part 1

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-snap-in-linux/

 04:09 <stephenm> How To Reset MySQL Root User Password In Linux

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-reset-mysql-root-user-password-in-linux/

 04:09 <stephenm> Linux security: Protect your systems with fail2ban

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/protect-systems-fail2ban

 04:09 <stephenm> How to Encrypt Directories with eCryptfs in Linux

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-encrypt-directories-with-ecryptfs-in-linux/

 04:09 <stephenm> A Linux Sysadmin's Guide to Network Management, Troubleshooting and Debugging

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/linux-networking-commands/

 04:09 <stephenm> Ok that's all the news I have tonight, back to toddc

 04:09 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:10 <toddc> lots of cool info

 04:10 <MajB> Using the Lightweight Apt Package Manager Synaptic in Ubuntu and Other Debian-based Linux Distributions

 04:10 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/synaptic-package-manager/

 04:10 <toddc> MajB: has one more to add

 04:10 <toddc> s there any other news we missed?

 04:11 <xHans> https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2020-20/

 04:11 <xHans> please update Firefox :)

 04:11 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events

 04:11 <MajB> None

 04:12 <toddc> has anyone been to the new cafe press store?

 04:12 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:13 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:13 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:13 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:13 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:13 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:13 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:14 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:14 <toddc> What do you call a group of Linux users?

 04:14 <toddc> *Club Penguin.*

 04:14 <toddc> [Computers] Why do Linux admins always take Xanax?

 04:14 <toddc> Because they're constantly battling their daemons.

 04:15 <toddc> What does Linus Torvalds get when he drops his popcorn?

 04:15 <toddc> Kernel panic.

 04:15 <toddc> Did you hear they're making a Source Code 2?

 04:15 <toddc> It's gonna be called Source Code: The SQL!

 04:16 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:16 <toddc> Canonical has 75 open positions

 04:16 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:16 <toddc> Data Center Technician II in Mesa, AZ at Volt  also entry and software dev

 04:16 <toddc> https://jobs.volt.com/en-US/job/data-center-technician-ii/J3W2GJ77LRVN4YFDCFC?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic

 04:17 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:17 <toddc> 11 Mini PCs That Come With Linux Pre-installed

 04:17 <toddc> https://itsfoss.com/linux-based-mini-pc/

 04:17 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:17 <toddc> Lenovo Adding Linux Option to ThinkStation and ThinkPad P Series

 04:17 <toddc> https://www.pcmag.com/news/lenovo-adding-linux-option-to-thinkstation-and-thinkpad-p-series

 04:18 <toddc> 2020 will be the year of Linux on the Windows desktop ( heard this before?)

 04:18 <toddc> https://www.zdnet.com/article/2020-will-be-the-year-of-linux-on-the-windows-desktop/

 04:18 <toddc> f you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:18 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:19 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:19 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:19 <MajB> 11 June, Virtual Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, https://bbb.azloco.net, 1800-1900,  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:19 <MajB> 11 June, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:19 <MajB> Meet with Linux users.  Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:19 <MajB> 20 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects

 04:19 <MajB> , help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:20 <MajB> 25 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn about Linux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:20 <MajB> 02 July, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:20 <MajB> 04 July, Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects,

 04:20 <MajB> help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:20 <MajB> That is all I have toddc

 04:20 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:21 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:21 <xHans> PLUG events will remain virtual until at least the end of September

 04:21 <xHans> We are currently using Big Blue Button for our meetings

 04:21 <xHans> BBB meeting details will be on the GetTogether pages near meeting time

 04:21 <xHans> We are taking advantage of the virtual meetings to get some remote speakers

 04:21 <xHans> PLUG's east side meeting is this Thursday at 19:00

 04:21 <xHans> We have two topics for June, "pfSense" and "Why Your MTA Should Be Your CMS"

 04:21 <xHans> Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler

 04:22 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:22 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/17/east-valley-meeting/

 04:22 <xHans> In July we will have "Kuberenetes and Python"

 04:22 <xHans> In August we should have "DNS consistency checking"

 04:22 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday at 19:00

 04:22 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/5235/floss-stammtisch/

 04:22 <xHans> The PLUG security meetings are on hiatis for now

 04:22 <xHans> We will have security content for the general meeting

 04:22 <xHans> For instance, we have a presentation on pfsense this month

 04:22 <xHans> looking forward to having him participate again

 04:23 <xHans> SeaGL will be virtual in November

 04:23 <xHans> the cfp will be released in the next couple of weeks

 04:23 <xHans> we are seeking volunteers

 04:23 <xHans> contact me or volunteers@SeaGL.org if you would like to help this nice grassroots FLOSS conference

 04:23 <xHans> https://SeaGL.org/

 04:23 <xHans> Berlin Buzzwords started online today https://berlinbuzzwords.de/

 04:23 <xHans> "Berlin Buzzwords is Germany's most exciting conference on storing, processing, streaming and searching large amounts of digital data, with a focus on open source software projects."

 04:23 <xHans> https://berlinbuzzwords.de/

 04:23 <xHans> Thanks to AZLoCo for the cross-group cooperation

 04:24 <xHans> Thanks especially for the help with Big Blue Button!

 04:24 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:24 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:24 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:24 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:24 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:25 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:25 <MajB> Meeting on 28 June 3-5 pm. is canceled

 04:25 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx260nce0.com/

 04:25 <MajB> Meeting on 03 July 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave and Camelback, Phoenix, AZ .  This may be celed or coducted on line.  Check their web site.

 04:25 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:26 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx260nce0.com/

 04:26 <MajB> Meeting on 03 July 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave and Camelback, Phoenix, AZ .  This may be canceled or coducted on line.  Check their web site.

 04:26 <toddc> Thank you MajB !  2

 04:26 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:26 <MajB> Meeting on 27 June 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:26 <toddc> Thank you MajB !  3

 04:27 <MajB> Airborne

 04:27 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:27 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???Y

 04:27 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:28 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:28 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
