{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 02 May at 04:01 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-05-02-04.01.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.esecurityplanet.com/threats/nimbuspwn-root-privilege-escalation-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/pros-and-cons-of-using-react-native-for-mobile-development/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/the-future-of-the-ntfs-driver-in-the-linux-kernel-is-in-question/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/searching-multiple-words-string-using-grep/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/speed-up-compile-times-gentoo/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/join-multiple-lines-into-one-line-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/static-ip-address-alpine-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/shuffle-file-lines-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/ansible-playbooks/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/ansible-variables/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/ansible-debug-module/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/install-apache-alpine-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-add-rocky-linux-to-the-openldap-server/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.ctrl.blog/entry/selinux-unmanageable.html   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/view-xml-file-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/limit-connections-in-nginx/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/news-and-events/socketcan-x-kubernetes.html   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstoney.com/ubuntu-22-04-lts-runs-out-of-wayland-support-with-nvidia/   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-filezilla-on-ubuntu-22-04-lts/   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-22-04-lts-gets-first-kernel-security-update-three-vulnerabilities-patched   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://debugpointnews.com/ubuntu-22-10-code-name/   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-skype-on-ubuntu-22-04-lts/   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://terminalroot.com/how-to-install-csharp-on-ubuntu-and-getting-started/   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (72)
* stephenm (39)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:01 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:01:10 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:01 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:03 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:03 <MajB> The Team wiki pagxe is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:03 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:04 <stephenm> OK after a few weeks of forgetfulness I'm back.

 04:04 <stephenm> Nimbuspwn: New Root Privilege Escalation Found in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.esecurityplanet.com/threats/nimbuspwn-root-privilege-escalation-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Pros and Cons of Using React Native for Mobile Development

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/pros-and-cons-of-using-react-native-for-mobile-development/

 04:04 <stephenm> The Future of the NTFS Linux Driver as Part of the Kernel Is in Question

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/the-future-of-the-ntfs-driver-in-the-linux-kernel-is-in-question/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Search Multiple Words / String Pattern Using grep Command on Bash Shell

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/searching-multiple-words-string-using-grep/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Tricks to Speed Up Compile Times in Gentoo Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/speed-up-compile-times-gentoo/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Join Multiple Lines into One in a File in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/join-multiple-lines-into-one-line-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Configure a Static IP Address on Alpine Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/static-ip-address-alpine-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Shuffle Lines in a File in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/shuffle-file-lines-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> What Is Ansible Playbook? How to Work with Ansible Playbooks

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/ansible-playbooks/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Use Variables in Ansible Playbooks

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/ansible-variables/

 04:05 <stephenm> What Is Ansible Debug Module And How to Use It in Ansible Playbooks

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/ansible-debug-module/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Apache Web Server on Alpine Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/install-apache-alpine-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Add a Rocky Linux System to an OpenLDAP Server

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-add-rocky-linux-to-the-openldap-server/

 04:06 <stephenm> SELinux is Unmanageable; Just Turn It Off if It Gets in Your Way

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.ctrl.blog/entry/selinux-unmanageable.html

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Parse or View XML Code in Linux Command Line

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/view-xml-file-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Limit Number of Connections (Requests) in NGINX

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/limit-connections-in-nginx/

 04:06 <stephenm> SocketCAN x Kubernetes

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/news-and-events/socketcan-x-kubernetes.html

 04:07 <stephenm> Short list but there is what I have for this meeting

 04:07 <stephenm> back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> Ubuntu 22.04 LTS Runs Out of Wayland Support with NVIDIA

 04:07 <MajB> https://linuxstoney.com/ubuntu-22-04-lts-runs-out-of-wayland-support-with-nvidia/

 04:07 <MajB> How to Install FileZilla on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-filezilla-on-ubuntu-22-04-lts/

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> Ubuntu 22.04 LTS Gets First Kernel Security Update, Three Vulnerabilities Patched

 04:08 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-22-04-lts-gets-first-kernel-security-update-three-vulnerabilities-patched

 04:08 <MajB> Ubuntu 22.10 Code Name Revealed: Kinetic Kudu

 04:08 <MajB> https://debugpointnews.com/ubuntu-22-10-code-name/

 04:08 <MajB> How to Install Skype on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS

 04:08 <MajB> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-skype-on-ubuntu-22-04-lts/

 04:08 <MajB> How to Install and Get Started with C# on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:08 <MajB> https://terminalroot.com/how-to-install-csharp-on-ubuntu-and-getting-started/

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <toddc> +1

 04:09 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:10 <MajB> Those of you that are using or have @azloco.com email address may soon loose access to them because Google is requiring us to update our free subscription to a paid one.  We are are studying the options that we have to retain these addresses.  More information will be forthcoming with instructions how to migrate any emails that you might wish to save should that become necessary.

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 171 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 107 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 26 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:11 <MajB> 05 May, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your

 04:11 <MajB> personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 May Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 May, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 15 May,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> 21 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your

 04:11 <MajB> personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 21 May, AZLOC)/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ, We will install a Linux operating system on your computer. One on one chats with a member will also be available to learn about Linux.  If you have a problem with your Linux operating system, bring it in and we will attempt to solve it.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 May,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:12 <MajB> Most events are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:13 <MajB> 12 May PLUG East Meeting

 04:13 <MajB> 17 May Free Software Stammtisch

 04:13 <MajB> 19 May Linux Security

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:14 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month, 1800-1930, Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> 21 May, AZLOC)/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ, We will install a Linux operating system on your computer. One on one chats with a member will also be available to learn about Linux.  If you have a problem with your Linux operating system, bring it in and we will attempt to solve it.

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 28 May, 1300-1500,  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:15 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:15 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022

 04:15 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:15 <MajB> If you would like to help send an email to participate@seagl.org or go to #SeaGl , their IRC channel om Liberia.chat and you will receive an invitation to join their organization meetings conducted every other Tuesday at 1800 PST (UTC -7).

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:16 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:16 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
