{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #35 for the week February 11 - February 17.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Thirty-Fifth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-February 20, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday February 24, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the February 10, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

There were no new members to introduce.

johnc4510 has started a thread for the Installfest. You can make comments here: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=699923 The initial wiki page for planning is here:   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Installfest.  Please use the thread for ideas and comments.  He also started a thread for the Open Source conference we discussed here: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4352335#post4352335 and the initial wiki page for planning is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/OpenSourceConference.  Now, the wiki page for the open source conference is new.  Look it over and make comments and give ideas on the thread.

johnc4510 talked about the open source conference wiki page at first.  johnc4510 tried to include the things we talked about in the earlier meetings.  everyone should look it over this wk, and make comments on the thread.  Even more so than the installfest, this event will need manpower.  enigmastrat noticed this event was held previously at UAT.  He referenced http://www.barcamp.org/BarCampPhoenix.  johnc4510 noticed an email address, and suggested he contact the person for information or about possibly joining forces for the next one.  johnc4510 also noticed that Google Phoenix was a food sponsor for that.  enigmastrat mentioned that he went to UAT for a LAN party once.  The facility is very well equipped.  johnc4510 asked that everyone look over the wiki page and leave comments and ideas on the thread.

Next, johnc4510 talked about the installfest.  soldats had been going to find out about using a room at the U of A, but wasn't here to report.  No one in the Phoenix Metro area had any information.  johnc4510 mentioned that enigmastrat had offered to host the installfest.

johnc4510 mentioned that he thought all the LUGS in the state should be contacted concerning both projects to start drumming up some enthusiasm and help.  There are PLUG, DeLUG and ASULUG in the Phoenix area, and LUNA in Flagstaff.  There are also TFUG and another group in Tucson.  johnc4510 said that he would try to contact the LUGS this week, and he might have some information by next week's meeting.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:43 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
