{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===

* Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Local Community Team Wiki page. We are an Approved Ubuntu Local Community Team and a volunteer organization within the State of Arizona that is committed to Ubuntu advocacy and education. Our goals are to increase the public awareness and use of Ubuntu and Free and Open Source Software in our state. Our Community Projects are geared so that we return more to the community than we receive, and we always endeavor to live up to the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.

=== Membership ===

* If you are interested in helping our team achieve its goals, please go to https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona to register on Launchpad and to join our team.  You are also encouraged to subscribe to the AZLOCO mailing list at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az and to join our team IRC channel <nowiki>[[https://web.libera.chat/#ubuntu-us-az|#ubuntu-us-az]]</nowiki> on libera.chat and chat with all our team members. We offer a casual social atmosphere while at the same time working to promote Ubuntu.

=== Team Goals ===

* As stated in the introduction, our goals are to help spread the use of Ubuntu and Free and Open Source Software in the State of Arizona. We will implement team and community service projects as needed to achieve these goals.

=== Online Meetings ===

* Our online meetings are held on the 1st Sunday of each month on IRC Channel: <nowiki>[[https://web.libera.chat/#ubuntu-us-az|#ubuntu-us-az]]</nowiki> on libera.chat at 9:00 pm MST (4:00 am UTC). If you are unfamiliar with IRC chat channels, you can go to our web site at https://www.azloco.org/ and click the support link to enter the IRC channel. 

* Ubuntu also hosts online training sessions.  You can see their calendar at http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/classroom.html which shows UTC not Arizona time. Also check out http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar for more events and classes.

* We also have a team Big Blue Button Server at https://bbb.azloco.net/ to augment our on line meetings with video chat.  It is also anticipated that it will be used for lectures and presentations when physical presence is not practical or impossible to achieve. Check it out or contact toddc@azloco.com for more info.

=== Installfests/Linux Workshops ===

* The Ubuntu Arizona Local Community (AZLOCO) and the Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) co-sponsor two Installfests/Linux Workshops each month on the First and Third Saturdays from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., at the University of Advancing Technology (UAT) at 2625 W Baseline Rd Tempe, AZ 85283, room 206/207. Enter from the rear of the front building.

* The Ubuntu Arizona Local Community (AZLOCO) and the Cochise Linux User Group (CLUG) also co-sponsor Installfests at various locations in Sierra Vista AZ.

* Check our calendar at https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

* Contact toddc@azloco.com for more information.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamInstallfests|Team Installfests]]</nowiki> with pictures.

=== Ubuntu Hours ===

* Ubuntu Hours are held in Tempe AZ on the 1st Thursday and 4th Thursday of each month, in Phoenix on the 2nd Thursday of each month, and in Sierra Vista AZ on the 2nd Thursday of each month.  They are generally social gatherings that concentrate on publicizing Ubuntu, Linux, and Free and Open Source Software.  Discussions on various topics inevitably occur but it is a time to enjoy a cup of coffee, meet other Linux users and to socialize with them.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamUbuntuHours|Team Ubuntu Hours]]</nowiki>  with pictures

=== Other Team Events ===

* The Ubuntu Arizona Local Community Team will man information booths at local fairs, conventions, and other get togethers to distribute information on Ubuntu and Free and Open Source Software as well as the Team and its activities.
 
* We conduct presentations on Ubuntu, Linux in general, and related subjects on request.

* We conduct Installfests and/or Linux Workshops at remote locations when requested.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/OtherTeamEvents|Other Team Events]]</nowiki>  with pictures.

=== Future Events ===

* Ubuntu Hours are currently being held in Tempe (1st and 4th Thursday of every month), Phoenix (2nd Thursday of each month), and Sierra Vista (2nd Thursday of each month).
* IRC meetings are held at 9 p.m. on the 1st Sunday evening of each month. The IRC channel is open 24 hours a day to help users with questions and communicate with team members.
* Release Parties, we do demonstrations of new features and installations for our team and local participants.
* Our Team supports and attends local security events, supplies networking equipment, servers, DVD's and banners as well as teaches or trains on many computer related subjects.
* Periodically attend the monthly Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meetings <nowiki>[[https://phxlinux.org/]]</nowiki> to conduct liaison, exchange Ubuntu & FOSS information, and demonstrate new programs.
* Periodically attend the monthly Cochise Linux User Group (CLUG) meetings <nowiki>[[https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/]]</nowiki> to conduct liaison, exchange Ubuntu and FOSS information, and demonstrate new programs.
 
=== Team Server ===

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server|Server Team Page]]</nowiki> See how we are using Ubuntu server technology to help others statewide

=== Team Resources ===

* You will find our IRC Chat Channel especially helpful if you have specific questions about Ubuntu, or are in need of technical help.  Our team meetings are on the 1st Sunday of each month @ 9:00 PM local time on the IRC Channel.  Feel free to drop in anytime you need help, or just to chat and get to know us.  To participate in a conversation in a channel that is limited to registered Nicknames only you must have your nick registered on irc.libera.chat.  To do this you must send a message to NickServ from the Nick that you want to register.  An example would be:      /msg NickServ REGISTER [password] [your email address]

* Ubuntu Team IRC Chat Channel:  #ubuntu-us-az and it is on irc.libera.chat.

* Ubuntu Team Website:  https://www.azloco.org/ also has direct link to our IRC channel

* In addition AZLOCO has a Facebook page https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam/

=== Team Reports ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki>

=== Team Projects ===

These are open projects that need your help.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects|Team Projects]]</nowiki>

=== Team Re-Verifications ===

* The Team application for re verification <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-VerificationApplication2025|2025]]</nowiki> 

* Every two years a Local Community Team must be re-verified by the Local Community Council.  The guidelines for submitting the Re-Verification Applications can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/TeamVerificationGuidelines|at this site.]]</nowiki>
* Previous applications <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-VerificationApplication2015|2015]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-VerificationApplication2017|2017]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-VerificationApplication2019|2019]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-VerificationApplication2021|2021]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-VerificationApplication2023 | 2023]]</nowiki>

=== Linux radio shows ===

=== Ubuntu News & Resources ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://askubuntu.com/|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/support-and-help/306|Ubuntu Discourse Support & Help]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/|The Fridge]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.fullcirclemagazine.org/|Full Circle Magazine]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

* Thank you for taking the time to consider membership in AZLOCO, and please check back often.

* If you encounter any problems which you can not resolve, please send an email to  describing your problem. We look forward to meeting you soon! :)

----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
