{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #59 for the week August 4, August 10, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Fifty Ninth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-August 13, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday August 17, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the August 10, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08August10

johnc4510 began the meeting with some announcements:

* johnc4510 will be on vacation beginning this week. He'll still be around everyday at certain times. If he's not around and you need an immediate answer on something, tyche can handle it. :) Also you can email him at johnc4510@ubuntu.com anytime.

* Intrepid Alpha 4 should be out this Thursday, August 14.  The final release date should be in October.

* The Ubuntu Studio team is looking for help. If you have an interest in multimedia applications you should look over the requirements page here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-studio-devel/2008-August/000749.html

johnc4510 then asked xHans to make his announcements:

* The OpenOffice.org class is full! She's actually got room for more students, but she hit what the limit was supposed to be. (This announcement was cheered by the Team).  It's online through Mesa Community College.  xHans added that he thinks it's about $250 for Maricopa and Pima county residents as well as a couple of other counties.

* In a related announcements, apparently ADOT is doing a feasibility study for switching to OOo.  It is still too early to have any results of the study and, in fact, we may never know the results.  But this is still encouraging.  johnc4510 commented that getting in with ADOT would maybe smooth the way to other government changeovers.

* He still has a shell scripting class (and they might finally have it listed at the correct campus) and there are several other classes coming up at the end of the month.  See http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/ for further information.

* PLUG east side is this week.  For the PLUG meeting we will have a video of Defcon 16 highlights and a presentation on "Basic Linux System Lock Down".  There will also be a presentation from the Ubuntu Desktop class.

* Next week are the Free Software Stammtische.  The Tempe location is still the 3rd Tuesday, but the Avondale location has moved to the 3rd Wednesday.  See http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch for further information.

* He is still waiting to hear back on the insurance for ABLE convention, but otherwise we need to jump into getting that ready and advertising. Team members asked if they could help, and johnc4510 provided the email address Subscribe:  borg+subscribe@stilyagin.com for people to join the mailing list.  In fact, he encouraged all Team members to join the list and help out.

* Debian's 15th anniversary is this coming weekend, we'll be celebrating at the Tempe Stammtisch location.  lenards commented that he believes TFUG is doing something for the anniversary too.  xHans responded, cool, they need to put it on the Debian birthday wiki - http://wiki.debian.org/DebianDay2008?highlight=((DebianDayUSA2008))

johnc4510 then began the discussion of what the AZ Team could do for a booth or table.  CD's and CD holders are already taken care of, with the bulk shipment of CD's we received from Canonical.  Case badges are another story, though.  We can't just hand them out indiscriminately.  Several suggestions were offered as to how they could be controlled, with the majority going to some sort of game/give away every hour being the most prevalent.

Another possibility suggested for the convention was an installfest.  However, due to the physical limitations of the facilities, and the fact that PLUG will be having an installfest the next week, this was set aside for this year.  That doesn't preclude our passing out information on upcoming installfests to people, or links to information on how to get help.

We also need some sort of sign for a Team table or booth.  johnc4510 mentioned that he would talk to soldats about it, since soldats may have some connections to a printer.  Equipment is another area of concern.  Tables, computers, laptops, and extension cords, for example, would be needed.

Another possibility that arose was having a demo room and possibly a game room, to show off various applications and games.  Some demos could be done a the booth, but more extensive ones would be held in the room(s).

johnc4510 would also like to have some time for Team members to get together, at the convention.  A chance to meet in person, and work out some future events.

The meeting was adjourned at 10:10 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
