{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 07 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-11-07-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.cnet.com/news/android-smartphone-shipments-88-percent-marketshare-strategy-analytics/#ftag=CAD590a51e 
''LINK:'' https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/nov/01/tim-berners-lee-warns-danger-of-chaos-unprotected-public-open-data 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/education/16/9/asian-penguins-convert-minnesota-school-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/safeeyes-an-useful-linux-utility-that-prevents-eye-strain/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/4-easy-ways-to-generate-a-strong-password-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-foundation-appoints-two-more-women-to-its-board-of-directors/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/11/running-commands-shutdown-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-share-files-locally-by-using-nitroshare/ 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/gaming/2016/11/nes-mini-teardowns-have-begun-chips-identified/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.reuters.com/article/us-brocade-commns-m-a-broadcom-idUSKBN12X1A8 
''LINK:'' https://news.vanderbilt.edu/2016/11/02/making-high-performance-batteries-from-junkyard-scraps/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/python-scripting-scribus 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/install-nextcloud-ubuntu-16-04-lts/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/rockmongo-graphical-mongodb-administration-tool/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/install-mongodb-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-find-your-system-details-using-inxi/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/11/perl-and-birth-dynamic-web 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/5-systemd-tools-you-should-start-using-now 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/linux-sed-command-tips-tricks/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/c51779tjvasemm3llfeq98sh1p4 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/c28cc8u3ni71kgi310qi8nr2ndk 
''LINK:'' https://osem.seagl.org/conference/seagl2016/schedule 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/what-do-you-have-to-say-share-it-at-libreplanet-2017 
''LINK:'' https://lists.debconf.org/lurker/message/20160902.125635.8129251b.en.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (52)
* stephenm (47)
* MajB (29)
* FernHans (17)
* toddc (6)
* meetingology (3)
* Tuxmann (2)
* wmack (2)
* pavlos (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov  7 04:00:42 2016 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <mark91> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> ah MajB is the admin tonight

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Star Date 94480.46

 04:01 <Ron_A> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <Tuxmann> +1

 04:02 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <toddc> hi Tuxmann

 04:03 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <MajB> Hello Tuxmann

 04:03 <toddc> I can and will!!!

 04:03 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:03 <stephenm> New begins simple and then adds up from there.

 04:03 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> Nearly 9 out of 10 smartphones shipped run on Android

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.cnet.com/news/android-smartphone-shipments-88-percent-marketshare-strategy-analytics/#ftag=CAD590a51e

 04:04 <stephenm> beatya this time

 04:04 <stephenm> Tim Berners-Lee warns of danger of chaos in unprotected public data

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/nov/01/tim-berners-lee-warns-danger-of-chaos-unprotected-public-open-data

 04:04 <stephenm> Asian Penguins turn program into a Linux success

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/education/16/9/asian-penguins-convert-minnesota-school-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> This was an actually good article.  Not to say there aren't more success stories like this out there but it shows Linux making progress in schools

 04:05 <stephenm> SafeEyes – An Useful Linux Utility That Prevents Eye Strain

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/safeeyes-an-useful-linux-utility-that-prevents-eye-strain/

 04:05 <stephenm> 4 Easy Ways To Generate A Strong Password In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/4-easy-ways-to-generate-a-strong-password-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> hint it's not telling you password1234 is a strong password

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Foundation appoints two more women to its board of directors

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-foundation-appoints-two-more-women-to-its-board-of-directors/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to run commands at shutdown on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/11/running-commands-shutdown-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> thank Ron_A for this article, it could be pretty funny to try this actually

 04:06 <stephenm> How to share files locally on Linux by using NitroShare

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-share-files-locally-by-using-nitroshare/

 04:06 <Tuxmann> hi toddc and MajB

 04:06 <stephenm> NES Mini teardowns have begun, chips identified

 04:06 <stephenm> http://arstechnica.com/gaming/2016/11/nes-mini-teardowns-have-begun-chips-identified/

 04:06 <stephenm> Chipmaker Broadcom to buy network gear maker Brocade for $5.5 billion

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.reuters.com/article/us-brocade-commns-m-a-broadcom-idUSKBN12X1A8

 04:06 <stephenm> Making high-performance batteries from junkyard scraps

 04:06 <stephenm> https://news.vanderbilt.edu/2016/11/02/making-high-performance-batteries-from-junkyard-scraps/

 04:07 <stephenm> I found this useful because your taking other material that can get the same results as lithium batteries

 04:07 <stephenm> Getting started with Python scripting in Scribus

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/python-scripting-scribus

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Install Nextcloud In Ubuntu 16.04 LTS

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/install-nextcloud-ubuntu-16-04-lts/

 04:07 <stephenm> RockMongo – A Graphical MongoDB administration tool

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/rockmongo-graphical-mongodb-administration-tool/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install MongoDB in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/install-mongodb-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to find your System details using inxi

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-find-your-system-details-using-inxi/

 04:08 <stephenm> Perl and the birth of the dynamic web

 04:08 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/11/perl-and-birth-dynamic-web

 04:08 <stephenm> 5 systemd Tools You Should Start Using Now

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/5-systemd-tools-you-should-start-using-now

 04:08 <stephenm> 15 Useful ‘sed’ Command Tips and Tricks for Daily Linux System Administration Tasks

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/linux-sed-command-tips-tricks/

 04:08 <stephenm> That is all the news that I have tonight ya'll

 04:08 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:09 <MajB> Good job stephenm

 04:09 <toddc> thank you stephenm

 04:09 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <wmack> Thank you Stephenm

 04:09 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <MajB> Cub won the world series

 04:09 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <Ron_A> See any adminitrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <Ron_A> I currently use Ubuntu Linux, on a standalone laptop - it has no Internet connection. I occasionally carry flash memory drives between this machine and the Macs that I use for network surfing and graphics; but I trust my family jewels only to Linux.                Donald Knuth

 04:10 <Ron_A> Trying again

 04:10 <toddc> Question?

 04:10 <Ron_A> "I have always wished for my computer to be as easy to use as my telephone; my wish has come true because I can no longer figure out how to use my telephone."

 04:11 <Ron_A> Bjarne Stroustrup

 04:11 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:11 <toddc> Can a 3-D printer make ink  cartridges for a 2-D printer?

 04:11 <Ron_A> 27 current canonical Jobs today

 04:11 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:12 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:12 <Ron_A> thank you to the linux action show for the following links

 04:12 <Ron_A> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:12 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact MajB

 04:13 <Ron_A> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:13 <MajB> 17 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista. *** Notice*** This is a date change because of Thanksgiving.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet you

 04:13 <MajB> 17 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.          *** Notice*** This is a date change because of Thanksgiving. Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 19 November, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software

 04:14 <MajB> 01 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 03 December, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software

 04:14 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:14 <Ron_A> Great job MajB Thank you

 04:15 <Ron_A> ubuntu on air

 04:15 <Ron_A> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:15 <Ron_A> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:15 <Ron_A> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:16 <Ron_A> When Tue, November 8, 4pm – 5pm

 04:16 <Ron_A> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net also be advised they are moving to you-tube soon

 04:16 <Ron_A> FernHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:16 <FernHans> ja, danke

 04:16 <FernHans> this Thursday is PLUG's November mtg with 2 topics

 04:17 <FernHans> Kaia Taylor: What I've learned setting up a VM environment for pen test practice

 04:17 <FernHans> Aaron Jones: Managing Your Money - The Linux Way

 04:17 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/events/c51779tjvasemm3llfeq98sh1p4

 04:17 <FernHans> Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday on the 15th

 04:17 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/events/c28cc8u3ni71kgi310qi8nr2ndk

 04:17 <FernHans> SeaGL 2016 schedule was posted, conference this Friday and Saturday

 04:17 <FernHans> https://osem.seagl.org/conference/seagl2016/schedule

 04:17 <FernHans> SCaLE 15x cpf is open until 2016Nov15

 04:17 <FernHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp

 04:17 <FernHans> Next year SCaLE is at the beginning of March

 04:17 <FernHans> LibrePlanet cfp is open until 2016Nov14

 04:17 <FernHans> https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/what-do-you-have-to-say-share-it-at-libreplanet-2017

 04:17 <FernHans> Debconf 2017 is looking for new speakers

 04:17 <FernHans> https://lists.debconf.org/lurker/message/20160902.125635.8129251b.en.html

 04:18 <FernHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:18 <Ron_A> Thank you FernHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:18 <Ron_A> Dennisk did you have any other events to add or talk about?

 04:18 <Ron_A> MajB has OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:19 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 08 November 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD (See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest update on location), Prescott, AZ.

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 09 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:19 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 09 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 20 November 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 26 November 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 27 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:20 <MajB> 

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 December 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org/

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 04 December 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Linux Meetup on 06 December 6-8 pm. Summit Hut, 5251 E. Speedway Blvd, Tucson, AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> http://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/

 04:20 <MajB> That is all I have.

 04:20 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB !

 04:20 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:20 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up? great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:21 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight toddc will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:21 <MajB> What about you

 04:21 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
