{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 17 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-09-17-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2018/09/open-source-networking-days-returning-this-fall/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-python-is-so-popular-with-developers-3-reasons-the-language-has-exploded/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/support-lorawan-subsystem 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/lesser-known-awesome-text-editors/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.channelfutures.com/open-source/keep-your-eye-these-5-open-source-trends 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/9/awesome-economics-open-source 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/9/freespire-linux-great-desktop-open-source-purist 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/run-last-executed-commands-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-skype-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/9/intro-pandoc 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/dpkg-reconfigure-installed-package-in-ubuntu-debian/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-set-up-system-locale-on-ubuntu-16-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/nextcloud-14-release/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/9/life-log-message 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-and-configure-gitlab-on-ubuntu-1804/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3297916/linux/examining-partitions-on-linux-systems.html 
''LINK:'' https://developer.ibm.com/tutorials/create-and-view-custom-trace-data-in-user-nodejs-code/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/5-things-you-should-be-monitoring 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/150/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactuscon.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactusconkids.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (58)
* stephenm (46)
* xHans (19)
* toddc (7)
* meetingology (3)
* gnewbie (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 17 04:00:03 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> News doing is like always, some relevant news and then more in-depth tools.

 04:02 <toddc> I like to make comments

 04:02 <stephenm> Open Source Networking Days Returning This Fall

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2018/09/open-source-networking-days-returning-this-fall/

 04:02 <stephenm> OK go a head toddc

 04:03 <stephenm> Why Python is So Popular with Developers: 3 Reasons the Language Has Exploded

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-python-is-so-popular-with-developers-3-reasons-the-language-has-exploded/

 04:03 <stephenm> Support for a LoRaWAN Subsystem

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/support-lorawan-subsystem

 04:03 <toddc> I need to think of a snide remark first

 04:03 <stephenm> 8 Lesser Known Yet Awesome Text Editors

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/lesser-known-awesome-text-editors/

 04:04 <stephenm> Sure, any ways vis is not a bad text editor.  Don't know much about the others though

 04:04 <stephenm> Keep Your Eye on These 5 Open-Source Trends

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.channelfutures.com/open-source/keep-your-eye-these-5-open-source-trends

 04:04 <stephenm> The (awesome) economics of open source

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/9/awesome-economics-open-source

 04:04 <stephenm> Freespire Linux: A Great Desktop for the Open Source Purist

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/9/freespire-linux-great-desktop-open-source-purist

 04:05 <stephenm> It's not RMS as far as I know

 04:05 <stephenm> 2 Ways to Re-Run Last Executed Commands in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/run-last-executed-commands-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Skype on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-skype-on-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Skype can come in handy if you have a camera and a mic

 04:05 <stephenm> Convert files at the command line with Pandoc

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/9/intro-pandoc

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Reconfigure Installed Package in Ubuntu and Debian

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/dpkg-reconfigure-installed-package-in-ubuntu-debian/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Set Up System Locale on Ubuntu 16.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-set-up-system-locale-on-ubuntu-16-04/

 04:06 <stephenm> Yes I know this is old but people still use 12.04

 04:06 <stephenm> The Featureful Release of Nextcloud 14 Has Two New Security Features

 04:06 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/nextcloud-14-release/

 04:07 <stephenm> A day in the life of a log message

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/9/life-log-message

 04:07 <toddc> I hope not support has ended for 12.04

 04:07 <stephenm> It's not like XP where you'll get a virus immediately

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install and Configure GitLab on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-and-configure-gitlab-on-ubuntu-1804/

 04:08 <stephenm> Examining Partitions on Linux Systems

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3297916/linux/examining-partitions-on-linux-systems.html

 04:08 <stephenm> Create and View Custom Trace Data in User Node.js Code

 04:08 <stephenm> https://developer.ibm.com/tutorials/create-and-view-custom-trace-data-in-user-nodejs-code/

 04:08 <stephenm> 5 Things You Should Be Monitoring

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/5-things-you-should-be-monitoring

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight. Back to you MajB

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephnm

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 53 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <gnewbie> +1

 04:10 <MajB> There are a total of 158 Linux administrator jobs, 86 of which are new listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <toddc> hello gnewbie

 04:11 <MajB> Hi gnewbie

 04:11 <gnewbie> howdy

 04:11 <MajB> There are 26 new jobs and a total of 63 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:12 <MajB> 27 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 27 September  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 04 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 06 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:12 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 20 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:13 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <toddc> welcome stu

 04:13 <toddc> welcome Stu

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:14 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is Tuesday starting at 19:00

 04:14 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ 85204

 04:14 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/150/floss-stammtisch/

 04:14 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

 04:14 <xHans> PLUG security is Thursday starting at 19:00

 04:14 <xHans> 251 Desert Breeze Blvd West, Chandler, AZ 85226

 04:14 <xHans> topic: Introduction To Secure Computing

 04:14 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:14 <xHans> CactusCon starts a week from Friday at Mesa Convention Center

 04:14 <xHans> Friday and Saturday the 28th and 29th of September

 04:14 <xHans> https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:14 <xHans> you need tickets, no cost tickets available or pay in order to get badge

 04:15 <xHans> CactusCon Kids Kids is Saturday at CactusCon, requires no cost registration

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.cactusconkids.com/

 04:15 <xHans> DevOpsDays Phoenix is Tuesday, 2018Oct23 at Galvanize in Phoenix

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/

 04:15 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:15 <MajB> Thanks xHans

 04:15 <xHans> bitte

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:16 <MajB> Meetting on 23 September 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 05 October 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 10 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 22 September 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 10 October 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:17 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
