{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 02 June – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole.
* 6 attendees.
* Discussed Team Viewer issues.
* Discussed Ubuntu 16.04 paper cuts.
* 04 June - Linux install-fest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 26 attendees.
* 4 installs (Ubuntu, 2 Mint, and a dual boot).
* Built a virtual machine and configured the firewall.
* Worked on a member's server.
* Reconfigured partitions for two individuals.
* Introduced at least 7 new individuals to the AZLOCO community.
* Discovered that Ubuntu penguins can and do fly when prospective new members are introduced to the Team.
* 05 June - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 9 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2005%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 12 June - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 11 members were present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2012%2C%202016%20Meeting.
* 18 June - Linux install-fest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG
* 14 attendees.
* 4 installs (2 Ubuntu, Mint, and Centos).
* Unsuccessful install of Ubuntu on a cell phone.
* Unsuccessful install of Ubuntu on a tablet due.
* Reconfigured a music program.
* 19 June - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash.
* 14 members were present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2019%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 23 June - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Discussed AZLOCO and CLUG upcoming events.
* Announced that one of our local members has been approved as a Ubuntu member.
* Discussed the establishment, security, and maintenance of a LAN.
* 23 June - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole.
* 8 attendees.
* Discussed install-fest and procedures (how to decide disto and UI) no decision made.
* Discussed unity tweaks and options and telegram messaging.
* 26 June - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 9 members were present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2026%2C%202016%20Meeting
