{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #99 for the week July 5, July 11.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Ninety Ninth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-July 15, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday July 19, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the July 12, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:03 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09July12

johnc4510 started with an announcement:

* Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Desktop will reach end of life on Tuesday, July 14, 2009. At that time, Ubuntu Security Notices will no longer include information or updated packages for the Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Desktop. Server Edition will continue to receive maintenance updates through June 2011. The supported upgrade path from Ubuntu 6.06 LTS is via Ubuntu 8.04 LTS. Instructions and caveats for the upgrade may be found at https://help.ubuntu.com/community

johnc4510 then stated that he was considering stepping down as Team leader:

* "Because of my family responsibilities, I haven't been able to devote the needed/required amount of time to the team. I had hoped that this wouldn't be a permanent thing, but it now seems as if it will be.  While I'm _not quiting the team_, I don't think I can fullfill my responsibilities as team leader right now. I have been in this position now since the team was founded in April of 2007, and it's time for me to let someone else take over.  In addition to being team leader, I'm running the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, I'm an editor on the Fridge, I'm on the US loco board, and I'm trying to be involved with ABLEcon. I'm just spread too thin right now considering my work and family responsibilities."

A discussion of how to go about organizing the Team leadership followed.  Possibilities ranged from the appointment of a single leader, through joint leadership, and on to committee leadership.  No decision was made at this time.  johnc4510 will send out an email to the mailing list outlining what he does and what direction he feels the Team should go, as well as some of the resources that he's used to get the Team where it is today.

It was agreed that nobody wanted to see johnc4510 step down, but we all understood the circumstances.  It was also suggested that johnc4510 take on the position of mentor, when the leadership is decided, and he agreed that it was possible.  johnc4510 also alluded to reducing some of the workload he has in other facets of the Ubuntu community.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:33.

Information received after the meeting

PLUG announcements:

* ABLEconf has been confirmed for Saturday, 2009Oct24.  IRC meetings every Sunday the hour before the AZ Loco mtg

* Avondale Free Software Stammtisch is Wednesday, Tempe Free Software Stammtisch isn't this week, it's a week from Tuesday.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

* Prescott Free Software Stammtisch is this Tuesday.  http://www.lugy.net/

* The BlenderCAD meetings are no longer every Sunday, they're now the 3rd Saturday of the month. matthewmpp has also added an IRC meeting for the BlenderCAD project the 3rd Thursday of the month. That means IRC this Thursday and at his house this Saturday.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/1007 and http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/992

FUN AND GAMES

Ubuntu Gaming Night is a group of Ubuntu users who meet up midday Sunday and play multiplayer native Linux games, both FOSS and Commercial.  Its pretty small right now but they are slowly growing.  More information can be seen at the Ubuntu Gaming Night site[1].  A poll of possible games to play is available[2].  There is also an IRC channel[3].

 1. http://ugn.gwos.org/
 2. http://gwos.org/doku.php/poll:current
 3. irc.freenode.net, channel #ugn

=== OUTLINE OF JOHN'S TEAM TASKS ===

As requested by the team at the last meeting, here is a listing of duties I currently oversee:

* Team IRC Channel administration
* Team Mailing List administration
* Team Launchpad administration
* Team Forums administration
* Team Wiki administration including setup and formatting of new pages
* Chairing of weekly team meetings
* Team Server administration
* Events planning and coordination
* Team contact and coordinator for state LUG's
* Team contact and distributor for shipit CDs from Ubuntu
* ABLEcon coordination
* Various small projects: This includes anything that come up during meetings that needs to be done.

Team Focus: Launchpad Bug #1 - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1

* As of now, our overall plan is geared to promoted Ubuntu and Open Source computing in the State of Arizona. We do this through our events, and working with the state LUGs. By working with the state LUGs, we are able to pool our resources in order to reach a broader base of users in Arizona. Because our team has an abundance of resources available from Ubuntu, it is up to us to help in any way we can to help promote open source computing in Arizona. By doing this we effectually broaden our base, and the open source base in Arizona.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
