{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 22 Aug at 04:00 &mdash; 04:12 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-08-22-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-is-now-officially-supported-on-starfives-visionfive-risc-v-single-board-computers   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/debian-gnu-linux-turned-29/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/spotify-qt-lightweight-spotify-client/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/8/favorite-screenshot-tool-linux   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/linux-distros-students/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/8/non-code-contribution-powers-open-source   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/8/note-taking-apps-linux   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-4-open-source-office-suite-officially-released-this-is-whats-new   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2022/08/17/gnome_project_25/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/sssnake-game-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/most-secure-browsers-for-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://glovesoff.substack.com/p/lets-try-gnome-boxes   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/10-useful-ssh-commands-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxhandbook.com/nextcloud-onlyoffice/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/8/solve-agile-issues   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/hledger-commandline-accounting-tool-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/recover-deleted-file-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/install-visual-studio-code-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/convert-docker-run-commands-into-docker-compose-files/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/move-proxmox-containers-vms-to-different-disk/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://octopus.com/blog/testing-kubernetes-locally   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/8/kubernetes-operator-framework-book   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:11)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (56)
* stephenm (48)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:01 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> Sorry for the here and not here but here is the news for tonight,

 04:02 <stephenm> Ubuntu Is Now Officially Supported on StarFive’s VisionFive RISC-V Single-Board Computers

 04:02 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-is-now-officially-supported-on-starfives-visionfive-risc-v-single-board-computers

 04:02 <stephenm> Debian GNU/Linux Turned 29, Happy Birthday!

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/debian-gnu-linux-turned-29/

 04:02 <stephenm> spotify-qt – lightweight Spotify client

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/spotify-qt-lightweight-spotify-client/

 04:02 <stephenm> What's your favorite screenshot tool on Linux?

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/8/favorite-screenshot-tool-linux

 04:02 <stephenm> Top Linux Distributions for Students in 2022

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/linux-distros-students/

 04:02 <stephenm> Open source runs on non-code contributions

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/8/non-code-contribution-powers-open-source

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 note-taking apps for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/8/note-taking-apps-linux

 04:03 <stephenm> LibreOffice 7.4 Open-Source Office Suite Released, This Is What’s New

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-4-open-source-office-suite-officially-released-this-is-whats-new

 04:03 <stephenm> There's no place like GNOME: Project hits 25, going on 43

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2022/08/17/gnome_project_25/

 04:03 <stephenm> sssnake – A Super Addictive Snake Game for Linux Terminal

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/sssnake-game-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Top 5 Most Secure Browsers for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxstans.com/most-secure-browsers-for-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Let's Try Gnome Boxes

 04:03 <stephenm> https://glovesoff.substack.com/p/lets-try-gnome-boxes

 04:03 <stephenm> 10 Useful SSH Commands in Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/10-useful-ssh-commands-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Integrate Nextcloud with ONLYOFFICE Docs on Your Linux Server

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxhandbook.com/nextcloud-onlyoffice/

 04:04 <stephenm> 4 common issues with implementing Agile and how to address them

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/8/solve-agile-issues

 04:04 <stephenm> Hledger – A Plain Text Accounting Tool for Linux Terminal

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/hledger-commandline-accounting-tool-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Recover Lost and Deleted Data in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/recover-deleted-file-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install VS Code on Ubuntu 22.04: A Step-by-Step Guide

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/install-visual-studio-code-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:04 <stephenm> Convert Docker Run Commands Into Docker-Compose Files

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/convert-docker-run-commands-into-docker-compose-files/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Move Proxmox Containers And VMs To Different Disk

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/move-proxmox-containers-vms-to-different-disk/

 04:05 <stephenm> Testing Kubernetes locally

 04:05 <stephenm> https://octopus.com/blog/testing-kubernetes-locally

 04:05 <stephenm> My journey with Kubernetes

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/8/kubernetes-operator-framework-book

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:05 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:05 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:06 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:06 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:06 <MajB> There are 210 open canonical Jobs today

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <MajB> There are 96 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:07 <MajB> There are 21 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:07 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:08 <MajB> 25 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 01 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 03 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:08 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 04 September, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 08 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:08 <MajB> 08 September, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:08 <MajB> 17 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:08 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 18 September, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 22 September, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:10 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FernHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:10 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:10 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:10 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 08 September 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:10 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 20 September, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:11 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:11 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:11 <MajB> Monthly meeting 14 September 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:11 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:11 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 27 August 1300-1500 (fourth Saturday of each month), Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:11 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:11 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022 (virtual)

 04:11 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:12 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:12 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
