{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #118 for the week February 15, February 21, 2010.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Eighteenth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-February 24, 2010
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

* Next meeting: Sunday February 28, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the February 21, 2010 meeting ====

toddc called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10February14

toddc began with some announcements:

* I will be sitting in for scott_ev and posting his meeting notes since many of our members (including scott_ev) are cruising back from  California down I-10 at 90mph err 75 mph and might drop  their Internet connection or laptop battery's run out.

* New member, dbman63, introduced himself and was welcomed to the Team:
"Hi I'm Dana.  I'm a Database Administrator @ Intel, and have tinkered a little bit with Linux since Red Hat 7.1, but still consider myself a Newbie."

* There will be no Human Theme In Ubuntu 10.04.  In an interview recorded on February 19 2010, Mark Shuttleworth revealed that a new light theme will replace the Human theme in Ubuntu 10.04. The Human theme has been the default theme in Ubuntu since the first release.  http://anotherubuntu.blogspot.com/2010/02/no-human-theme-in-ubuntu-1004.html

* Mark Shuttleworth: Meta-cycles: 2-3 year major cycles for free software - http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/288

* Interview With Jono by Joe Barker - http://blog.joeb454.com/2010/02/an-interview-with-jono/

* Interview with Dustin Kirkland, Ubuntu Core Developer about encryption in Ubuntu - https://slo-tech.com/clanki/10008en/#

* Upcoming Ubuntu Global Jam and your Loco Team - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams , https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/Stories and http://chrisjohnston.org/2010/ubuntu-global-jam-march-2010

* Dell dropping its Ubuntu offerings? - http://www.infoworld.com/d/adventures-in-it/dell-dropping-its-ubuntu-offerings-243

* Univ. of Arizona student builds Ubuntu-Atom powered spider-bot - http://www.neoseeker.com/news/13107-u-of-arizona-student-builds-ubuntu-atom-powered-spider-bot/

* Canonical’s Latest Ubuntu Developer Pitch - http://tinyurl.com/yh8s4l6

* It has been noted that not many people have been making it to out installfests looking for help.  This is, perhaps, because there's no real advertising.  So a few of us got together and discussed options.  What we came up with is adding another installfest at the Tempe Escalante Community Center on a trial (3 months) basis.  This way The City of Tempe offers us 3 ways to get the word out:  via their newsletter that goes to every resident of Tempe, by adding us to the bulletin board on channel 11, and by adding us to the website for the city.  We can get more advertising by putting fliers up at other city locations like schools, libraries, community centers, and other city facilities.  We went ahead and made arrangements because we were trying to get into the newsletter.  The manager of the Escalante Center thought we could get into it this quarter but he was wrong.  It's not a huge commitment so we went for it without team approval.  Please also note that this is a co-operative effort between PLUG and the AZ Loco and every effort is being made to keep it that way.  We want everyone to be informed and have an opportunity to add their input.  So the schedule for installfests will be as follows for the next few months:
** Feb 27th - UAT, Mar 20 - Escalante,
** Mar 27 - UAT, April 10 Escalante,
** April 24 - UAT,
** April 24 - Licid Release Party - Boulders,
** May 8 - Escalante, May 22 - UAT

We have posted some flyers already and will be posting more  this week - http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1399585 and http://www.azloco.com/node/128

* There will be a 10.04 Lucid Lynx release party at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe (http://www.bouldersonbroadway.net/) on the 24th of April. Boulders on Broadway has a room upstairs that we will have all to ourselves.  We'll have wifi access too.  It's going to be a good chance to eat some good grub, have a few drinks or brewski's and meet some of the other Ubu``Geeks that you have only met online.  You're not going to want to miss this.  Ok, that brings up another point:  We need volunteers for a couple of things:  we'll need a few extension cords and power strips.  Someone can pick out new features in 10.04 and present them or concentrate on one for example.  Anything to do with Ubuntu will be OK.  Things like how to navigate Launchpad and report bugs...  Actually, if you have a favorite piece of software that you use you can present that even if it's not in Ubuntu's repos.  Please be thinking about this.  It will only make the Release Party more of a success.  Here is a link to the Lucid Lynx planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/LucidLynx .  Feel free to add to the ideas section or fill in anything that might be missing.  We will be heading there from the monthly installfest at UAT. http://tinyurl.com/yemru26 If you've never been to an installfest at UAT, you may want to consider checking it out.  Our Lo``Co co-sponsors it with PLUG but we are poorly represented.  There's a proposed flyer posted at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1388113 please give us your feedback in the form of a vote with comments if needed.  It's a chance to help another linux user or, better yet, possibly install Linux an a computer that currently is running that other OS.  http://azloco.com/node/120

* I've started the making plans for our next instalfest in Tucson at the University.  Andrew Lenards made the necessary introductions to get the ball rolling and start communication between us ans the CS dept.  So, it's time to start thinking about how we want to organize this event.  I'll need feedback from those of you that attended last time.  And I'm open to input.  We'll need to do a lot of planning so we can put on a good show for all attendees.  Remember that the University called it a Windows Removal Event.  That's because the CS dept has migrated to Ubuntu Linux!  I'd imagine they are wondering where we've been since they wanted us to schedule regular installfests.  This would be a great opportunity to promote Ubuntu Linux to students and the general public in Tucson.  We'll need fliers, etc. etc. We'll need volunteers for a variety of duties so please please spread the word in channel and via email that we are calling for help.  If no one else steps up and offers to be the main contact point and organizer I'll do it.  I would prefer to have someone, anyone living in Tucson volunteer to be the person to make face to face contact with our contacts on campus?  It's over 4 hours round trip for me if I need to drive down there.  This weekend hutchnate brought up the point that we need to set some guidelines about hardware requirements for different types of installs at an installfest.  There are regular installs, dual boot installs, Virtual Machine installs, and Wubi installs.  Apparently there was some issue with low powered machines and VM installs.  We really should avoid trying to run into this at the next installfest.

toddc then asked xHans for any PLUG and class announcements:

* West Side meeting this Wednesday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/346 .  It would be good to have a review of SCaLE at the mtg, so please post to the AZLoCo list and ask for one.  PLUG's list will also be contacted.

* PLUG and AZLo``Co Installfest at UAT this Saturday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/160

* PLUG Devel meeting a week from Thursday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/552

* next PLUG IRC meeting is in two weeks as next Sunday is still in Feb

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:26 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
