{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 31 Dec at 03:59 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-12-31-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/how-jump-start-career-open-source 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/BigchainDB 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/41-of-steams-most-played-games-in-2018-are-supported-on-linux.13243?module=articles_full&title=41-of-steams-most-played-games-in-2018-are-supported-on-linux&aid=13243 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-display-when-a-file-was-last-accessed-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.polydesmida.info/BASHing/2018-12-30.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-atom-text-editor-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://linux4one.com/how-to-install-java-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-tomcat-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-minecraft-server-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://linux4one.com/how-to-install-anaconda-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/12/kernel-420-crocodiles-stibp-and-hugs 
''LINK:'' https://www.oaca-project.org/2018/12/20/hybrid-devops/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/erase-unconscious-bias-your-ai-datasets 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* RexB (60)
* stephenm (29)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (3)
* pirateP (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 31 03:59:46 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <RexB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <pirateP> +1

 04:00 <RexB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <RexB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <RexB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <RexB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <RexB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <RexB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <RexB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <RexB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <RexB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <RexB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <RexB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <RexB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <RexB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> News begins with simple stuff and then goes into more detail Linux stuff.

 04:03 <stephenm> Learn how to jump start your career in open source in 5 minutes

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/how-jump-start-career-open-source

 04:03 <stephenm> What is BigchainDB?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/BigchainDB

 04:03 <stephenm> 41 of Steam's most played games in 2018 are supported on Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/41-of-steams-most-played-games-in-2018-are-supported-on-linux.13243?module=articles_full&title=41-of-steams-most-played-games-in-2018-are-supported-on-linux&aid=13243

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Display When a File was Last Accessed in Ubuntu

 04:03 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-display-when-a-file-was-last-accessed-in-ubuntu/

 04:03 <stephenm> Changing the month format: a fairly general solution

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.polydesmida.info/BASHing/2018-12-30.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Install Atom Text Editor on CentOS 7

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-atom-text-editor-on-centos-7/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Java on CentOS 7

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linux4one.com/how-to-install-java-on-centos-7/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Tomcat on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-tomcat-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Minecraft Server on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-minecraft-server-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Anaconda on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linux4one.com/how-to-install-anaconda-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Kernel 4.20: Crocodiles, STIBP, and Hugs

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/12/kernel-420-crocodiles-stibp-and-hugs

 04:05 <stephenm> Hybrid DevOps

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.oaca-project.org/2018/12/20/hybrid-devops/

 04:05 <stephenm> Erase unconscious bias from your AI datasets

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/erase-unconscious-bias-your-ai-datasets

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, Back to you RexB.

 04:05 <RexB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <RexB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <RexB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <RexB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:06 <RexB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:06 <RexB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <RexB> 05 January AZLOCO/PLUG installfest.  UAT has a campus wide event (Winter break maintenance) and no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:07 <RexB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <RexB> There are 53 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <RexB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <RexB> There are 47 new jobs and a total of 166 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <RexB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <RexB> There are 11 new jobs and a total of 84 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <RexB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <RexB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:08 <RexB> 03 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <RexB> 05 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop is canceled.

 04:09 <RexB> 10 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <RexB> 19 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing

 04:09 <RexB> Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with

 04:09 <RexB> installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <RexB> 24 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <RexB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:11 <RexB> OK I will cover their events with the other LUG events

 04:12 <RexB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be

 04:12 <RexB> found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:12 <RexB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <RexB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 10 January 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:13 <RexB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 15 January 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thin

 04:13 <RexB> gs tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:13 <RexB> PLUG Security Class on 17 January 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:13 <RexB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:13 <RexB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 27 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:13 <RexB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 04 January 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:14 <RexB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 09January 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:14 <RexB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 26 January 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:14 <RexB> CONFERENCES:

 04:14 <RexB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:14 <RexB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:14 <RexB> Pasadena, CA

 04:15 <RexB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else?

 04:15 <RexB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
