{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


02 August - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Assisted individual with his Raspberry Pi based weather station after a 11 July update caused it to malfunction.
* Assisted attendee with identifying partitions on his multi-boot hard drive and choosing which one to install Ubuntu.
03 August - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2003%2C%202025%20Meeting
07 August - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* Data Not Available
08 August - 14 August Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Discussed a WiFi problem with a Dell laptop that has a Broadcom  BCM43 chip.  The solution can be found at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx
* Discussed a search problem that a member was having.  Provided him with a possible solution using the wild card *.
* Since there were not sufficient people present the discussion on moving the Ubuntu Hour to a new location was tabled until the next meeting.
14 August - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed donation of computers
16 August - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Discussed partitions and how to use them
28 August - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed System 76 computers
* Discussed the Team NextCloud server which needs to be updated to the next version.  
