{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 19 May at 03:58 &mdash; 04:31 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2014/ubuntu-us-az.2014-05-19-03.58.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Q4OS-0-5-11-Linus-Distro-Is-an-Almost-Perfect-Clone-of-Windows-XP-Screenshot-Tour-442278.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.foxnews.com/tech/2014/05/05/facebook-google-users-threatened-by-new-security-flaw/?intcmp=obnetwork 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/1204_HWE_EOL 
''LINK:'' https://isc.sans.edu/diary/SNMP+The+next+big+thing+in+DDoS+Attacks/18089 
''LINK:'' http://www.tomsguide.com/us/scariest-security-threats,review-2144-7.html 
''LINK:'' http://techcrunch.com/2014/05/13/nsa-docs-detail-efforts-to-collect-data-from-microsofts-skype-skydrive-and-outlook-com/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/773120-4-excellent-alternative-graphical-linux-file-managers 
''LINK:'' http://www.webupd8.org/2014/05/betty-is-like-siri-or-google-now-for.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/setup-local-repositories-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Kylin-14-04-LTS-Aims-to-Take-Over-Windows-XP-in-China-HP-Is-on-Board-442465.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/multi-wireless-module-runs-linux-targets-iot-gateways/ 
''LINK:'' http://xmodulo.com/2014/05/web-based-lightweight-system-monitor-linux.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/a-roundup-of-the-last-weeks-linux-gaming.3709 
''LINK:'' http://www.blackmoreops.com/2014/03/10/cracking-wifi-wpawpa2-passwords-using-pyrit-cowpatty/# 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/operating-systems/418542/unix-automating-your-server-inventory 
''LINK:'' http://linuxaria.com/howto/how-to-verify-ddos-attack-with-netstat-command-on-linux-terminal 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/is-desktop-linux-secure-1.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/six-clicks-insanely-great-raspberry-pi-devices-you-can-build-yourself-7000029300/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Chinese-Government-Says-on-TV-that-Windows-XP-Users-Must-Choose-Linux-441889.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.itwire.com/business-it-news/open-source/64086-patching-a-running-linux-kernel-kgraft-v-kpatch 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/418733/linux-group-builds-64-bit-android-kitkat-arm-developers 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/cloud-computing/why-do-att-and-sony-use-openstack.html 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Live-CDs-the-One-Feature-that-Microsoft-and-Apple-Haven-t-Copied-Yet-442048.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/siege-your-servers 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/canonical-juju-devops-tool-coming-to-centos-and-windows-7000029418/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.ashleyellis.com 
''LINK:'' http://defpoint.applicantpro.com/jobs/19105.html 
''LINK:'' https://careers-leslies.icims.com/jobs/introhttp://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28?amp;hashed=0&mobile=false&width=960&height=500&bga=true&needsRedirect=false 
''LINK:'' https://apply.hrmdirect.com/resumedirect/ApplyOnline/Apply.aspx?req_id=enc-15.522555906385225&source=166904-CS-1983 
''LINK:'' https://atom.io/ 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/linux-courses/find-linux-training-courses?pi_ad_id=28105463074&gclid=CLGF-uSA8r0CFQWTfgodXIcA7A 
''LINK:'' http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley 
''Vote:'' markand wmack (Carried)

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2014/ubuntu-us-az.2014-05-19-03.58.log.html#92 markand wmack]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 3/0/0)
** Voters pavlos, MajB, toddc

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* wmack1 (132)
* xHans (12)
* meetingology (8)
* toddc (8)
* adrenaline (3)
* MajB (2)
* pavlos (2)
* markthomas (2)
* Rich_ (1)
* scott_ev (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:58 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:58 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon May 19 03:58:12 2014 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:58 <meetingology> 

 03:58 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <scott_ev> yeah, yeah, I realized I gotta get up early and took  my sleeping medss early and am going to pass out early

 03:59 <wmack1> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 03:59 <Rich_> +1

 03:59 <adrenaline> +1

 03:59 <toddc> +1

 03:59 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <wmack1> star date: 91982.38

 04:01 <wmack1> Team wiki site  is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <wmack1> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <pavlos> +1

 04:01 <wmack1> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <wmack1> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <wmack1> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <wmack1> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:02 <wmack1> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <wmack1> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:03 <wmack1> lets start with the news!!

 04:03 <wmack1> LINUX  NEWS

 04:04 <wmack1> Ubuntu 12.10 end of life was May 16

 04:04 <wmack1> Q4OS 0.5.11 Linux Distro Is an Almost Perfect Clone of Windows XP – Screenshot Tour

 04:04 <wmack1> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Q4OS-0-5-11-Linus-Distro-Is-an-Almost-Perfect-Clone-of-Windows-XP-Screenshot-Tour-442278.shtml

 04:04 <wmack1> Facebook, Google users threatened by new security flaw

 04:04 <wmack1> http://www.foxnews.com/tech/2014/05/05/facebook-google-users-threatened-by-new-security-flaw/?intcmp=obnetwork

 04:05 <wmack1> If you installed a new kernel to or Hardware Enablement Stacks to upgrade 12.04 remember the End of life has still occurred

 04:05 <wmack1> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/1204_HWE_EOL

 04:05 <wmack1> SNMP: The next big thing in DDoS Attacks?

 04:05 <wmack1> https://isc.sans.edu/diary/SNMP+The+next+big+thing+in+DDoS+Attacks/18089

 04:05 <wmack1> Scariest Security Threats Headed Your Way: Special Report

 04:05 <wmack1> http://www.tomsguide.com/us/scariest-security-threats,review-2144-7.html

 04:06 <wmack1> NSA Docs Detail Efforts To Collect Data From Microsoft’s Skype, SkyDrive, And Outlook.com

 04:06 <wmack1> http://techcrunch.com/2014/05/13/nsa-docs-detail-efforts-to-collect-data-from-microsofts-skype-skydrive-and-outlook-com/

 04:06 <wmack1> 4 Excellent Alternative Graphical Linux File Managers

 04:06 <wmack1> http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/773120-4-excellent-alternative-graphical-linux-file-managers

 04:06 <wmack1> Betty Is Like Siri Or Google Now For The Command Line (Translates Plain English Into Commands)

 04:06 <wmack1> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/05/betty-is-like-siri-or-google-now-for.html

 04:06 <wmack1> Setup Local Repositories with ‘apt-mirror’ in Ubuntu and Debian Systems

 04:06 <wmack1> http://www.tecmint.com/setup-local-repositories-in-ubuntu/

 04:07 <wmack1> (but be prepared to dedicate some 80G for each distro you host!

 04:07 <wmack1> Ubuntu Kylin 14.04 LTS Aims to Take Over Windows XP in China, HP Is on Board

 04:07 <wmack1> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Kylin-14-04-LTS-Aims-to-Take-Over-Windows-XP-in-China-HP-Is-on-Board-442465.shtml

 04:07 <wmack1> Multi-wireless module runs Linux, targets IoT gateways  device with wifi and bluetooth

 04:07 <wmack1> http://linuxgizmos.com/multi-wireless-module-runs-linux-targets-iot-gateways/

 04:08 <wmack1> How to set up a web-based lightweight system monitor on Linux

 04:08 <wmack1> http://xmodulo.com/2014/05/web-based-lightweight-system-monitor-linux.html

 04:08 <wmack1> A Roundup Of The Last Weeks Linux Gaming

 04:08 <wmack1> http://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/a-roundup-of-the-last-weeks-linux-gaming.3709

 04:08 <wmack1> Cracking Wifi WPA/WPA2 passwords using pyrit cowpatty in Kali Linux

 04:08 <wmack1> http://www.blackmoreops.com/2014/03/10/cracking-wifi-wpawpa2-passwords-using-pyrit-cowpatty/#

 04:09 <wmack1> Unix: Automating your server inventory

 04:09 <wmack1> http://www.itworld.com/operating-systems/418542/unix-automating-your-server-inventory

 04:09 <wmack1> How to verify DDOS attack with netstat command on Linux Terminal

 04:09 <wmack1> http://linuxaria.com/howto/how-to-verify-ddos-attack-with-netstat-command-on-linux-terminal

 04:09 <wmack1> Is Desktop Linux Secure? Nice article

 04:09 <wmack1> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/is-desktop-linux-secure-1.html

 04:09 <wmack1> insanely great-raspberry pi devices you can build yourself

 04:09 <wmack1> http://www.zdnet.com/six-clicks-insanely-great-raspberry-pi-devices-you-can-build-yourself-7000029300/

 04:10 <wmack1> Chinese Government Says on TV That Windows XP Users should Choose Linux

 04:10 <wmack1> Chinese Government Says on TV That Windows XP Users Should Choose Linux

 04:10 <wmack1> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Chinese-Government-Says-on-TV-that-Windows-XP-Users-Must-Choose-Linux-441889.shtml

 04:10 <wmack1> Patching a running Linux kernel: kGraft v kpatch

 04:10 <wmack1> http://www.itwire.com/business-it-news/open-source/64086-patching-a-running-linux-kernel-kgraft-v-kpatch

 04:10 <wmack1> Linux group builds 64-bit Android KitKat for ARM developers

 04:10 <wmack1> http://www.itworld.com/418733/linux-group-builds-64-bit-android-kitkat-arm-developers

 04:10 <wmack1> Why Do AT&T and Sony Use OpenStack?

 04:10 <wmack1> http://www.datamation.com/cloud-computing/why-do-att-and-sony-use-openstack.html

 04:11 <wmack1> Linux Live CDs, the One Feature Microsoft and Apple Haven't Copied Yet

 04:11 <wmack1> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Live-CDs-the-One-Feature-that-Microsoft-and-Apple-Haven-t-Copied-Yet-442048.shtml

 04:11 <wmack1> Siege Your Servers! Load testing webservers

 04:11 <wmack1> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/siege-your-servers

 04:11 <wmack1> Canonical Juju DevOps tool coming to CentOS and Windows

 04:11 <wmack1> http://www.zdnet.com/canonical-juju-devops-tool-coming-to-centos-and-windows-7000029418/

 04:11 <wmack1> TEAM NEWS

 04:12 <wmack1> canceled events due to holidays

 04:12 <wmack1> Sunday 5/25 weekly meeting (Memorial day weekend)

 04:12 <wmack1> (note that that is next weekend)

 04:12 <wmack1> Saturday 7/5   installfest (4th July weekend)

 04:13 <wmack1> Sunday 7/6  weekly meeting (4th July weekend)

 04:13 <wmack1> Sunday 8/31 weekly meeting (Labor day weekend)

 04:13 <wmack1> wmack and toddc are up for ubuntu memberships will be before the board

 04:13 <wmack1> on Wednesday may 21 2014 at 12:00 UTC 5am local if you happen to be free stop by the #ubuntu-meeting to give us support

 04:13 <wmack1> Ubuntu 14.04 DVD's are In and ready to being passed out

 04:14 <wmack1> we will also need to vote in a new co-team leader anyone interested in the position? Or should I just assign someone?

 04:14 <wmack1> Toddc did point at markthomas should we vote him in?

 04:14 <adrenaline> I nominate wmack1

 04:15 <wmack1> I would love to do this, but I can't commit

 04:15 <markthomas> uh

 04:15 <wmack1> (at least some people pay attention...)

 04:15 <toddc> #vote markand wmack

 04:15 <meetingology> Please vote on: markand wmack

 04:15 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (for private voting, private message me with 'vote +1/-1/+0 #channelname)

 04:15 <toddc> +1

 04:15 <meetingology> +1 received from toddc

 04:15 <markthomas> I am willing, but I'm not sure how far I can expand my involvement.

 04:16 <pavlos> +1

 04:16 <meetingology> +1 received from pavlos

 04:16 <MajB> +1

 04:16 <meetingology> +1 received from MajB

 04:16 <wmack1> JOB list

 04:16 <wmack1> 37 current canonical Jobs they are adding more each day

 04:17 * xHans is not voting elligible, but believes wmack would be good

 04:17 <wmack1> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:17 <wmack1> You would be eligible if you didn't vote for me :)

 04:17 <wmack1> HOSTED SYSTEMS SUPPORT PHX

 04:17 <wmack1> http://www.ashleyellis.com

 04:17 <xHans> :)

 04:17 <wmack1> Pixar Animation Studios** Systems Admin

 04:17 <wmack1> www.pixar.com/careers

 04:18 <wmack1> SOC Security Analyst (Jr/Mid), Chandler AZ

 04:18 <wmack1> http://defpoint.applicantpro.com/jobs/19105.html

 04:18 <wmack1> IT Security Administrator (Phoenix)

 04:18 <wmack1> https://careers-leslies.icims.com/jobs/introhttp://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28?amp;hashed=0&mobile=false&width=960&height=500&bga=true&needsRedirect=false

 04:18 <wmack1> CUSTOMER SUPPORT TECHNICIAN (PHOENIX)  data center support

 04:18 <wmack1> https://apply.hrmdirect.com/resumedirect/ApplyOnline/Apply.aspx?req_id=enc-15.522555906385225&source=166904-CS-1983

 04:19 <wmack1> Linux App of the week

 04:19 <wmack1> atom. A hackable text editor for the 21st Century

 04:19 <wmack1> https://atom.io/

 04:19 <wmack1> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:19 <wmack1> adrenaline has updated the azloco.org page

 04:20 <wmack1> markthomas has re routed azloco to make it available everywhere

 04:20 <wmack1> we still need to locate a data center to host team projects

 04:20 <toddc> wmack1 has added more blogs to azloco.org

 04:20 <wmack1> we have started adding users to the Owncloud server talk to toddc for accounts

 04:20 * adrenaline has already read such blogs

 04:21 <wmack1> EVENTS

 04:21 <wmack1> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:21 <wmack1> Thursday May 29 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame in Tempe southern and McClintock

 04:21 <wmack1> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and

 04:21 <wmack1> open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:21 <wmack1> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST

 04:21 <wmack1> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday June 7 that UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 206/207 this month 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the

 04:21 <wmack1> front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:22 <wmack1> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/

 04:22 <wmack1> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up

 04:22 <wmack1> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:23 <wmack1> West side Ubuntu hour will be June 4th 7pm – 9pm

 04:23 <wmack1> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:23 <wmack1> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:23 <wmack1> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:23 <wmack1> There were 6 people at the  May event this has started out as a great event.

 04:23 <wmack1> NORTH INSTALLFEST has been canceled for the summer

 04:23 <wmack1> LINUX TRAINING

 04:24 <wmack1> Linux Intro Course Available Online for Free from edX and The Linux Foundation Starts Aug 1 2014

 04:24 <wmack1> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free

 04:24 <wmack1> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/linux-courses/find-linux-training-courses?pi_ad_id=28105463074&gclid=CLGF-uSA8r0CFQWTfgodXIcA7A

 04:24 <wmack1> ubuntu on-air

 04:25 <wmack1> NO classes this week

 04:25 <wmack1> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:25 <wmack1> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:26 <wmack1> OTHER EVENTS

 04:26 <toddc> we should try to attend LUGY next month

 04:26 <wmack1> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:27 <wmack1> EEEEEEEEXXXXXXHAAAAAAANSSSSSS

 04:27 <xHans> wmack: sure, danke

 04:27 <xHans> Free Software Stammtisch this Tuesday at 19:00

 04:27 <xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

 04:27 <xHans> for June or July we are going to have a moderated panel for a presentation

 04:28 <xHans> please let me know if you're available to be on the panel. you won't be making a presentation, you will be answering questions from the moderator and the audience

 04:28 <toddc> is there a subject yet?

 04:28 <xHans> also, let me know if there's a subject you'd like to see

 04:29 <xHans> no, but I'm leaning towards web servers and router distros

 04:30 <xHans> and that's it from me

 04:30 <wmack1> xHans, thanks

 04:30 <xHans> wmack, toddc thanks for making room for cross-promotion!

 04:30 <xHans> wmack: bitte :)

 04:30 <wmack1> Anybody else having comments/suggestions/questions?

 04:31 <wmack1> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be hear here for a while if you have any questions

 04:31 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
