{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 02 December - Westside Ubuntu Hour hosted by programmer317

* 03 December - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by pavlos
* 8 attendees (3 new people)
* Discussed RAID configurations using zfs
* Gave 15 install DVDs to Nassir to pass on to his class
* Fixed Kubuntu video issue using nomodeset boot parameter
* Banana Pi donated to InstallFest
* Reviewed magnetic chargers for phones (Samsung, LG)
* 05 December - Linux Installfest co-sponsored by AZLOCO and PLUG
* 25 attendees (5 new people)
* 6 distro installs on servers and laptops
* Troubleshot Zentyal server (stephen), ASUS wifi router (nicholas)
* Installed printer driver on laptop (walter)
* Black-hat team attempted to hack our Zentyal server – They failed!
* Several penguins took flight and 5 new people attended event
* 06 December - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 11 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2006%2C%202015%20Meeting
* 13 December - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 13 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2013%2C%202015%20Meeting
* 17 December - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 2 attendees
* Discussed the various ways you can update your Ubuntu Operating System
* Discussed how to install and uninstall a desktop environment
* 17 December - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees (1 new person)
* Discussed programming languages and upcoming events (installfest, Scale, and Ubucon information as well as providing assisting at the Ubucon booth and initial travel plans)
* Discussed a possible group cat 6 home wiring project.
* 19 December - Linux Installfest co-sponsored by AZLOCO and PLUG
* 14 attendees
* 5 installs (3 Linux and 2 Windows 7)
* Repaired server issues on installfest server (installfest #5) due to a full boot partition.
* During the week Mark built a PXE multi-system server but is still needing Samba DHCP and gateway and second Nick card.
* Helped to fix a wifi issue and showed a new user how to update two computers
* Tested some voice to text software but no good software was found.
* Fixed one file share between Mac and Linux and worked on access point connection issue.
* 20 December - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 11 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2020%2C%202015%20Meeting
* 27 December - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2027%2C%202015%20Meeting
