{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 10 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-12-10-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.forbes.com/sites/laurencoleman/2018/12/06/get-ready-2019-predictions-about-artificial-intelligence-that-will-make-your-head-spin/#7150c258650b 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/wordpress-5.0-delivers-block-based-editing-approach 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/12/amber-is-cool-ambiance-inspired-gtk.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/linux-scanner-tools/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/linux-desktop-environments-pantheon-trinity-lxde-0 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/12/open-source-compliance-projects-unite-under-new-act-group 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/convincing-your-manager-upstreaming-their-best-interest 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/12/bash-variables-environmental-and-otherwise 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/create-fully-automated-light-and-music-show-holidays-part-1 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/12/use-reddit-in-terminal-with-rtv-reddit.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/remove-user-hostname-terminal-prompt/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/linux-toy-nyancat 
''LINK:'' https://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/how-docker-engine-works-to-enable-containers.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/linux-toy-fortune 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/intro-to-linux/2018/12/5-screen-recorders-linux-desktop 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/the-case-for-data-driven-open-source-development/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/mobile-management-and-security/how-and-why-get-ready-80211ax 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.seclore.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/3-5-inch-sbc-features-intel-coffee-lake-chips/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/free-floating-ubuntu-social-bot-chats-up-astronauts-on-international-space-station/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/393/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/448/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (61)
* stephenm (41)
* MajB (32)
* xHans (10)
* meetingology (3)
* Ron_A (2)
* Stu (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 10 04:00:40 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> That's ok we don't pay our guests

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> we don't pay members either

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <Stu> lol, probably getting one of those fancy toyota trucks soon... maybe then (+1)

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 96540.67

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/Y

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News is simple and then gets more complex

 04:03 <stephenm> 2019 Predictions About Artificial Intelligence That Will Make Your Head Spin

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.forbes.com/sites/laurencoleman/2018/12/06/get-ready-2019-predictions-about-artificial-intelligence-that-will-make-your-head-spin/#7150c258650b

 04:03 <stephenm> Still with the automatic cars

 04:03 <stephenm> WordPress 5.0 Delivers Block-Based Editing Approach

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/wordpress-5.0-delivers-block-based-editing-approach

 04:03 <stephenm> Amber Is A Cool Ambiance-Inspired Gtk / Gnome Shell Theme

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/12/amber-is-cool-ambiance-inspired-gtk.html

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Scanning Tools for Linux Desktop

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/linux-scanner-tools/

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux Desktop Environments: Pantheon, Trinity, LXDE

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/linux-desktop-environments-pantheon-trinity-lxde-0

 04:04 <stephenm> Open Source Compliance Projects Unite Under New ACT Group

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/12/open-source-compliance-projects-unite-under-new-act-group

 04:04 <stephenm> Convincing Your Manager That Upstreaming Is In Their Best Interest

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/convincing-your-manager-upstreaming-their-best-interest

 04:04 <stephenm> Bash Variables: Environmental and Otherwise

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/12/bash-variables-environmental-and-otherwise

 04:05 <stephenm> Create a Fully Automated Light and Music Show for the Holidays: Part 1

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/create-fully-automated-light-and-music-show-holidays-part-1

 04:05 <stephenm> Use Reddit In The Terminal With RTV (Reddit Terminal Viewer)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/12/use-reddit-in-terminal-with-rtv-reddit.html

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Remove User and Hostname in Terminal Prompt

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/remove-user-hostname-terminal-prompt/

 04:05 <stephenm> Take a break at the Linux command line with Nyan Cat

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/linux-toy-nyancat

 04:05 <stephenm> How Docker Engine Works to Enable Containers

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/how-docker-engine-works-to-enable-containers.html

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Bring Good Fortune to Your Linux Terminal

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/linux-toy-fortune

 04:06 <stephenm> 5 Screen Recorders for the Linux Desktop

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/intro-to-linux/2018/12/5-screen-recorders-linux-desktop

 04:06 <stephenm> The Case for Data-Driven Open Source Development

 04:06 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/the-case-for-data-driven-open-source-development/

 04:06 <stephenm> How (and Why) to Get Ready for 802.11ax

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/mobile-management-and-security/how-and-why-get-ready-80211ax

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news tonight, back to you toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <Ron_A> thanks stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB> 05 January Installfest/Linux Workshop (Campus wide event – no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> Apple plans on releasing the very first iCar...

 04:08 <toddc> But it has a problem installing Windows.

 04:09 <toddc> 3 Database Admins walk into a NoSQL/GraphDB meet-up group. A little while later they walk out.

 04:09 <toddc> They couldn't find any tables.

 04:09 <toddc> How to Start your Day with a Positive Outlook

 04:09 <toddc> 1. Open a new file in your PC.

 04:09 <toddc> 3. Send it to the RYCLE BIN.

 04:10 <stephenm> now only if I could tell my clients that

 04:10 <toddc> 2 creat a todo list

 04:10 <toddc> 3. Send it to the ReYCLE BIN

 04:11 <toddc> 4. Empty the RECYCLE BIN

 04:11 <toddc> 5. Your PC will ask you, "Are you sure you want to delete Housework permanently?"

 04:11 <toddc> 6. Answer calmly, "Yes," and press the mouse button firmly....

 04:11 <toddc> 7. Feel better?

 04:11 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical has 50 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <toddc> Onsite Technical Consultant

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.seclore.com/careers/

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> 3.5-inch SBC features Intel Coffee Lake chips

 04:12 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/3-5-inch-sbc-features-intel-coffee-lake-chips/

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:13 <toddc> Free-floating Ubuntu social bot chats up astronauts on International Space Station

 04:13 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/free-floating-ubuntu-social-bot-chats-up-astronauts-on-international-space-station/

 04:13 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 15 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:14 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 27 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 27 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 03 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 05 January, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest canceled

 04:14 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:15 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:15 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:15 <xHans> This week's East Side meeting is our annual end of year pot luck

 04:15 <xHans> Thursday, December 13th @ 19:00

 04:15 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/393/east-valley-meeting/

 04:15 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:15 <xHans> Stammtisch a week from Tuesday on the 18th

 04:15 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/448/floss-stammtisch/

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:15 <xHans> There is no December security meeting, sec mtgs will restart in January

 04:15 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:16 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:16 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:16 <toddc> Plug has some great events please check them out

 04:16 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 23 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 04 January 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 12 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 12 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra

 04:17 <MajB> Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 22 December 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:17 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:17 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:18 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:18 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:18 <MajB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:18 <MajB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:18 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
