{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 06 September - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Troubleshoot lambda expression in Python
* Comparison pfSense v. OPNsense
* Overclocking a Raspberry PI 3 B+
* Conversation on Linux security focused topics (Firewall walking - Firewalk, calea wiretapping)
* 09 September - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2009%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 15 September - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 16 attendees
* 2 installs (Ubuntu)
* Worked on the group server
* Discussed Linux Mint and the installation of the operating system
* Setup 2 VPN's on 2 laptops
* Worked on a person's desktop that had icon issues
* 16 September - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2016%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 23 September - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2023%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 27 September – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 11 attendees
* Discussed if we should and how we would back up data for a client at an Installfest when they have failed to do so.
* Discussed how to obtain an old Apple ISO presumably to resurrect an older Apple computer that will not accept the newer ISOs.
* A PCMCIA wireless card was obtained for a member who needed it for an old laptop computer.
* Discussed the preparations for the upcoming "Introduction To Linux" presentation to be given in Sunsites AZ on 2 October and possible installfest there at a future date.
* Discussed preparations for the upcoming Installfest in Sierra Vista AZ on 3 November.
* 27 September – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Troubleshoot DELL R710 server, PERC 6/i card
* Image recognition using neural networks
* Fixed cifs mount over vpn on two laptops
* Discussed Linux Code of Conduct
* 30 September - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2030%2C%202018%20Meeting  
