{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> hi toddc!
<spinrage> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<Rich_> +1
<toddc> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> Return of the King: Gnome 2 is making its way back
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Return-of-the-King-GNOME-2-Is-Making-Its-Way-Back-76753.html
<Dazed_75> A Secure Boot Bootloader for any/all Linux distributions
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/All-Linux-Distributions-Get-the-Secure-Boot-Bootloader-311259.shtml
<Dazed_75> How to use Google Drive on Linux: Two unofficial solutions
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/130380/how-to-use-google-drive-on-linux-2-unofficial-solutions
<Dazed_75> How to watch Netflix on Ubuntu with the Netflix Desktop App
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/130372/how-to-watch-netflix-on-ubuntu-with-the-netflix-desktop-app
<Dazed_75> Linux SysAdmin: How to manage LVMs with a GUI
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/127246/linux-sysadmin-how-to-manage-lvms-with-a-gui
<Dazed_75> Raspberry Pi: Inside the factory
<Dazed_75>     http://www.techrepublic.com/photos/raspberry-pi-inside-the-pi-factory/6395242
<Dazed_75> ODroid boards offer high end Raspberry Pi alternatives
<Dazed_75>     http://www.thepowerbase.com/2012/12/newest-odroid-boards-offer-high-end-raspberry-pi-alternative/
<Dazed_75> 4 alternatives to Google Drive for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/130465/4-alternatives-to-google-drive-for-linux
<Dazed_75> Measuring true internet speed
<Dazed_75>     https://windowssecrets.com/top-story/how-to-measure-your-true-internet-speed
<Dazed_75> How to use Unetbootin to create a bootable USB for Windows 7
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/12/unetbootin-create-bootable-usb-windows-7.html
<Dazed_75> The misunderstood df command
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux.com/learn/docs/675631-linux-tips-the-misunderstood-df-command
<Dazed_75> Understanding Umask with examples
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/article/linux-shell-understanding-umask-with-examples?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Linux has not won, Microsoft is as dangerous as ever and Fie on Secure Boot
<Dazed_75>     http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/177429/
<Dazed_75>     http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/177482/ <---- CORRECTION !
<Dazed_75> Shimming your way to Linux on Windows 8 PCs
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/shimming-your-way-to-linux-on-windows-8-pcs-7000008246/
<Dazed_75> Canonical hunting for a new "Head of Apps Design"
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/12/new-canonical-job-post-head-of-apps-design
<Dazed_75> Steam Games begin adding Linux System Requirements
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/12/steam-games-begin-adding-linux-system-requirements
<Dazed_75> Google Earth for Linux still not ready
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/12/google-earth-for-linux-signal-11-fix-coming
<Dazed_75> "RC Mini Racers" makes speedy debut in Ubuntu's top selling apps chart
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/12/ubuntu-top-downloads-in-november-2012
<Dazed_75> Use Nvidia experimental 310 drivers with Bumblebee
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/12/use-nvidia-experimental-drivers-310.html
<Dazed_75> Foobnix music player gets new Ubuntu PPA
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/12/foobnix-music-player-gets-new-ubuntu-ppa.html
<Dazed_75> How to list packages from a PPA / Repository in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/12/how-to-list-packages-from-ppa.html
<Dazed_75> How to find out to which Repository / PPA a package belongs
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-find-out-to-which-ppa-repository.html
<Dazed_75> Teleglitch is a rogue like top-down shooter with pixel graphics
<Dazed_75>     http://www.gamingonlinux.com/index.php?threads/teleglitch-a-roguelike-top-down-shooter-with-pixel-graphics.1506/
<Dazed_75> Games on Sale list
<Dazed_75>     http://www.gamingonlinux.com/index.php?threads/games-on-sale-list.1505/
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint 14 KDE Release Candidate released
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Mint-14-RC-KDE-Edition-Has-Been-Released-312366.shtml
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Linux and Windows 8: Head to Head at last
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Ubuntu-Linux-and-Windows-8-Head-to-Head-at-Last-76787.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.10 and Windows 8: An uneasy marriage
<Dazed_75>     http://www.itwire.com/opinion-and-analysis/open-sauce/57822-ubuntu-1210-and-windows-8-an-uneasy-marriage
<Dazed_75> How to integrate ClamAV into PureFTPd for virus scanning on Ubuntu 12.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-integrate-clamav-into-pureftpd-for-virus-scanning-on-ubuntu-12.10
<Dazed_75> Introducing the Ubuntu PyPi lens for Unity
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Introducing-Ubuntu-PyPi-Lens-for-Unity-311273.shtml
<Dazed_75> Google Earth fixed for Linux - wait for it or download now
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/12/download-google-earth-7-with-fixed.html
<Dazed_75> Kubuntu 12.10 review
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxlibrary.org/kubuntu-12-10-review/
<Dazed_75> Richard Stallman calls ubuntu "spyware" because it tracks searches
<Dazed_75>     http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2012/12/richard-stallman-calls-ubuntu-spyware-because-it-tracks-searches/
<Dazed_75> Feeling nostalgic?  Here are three retro desktops for you
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/install-retro-desktops-in-linux/2012/12/08
<Dazed_75> ... abd that's all folks!
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc> Applause for Dazed_75
<toddc> clapping!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> 20 Ubuntu Apps For Daily Life
<toddc> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/20-ubuntu-apps-for-daily-life-1.html
<toddc> How to install Ubuntu 12.04 on the $199 Acer C7 Chromebook
<toddc> http://liliputing.com/2012/11/how-to-install-ubuntu-12-04-on-the-199-acer-c7-chromebook.html
<toddc> How to Create Bootable Ubuntu Server 12.10 Installer USB Drive
<toddc> http://ubuntuserverguide.com/2012/11/how-to-create-ubuntu-server-12-10-installer-bootable-usb-drive.html
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> We now have 12.10 DVD's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> Dec 11 road trip carpool to Prescott for the LUGY meeting and to meet with Shane
<toddc> We will plan to leave around 5pm Dazed_75 will be driving join us if you can!!
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Way too many to list contact me if you want more listings
<Dazed_75> Please be there BEFORE 5pm
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> Web and Database Developer-PHP/MySQL Scottsdale
<toddc> http://www.blueglobalmedia.com/careers/systems-admin/
<toddc> Sr. UNIX Administrator  State of AZ
<toddc> https://apply.hrmdirect.com/ResumeDirect/ApplyOnline/Apply.aspx?req_id=enc-15.819920797238199&source=65279-JB--2324
<toddc> Jr. Network Engineer (Tempe, AZ)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=2544021&t=1
<toddc> Network and Server Administrator -- TransPerfect Remote Interpreting Tempe
<toddc> http://webconnect.sendouts.com/index.aspx?id=transperfect&Key=Cn&ApplyNewCan=1&PostNum=1360&Poster=e56bfced-1730-4682-89cf-7b8f6c85d8a2&SiteId=TransperfectHRRecruitment&Group=TransperfectHRRecruitment&CNTrackID=4
<toddc> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc> Caleb (madrobit) say to him if you see him pop in!!!
<toddc> James (jaeddu) say to him if you see him pop in!!!
<toddc> ANDROID APP PICK
<toddc> DiskUsage
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.diskusage
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday December 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is January 5 at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Linux Security HackFest January 12
<toddc> 2nd Saturday of each month 11AM to 2PM.  Devry 2149 West Dunlap Avenue
<toddc> Phoenix, AZ
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday December 15 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> over to xHans
<xHans> let's hope :)
<toddc> xHans do have the plug info?
<xHans> SCaLE call for presentations ends tomorrow night, 2012Dec10
<xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp
<xHans> A great conference to attend. Also a great conference at which to give a presentation.
<xHans> get your proposals in :)
<xHans> PLUG annual end of year party is this Thursday, 2012Dec13
<xHans> it's pot luck in December, so we get plenty of sweets
<xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday, 2012Dec18
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> and that's all I have this week
* xHans turns back to writing SCaLE proposals :)
<toddc> ok that is all I have
<toddc> is there any other ideas or info to pass along?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<toddc> short meeting this week
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
