{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by toddc, 08 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-09-08-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/happy-34th-birthday-linux   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/ahoy-this-is-opensuse/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/eww-linux-desktop-customization-tool/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/new-movie-python-the-documentary-traces-the-languages-story/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/08/advantages-and-pitfalls-of-public-investment-in-open-source-infrastructure/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/08/newelle-the-ai-helper-app-for-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Raspberry-Pi-1TB-SSD   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Raspberry-Pi-Touch-Display-2-5   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Nouveau-More-Reliable-Fix   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Dream-Prompter-GIMP-Plugin   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-ssh-into-a-virtualbox-guest-vm/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2025/09/winboat-is-a-new-linux-app-to-run-windows-apps-with-seamless-integration/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/09/languagetool-and-eloquent-two-grammar-checkers-for-your-linux-machines/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/setup-socks5-proxy-server-on-linux-using-microsocks/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/containers-2025-docker-vs-podman-modern-developers   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/search-inside-files-linux-grep-find-ripgrep/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://techrights.org/n/2025/08/18/Secure_Boot_is_a_Security_Problem_Not_a_Solution.shtml   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/08/26/docker_desktop_bug/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (48)
* Stephenm (40)
* MajB (23)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:49 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <Stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> .1

 04:01 <toddc> stardate -297315.6392694063

 04:01 <toddc> please sign in in a with a +1

 04:01 <toddc> which i already did twice

 04:01 <MajB> We noticed

 04:02 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/Y

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:03 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also National Salami Day

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:04 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:05 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:05 <Stephenm> Sorry the list is shorter than I hope but still have mixed Linux news.

 04:05 <Stephenm> Happy 34th Birthday, Linux!

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/happy-34th-birthday-linux

 04:05 <Stephenm> Ahoy, This Is openSUSE

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/ahoy-this-is-opensuse/

 04:06 <Stephenm> This Is the Best Linux Desktop Customization Tool You’ve Never Tried

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/eww-linux-desktop-customization-tool/

 04:06 <Stephenm> New Movie “Python: The Documentary” Traces the Language’s Story

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/new-movie-python-the-documentary-traces-the-languages-story/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Advantages and Pitfalls of Public Investment in Open Source Infrastructure

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/08/advantages-and-pitfalls-of-public-investment-in-open-source-infrastructure/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Newelle: The AI Helper App for Linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/08/newelle-the-ai-helper-app-for-linux/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Raspberry Pi Launches A 1TB SSD For $70 USD

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Raspberry-Pi-1TB-SSD

 04:07 <Stephenm> Raspberry Pi Touch Display 2 5-Inch Released For $40

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Raspberry-Pi-Touch-Display-2-5

 04:07 <Stephenm> Open-Source NVIDIA Linux Driver Usage About To Become Much More Reliable

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Nouveau-More-Reliable-Fix

 04:07 <Stephenm> New GIMP Plug-In Integrates Google Gemini AI Image Creation

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Dream-Prompter-GIMP-Plugin

 04:07 <Stephenm> How to SSH Into a VirtualBox Guest VM

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-ssh-into-a-virtualbox-guest-vm/

 04:07 <Stephenm> WinBoat is a new Linux app to run Windows apps with "seamless integration"

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2025/09/winboat-is-a-new-linux-app-to-run-windows-apps-with-seamless-integration/

 04:08 <Stephenm> LanguageTool and Eloquent: Two Grammar Checkers for Your Linux Machines

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/09/languagetool-and-eloquent-two-grammar-checkers-for-your-linux-machines/

 04:08 <Stephenm> How to Setup SOCKS5 Proxy Server on Linux Using MicroSocks

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/setup-socks5-proxy-server-on-linux-using-microsocks/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Containers in 2025: Docker vs. Podman for Modern Developers

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/containers-2025-docker-vs-podman-modern-developers

 04:08 <Stephenm> How To Search Inside Files In Linux Using Grep, Find And Ripgrep

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/search-inside-files-linux-grep-find-ripgrep/

 04:08 <Stephenm> "Secure Boot" is a Security Problem, Not a Solution

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://techrights.org/n/2025/08/18/Secure_Boot_is_a_Security_Problem_Not_a_Solution.shtml

 04:09 <Stephenm> Docker Desktop bug let containers hop the fence with barely a nudge

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/08/26/docker_desktop_bug/

 04:09 <Stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:09 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> echo '[q]sa[ln0=aln256%Pln256/snlbx]sb3135071790101768542287578439snlbxq'|dc

 04:11 <toddc> If penguins live in places with cold temperatures, that proves climate change is being caused by gnomes

 04:11 <toddc> This isn't the Year of Linux on the desktop?

 04:12 <toddc> Yeah there's like 50 different Linux desktop environments but if you're a sane person there's only 2 real options.

 04:12 <toddc> In a kick boxing match I can beat the computer every time.

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:13 <toddc> Senior Linux System Administration Specialist

 04:13 <toddc> General Dynamics Mission Systems, Inc ??? Scottsdale, AZ ??? via General Dynamics Mission Systems

 04:13 <toddc> Senior Linux Full Stack Engineer Motorola Phoenix AZ

 04:13 <toddc> Linux Infrastructure Engineering and Operations

 04:13 <toddc> MUF

 04:13 <toddc> G back Tempe Az Remote

 04:13 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 147 most are remote

 04:13 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:14 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 43 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:14 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:14 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:15 <MajB> 11 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 11 September, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:15 <MajB> 20 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:15 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> 25 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 02 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 04 October, Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop,  1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:16 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 05 October. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for LUG events and activities with map locations can be found on their websites.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities.

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:17 <MajB> 11 September, PLUG East meeting, 1900-2200, 1702 E. Highland Ave. (3rd floor), Phoenix, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> 16 September, Free Software Stammtisch, 1900-2200, BOULDERS ON SOUTHERN, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> 23 September, monthly meeting, 1700-1800, Warrior Healing Center (main conference room),1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> That is all that I have.  Back to you Todd

 04:18 <toddc> good meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
