{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 21 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-02-21-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=raspberrypi-os-64bit&num=1   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tomshardware.com/news/raspberry-pi-zero-2-w-penkesu-computer   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.makeuseof.com/major-developments-in-linux-world/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/2/libreoffice-accessibility   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/best-free-open-source-software/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2022/02/16/nebulon_ansible_support/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' http://techrights.org/2022/02/19/more-sky-falling-fud/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/2/crop-resize-photos-gwenview-kde   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/2/installing-applications-desktop-linux   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/use-date-command-in-bash-scripting/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-docker-on-debian-11/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://osnote.com/how-to-install-and-use-kvm-in-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-use-sshfs-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-dd-command-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2022/02/15/the_return_of_the_general_purpose_database/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/migrate-database-container   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/2/kubernetes-architecture   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/19X   (MajB, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (62)
* stephenm (38)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:01 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki pagxe is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:03 <stephenm> sorry, cooking a late dinner

 04:03 <stephenm> Further Investigating The Raspberry Pi 32-bit vs. 64-bit Performance

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=raspberrypi-os-64bit&num=1

 04:04 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W Powers Open-Source Handheld

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tomshardware.com/news/raspberry-pi-zero-2-w-penkesu-computer

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Major Developments in Desktop Linux in 2022

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.makeuseof.com/major-developments-in-linux-world/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 ways LibreOffice supports accessibility

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/2/libreoffice-accessibility

 04:04 <stephenm> 25 Free Open Source Applications I Found in Year 2021

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/best-free-open-source-software/

 04:04 <stephenm> Nebulon adds Ansible support for infrastructure deployment

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2022/02/16/nebulon_ansible_support/

 04:04 <stephenm> Snap is Not Linux and the Sky is Not Falling

 04:04 <stephenm> http://techrights.org/2022/02/19/more-sky-falling-fud/

 04:05 <stephenm> Crop and resize photos on Linux with Gwenview

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/2/crop-resize-photos-gwenview-kde

 04:05 <stephenm> A guide to installing applications on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/2/installing-applications-desktop-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Use Date Command In Bash Scripting In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/use-date-command-in-bash-scripting/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Docker on Debian 11

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-docker-on-debian-11/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Use KVM in Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://osnote.com/how-to-install-and-use-kvm-in-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Use SSHFS on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-use-sshfs-on-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Use the dd Command in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-dd-command-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> All hail the return of the general-purpose database

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2022/02/15/the_return_of_the_general_purpose_database/

 04:06 <stephenm> 6 steps for migrating a PostgreSQL database between containers

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/migrate-database-container

 04:06 <stephenm> A guide to Kubernetes architecture

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/2/kubernetes-architecture

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to you MajB.

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:07 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 140 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are 107 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 17 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 24 February, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 05 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:09 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 06 March, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> 10 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 10 March, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 19 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:10 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 20 March,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 24 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:10 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  LuftHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:12 <MajB> 10 March PLUG East Meeting

 04:12 <MajB> 15 March Free Software Stammtisch

 04:12 <MajB> 17 March Linux Security

 04:12 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:12 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 09 March 1800-1930 at the Sunland Village East computer lab.

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 26 February 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:12 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:12 <MajB> SCALE 19X 3-6 March

 04:12 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center, CA

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/19X

 04:13 <MajB> SEAGL preparation meetings

 04:13 <MajB> will be held on Mondays or Tuesdays 5pm Pacific Standard Time

 04:13 <MajB> Live on Big Blue Button

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:13 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
