{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #14 for the week September 12 - September 18, 2007.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Fourteenth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-September 12, 2007
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday September 16, 2007  9:00PM  
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

Greetings to all team members. We've got a lot of projects going on at present. We are working on our CD project to be able to give out free professional looking CD's to help advocate Ubuntu in the State Of Arizona. We have SFD(Software Freedom Day) coming up, and we are in the early stages of planning a Gutsy Gibbon Release Party. All this and trying to qualify to Team Approval from the Community Council. So as you can see, we are busy. If you are a member who has not been participating, you're missing out on a lot of fun. The goal of our team is to advocate for Ubuntu in Arizona, and we need everyones help to do this. For the most part we all are using Ubuntu and Open Source because we believe in it as a alternative to proprietary software. Ubuntu is growing by quantum leaps every year, don't be left out by not participating. Come join us and see what's going on, and how you can help us make Ubuntu the number #1 operating system in the great State of Arizona. Thanks

==== Summary of the September 9, 2007 meeting ====

The meeting was called to order at 9:05 PM.
There were no new members and no announcements.

John then began discussion of the Gutsy Gibbon Release Party.
The date of the release (October 18), the date of the party and the location were discussed between the members.  This is an opportunity for the Arizona Team to get together and have some fun.  We would like to see a better turn-out for the next meeting, to get some ideas on whether to have one party in Tuscon or one in Tuscon and one in Phoenix.  The decision was tabled for the time being, and will resume next week (September 16). Please consider joining the team in channel (#ubuntu-arizona   server freenode) if your interested in this subject.

Next on the agenda was the Team Newsletter.  John asked for volunteers to maintain it.  If no volunteers were forthcoming he would have to maintain it himself.  It was determined by the lack of rush to volunteer that he would take it on, but requested help in finding someone who could take it over.  Addendum:  after the meeting tyche volunteered to do the newsletter under supervision.

The third item on the agenda was the report on the Education Team Summary.  br24 reported that he had set up the categories on the team Education page.  Polygon89 is working on getting screencasts set up.  jsonder and donchriscoe are also getting info on category apps, and evilgourmet wants to help.  A meeting will be organized for the Education team for coordination purposes will be held in the team channel (#ubuntu-arizona) on Friday September 14, 2007  8:00 PM MST. Anyone is welcome to attend and give input on this project.  

The fourth item was the Software Freedom Day.  SloggerKhan was not available for comment due to other commitments, and John will get in touch with him for information that needs to be relayed to others.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:30 PM

The Ubuntu-Arizona Team is open to everyone, and we hope you will join us to help promote Ubuntu in Arizona!!

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

