{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

The purpose of the Membership Team of the Ubuntu-Arizona Local Community Team 
* Promote our LoCo Team and increase its membership.
* Promote and increase the use of Ubuntu within the state of Arizona.

== How to join the AZ LoCo ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona/|AZ Launchpad Registration]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az|AZ Mailing List]]</nowiki>
* Join us on our Team IRC channel: #ubuntu-us-az on irc.libera.chat

== How to Contribute ==
* Send an email to the team mailing list: ubuntu-us-az@lists.ubuntu.com.
* Join the team IRC channel and talk to any member.
** If you are not familiar with the IRC Channels or chat clients, please refer to the page linked below for more information. https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto

== Roadmap(Future Projects) ==

* Make contact with the Head of State Libraries to promote adding Ubuntu USB flash drives to their catalogue.
** Highlight the fact that Ubuntu and Open Source are actively gaining market shares as an alternative to proprietary software.

* Distribute free USB flash drives and test machines to local computer stores, libraries, and coffee houses.

* Establish contact with the State Board of Education to promote the use of Ubuntu in schools
** Highlight the facts that using Ubuntu would result in a two fold savings
** Lower licensing costs for operating systems and software
** Lower hardware costs due to Ubuntu being able to run on older machines.

* Help with the planning for team events to insure that the proper information is present on flyers, USB flash drives, etc. showing contact and support information.

== Contact ==

* <nowiki>[[toddc@azloco.com]]</nowiki> (Team Leader)

'''Parent pages:'''
<nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
