{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 27 Nov at 03:59 &mdash; 04:25 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-11-27-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://blog.erratasec.com/2017/11/why-linus-is-right-as-usual.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.techradar.com/news/the-quest-for-open-science 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/11/news-november-25 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/11/10-things-i-learned 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/11/creating-open-textbooks 
''LINK:'' https://jvns.ca/blog/2017/11/20/groups/ 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/manage-passwords-keep-online-accounts-secure/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/11/5-approaches-learning-python 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/11/photon-could-be-your-new-favorite-container-os 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/7-things-to-know-about-the-changing-security-landscape/2017/11/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/open-source-cloud-skills-and-certification-are-key-sysadmins 
''LINK:'' http://linuxtechlab.com/creating-master-slave-replication-mariadb/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/11/10/linux_on_galaxy_video_demo/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.itworld.com/article/2827546/enterprise-software/14-of-the-most-useful-linux-websites.html 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (58)
* MajB (37)
* stephenm (35)
* xHans (9)
* Eleison23 (4)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack1 (3)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov 27 03:59:25 2017 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <toddc> time till meeting starts

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <wmack1> +

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95506.46

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/Y

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> The news is from general to more linux topics.

 04:02 <stephenm> Why Linus is right (as usual)

 04:02 <stephenm> http://blog.erratasec.com/2017/11/why-linus-is-right-as-usual.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Linus rant's or videos never get old

 04:03 <stephenm> The quest for open science

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.techradar.com/news/the-quest-for-open-science

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux dominates supercomputing, the Pentagon's big open source push, and more

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/11/news-november-25

 04:03 <stephenm> This is a good thing, I think

 04:04 <stephenm> 10 things I learned about making LEGO bricks glow

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/11/10-things-i-learned

 04:04 <stephenm> This was an interesting read for those that like to play with legos in the dark.

 04:04 <stephenm> Also it's an interesting Christmas decoration

 04:04 <stephenm> Open education: How students save money by creating open textbooks

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/11/creating-open-textbooks

 04:04 <stephenm> How do groups work on Linux?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://jvns.ca/blog/2017/11/20/groups/

 04:05 <stephenm> TNS Guide: How to Manage Passwords and Keep Your Online Accounts Secure

 04:05 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/manage-passwords-keep-online-accounts-secure/

 04:05 <stephenm> 5 approaches to learning Python

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/11/5-approaches-learning-python

 04:05 <stephenm> Good thing I already have Linux and it's pretty easy to pratice coding

 04:05 <stephenm> Photon Could Be Your New Favorite Container OS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/11/photon-could-be-your-new-favorite-container-os

 04:06 <stephenm> 7 Things to Know About the Changing Security Landscape

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/7-things-to-know-about-the-changing-security-landscape/2017/11/

 04:06 <stephenm> Open Source Cloud Skills and Certification Are Key for SysAdmins

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/open-source-cloud-skills-and-certification-are-key-sysadmins

 04:06 <stephenm> Step by Step guide for creating Master Slave replication in MariaDB

 04:06 <stephenm> http://linuxtechlab.com/creating-master-slave-replication-mariadb/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> MajB has some new on team renewal

 04:07 <wmack1> Thank you stephen

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome wmack1

 04:08 <MajB> We got an email from the Community Council and the LoCo Council.  We should be on their agenda for the 11 Dec meeting

 04:08 <MajB> They are very sorry for their screw up

 04:08 <toddc> great news

 04:09 <MajB> And it was their screwup

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <MajB> And??

 04:12 <toddc> my notes went away

 04:12 <MajB> OK no jokes

 04:12 <MajB> a minor screw up.  toddc for the LoCo Council

 04:13 <toddc> Which way did the computer programmer go?

 04:13 <toddc> He went data way!

 04:13 <toddc> Where are delinquent disk drives sent?

 04:13 <toddc> To boot camp!

 04:13 <Eleison23> My sysadmin told me to back up my hard drive, but I couldn't find the reverse switch!

 04:13 <stephenm> A pair of jumper cables walks into a bar. Bartender says: “I’ll serve you, but don’t start anything.”

 04:14 <Eleison23> What do you get when you cross Lee Iacocca with a vampire?

 04:14 <Eleison23> AUTOEXEC.BAT

 04:15 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:15 <toddc> Administrator, IT Operations work from home

 04:15 <toddc> https://jobs.aa.com/job/Phoenix-Administrator%2C-IT-Operations-AZ-85001/441280000/?locale=en_US

 04:15 <toddc> Canonical has 28 open positions

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:15 <toddc> Network Administrator

 04:15 <toddc> Must represent Myriad Consulting as a diplomatic, people-oriented team player

 04:16 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:16 <toddc> Samsung shows off Linux desktops on Galaxy smartmobes

 04:16 <toddc> Ubuntu ??? all of it ??? running Eclipse on a phone, and a DeX dock

 04:16 <toddc> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/11/10/linux_on_galaxy_video_demo/

 04:16 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:16 <toddc> 14 of the most useful Linux websites

 04:16 <toddc> https://www.itworld.com/article/2827546/enterprise-software/14-of-the-most-useful-linux-websites.html

 04:17 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:17 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:17 <MajB> 02 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:18 <MajB> 07 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> 16 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:18 <MajB> 28 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:18 <MajB> 28 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:19 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:19 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:19 <xHans> December's PLUG security meeting is two weeks from Tuesday

 04:19 <xHans> Topic will be the 2nd half of Anthony's intro to encryption

 04:19 <xHans> December's PLUG general meeting is our annual end of year pot luck party

 04:19 <xHans> It's two weeks from Thu at the normal time and location

 04:19 <xHans> Bring family, friends and food

 04:19 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is the Tuesday before Christmas

 04:19 <xHans> We confirmed last week with Boulders that we will meet in December

 04:20 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events and news

 04:20 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:20 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 01 December 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 17 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 23 December 1-3;45 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:21 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:22 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:22 <wmack1> thank you majb

 04:22 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:22 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:22 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:22 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:22 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:22 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:22 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:22 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:22 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:23 <MajB> I have no thoughts at all

 04:23 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:24 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
