{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 07 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-09-07-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/hps-z-series-of-laptops-and-workstations-are-now-certified-with-ubuntu-20-04-lts 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/minimize-spotify-to-system-tray-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-internet-radio-software/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/first-arch-linux-iso-powered-by-linux-kernel-5-8-is-now-available-for-download 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/face-unlock-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/launch-web-browsers-in-kiosk-mode-full-screen-from-cli/ 
''LINK:'' https://anto.online/tips-and-tools/5-reasons-why-you-should-consider-a-cloud-certification/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/08/kde-plasma-5-20-disk-failure-warning/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/podman-clients-macos-windows 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/tuxedo-computers-unveils-tuxedo-polaris-15-and-17-laptops-for-linux-gamers 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/five-network-commands 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/intel-launches-nine-10nm-tiger-lake-processors/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-chromium-web-browser-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/bits-vs-bytes 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/set-up-passwordless-login-system-in-laravel 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/audience/developers/making-zephyr-more-secure/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtoday.com/security/scanning-containers-for-vulnerabilities-with-openscap-and-podman-200828072518.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/ssh-automation-sshpass 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/how-to-judge-open-source-projects/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/mysql-show-users/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-use-apache-to-redirect-all-traffic-from-http-to-https 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/9/awk-ebook 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/howto-write-howto 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-add-a-user-to-a-group-on-a-linux-server/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxbuz.com/linuxhowto/install-letsencrypt-ssl-ansible 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/session-recording-tlog 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/aws-introduces-bottlerocket-a-rust-language-oriented-linux-for-containers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/libguestfs-manage-vm 
''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.volt.com/en-US/job/data-center-technician-ii/J3W2GJ77LRVN4YFDCFC?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/15-inch-touch-panel-pc-builds-on-raspberry-pi-cm3/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/. Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (61)
* toddc (52)
* MajB (25)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep  7 04:00:35 2020 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1`

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 98283.39

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/y

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> over to stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> News is from general to more Linux based.

 04:03 <stephenm> HP’s Z Series of Laptops and Workstations Are Now Certified with Ubuntu 20.04 LTS

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/hps-z-series-of-laptops-and-workstations-are-now-certified-with-ubuntu-20-04-lts

 04:03 <stephenm> So if anyone wants a HP laptop

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Minimize Spotify to the System Tray in Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/minimize-spotify-to-system-tray-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Free Internet Radio Software

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-internet-radio-software/

 04:03 <stephenm> First Arch Linux ISO Powered by Linux Kernel 5.8 Is Now Available for Download

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/first-arch-linux-iso-powered-by-linux-kernel-5-8-is-now-available-for-download

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Set Up Facial Recognition to Sign into Ubuntu and Other Linux Distributions

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/face-unlock-ubuntu/

 04:04 <stephenm> Launch Web Browsers In Kiosk Mode (Full Screen) From CLI

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/launch-web-browsers-in-kiosk-mode-full-screen-from-cli/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Reasons Why You Should Consider A Cloud Certification!

 04:04 <stephenm> https://anto.online/tips-and-tools/5-reasons-why-you-should-consider-a-cloud-certification/

 04:04 <stephenm> KDE Plasma 5.20 Now Warns About Hard Disk, SSD Failure

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/08/kde-plasma-5-20-disk-failure-warning/

 04:04 <stephenm> Podman remote clients for macOS and Windows

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/podman-clients-macos-windows

 04:04 <stephenm> TUXEDO Computers Unveils TUXEDO Polaris 15 and 17 Laptops for Linux Gamers

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/tuxedo-computers-unveils-tuxedo-polaris-15-and-17-laptops-for-linux-gamers

 04:05 <stephenm> 5 Linux network troubleshooting commands

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/five-network-commands

 04:05 <stephenm> Intel launches nine 10nm Tiger Lake processors

 04:05 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/intel-launches-nine-10nm-tiger-lake-processors/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Chromium Web Browser on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-chromium-web-browser-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> When bandwidth and storage size matters: Bits vs. bytes

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/bits-vs-bytes

 04:05 <stephenm> Set Up Passwordless Login System in Laravel

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/set-up-passwordless-login-system-in-laravel

 04:05 <stephenm> Making Zephyr More Secure

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/audience/developers/making-zephyr-more-secure/

 04:06 <stephenm> Scanning containers for vulnerabilities with OpenSCAP and Podman

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtoday.com/security/scanning-containers-for-vulnerabilities-with-openscap-and-podman-200828072518.html

 04:06 <stephenm> SSH password automation in Linux with sshpass

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/ssh-automation-sshpass

 04:06 <stephenm> How to judge open-source projects

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/how-to-judge-open-source-projects/

 04:06 <stephenm> MySQL Show Users | List All Users in a MySQL Database

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/mysql-show-users/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to use Apache to redirect all traffic from http to https

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-use-apache-to-redirect-all-traffic-from-http-to-https

 04:06 <stephenm> A practical guide to learning awk

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/9/awk-ebook

 04:07 <stephenm> How to write a basic how-to instruction

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/howto-write-howto

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Add a User to a Group on a Linux Server

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-add-a-user-to-a-group-on-a-linux-server/

 04:07 <stephenm> Automate Let's Encrypt SSL Installation with Ansible for Multiple Domains

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxbuz.com/linuxhowto/install-letsencrypt-ssl-ansible

 04:07 <stephenm> Setting up containerized SSH servers for session recording with tlog

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/session-recording-tlog

 04:07 <stephenm> AWS introduces Bottlerocket: A Rust language-oriented Linux for containers

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/aws-introduces-bottlerocket-a-rust-language-oriented-linux-for-containers/

 04:08 <stephenm> Use libguestfs to manage virtual machine disk images

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/libguestfs-manage-vm

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news for this week, back to toddc

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> Who Has The Highest Rank in the Linux Military?

 04:10 <toddc> The kernel.

 04:11 <toddc> New user: "How come my new printer doesn't work in Linux?" Linus: "You need the right driver."

 04:11 <toddc> "My chauffeur's outside."

 04:11 <MajB> Boooo

 04:11 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical has 43 open positions

 04:11 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:12 <toddc> Data Center Technician II in Mesa, AZ at Volt  also entry and software dev

 04:12 <toddc> https://jobs.volt.com/en-US/job/data-center-technician-ii/J3W2GJ77LRVN4YFDCFC?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> 15-inch touch panel PC builds on Raspberry Pi CM3

 04:12 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/15-inch-touch-panel-pc-builds-on-raspberry-pi-cm3/

 04:13 <toddc> FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:14 <MajB> 10 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 10 September, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000,  https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:14 <MajB> Meet with Linux users.  Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 19 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal pro

 04:14 <MajB> jects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 24 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn about Linux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 01 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn about Linux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 03 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal proje

 04:15 <MajB> cts, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:17 <toddc> plug info I've been striking out on getting talks for Thursday :(.

 04:17 <toddc> Anyone have something they want to do?

 04:17 <toddc> Since we're remote, we can have remote presenters if you know someone out

 04:17 <toddc> of town you've been wanting to get in for us.

 04:17 <toddc> I do have one talk set for next month

 04:17 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:17 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:18 <MajB> Meeting on 22 August 1-3:45 pm.  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Passeo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  Presentation on "The Contents of your Computer Directories" and a hands on guided practice installation of Ubuntu and Linux Mint for newer members to give them practice in conducting an installation and the steps that are required immediately afterward.

 04:18 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:18 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:18 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:19 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:19 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
