{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 05 Aug at 03:57 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-08-05-03.57.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://bbb.azloco.net/b/ron-nvh-w7z 
''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/system76-to-launch-its-first-4k-oled-linux-laptop-on-august-8th-526924.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2019/08/01/ibm_containers_red_hat/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-migrate-from-microsoft-exchange-server-to-onlyoffice 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/8/failure-feature-blameless-devops 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/7/multi-cloud-5-key-trends 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-cast-video-from-ubuntu-to-chromecast/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/access-linux-server-using-a-jump-host/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/7/create-pull-request-github 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/valve-proposes-game-friendly-changes-to-the-linux-kernel/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhandbook.com/split-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/8/linux-permissions-101 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/getting-hardwaresoftware-specifications-in-linux-mint-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/install-grafana-on-ubuntu-18-04-with-nginx-google-cloud/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-create-a-bootable-linux-usb-drive/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/speed-up-linux-computer/ 
''LINK:'' https://devconnected.com/how-to-install-and-configure-debian-10-buster-with-gnome/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/gnome-and-kde-work-together-on-the-linux-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-bash-script-to-monitor-user-creation-send-email/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-restore-your-ubuntu-linux-system-to-its-previous-state/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-automad-cms-on-ubuntu-1804/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/create-and-run-angular-apps-using-angular-cli-and-pm2/# 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/17/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/18/plug-security/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2019/program/proposals/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (51)
* Ron_A (49)
* MajB (27)
* xHans (21)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (2)

=== Full Log ===

 03:57 <Ron_A> #startmeeting

 03:57 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug  5 03:57:39 2019 UTC.  The chair is Ron_A. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:57 <meetingology> 

 03:57 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:57 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 03:57 <Ron_A> +1

 03:57 <stephenm> evening all

 03:58 <Ron_A> evening stephenm

 03:58 <Ron_A> Join us on There are several of us here

 03:58 <Ron_A> https://bbb.azloco.net/b/ron-nvh-w7z

 03:58 <stephenm> that blue w/e?

 03:58 <Ron_A> Star Date   97191.72

 03:58 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 03:58 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 03:58 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 03:58 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 03:58 <Ron_A> Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 03:58 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 03:58 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 03:58 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 03:59 <Ron_A> BigBlueButton

 03:59 <stephenm> no mic or webcame

 03:59 <stephenm> cam

 03:59 <toddc> +1

 03:59 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 03:59 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 03:59 <Ron_A> 

 03:59 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 03:59 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 03:59 <MajB> +1

 03:59 <Ron_A> The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 03:59 <stephenm> good thing too, not dressed

 03:59 <stephenm> +1

 03:59 <Ron_A> bad visual stephenm

 03:59 <stephenm> System76 to Launch Its First 4K OLED Linux Laptop on August 8th

 03:59 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/system76-to-launch-its-first-4k-oled-linux-laptop-on-august-8th-526924.shtml

 04:00 <stephenm> very much so Ron_a

 04:00 <stephenm> forgot, news is general then goes into Linux

 04:00 <stephenm> IBM ships software portfolio into containers thanks to Red Hat providing the packaging

 04:00 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2019/08/01/ibm_containers_red_hat/

 04:00 <stephenm> How to migrate from Microsoft Exchange Server to ONLYOFFICE

 04:00 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-migrate-from-microsoft-exchange-server-to-onlyoffice

 04:00 <stephenm> Failure is a feature in blameless DevOps

 04:00 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/8/failure-feature-blameless-devops

 04:00 <stephenm> Multi-cloud: 5 important trends to watch

 04:00 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/7/multi-cloud-5-key-trends

 04:01 <stephenm> How to Cast Video from Ubuntu to Chromecast

 04:01 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-cast-video-from-ubuntu-to-chromecast/

 04:01 <stephenm> How to Access a Remote Server Using a Jump Host

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/access-linux-server-using-a-jump-host/

 04:01 <stephenm> How to create a pull request in GitHub

 04:01 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/7/create-pull-request-github

 04:01 <stephenm> Valve proposes game-friendly changes to the Linux kernel

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/valve-proposes-game-friendly-changes-to-the-linux-kernel/

 04:01 <stephenm> 9 Useful Examples of the Split Command in Linux

 04:01 <stephenm> https://linuxhandbook.com/split-command/

 04:01 <stephenm> Linux permissions 101

 04:01 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/8/linux-permissions-101

 04:02 <stephenm> How To Find Hardware Specifications On Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/getting-hardwaresoftware-specifications-in-linux-mint-ubuntu/

 04:02 <stephenm> Install Grafana on Ubuntu 18.04 with Nginx – Google Cloud

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/install-grafana-on-ubuntu-18-04-with-nginx-google-cloud/

 04:02 <stephenm> How to Create Bootable Linux USB Drive

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-create-a-bootable-linux-usb-drive/

 04:02 <stephenm> How to Speed Up Your Linux PC

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/speed-up-linux-computer/

 04:02 <stephenm> How To Install and Configure Debian 10 Buster with GNOME

 04:02 <stephenm> https://devconnected.com/how-to-install-and-configure-debian-10-buster-with-gnome/

 04:02 <stephenm> GNOME and KDE work together on the Linux desktop

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/gnome-and-kde-work-together-on-the-linux-desktop/

 04:03 <stephenm> Bash Script to Send a Mail When New User Account is Created in System

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-bash-script-to-monitor-user-creation-send-email/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to restore your Ubuntu Linux system to its previous state

 04:03 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-restore-your-ubuntu-linux-system-to-its-previous-state/

 04:03 <stephenm> Install Automad CMS with Nginx and Let's Encrypt SSL on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-automad-cms-on-ubuntu-1804/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Run Angular Apps Using Angular CLI and PM2

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/create-and-run-angular-apps-using-angular-cli-and-pm2/#

 04:04 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight.

 04:04 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:04 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:04 <Ron_A> MajB has the list of Canceled meetings and events.

 04:04 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:04 <MajB> 02 November 2019 AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop Canceled because of a UAT campus wide event.  No alternative venue is available at this time.

 04:04 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:04 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:04 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:04 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:04 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:05 <Ron_A> "Be nice to geeks when you're in school, you might end-up working for one when you grow-up."

 04:05 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:05 <Ron_A> "SUPERCOMPUTER: what it sounded like before you bought it."

 04:05 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:06 <Ron_A> 62 current canonical Jobs today

 04:06 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:06 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:06 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:07 <MajB> 08 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:07 <MajB> 08 August, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:08 <MajB> 17 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:08 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 22 August,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 05 September,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 07 September, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:09 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> Back to you Ron_A

 04:09 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:09 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:09 <xHans> PLUG east side it this Thursday at 19:00

 04:09 <xHans> Dhruva will cover An introduction to Shell scripting

 04:10 <xHans> We have room for another presentation if anyone wants to propose something

 04:10 <xHans> Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler

 04:10 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:10 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/17/east-valley-meeting/

 04:10 <xHans> PLUG security is a week from Thursday starting at 19:00

 04:10 <xHans> Gavin will cover Machine Learning for Security Analysts

 04:10 <xHans> Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler

 04:10 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:11 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/18/plug-security/

 04:11 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is two weeks from Tuesday

 04:11 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch/

 04:11 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:11 <xHans> The SeaGL cfp closes next Sunday

 04:12 <xHans> they will have an office hour to help with proposals this Wednesday at noon Pacific

 04:12 <xHans> they will also have office hours to help next Sunday night

 04:12 <xHans> https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2019/program/proposals/

 04:12 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:12 <Ron_A> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:13 <xHans> bitte

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:14 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 25 August 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 06 September 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 14 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 24 August 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:14 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:15 <Ron_A> El jeffe do you have anything to add?

 04:15 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:15 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:15 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:15 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:15 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:15 <toddc> who?

 04:15 <MajB> What?

 04:15 <Ron_A> The chief

 04:15 <Ron_A> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
