{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 23 Jul at 03:59 &mdash; 04:25 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-07-23-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/how-to-give-it-project-estimates-and-when-not-to-estimate-at-all-1807.html 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/10-key-attributes-of-cloud-native-applications/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Pinguy-OS-Puts-On-a-Happier-GNOME-3-Face-85439.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Peppermint-9-Offers-Some-Cool-New-Options-85421.html 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/cinnamon-4-0-desktop-environment-promises-to-be-fast-and-have-no-screen-tearing-522051.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/interactive-fiction-tools 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/apache-url-shortener 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/finding-interesting-documents-grep 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/introduction-using-git 
''LINK:'' https://www.datamation.com/applications/deep-learning-and-artificial-intelligence.html 
''LINK:'' http://linuxcursor.com/linux/news/whats-new-in-subversion-1-10 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/handbrake 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-ghost-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/os-summit/2018/7/using-linux-containers-manage-embedded-build-environments 
''LINK:'' http://www.admin-magazine.com/HPC/Articles/HPC-Container-Maker 
''LINK:'' https://www.dnsknowledge.com/unbound/configure-unbound-dns-over-tls-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-grafana-monitoring/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://careers.nagra.com/?page=advertisement&sort=&p=2 
''LINK:'' https://www.ecreations.net/company/internet-career-hiring-process/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.hireart.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.com/Industrial-Personal-Computer-Aluminum-AMD-A61450/dp/B07D14Z7GT?SubscriptionId=AKIAJA54JMESX73IGPXQ&amp=&ascsubtag=955748560-16-889032778.1532309092&camp=2025&creative=165953&creativeASIN=B07D14Z7GT&linkCode=xm2&psc=1&tag=d_2b_a_p-20 
''LINK:'' https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2018/07/19/ditching-windows-2-weeks-with-ubuntu-linux-on-the-dell-xps-13/#2f0e3d7e1836 
''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.com/Ubuntu-Linux-14-04-Bootable-Flash/dp/B01AZXX2CO/ref=sr_1_7?ie=UTF8&qid=1532308758&sr=8-7&keywords=linux+computer 
''LINK:'' http://seagl.org/news/2018/06/04/CFP-open.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.papercall.io/devopsday-phoenix-2018 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/LinuxJournal/Online_Privacy_and_Security_Using_a_Password_Manager 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactuscon.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (71)
* stephenm (47)
* MajB (37)
* xHans (13)
* Eleison23 (4)
* lolberpunk1 (3)
* meetingology (3)
* Ron_A (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul 23 03:59:57 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 96157.52

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> my fingers hurt

 04:02 <MajB> Rah

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <toddc> I think

 04:03 <stephenm> one second

 04:03 <toddc> I thought

 04:03 <stephenm> How to give IT project estimates—and when not to estimate at all

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/how-to-give-it-project-estimates-and-when-not-to-estimate-at-all-1807.html

 04:03 <stephenm> I was in the middle of making fries

 04:04 <stephenm> 10 Key Attributes of Cloud-Native Applications

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/10-key-attributes-of-cloud-native-applications/

 04:04 <toddc> I like fries

 04:04 <stephenm> Pinguy OS Puts On a Happier GNOME 3 Face

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Pinguy-OS-Puts-On-a-Happier-GNOME-3-Face-85439.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Too far to fly them

 04:04 <stephenm> Peppermint 9 Offers Some Cool New Options

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Peppermint-9-Offers-Some-Cool-New-Options-85421.html

 04:04 <toddc> can fies fly?

 04:04 <stephenm> Cinnamon 4.0 Desktop Environment Promises to Be Fast and Have No Screen Tearing

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/cinnamon-4-0-desktop-environment-promises-to-be-fast-and-have-no-screen-tearing-522051.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> If you chuck them they will

 04:05 <stephenm> A brief history of text-based games and open source

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/interactive-fiction-tools

 04:05 <stephenm> How to build a URL shortener with Apache

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/apache-url-shortener

 04:05 <stephenm> Finding Interesting Documents with grep

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/finding-interesting-documents-grep

 04:05 <stephenm> An Introduction to Using Git

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/introduction-using-git

 04:05 <stephenm> Deep Learning and Artificial Intelligence

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.datamation.com/applications/deep-learning-and-artificial-intelligence.html

 04:06 <stephenm> What’s new in Apache Subversion 1.10.2?

 04:06 <stephenm> http://linuxcursor.com/linux/news/whats-new-in-subversion-1-10

 04:06 <stephenm> Convert video using Handbrake

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/handbrake

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Ghost on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-ghost-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:06 <stephenm> Using Linux Containers to Manage Embedded Build Environments

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/os-summit/2018/7/using-linux-containers-manage-embedded-build-environments

 04:06 <stephenm> Building Containers with HPC Container Maker

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.admin-magazine.com/HPC/Articles/HPC-Container-Maker

 04:07 <stephenm> Building Containers with HPC Container Maker

 04:07 <stephenm> How to configure encrypted unbound DNS over TLS on CentOS Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.dnsknowledge.com/unbound/configure-unbound-dns-over-tls-on-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install Grafana Monitoring Tool on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-grafana-monitoring/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, now for some fries!!

 04:07 <stephenm> Back to you toddc

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm! flys

 04:08 <toddc> fly

 04:08 <MajB> Fries are good.

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX/computer QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> Q. What is the biggest lie in the entire universe?

 04:10 <stephenm> welcome

 04:10 <stephenm> the Earth is round.

 04:10 <Ron_A> lmfao stephenm

 04:10 <toddc> A. I have read and agree to the Terms & Conditions.???

 04:11 <markthomas> +1

 04:11 <lolberpunk1> Is it 43?

 04:11 <stephenm> yes

 04:11 <lolberpunk1> lel

 04:11 <toddc> Why are iPhone chargers not called Apple Juice?!

 04:11 <stephenm> it was already taken

 04:11 <toddc> Q. How does a computer get drunk?

 04:12 <stephenm> 1bit at a time

 04:12 <toddc> A. It takes screenshots.

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:13 <toddc> IT Security Engineer

 04:13 <toddc> Best Western Hotels and Resorts

 04:13 <toddc> Multible Linux jobs

 04:13 <toddc> https://careers.nagra.com/?page=advertisement&sort=&p=2

 04:13 <toddc> Front-End Web/WordPress Developer

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.ecreations.net/company/internet-career-hiring-process/

 04:13 <toddc> Canonical has 43 open positions

 04:13 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <toddc> Autonomous Vehicle Test Engineer

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.hireart.com/

 04:14 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:14 <toddc> Mini PC Fanless Industrial Office Personal Small Desktop

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.amazon.com/Industrial-Personal-Computer-Aluminum-AMD-A61450/dp/B07D14Z7GT?SubscriptionId=AKIAJA54JMESX73IGPXQ&amp=&ascsubtag=955748560-16-889032778.1532309092&camp=2025&creative=165953&creativeASIN=B07D14Z7GT&linkCode=xm2&psc=1&tag=d_2b_a_p-20

 04:14 <lolberpunk1> kewl

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> Ditching Windows: 2 Weeks With Ubuntu Linux On The Dell XPS 13----anther convert!

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2018/07/19/ditching-windows-2-weeks-with-ubuntu-linux-on-the-dell-xps-13/#2f0e3d7e1836

 04:15 <toddc> weird things I found today

 04:15 <toddc> Ubuntu Linux 14.04 Bootable 8GB USB Flash Drive - Includes Boot Repair And Install Guide

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.amazon.com/Ubuntu-Linux-14-04-Bootable-Flash/dp/B01AZXX2CO/ref=sr_1_7?ie=UTF8&qid=1532308758&sr=8-7&keywords=linux+computer

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:17 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:17 <MajB> 26 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:17 <MajB> 02 August,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 04 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:17 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:18 <MajB> 04 August, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free softw

 04:18 <MajB> are. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:18 <MajB> 18 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:18 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:18 <MajB> Back to you

 04:18 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:18 <toddc> 0

 04:18 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:19 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:19 <xHans> next month Ed will cover Tech Debt at PLUG's east valley mtg on the 2nd Thursday

 04:19 <xHans> cfp for SeaGL is open, they office hours again this year

 04:19 <xHans> last office hour is this Thursday at noon Seattle/Arizona time

 04:19 <xHans> cfp closes July 29th

 04:19 <xHans> http://seagl.org/news/2018/06/04/CFP-open.html

 04:19 <xHans> DevOpsDays Phoenix is Tuesday, 2018Oct23

 04:20 <xHans> cfp closes July 31st

 04:20 <xHans> https://www.papercall.io/devopsday-phoenix-2018

 04:20 <xHans> I posted my Linux Journal article, "Online Privacy and Security Using a Password Manager"

 04:20 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/LinuxJournal/Online_Privacy_and_Security_Using_a_Password_Manager

 04:20 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:20 <toddc> thank xHans

 04:21 <xHans> bitte

 04:21 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 28 July 1-3:30 p.m. Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St, Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 03 August 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux user Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 04 August 11-3 p.m., Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St, Sierra Vista AZ.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or s

 04:22 <MajB> imply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 08 August 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 08 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 26 August 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:23 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:23 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:24 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:24 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:24 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:24 <MajB> CactusCon

 04:24 <MajB> September 28-29 at the Mesa Convention Center

 04:24 <MajB> 263 N Center St

 04:24 <MajB> Mesa, AZ 85201

 04:24 <MajB> https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:24 <toddc> cool

 04:24 <toddc> anyone have anything else?

 04:24 <MajB> Not here

 04:25 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have

 04:25 <MajB> What happened to Eleison23

 04:25 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:25 <Eleison23> I was in another tab/window/universe

 04:25 <Eleison23> +1

 04:25 <Eleison23> lol

 04:25 <MajB> Airborne

 04:25 <Eleison23> I was reconfiguring postfix

 04:25 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
