{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

03 August - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed 6.02 Kernel problem
05 August - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the 6.2 Kernel problem
* Discussed the command  dd and the use of Clonezilla to clone a drive
06 August – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2006%2C%202023%20Meeting
10 August - Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Discussed the result of the Kiosk project for the Warrior Healing Center.
* Discussed the Kernel update problem.
* Discussed phased updates.
10 August - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed AI
19 August – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* Discussed network commands
* Assisted in the install of an old version of Node js on an Ubuntu machine
* Discussed preparations for the return to AZLOCO physical events
* Reconfigured an attendee’s weather station powered by a Raspberry Pi
20 August – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2020%2C%202023%20Meeting
24 August – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
