{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc_> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc_> +1
<SlickMcRunFast> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc_> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc_> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc_> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc_> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc_> Some of us are in   http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/     tonight if you want to talk or see us!
* jasonjang has quit (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
<toddc_> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<Rich_> +1
<toddc_> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc_> 12.04 is here!
<toddc_> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> Get the Most Out of Google Chrome
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/113610/the-best-tips-and-tweaks-for-getting-the-most-out-of-google-chrome
<smccarthy> +1
<toddc_> ready!!! :)
<Dazed_75> Control Which Media Players Are Listed in the Ubuntu Sound Menu
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/113897/how-to-remove-media-players-from-ubuntus-sound-menu-add-your-own
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.04 - Most Common Problems and Solutions
<Dazed_75> http://www.inforbiro.com/blog-eng/ubuntu-12-04-most-common-problems-and-solutions/
<Yorokobi> +1
<Dazed_75> Solve Six Common Gripes with Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/solve-six-common-gripes-with-ubuntu-12-04/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu: How to Securely Delete Files (or Wipe Your Hard Drive) Beyond Recovery
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/ubuntu-how-to-delete-your-files-or-wipe-your-hard-drive-beyond-recovery/2008/02/14
<Dazed_75> Skype for Linux is Not Dead (NOTE: Skypetab and Skype-wrapper are incompatible)
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/skype-for-linux-not-dead/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/skype-release-minor-bugfix-update-for-linux-client/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/skypetab-ng-gets-better-unity-support.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/skype-wrapper-adds-call-actions-notification-fixes-ubuntu-12-04-support/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Forums Get An Updated Look
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/ubuntu-forums-get-updated-look/
<Dazed_75> How to Add Screensavers to Ubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/114027/how-to-add-screensavers-to-ubuntu-12.04
<Dazed_75> How to Monitor Your Linux Performance with Systat
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/monitor-linux-performance-with-sysstat/2012/05/15
<toddc_> SlickMcRunFast: you may need to set fash at http://www.macromedia.com/support/documentation/en/flashplayer/help/settings_manager03.html
<Dazed_75> Linux Users Ask Logitech for Better Mouse Support
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/linux-users-ask-logitech-for-better-mouse-support/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Unity Used by Super Heroes on TV Show (don't blink)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/ubuntu-unity-on-go-busters-tv/
<SlickMcRunFast> i'm in sorry for the resets, flash sucks in chrome but not firefox. not sure why
<Dazed_75> Tom's Top 5 Apps for Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/toms-top-5-apps-for-ubuntu/
<Dazed_75> How to Make Chrome Use Ubuntu Notifications
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/how-to-get-chrome-to-use-ubuntu-notifications/
<Dazed_75> Download GIMP 2.8 Script-FUs Pack (more than 100 Effects and Filters)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/download-gimp-28-script-fus-pack-more.html
<toddc_> SlickMcRunFast: flash sucks....
<Dazed_75> Add PDF, Audio, and EXIF Metadata to Nautilus 3.4 List View
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/add-pdf-audio-and-exif-metadata-to.html
<Dazed_75> Windows Buttons Extension Available for Gnome Shell 3.4 (Ubuntu 12.04)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/window-buttons-extension-available-for.html
<SlickMcRunFast> I couldn't click the flash popup message
<Dazed_75> How to Remove Media Players from the Ubuntu Sound Indicator (12.04)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/how-to-quickly-remove-media-players.html
<Dazed_75> Install XFCE 4.10 in Xubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/install-xfce-410-in-xubuntu-1204.html
<Dazed_75> I hope everyone might find SOMEthing useful in that
<Dazed_75> That's all from me
<toddc_> SlickMcRunFast:  go to http://www.macromedia.com/support/documentation/en/flashplayer/help/settings_manager03.html and allow azlocobb.banditti.com in all windows
<toddc_> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<SlickMcRunFast> it resets itself in chrome
<toddc_> I have a couple more to add!
<SlickMcRunFast> sometimes I have blue video and other times I don't
<SlickMcRunFast> flash needs to die
<toddc_> Ubuntu will hit the big time on Amazon: Here's how
<toddc_> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/05/11/ubuntu_emulates_amazon/
* cc11rocks (~cc11rocks@ip24-251-49-54.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<cc11rocks> I'm here
<SlickMcRunFast> i'm using firefox now
<toddc_> How to dual-boot Ubuntu 12.04 and Windows 7
<SlickMcRunFast> its fine
<toddc_> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2012/05/17/how-to-dual-boot-ubuntu-12-04-and-windows-7/
<SlickMcRunFast> sssss
<Dazed_75> I found it to be automatic with chrome
<cc11rocks> Geez...I keep forgetting to come on time :(
<toddc_> How Google Developers Use Ubuntu
<toddc_> http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/05/how-google-developers-use-ubuntu.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+UbuntuVibes+%28Ubuntu+Vibes%29
<toddc_> We now have 12.04 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 Adrenaline or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc_> JOB LIST
<cc11rocks> yay! Will you be sending mine soon?
<toddc_> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc_> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc_> cc11 this week yes
<cc11rocks> Cool! Thank you!
<toddc_> Linux Systems Administrator (Phoenix, AZ)
<toddc_> ddg2d-3021417208@job.craigslist.org
<toddc_> NOC Technician (T2)
<toddc_> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit/?id=1458361
<toddc_> Server Provisioning Technician (North Scottsdale)
<toddc_> knbrw-3009525508@job.craigslist.org
<toddc_> Level 1 IT Support Technician
<toddc_> dice@netfusionservices.com
<toddc_> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc_> Thursday was our first ubuntu hour and it went well and 6 of us showed up and met one new user
<toddc_> we decided to do it again next month but move it back one week so that we can send new users to the installfest about a week later
<toddc_> We have had several people contact me about events and offer to start other Ubuntu Hours in Bullhead and Kingman and Tucson
<toddc_> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc_> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is June 2  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<toddc_> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc_> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc_> The last several installfests have been very busy so we are also thinking about a room change in the future. The last several events were at or near standing room only.
<toddc_> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc_> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc_> Tagose planning and development meeting on June 9 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc_> Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday June 16 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
* jasonjang (~jason@116.41.113.84) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc_> For more info see
<toddc_> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<SlickMcRunFast> toddc_/dazed_75, you consider using google+ hangouts for these meetings, rather than bigbluebutton?
<Dazed_75> Never thought about it or used it
<Dazed_75> We could try it after the meeting I guess
<toddc_> I have been wanting to test it but for the events BBB does work great for a presenter
<SlickMcRunFast> it doesn't match in features but you can export the hangout to youtube
<toddc_> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc_> the Test server test.azloco.com has been fixed and upgraded to 12.04 thanks to adrenaline and hope to be adding another server in the near future. We have installed drupal  on it to upgrade the web page and main server to 12.04
<toddc_> if some one has a few minuets and some drupal knowledge need some web redesign
<toddc_> please contact adrenaline or myself
<toddc_> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc_> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc_> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc_> We are planning to attend the LUGY meeting in Prescott on June 11 at 7pm
<toddc_> I am planning on a carpool for those interested leaving at Az Mills Mall at 4PM
<toddc_> I am allowing a bit of extra time to get there but if if you want to go we could
<toddc_> leave a bit later if needed
<toddc_> FernHans: are you here tonight?
<toddc_> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc_> Developer Meeting June 7, 7-9pm at University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc_> Plug East side meeting Thursday June 17 7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc_> plug server emphasis installfest is June 16 10-4PM  at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc_> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday June 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc_> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc_> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc_> if there is nothing else?
<toddc_> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
