{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 30 May at 03:59 &mdash; 04:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-05-30-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/upcoming-webinar-getting-linux-certified-tips-tactics-and-practical-advice 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/05/how-the-internet-works-submarine-cables-data-centres-last-mile/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/template-job-posting-open-source-office-lead 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/7-essential-skill-building-courses-open-source-jobs-market 
''LINK:'' http://xmodulo.com/how-to-detect-ip-address-conflicts-in.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Linux-4.7-More-Y2038-Work 
''LINK:'' http://www.lightreading.com/nfv/nfv-specs-open-source/atandt-opnfv-can-bring-open-source-sanity/d/d-id/723646? 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/empower-smtp-postscreen-part-1 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/how-use-postfix-postscreen-test-email-spam-part-2 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/public-cloud-computing-vendors-look-strengths-weaknesses-big-picture 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/creating-neural-network-python 
''LINK:'' https://blog.buoyant.io/2016/05/17/distributed-tracing-for-polyglot-microservices/index.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/5/containers-unikernels-learn-arduino-raspberry-pi 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/linux-system-monitoring-and-more-auditd 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/contributed/disruption-in-the-networking-hardware-marketplace-jay-turner/2016/05/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/NEWS/IBM-USES-APACHE-SPARK-ACROSS-ITS-PRODUCTS-HELP-ENTERPRISE-CUSTOMERS-VIDEO 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1101 
''LINK:'' https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1100 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.reyrey.com/career/%28S%28qz0wyehvq3vqeivjvoxdoxwi%29%29/JobPostings/JobDetails.aspx?id=1058&loc=Nationwide&cat=Technical&subcat= 
''LINK:'' http://www.nvidia.com/object/deep-learning-system.html#sthash.stgs4e0p.dpuf 
''LINK:'' http://www.kitploit.com/2016/05/netdata-real-time-performance-monitoring.html 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/mmstick/systemd-manager/blob/master/README.md 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (79)
* stephenm (45)
* MajB (30)
* Ron_A (5)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (3)
* mark91 (2)
* pavlos (1)
* BobTucson (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon May 30 03:59:19 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <MajB> With guns

 03:59 <stephenm> +1

 03:59 <stephenm> wait we are starting the meeting with guns?

 03:59 <MajB> That was for Ron_A

 04:00 <toddc> only the amimed at me

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <mark91> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 94012.49

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <toddc> The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:02 <stephenm> you keep stealing my line toddc

 04:02 <toddc> sorrry

 04:02 <stephenm> Upcoming Webinar on Getting Linux Certified - Tips, Tactics, and Practical Advice

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/upcoming-webinar-getting-linux-certified-tips-tactics-and-practical-advice

 04:03 <stephenm> How the Internet works: Submarine fiber, brains in jars, and coaxial cables

 04:03 <stephenm> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/05/how-the-internet-works-submarine-cables-data-centres-last-mile/

 04:03 <Ron_A> +1

 04:03 <stephenm> This is an interesting read

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Write a Job Posting for an Open Source Office Lead

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/template-job-posting-open-source-office-lead

 04:03 <stephenm> 7 Essential Skill-Building Courses for the Open Source Jobs Market

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/7-essential-skill-building-courses-open-source-jobs-market

 04:04 <stephenm> Like many other articles about searching for an open source job it does give helpful suggestions

 04:04 <stephenm> How to detect IP address conflicts in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> http://xmodulo.com/how-to-detect-ip-address-conflicts-in.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Year 2038 Fixes Still Being Worked On For The Linux Kernel

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Linux-4.7-More-Y2038-Work

 04:04 <stephenm> AT&T: OPNFV Can Bring Open Source Sanity

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.lightreading.com/nfv/nfv-specs-open-source/atandt-opnfv-can-bring-open-source-sanity/d/d-id/723646?

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Use Postfix Postscreen to Test Email for Spam: Part 1

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/empower-smtp-postscreen-part-1

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Use Postfix Postscreen to Test Email for Spam: Part 2

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/how-use-postfix-postscreen-test-email-spam-part-2

 04:05 <stephenm> Public Cloud Computing Vendors: A Look at Strengths, Weaknesses, Big Picture

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/public-cloud-computing-vendors-look-strengths-weaknesses-big-picture

 04:05 <stephenm> Creating a Neural Network in Python

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/creating-neural-network-python

 04:05 <stephenm> Distributed Tracing for Polyglot Microservices

 04:05 <stephenm> https://blog.buoyant.io/2016/05/17/distributed-tracing-for-polyglot-microservices/index.html

 04:05 <stephenm> What containers and unikernels can learn from Arduino and Raspberry Pi

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/business/16/5/containers-unikernels-learn-arduino-raspberry-pi

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux System Monitoring and More with Auditd

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/linux-system-monitoring-and-more-auditd

 04:06 <stephenm> Disruption in the Networking Hardware Marketplace

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/contributed/disruption-in-the-networking-hardware-marketplace-jay-turner/2016/05/

 04:06 <stephenm> IBM Uses Apache Spark Across Its Products to Help Enterprise Customers [Video]

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/NEWS/IBM-USES-APACHE-SPARK-ACROSS-ITS-PRODUCTS-HELP-ENTERPRISE-CUSTOMERS-VIDEO

 04:06 <stephenm> That is all the news for tonight folks

 04:06 <BobTucson> 1+

 04:06 <toddc> Great job

 04:06 <stephenm> and toddc I want to mention something when you talk about the linux training later on

 04:07 <wmack> thanks stephenm!

 04:07 <Ron_A> Thank you stephenm good job

 04:07 <MajB> Good job stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 * stephenm bows

 04:07 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:07 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <toddc> "The only problem with troubleshooting is that sometimes trouble shoots back."

 04:08 <toddc> "You know you're a geek when... You try to shoo a fly away from the monitor with your cursor. That just happened to me. It was scary. But it worked!"

 04:08 <toddc> JOB list

 04:08 <toddc> Tech Support Engineer

 04:08 <toddc> https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1101

 04:09 <toddc> Software Engineer - Cloud

 04:09 <toddc> https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1100

 04:09 <toddc> 52 current canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <toddc> Technical Support Specialist

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.reyrey.com/career/%28S%28qz0wyehvq3vqeivjvoxdoxwi%29%29/JobPostings/JobDetails.aspx?id=1058&loc=Nationwide&cat=Technical&subcat=

 04:09 <toddc> Question how many will be busy on June 19 Fathers day? Should we cancel that meeting?

 04:10 <stephenm> too far way to tell

 04:10 <toddc> Question#2 I am planning on cancelling July 03 Meeting as many of will be out town ( I hope to be)

 04:11 <wmack> I'm in favor of cancelling for 7/3

 04:11 <toddc> +1

 04:11 <Ron_A> +1

 04:11 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> The World's First Deep Learning Supercomputer in a box

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.nvidia.com/object/deep-learning-system.html#sthash.stgs4e0p.dpuf

 04:12 <MajB> I will be here if you want me here.  Your call

 04:12 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:12 <toddc> netdata is a highly optimized Linux daemon providing real-time performance monitoring for Linux systems, Applications, SNMP devices, over the web !

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.kitploit.com/2016/05/netdata-real-time-performance-monitoring.html

 04:13 <toddc> Ron_A: will run the fathers day meeting!

 04:13 <MajB> HooRah

 04:13 <toddc> as I should be unavailibe

 04:14 <toddc> I assume july 03 we should still cancel either way

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Systemd Manager This application exists to allow the user to manage their systemd services via a GTK3 GUI

 04:14 <toddc> https://github.com/mmstick/systemd-manager/blob/master/README.md

 04:14 <MajB> hiss

 04:15 <toddc> systemd?

 04:15 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:15 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:16 <toddc> we are also discussing and planning the newest version of the team server to build

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:17 <MajB> 02 June, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:17 <MajB> 04 June, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.

 04:17 <MajB> All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking a

 04:17 <MajB> 18 June, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.

 04:17 <MajB> All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking a

 04:18 <MajB> 23 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps interest some of your neighbors in a different operating system for your personal computer.

 04:18 <MajB> 23 June, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:18 <MajB> Back to you toddc.

 04:18 <toddc> Linux Training

 04:19 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:19 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:19 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:19 <toddc> When Tue, May 31, 8-9am

 04:19 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:19 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:20 <MajB> I have the dates and times

 04:20 <stephenm> oh one more thing about training, careeracademy has a groupon that is $29 and you have access to their extensive learning network that includes Linux certificate plus many others.

 04:20 <toddc> cool

 04:20 <toddc> PLUG East Meeting

 04:20 <toddc> Thu, June 09, 2016, 7pm – 9pm

 04:20 <toddc> Various topics ranging form beginner's to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:20 <Ron_A> nice catch stephenm

 04:21 <toddc> Where:Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226

 04:21 <toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday June 21 at  7:00PM Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210 7PM till ??

 04:21 <toddc> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:21 <toddc> MajB has some news from CLUG and other LUGS

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 03 June 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Flagstaff Linux User Group initial meeting on 04 June 8-9 am.,  Denny's 4650 N Highway 89 C-32, Flagstaff, AZ

 04:22 <MajB> This one is new folks.

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 08 June 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista, AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 08 June 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa, AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 14 June 6:30-9:30 pm.  Hungry Monk, 218 W. Goodwin St., Prescott, AZ.

 04:24 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 June 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:24 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 26 June 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:24 <MajB> That is about it.

 04:25 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:25 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:25 <toddc> stephenm: what was the school project

 04:25 <MajB> Be ready to talk about Ubicon on Saturday

 04:26 <stephenm> The person that was at the last installfest Pavlos said was in school administrator

 04:26 <toddc> keep us updated of any news thanks!

 04:26 <stephenm> so hopefully he will be there this weekend

 04:26 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:27 <Ron_A> See you folks Saturday

 04:27 <mark91> Thank You toddc

 04:27 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:28 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
