{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<Dazed_75> +1
<Eric-A> +1
<NeoNetNinja> +1
<toddc> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> BigBlueButton only works on some installs of unity (not mine) so if someone knows the fix
<toddc> please let me know what I missed
<toddc> Let's start with the news till everyone gets here and we have a lot of news tonight!!!!
<Dazed_75> Works on my Unity and I am there now also
<toddc> 12.04 News
<toddc>    Heads-up Menu Replacement
<toddc> http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/939
<toddc> http://www.pcpro.co.uk/news/372385/ubuntu-rips-up-drop-down-menus
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/hud-new-unity-feature/ http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/how-to-install-unitys-hud-feature-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<toddc> http://www.readwriteweb.com/hack/2012/01/moving-away-from-menus-is-ubun.php
<toddc> P.S. I am using it in a vm 12.04 setup
<toddc> Give Ubuntu a New Look with the 'Edgebound Desktop'
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/edgebound-desktop-gives-ubuntu-a-new-look/
<toddc> Bumblebee 3.0 Released (Nvidia Optimus GPU Switching) for Linux
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/01/bumblebee-30-released-nvidia-optimus.html
<toddc> How USB Charging Works
<toddc> http://www.extremetech.com/computing/115251-how-usb-charging-works-or-how-to-avoid-blowing-up-your-smartphone
<xHans> is HUD a replacement or an in addition to?
<toddc> Google Scores Contract to bring 27,000 Chromebooks to Schools
<toddc> http://www.fellowgeek.com/a-Google-Scores-Contract-to-bring-27000-Chromebooks-to-Schools-ix1751.html
<toddc>  a add on --easy search bar
<toddc> pretty cool but needs more content yet
<toddc> KDE version 4.8 released this week
<toddc> http://kde.org/announcements/4.8/
<toddc> XBMC!How to turn your Ubuntu into the Media Center of your dreams.
<toddc> http://linuxaria.com/article/xbmchow-to-turn-your-ubuntu-into-the-media-center-of-your-desires?lang=en
<toddc> reddit running Ubuntu servers in two data centers with 149% growth last year!
<toddc> http://blog.reddit.com/2012/01/january-2012-state-of-servers.html
<toddc> Tablet runs Ubuntu out of the Box
<toddc> http://www.exopc.com/devices/
<toddc> http://www.flickr.com/photos/pleia2/6744430013/
<toddc> VBoxHeadless - Running Virtual Machines With VirtualBox 4.1 On A Headless Ubuntu 11.10 Server
<toddc> http://www.howtoforge.com/vboxheadless-running-virtual-machines-with-virtualbox-4.1-on-a-headless-ubuntu-11.10-server
<toddc> How to customise Ubuntu's Unity interface
<toddc> http://howto.techworld.com/operating-systems/3331946/how-customise-ubuntus-unity-interface/
<toddc> Thank Dazed-75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc> We have a possible date to to do a installfest in Tucson
<toddc> NeoNetNinja:
<toddc> NeoNetNinja: can you give us details sofar
<NeoNetNinja> I think we were talking about the April 7th date last
<toddc> correct at U of A again
<toddc> 10-4
<NeoNetNinja> yep
<toddc> uless anyone has a any conflicts or better ideas?
<Dazed_75> Works for me
<toddc> in not NeoNetNinja  will start to confirm dates later this week with U of A
<[R]> toddc: so i may go down for it
<toddc> if not
<toddc> and yes open to all and I usually drive down my van so a carpooling will be a option
<toddc> we had fun last year but not a lot of new users
<toddc> there were several other local events that week so we are trying to plan better this time
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Network Administrator. . ... North Scottsdale Location
<toddc> reps.itel@gmail.com
* Eric-A has quit (Quit: Konversation terminated!)
<toddc> Firmware Engineer (Henderson, NV )
<toddc> job-9dens-2804795733@craigslist.org
<toddc> Systems Administrator / Perl Developer at DesertNet (Tucson, Arizona)
<toddc> http://foundation.gyrobase.com/gyrobase/site/features
<toddc> Application Engineer (Arizona)
<toddc> job-pusrk-2817630913@craigslist.org
<toddc> Systems Engineer (Linux) (Mesa, AZ)
<toddc> www.ivedasolutions.com .
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> We had a great time and did some work on the Zentyal system and prepared to do a ubuntu NetaTalk
<toddc> Box for Don at the next installfest
<toddc> Eric will doing a presentation at the next Installfest February 18 at UAT
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> we were joined by students from MCC class and 4-5 installs and 4-5 update/repairs
<toddc> and built two NetaTalk boxes and met many new people and had a lot of fun
<toddc> thanks to Shubes,[R] Don.Dennis and Justin Dwayne Dazed-75 and all the others for a great event!
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
* SlickMcRunFast (~mark@174-17-238-8.phnx.qwest.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS xHans  would you do the honor?
<xHans> soitanly
<xHans> SCaLE was last weekend, as usual it was a fun conference
<xHans> lots of great content and plenty of worthwhile hallway track
<xHans> they added a kids mini-conference this year and expanded the game night
<xHans> overall, definitely worth the 4 days of our lives that we spend participating in it
<xHans> videos of talks will be going up sometime in the near future, last year's videos are still up and lots of good stuff there
<xHans> ABLEconf online meeting this Wednesday at 19:00
<xHans> thanks again to AZLoCo for letting us use the LoCo's BBB instance
<xHans> less than two month's until ABLEconf on Saturday, March 24th
<xHans> we'd love more help, so please join the mailing list and meetings if you'd like to participate in putting on a successful Free Software conference in the valley
<xHans> ABLEconf's Birds of a Feather at SCaLE was well-attended and showed we have lots of volunteers, but there's still a lot to do before the conference
<xHans> http://azlocobbb.banditti.com for the meeting
<xHans> PLUG devel meeting this Thursday at 19:30
<xHans> Topic: "Overview of customizing and re-compiling a Linux kernel"
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2012/02/02/323/-/developer-meeting.html?Itemid=1
<xHans> PLUG east side a week from Thursday at 19:00
<xHans> topics are set, but I'm unsure what they are
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2012/02/09/19/-/plug-east-meeting.html?Itemid=1
<xHans> Dazed_75: do you remember the topics?
<xHans> I believe they're the presentations from Dennis and Chris
<Dazed_75> Sorry, I do not
<xHans> and Brian will have another graphics program presentation for us
<xHans> he's already let me know I should have the gimp-resynthesizer package installed for the meeting :)
<xHans> that's it from me for this week
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and ABLEconf.org
<Dazed_75> Back to SCALE, they had more than 100 exhibitors, more than 130 sessions, nearly 2,000 attendees.
<Dazed_75> Canonical sponsored an all day event called Ubucon on the Friday SCALE 10x started.
<Dazed_75> Lots of talks and discussions.  Two really good Unity talks:
<Dazed_75> 1) Unity for power users, and 2) Customizing Unity.
<Dazed_75> Anyway, it was a task choosing talks sometimes
<Dazed_75> I loved the Linux and devices
<Dazed_75> They had a radio controlled shark drivwn by an Arduino
<xHans> Dazed_75: yeah, I wanted to see 5 of the talks that ran the same time as my talk!
<Dazed_75> it was like 4 ft long and floated in the air
<Dazed_75> Exactly
<toddc> I heard that Dewayne's wife came home with a ton of disto cd's!!!
<xHans> oooh and now I need to add that talk to my list of videos to watch :)
<Dazed_75> The speaker did a great job describing how she got into Arduinos and sensors, etc
<Dazed_75> Thats all for me
<toddc> I hear that rasberry pi might be out near the weekend! :)
<Dazed_75> We saw one in the XBMC both
<xHans> should be out any day now
<toddc> http://www.raspberrypi.org/
<xHans> yeah, the xbmc guys were pretty happy with it
<toddc> should sell out in two hours is the estimate
<xHans> :(
<xHans> not sure how quick I can react during the day
<toddc> I will be checking on it and will email you if you like
<toddc> I only check twice per day as time permits
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
