{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 01 November - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* News Flash: IBM buys Red Hat
* General discussion on Linux topics.
* 03 November - AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest
* 16 attendees
* 2 Lubuntu installs
* Conducted a one on one training session on Ubuntu and its flavors demonstrating what each application does.
* Conducted a one on one training session on Linux operating systems and how to choose the correct one for your computer.
* Attempted to get a laptop (unsuccessfully) to connect to wireless Internet
* Discussed possible additional publicity for the next installfest and a location change for the 2019 installfests.
* 04 November - AZLOCO Team weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2004%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 15 November - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Discussed obtaining a new “go to” light distribution to be installed at our Sierra Vista Installfests on old and under powered computers.  This is a result of Lubuntu moving to LXQT in an effort to “modernize” their distro which has also made it bloated and unusable on older and under powered machines. This was effective with the 18.10 release.  Lubuntu 18.04 is still supported until April 2021 so there is no hurry to choose a replacement.
* Because some members and their family members are still using Google as their search engine, we once again touched on the value of using Duck Duck Go and the  web browser plug in Privacy Badger.  This led to a general discussion of security and some of the simple things that can be done to improve it.
* 17 November - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 20 attendees
* 4 Raspberry Pi projects (various installs and testing)
* 8 installs (5 Ubuntu, 2 Linux Mint, 1 Open Suse)
* 1 open VPN installation
* Repaired the desktop environment on a laptop
* Tested a lap dock on a Raspberry Pi
* Tested 2 hard drives
* Replaced a Prox Mox server hard drive
* 18 November - AZLOCO Team weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2018%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 25 November - AZLOCO Team weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2025%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 29 November- Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Repaired Thunderbird send/receive emails issue
* Transferred photos from phone/SD card to laptop
* Troubleshot heating issues on laptop using psensor
* Discussed setting web/ip cameras with zoneminder
* Everyone had a nice Thanksgiving
