{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<Dazed_75> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Rich__> +1
<TuxMann> +1
<toddc> hi Rich__
<Dazed_75> +1
<wmack> +1
<toddc> +1
<pjdamws> +1
<Rich__> howdy
<gnewbie> +1
<Dazed_75> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<Dazed_75> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<Dazed_75> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<Dazed_75> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<Dazed_75> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<Dazed_75> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<Dazed_75> Well actually only Justin and I are there.  Toddc is limited by bandwith where he is tonight
<Dazed_75> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<Dazed_75> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<toddc> I am there is spirit
<Dazed_75> lets start with the news!!
<Dazed_75> This one is not really computer news but is pertinent to everyone
<Dazed_75>     http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2013/10/ban-on-most-robocalls-and-text-message-spam-gets-stronger-this-month/
<Dazed_75> http://www.wired.com/opinion/2013/09/why-free-software-is-more-important-now-than-ever-before/?mbid=social12508464
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/172987/revive-your-old-pc-the-3-best-linux-systems-for-old-computers/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/MATE-1-8-and-Cinnamon-2-0-Confirmed-for-Linux-Mint-16-386774.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2013/09/lawsuit-alleging-gmail-ads-are-wiretapping-gets-judges-ok/
<Dazed_75> YouTube Downloader (youtube-dl) helper script http://blog.mpshouse.com/?p=855
<Dazed_75> http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/dell-still-offers-ubuntu-amid-microsoft-loan-windows-81
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/30/the-top-5-problems-with-linux/
<Dazed_75> Nvidia & RedHat partner up to make a device agnostic API for CPU addr on GPU
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQ3MTY
<Dazed_75> http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/centos-installation/ 6.4
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/09/the-klaus-knopper-interview.html (Knoppix guy)
* Ron_A (~ron@ip98-165-79-186.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-14-04-Release-Schedule-387068.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/install-viber-in-linux/2013/09/30
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/conky-system-monitoring-tool/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-wxhexeditor-0-22-0-21-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-elementary-os-pear-os-debian-and-fedora/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/173086/restore-the-classic-apps-based-new-tab-page-in-google-chrome/
<programmer317> +1
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/173067/how-to-recover-files-from-a-dead-computer/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/07/how-to-install-custom-fonts-in-linux-desktop.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.csoonline.com/article/739837/proposed-changes-to-whois-system-called-extremely-disquieting-?source=rss_cso_exclude_net_net
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/analyze-malware-with-remnux/2013/10/01
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-the-nvidia-319-60-drivers-on-linux-systems/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/an-update-manager-for-click-packages-has-been-developed-by-canonical/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-wps-office-9-1-0-alpha-21-patch-1-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-debian-elementary-os-and-pear-os/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-easily-install-google-chrome-30-stable-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-debian-elementary-os-and-pear-os-via-the-google-repository/
<Dazed_75> http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2013/10/fingerprints-are-user-names-not.html
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/10/02/xmir-gets-axed-as-default-display-server-on-ubuntu-13-10/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/xmir-longer-default-supported-cards-13-10
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/10/02/red-hat-enterprise-linux-5-10-available-now/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/consortium-plans-to-protect-cars-from-cyber-attacks/
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/376545/ubuntu-1310-final-beta-available-download
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/coverart-browser-for-linux-music-players
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/173222/10-useful-features-hidden-in-vlc-the-swiss-army-knife-of-media-players/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/surf-safely-sshuttle
<Dazed_75> http://www.mylinuxrig.com/post/62909211637/writing-a-book-with-linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/french-police-move-from-windows-to-ubuntu-linux-7000021479/
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/376797/french-national-police-switch-desktop-computers-linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/says-linux-growing/
<Dazed_75> http://linux-blog.org/freelibre-open-closed-answer-question/
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/10/knoppix-72-its-alive-er-i-mean-live-as.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/change-chromes-new-tab-behaviour/2013/10/02
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/delete-personal-data-from-internet/2013/10/01
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/ubuntu-1404-lts-to-stay-on-gtkgnome-38.html MAYBE!
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Kdenlive-Delivers-Near-Pro-Video-Editing---If-You-Have-the-Right-Stuff-79091.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-handbrake-0-9-9-on-ubuntu-13-10-13-04-12-10-12-04-linux-mint-16-15-14-13-elementary-os-0-2-and-pear-os-8/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/171948/how-can-i-download-an-entire-web-site/
<Dazed_75> http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/unix-command/scp-examples/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/10/04/yorba-updates-shotwell-and-geary-essential-linux-programs/
<Dazed_75> NOTE: Unless you have an Adobe account, this should not affect you
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/10/03/hackers-steal-the-info-of-2-9-million-adobe-customers-are-you-affected/
<Dazed_75> http://www.techworld.com.au/article/528273/arkos_building_anti-cloud_raspberry_pi_/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/reviews/raspberry-pi-wireless-inventors-kit-review
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/377035/which-it-skill-sets-are-highest-demand-linux-job-market
<Dazed_75> October issue of PCLinuxOS Magazine http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/192168/
<Dazed_75> http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/linux-and-open-source/linux-is-more-secure-but-not-invulnerable/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/173339/dont-get-locked-out-when-using-two-factor-authentication-5-recovery-methods-to-set-up/
<Dazed_75> That's all from AJ -- I hope everyone saw somethings of interest to them
<TuxMann> Thanks Dazed_75, I always enjoy the news articles.
<Dazed_75> from toddc:
<Dazed_75> Canonical ARMs Ubuntu Linux Server Management Landscape - See more at: http://www.eweek.com/servers/canonical-arms-ubuntu-linux-server-management-landscape.html/#sthash.xaOXyXoB.dpuf
<Dazed_75> Everything You Need to Know About Silk Road, the Online Black Market Raided by the FBI
<Dazed_75> Read more: http://nation.time.com/2013/10/04/a-simple-guide-to-silk-road-the-online-black-market-raided-by-the-fbi/#ixzz2gp9h64ti
<Dazed_75> TEAM NEWS
<Dazed_75> Installfest
<Dazed_75> Even tho we moved to a bigger room we were still very full at the last installfest at UAT. Thanks to xHans and Tuxmann we will be adding a third event at Paradise Valley Community College. We are still in talks and working out plans but hope to announce in the next week with time and location information. Thanks to Tuxxmann and all his hard work because he will be running it!!  
<xHans> woohoo!
<Dazed_75> We have canceled the following meetings due to holidays
<Dazed_75> Meetings
<Dazed_75> October 13 due to Columbus Day and
<Dazed_75> November 10 meeting due to veterans day holiday?
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Hour changes are
<Dazed_75> November 28 Ubuntu hour due to Thanksgiving
<Dazed_75> December Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas
<xHans> for filling the place up and for starting at an additional location
<xHans> TuxMann++
<TuxMann> I'm excited about the 3rd event. It'd be great to have it on the 2nd Saturday of each month.
<Dazed_75> We enjoyed it :)
<Dazed_75> JOB LIST
<Dazed_75> LimeLight in Tempe is looking for a MySQL DBA remote is OK
<Dazed_75> Contact xHans for more info
<xHans> do so soon :)
<Dazed_75> Hardware (NOC) Technician for Phoenix NAP  T1 and 2 levels
<Dazed_75> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=6533461&t=1
<Dazed_75> Runs LINUX
<Dazed_75> Linux-based underwater robot goes faster, longer
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-based-underwater-robot-goes-faster-longer/
<Dazed_75> Linux App of the week
<Dazed_75> ocenaudio
<Dazed_75> http://www.ocenaudio.com.br/
<Dazed_75> NEW MEMBERS THIS WEEK
<Dazed_75> Ron__
<Dazed_75> Say hi if you see him here!
<Dazed_75> .. Hiya Ron
<toddc> he is here
<programmer317> hi Ron
<wmack> Hello Ron
<Ron_A> hi all
<Dazed_75> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<Dazed_75> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday October 19  and Saturday November 16 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building. 
<xHans> moin moin Ron_A
<TuxMann> hi Ron_A
<Dazed_75> NOTE: The November 2 Installfest is cancelled due to a school event
<Dazed_75> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28 
<Dazed_75> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  
<Dazed_75> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up. 
<Dazed_75> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<Dazed_75> Thursday October 24 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<Dazed_75> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<Dazed_75> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!! 
<Dazed_75> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<Dazed_75> Wednesday November 6 7pm – 9pm
<Dazed_75> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
<Dazed_75> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<Dazed_75> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<Dazed_75> slofgren has arranged for a donation to the team of two Dell 2950 servers that are fully loaded
<Dazed_75> but we still need new home for them if anyone has ideas? I plan to pick these up next week
<Dazed_75> UBUNTU TRAINING
<Dazed_75> ubuntu on-air
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<Dazed_75> Weekly Ubuntu Webcast Tuesday  with Jono Bacon 10 AM
<Dazed_75> App Design Clinic every Wednesday 1-2PM
<Dazed_75> Jono Bacon Q&A every Wednesday 7-8pm
<Dazed_75> Juju Charm School: Chef/Puppet Integration every other Friday 5-6 pm
<Dazed_75> FUTURE EVENTS 
<Dazed_75> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<Dazed_75> xhans you are here.  Would you like to do the Plug news?
<xHans> soitanly
<xHans> PLUG east side meeting this Thursday @ 19:00
<xHans> Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<xHans> November's topic will be SaltStack: scalable infrastructure management
<xHans> we still need a topic for this week, so feel free to volunteer
<xHans> really looking forward to the SaltStack presentation, a good talk on scalability to follow up on our scalable logging talk last month
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday @ 19:00
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> Iguana Macks 1371 N. Alma School Rd Chandler, AZ 85224
<xHans> We will have another jobs night either in November or January
<xHans> New 8 week classes start next week or the week after at the Community Colleges
<xHans> and I'd like to personally thank the Installfest crew for hosting successful events and expanding the installfest!
<xHans> outstanding job! Danke!
<xHans> and now, I am done :)
* pjdamws has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<Dazed_75> Thank you xHans
<Dazed_75> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<TuxMann> Thanks xHans!
<toddc> thanks Dazed_75 great job
<Dazed_75> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
