{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #49 for the week May 26, June 1, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Forty Ninth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-June 4, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday June 8, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

w00t!! It's been a busy week for sure. We have several new projects starting up, we have done a lot of work on the teams wiki pages, and of course this Wednesday we have our Application for becoming an official Ubuntu team up for review. It's been a lot of work, but a lot of fun too. The team is really starting to step up to the plate for Ubuntu and Open Source computing in the state. A big "Thank You" to everyone for helping to make these things a possibility. Without all your help and ideas, none of this would be possible!

==== Summary of the June 1, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 8:59 PM

johnc4510 began the meeting by offering the agenda for the evening, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08June01 and announcing that the order would be changed.  "After announcements we will skip to the Open Source Conference to accommodate xhans so he doesn't have to hang out all night here."

johnc4510 then announced that he has redone all of our team wiki pages to bring them up to date. The main page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam  links to all the active pages. He has also revamped the header to clean it up and so that it shows all the correct pages.

johnc4510 then asked for sgt_black, a new member, to introduce himself.  sgt_black replied, "Evening, I'm Steven, or sgt_black. I teach Unix/Linux & routers/Integration On Ft Huachuca as part f the 35T course."  sgt_black was welcomed into the Team.  We're glad to have him around.

The next order of business taken up was the Open Source Conference: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/OpenSourceConference.  The purpose of the Open Source Conference is to promote the use of Open Source software, not just Ubuntu.  xHans had joined us for the meeting. He's from the Phoenix LUG and occupy #plugaz on irc.freenode.net.  xHans, of course, was at the installfest in Phoenix too.  Now, in addition to plugaz there is a good possibility that we are going to get ASULug on the Arizona State University Campus to help on this project. It is possible that we can get rooms for the conference there, and there would be wireless too.  But we still need contact with the Tucson lugs and a couple of others in Phoenix. We need to think about getting speakers lined up. Sponsors if we can. A projector for the speakers to demo what they are presenting on.  xHans added, "if there is no money involved we can almost definitely get university for advancing technology for free".  xHans offered to talk to the other LUGS in the Phoenix area, and johnc4510 showed him where to find a list of the ones he was thinking about.  The information can be found by going to: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplication and looking for state bar camp.  xHans may also have contacts in the Tucson area.  Once we have contact info we can start talking more about delegating stuff.  xHans also mentioned that there used to be two LUGs in Sierra Vista, but he didn't get responses when he tried to contact them.  sgt_black asked xHans to email him the information, and he'd try to find out more information.

The next order of business was Intrepid Ibex Planning: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/IntrepidPlanning.  This event would in conjunction with ASULug on the ASU campus.  They have about 40 members, and a lot of them already use Ubuntu.  And, of course, PLUGAZ is welcome to join in.  There is a good potential to draw a bunch of folks from the campus to do new installs on.  We could make the next release a really big party.  xHans mentioned that PLUG often supplies at lot of help for ASULUG Install``Fests.

johnc4510 then said, "ok, so, the installfest is a lot easier to get planned and organized i think.  The conference is where we need to concentrate."  xHans was then thanked for his participation in the meeting, and invited to join in any time.  The Team displayed their appreciation of his having attended.  This was done so that xHans could break away if he so chose.  Also, during this interval, tyche and soldats agreed to start working on preliminary fliers for the two events, to offer something to the Team for further comments and ideas.

The next order of business was the Team Approval Application & Meeting: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplication.  This is where we are official recognized by canonical as an approved Team.  johnc4510 said, "I sent an email to the team list today about the approval meeting. I hope everyone got to look it over. If you can make it great. If you have school or work, we understand. The more there the better of course but don't let it bother you if you can't make it."

        '''The Lo``Co Council meeting for Team Approval will be:'''

	'''Wednesday, June 4, 2008 at 9:00 AM Arizona time'''

	'''Held in IRC #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net'''

johnc4510 added, "I laid out the meeting in the email, so everyone would have an idea about what was going on.  Please be sure to read it."  The council really likes seeing the support of Team members:  it shows solidarity with the Team.  johnc4510 will be sending out another reminder on Tuesday, June 3.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:38 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* JohnCrawford
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

