{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===

<pre>
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddc	+1
[21:00]	scott_ev	+2
[21:00]	Siph0n	+1
[21:00]	scott_ev	is sorta fat
[21:00]	syn-ack	I'm out right now
[21:00]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:00]	scott_ev	nice
[21:00]	syn-ack	I'm in Salt Lake City, UT on my way to Littleton, CO
[21:01]	toddc	Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:01]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me
[21:01]	toddc	syn-ack no typing while driving
[21:01]	scott_ev	am I in the right place
[21:01]	syn-ack	toddc, Heh, I'm shut down at the terminal right now
[21:01]	toddc	Here is new news from ubuntu news:
[21:01]	scott_ev	neww?
[21:02]	scott_ev	news?
[21:02]	toddc	The Official Ubuntu Book Sixth Edition
[21:02]	toddc	is soon the be released so start looking for it
[21:02]	toddc	what is spell checker?
[21:02]	toddc	Ubuntu soon to be running in your car by joining GENIVI and ubuntu IVI REMIX
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.muktware.com/news/18/2011/1187
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Canonical-joins-GENIVI-creates-Ubuntu-IVI-Remix-1242314.html
[21:02]	toddc	Lenovo to start selling Ubuntu Thinkpads in china
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.muktware.com/news/12/2011/1145
[21:03]	toddc	The Linux Action Show sunday at 10.am and 8pm pacific time
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.jupiterbroadcasting.com/8211/bryan-smash-google-las-s16e09/
[21:03]	toddc	Install and configure GNOME DO in unity
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/opensource/install-and-configure-gnome-do-in-ubuntu-unity/2535
[21:03]	toddc	11.04 tricks and short cuts Keyboard and mouse tricks
[21:03]	toddc	http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-11-04-Unity-Keyboard-Shortcuts-and-Tricks-200390.shtml
[21:03]	toddc	team news
[21:04]	toddc	Team Status is still in question and has not moved to my knowledge I have updated the azloco site a bit and made some progress on the team wiki but it still needs more updating before we can go before the council
[21:04]	scott_ev	brb
[21:04]	toddc	I have not been in contact with john4510 for a while but did email him last week but no repley as of yet
[21:04]	toddc	I also would like some help copying meeting logs to out team wiki and azloco this would be weekly and should only take a few minutes
[21:04]	toddc	Kbuntu mobile in devel plasma for nokia stay tuned
[21:05]	toddc	here is some testing for meego OS for nokia phones
[21:05]	wipmonkey	+1
[21:05]	toddc	all contacts have been set up to up azloco.com server and a date will be soon. We did find out that we cannot hold a class there so we will update and report on it
[21:05]	toddc	welcome wipmonkey
[21:06]	toddc	The BBB server is working well. I recommend everyone try it at http://azlocobbb.banditti.com and pick a log in name. I think we can start talking about holding meetings there and picking a date to switch. Any thoughts?
[21:06]	toddc	TEMPE INSTALLFEST NEWS
[21:06]	toddc	Azloco/plug installfest is this weekend 5/28 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
[21:06]	toddc	The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:07]	Siph0n	I like the BBB. It works well for me.
[21:07]	toddc	UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:07]	syn-ack	YAY
[21:07]	toddc	friday may 27 ubuntu has a Q&A session with Jono Pgraner of Conical at 430-530pm
[21:07]	syn-ack	oh wait, nm
[21:07]	syn-ack	um
[21:07]	toddc	???
[21:07]	syn-ack	Those are two different people
[21:07]	syn-ack	Jono Bacon and Pete Graner.
[21:07]	toddc	one just not jono bacon
[21:08]	syn-ack	interesting...
[21:08]	syn-ack	nm me then
[21:08]	toddc	technical advisor
[21:08]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:08]	toddc	Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
[21:09]	toddc	PLUG EVENTS
[21:09]	toddc	plug west side meeting Wedsday see azloco.com calender plugaz for more info
[21:09]	toddc	xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:09]	xHans	in the LoCo calendar now? Excellent. Danke!
[21:09]	toddc	np welcome
[21:09]	xHans	as Todd just said, PLUG west side this Wednesday
[21:10]	xHans	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/05/25/70/-/plug-west-meeting.html
[21:10]	xHans	the presentation will probably be me covering Percona Xtrabackup for MySQL
[21:11]	xHans	PLUG devel a week from Thursday
[21:11]	xHans	Source Control Discussion (further details to be determined).
[21:11]	xHans	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/06/02/618/-/developer-meeting.html
[21:11]	xHans	summer classes from Dennis at Mesa Community College on the Southern and Dobson campus
[21:11]	xHans	CIS238DL - GNU/Linux System Administration (Section 21472, Summer I, 05/31/2011 - 06/23/2011 )
[21:11]	xHans	CIS126DL - Introduction to GNU/Linux (Section 12448, Summer II, 07/11/2011 - 08/04/2011 )
[21:12]	xHans	Each class lasts four weeks and meets four nights a week from 6:00pm to 9:40pm Monday to Thursday.
[21:12]	xHans	speaking of MySQL and MCC, we will have a MySQL class in the Fall
[21:12]	xHans	hmm, looks like SCC has one as well
[21:13]	xHans	er, that's a PHP class
[21:13]	xHans	http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=mysql&subject_code=any&all_classes=false&terms[]=4116&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&instructors=
[21:14]	xHans	http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=CIS276DA&subject_code=any&all_classes=false&terms[]=4116&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&instructors=
[21:14]	xHans	it's already half full, which is abnormal, so I think it'll run
[21:15]	xHans	ok, that's all I have for this week
[21:15]	toddc	Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and MCC classes
[21:15]	xHans	bitte
[21:15]	xHans	thanks for the space to do so
[21:16]	toddc	any othe questions or comments?
[21:16]	toddc	if there is nothing else?
[21:16]	toddc	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
