{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #98 for the week June 21, June 27.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Ninety Eighth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-July 1, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday July 5, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the June 28, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09June28

johnc4510 started with a discussion about the Tucson install fest.  The date for the install fest was mentioned as August 1.  It is on a Saturday, and seemed the most reasonable.  johnc4510 is still trying to arrange a location.  One thing he'd like to arrange is some kind of draw in the form of a demo and/or talk.  Something like a demo of something or a talk on a subject that Ubuntu does better than windows.  xHans suggested that he see if Zach can help build out the game demos like ASULUG gets.  They could be put on the AZ Team test server.  that same dispersion list could be used to promote other events. Maybe like if one of the participating groups was trying to hold and Installfest sometime in the near future.

johnc4510 then asked xHans for any PLUG announcements:

* We have a tentative date for ABLEconf, the 24th of Oktober at UAT.  We plan on having the date set for certain in 3 weeks.  We have several key volunteer positions that need to be filled: promo committee, sponsor committee and promo dispersion.  The latter are essentially representatives from various organisations such as LUGY that take PR announcements from us and post them to local lists as appropriate.  Not a hard job...since press announcements will already be put together.  That same dispersion list could be used to promote other events. Maybe like if one of the participating groups was trying to hold and Installfest sometime in the near future.  Just a matter of posting.  Although, if the disperser feels they need to be reworked for the particular audience or only part of the announcement should go out, that's up to the disperser.

* There's a PLUG devel meeting this Thursday, but I don't know the topic.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/560

* matthewmpp is doing the BlenderCAD meetings every Sunday during the day.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/778

* East Side Meeting, in 2 weeks. Larry is giving a presentation on a netbook and matthewmpp is giving a presentation on Mozilla programs:  Firefox, Thunderbird, Lightning, Songbird, & Chat``Zilla.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/131

* Lisa already has a topic for July's Hackfest: FreeIPA is an integrated security information management solution.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/658

The meeting was not formally adjourned.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
