{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
21:00 < johnc4510> ok, lets get going then
21:00 < matthewmpp> By the way I have a launchpad page now and my karma is up to 165.
21:00 < slofgren> tyche: oh my eyes...
21:01 < tyche> ROFL
21:01 < johnc4510> flakeparadigm: we ususally have new folks intro themselves with a couple of lines about you...could you please do that?
21:01 < tyche> I LOVE it when a plan comes together.
21:01 -!- Siph0n [n=Siph0n@ip98-167-157-88.ph.ph.cox.net] has quit [Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)]
21:01 < flakeparadigm> ok
21:01 < johnc4510> thx
21:01 < xHans> oi, tyche as Hannibal?
21:01 < johnc4510> lol
21:01 < matthewmpp> slofgren: use a magnifine glass so you can see to launch Orca. :-)
21:02 < xHans> do you also have the suv-thing w/ 3 wheels per hub?
21:02 < tyche> (Kilt wearing orangutan)
21:02 < flakeparadigm> Well, I've been using linux for a while, and I am interested in graphic/web design and a little bit of programing
21:02 < johnc4510> cool
21:02 < flakeparadigm> I take up residence in the lovely city of Tucson :D
21:02 -!- ArmitageX [n=justin@173-87-181-6.dr02.kgmn.az.frontiernet.net] has quit ["Leaving."]
21:02 < johnc4510> we're glad to welcome you aboard the team flakeparadigm
21:03 < SlickMcRunFast> another Tucson
21:03 < johnc4510> flakeparadigm: i live in Tucson too
21:03 < tyche> Welcome, flakeparadigm
21:03 < johnc4510> :)
21:03 < johnc4510> great
21:03 < SlickMcRunFast> welcome flakeparadigm
21:03 < johnc4510> hey SlickMcRunFast
21:03 < flakeparadigm> thanks!
21:03 < todd> welcome fluke paradigm
21:03 < johnc4510> :)
21:03 < slofgren> welcome flakeparadigm
21:04 < johnc4510> ok, moving on to announcements then
21:04 < johnc4510> .
21:04 < johnc4510> Canonical announced that it has launched new support services for individuals using Ubuntu desktop – and small businesses looking for cost effective alternatives to Microsoft Windows and Apple Mac.
21:04 < johnc4510> .
21:04 < xHans> cool
21:04 < johnc4510> Canonical's Desktop Support Services includes three offerings: Starter, Advanced and Professional:
21:04 < johnc4510> .
21:04 < johnc4510> 1. The Starter Desktop Service provides support for installation, set-up and basic functionality – such as Internet, creating documents and playing music and videos.
21:04 < johnc4510> .
21:04 < johnc4510> 2. The Advanced Desktop Service is for more experienced users who need help migrating files and settings from a previously used operating system or assistance with desktop publishing and personal accounting.
21:04 < johnc4510> .
21:05 < johnc4510> 3. The Professional Desktop Service is for the business user who uses Ubuntu as their main environment. Installation support ensures the Ubuntu machine is set up on the corporate network and integrated into existing IT services. The Professional Desktop Service also helps set up desktop virtualization and ongoing support provides professional users with quicker access to support personnel.
21:05 < johnc4510> .
21:05 < johnc4510> Canonical’s individual and small business Desktop Services are available now and can be purchased from the Ubuntu shop at https://shop.canonical.com/
21:05 < johnc4510> .
21:05 < johnc4510> i think this started out for small to medium businesses but got upgraded to individuals too
21:06 < xHans> johnc4510: does Canonical want to show up to ABLEconf to talk about that? or sponsor us?
21:06 < johnc4510> it was my understanding that the individual plan was like 50 a yr
21:06 < johnc4510> xHans: i'll have to ask, but it's a possibility
21:06 < xHans> johnc4510: danke
21:07 < tyche> johnc4510: is there any discount for Ubuntu members?  Hee hee
21:07 < johnc4510> anyway it is a great thing for the small to med sized businesses that have complained and held back from open source because of the suport issue
21:07 < johnc4510> tyche: nope
21:07 < johnc4510> lol
21:07  * tyche snaps fingers
21:07 < johnc4510> next
21:07 < johnc4510> .
21:08 < johnc4510> Free Books For Approved LoCo Teams - We can now order direct from the distributor at no cost, one copy each of the books: Official Ubuntu Book, and Official Ubuntu Server Book. I have already sent our request for our copies and I am awaiting conformation on the order.
21:08 < johnc4510> .
21:08 < johnc4510> scott_ev: you around?
21:09 < johnc4510> ok, scott_ev was emailing lenard's about a venue for the installfest
21:09 < tyche> He isn't, but I got some information from lenards, if that's what you're looking for.
21:09 < johnc4510> i've got it
21:09 < johnc4510> thx
21:09 < johnc4510> i'll paste it in the channel
21:09 < johnc4510> .
21:09 < johnc4510> This is the report from Lenard's on the venue for the installfest:
21:09 < johnc4510> So the Tucson Main Library is already scheduled for Aug. 29th.  But, even if it was available - it wouldn't work because the wifi is extremely spotty in the lower level meeting room - so much so that they say it's not "really available there."
21:09 < johnc4510> .
21:09 < johnc4510> I did get a reply from Rebecca Mitchell from the UA Computer Science
21:09 < johnc4510> department.  I don't know if we can get something together with them, but
21:09 < johnc4510> I'm still working on that.
21:09 < johnc4510> .
21:10 < johnc4510> Also - we could pursue another library location.  The Himmel Library has a
21:10 < johnc4510> room w/ 3 tables, wifi and roughly enough room for 40 people. I think that
21:10 < johnc4510> it might handle are needs for just this coming InstallFest.
21:11 < tyche> lenards has been working very hard on this, and is to be commended on his attempts, so far.
21:11 < johnc4510> himmel is here: http://tinyurl.com/nnxsu5
21:12 < johnc4510> i'm hoping that his U of A contact comes thru with something
21:12 < tyche> That would be nice
21:12 < johnc4510> flakeparadigm: any ideas on a location for an installfest in tucson
21:12 < johnc4510> wireless needed
21:12 < tyche> Near food would be a plus
21:12 < tyche> :-D
21:12 < johnc4510> :)
21:13 < johnc4510> always thinking of his stomach
21:13 < johnc4510> lol
21:13 < flakeparadigm> Haha, I'm on the opposite side of town as you guys ;)
21:13 -!- [R] [n=rbox@unaffiliated/rbox] has quit ["Leaving"]
21:13 < flakeparadigm> But at the moment I can't think of anything
21:13 < johnc4510> k
21:13 < johnc4510> np
21:13 < tyche> flakeparadigm: I'm more opposite than you are, I'm in Fountain Hills
21:13 -!- [R] [n=rbox@unaffiliated/rbox] has joined #ubuntu-us-az
21:13 < johnc4510> flakeparadigm: the installfest is scheduled for the 29th of August and we'd love to have you there
21:13 < johnc4510> :)
21:14 < johnc4510> that's a sat. from 10-4 PM
21:14 < flakeparadigm> I would love to come. I've never been to one, so what exactly is it?
21:14 < tyche> We sit around and shoot the breeze, install Ubuntu on willing computers, try to help people with their problems, etc.
21:15 < johnc4510> i have sent emails to tfug and the tucson computer society linux sig asking them to attend and for help if they can
21:15 < johnc4510> nods
21:15 < flakeparadigm> Ah ha! That was YOUR email that got me to sign up :P
21:15 < johnc4510> it's a way of promoting ubuntu and open source computing in arizona
21:15 < johnc4510> flakeparadigm: yep
21:16 < tyche> And you said you weren't baiting your hook, johnc4510.
21:16 < johnc4510> so, as soon as lenard's finds something else out we'll proceed with the other stuff
21:16 < tyche> You LIED to me.
21:16 < johnc4510> lol
21:16 < johnc4510> :)
21:16 < johnc4510> ooops
21:16 < tyche> ROFL
21:16 < johnc4510> tyche: you still have the flyer blank??
21:16 < johnc4510> the one we can fill in the blanks on?
21:17 < johnc4510> the last one you made up
21:17 < tyche> Which one?  Any of the ones I do are fill-in-the-blanks
21:17 < tyche> The system76 one?
21:17 < johnc4510> yep
21:17 < tyche> Yep
21:17 < johnc4510> ok
21:17 < johnc4510> thx
21:17 < tyche> http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/3702697843/
21:18 < johnc4510> we've got to get the venue set so we can get that going...so we're going to have to decide the venue this wk for sure
21:18 < johnc4510> we still may have to print them ourselves because of the time
21:18 < johnc4510> :(
21:18 < tyche> I CAN take the system76 logo off this, if we're going to have members print their own
21:18 < johnc4510> i'll do it if we have to though
21:18 < johnc4510> tyche: k, thx
21:18 < azteech> okay, sorry I am late ... just finished dinner ...
21:19 < johnc4510> next will be distribution of the flyers
21:19 < tyche> BTW, that's meant to be a HALF page size, not a full page size.
21:19 < johnc4510> we'll discuss that next wk at the meeting
21:19 < johnc4510> tyche: ah ok, we can get two for one that way...good
21:19 < johnc4510> thx
21:20 < johnc4510> i'll email lenard's and see if i can speed up the process any
21:20 < todd> can we add a room number for uat installfests to help be found in these bigger events?
21:21 < johnc4510> todd: for the uat ones we can
21:21 < xHans> todd: we can, if someone knows what it is :)
21:21 < tyche> I don't see why not.  Everything is layers in GIMP.  I just turn it into jpg or pdf for printing.
21:21 < johnc4510> nods
21:21 < todd> and Tucson depending where it ends up at
21:21 -!- [R] [n=rbox@unaffiliated/rbox] has quit ["Leaving"]
21:21 < johnc4510> todd: right
21:21 < johnc4510> :)
21:22 < tyche> That's why it's a fill-in-the-blanks flier
21:22 < johnc4510> xHans: you have any annoucements from the phoenix open source community?
21:22 < matthewmpp> It is not safe to add a room# for UAT, because, sometimes it gets moved the day of the event.
21:22 < johnc4510> if so please go ahead
21:22 < azteech> Tyche, with your sense of humor, it's always a fill in the blanks ... you always seem to find an opening for most things folks say .... :P
21:22 < johnc4510> matthewmpp: ah...well it's in one building and you can see every room almost from the center
21:23 < xHans> johnc4510: ok
21:23 < johnc4510> thx
21:23 < johnc4510> brb
21:23 < todd> last time we did not have a banner and were in a back room
21:23 < xHans> devel meeting is this Thursday
21:23 < johnc4510> todd: no banner was my fault....that was when i was on vacation and had to have appendix out
21:23 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/559
21:24 < xHans> hackfest security mtg is this Saturday
21:24 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/659
21:24 -!- azteech [n=stevan@s48-255-68-64.trico.az.wi-power.com] has quit ["Leaving."]
21:24 < todd> I just thought it culd be better
21:24 -!- azteech [n=stevan@s48-255-68-64.trico.az.wi-power.com] has joined #ubuntu-us-az
21:25 < xHans> the official press release annoucing ABLEconf 2009 Phoenix went out last week
21:25 < xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/press_releases/2009Jul29.html
21:25 < xHans> we now need to get that press release out, so please help if you're interested
21:26 < xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2009Phx/Promotion
21:26 < azteech> hate it when I boot my own self out ... :(
21:26 < xHans> our call for presentations should go out in the next couple of weeks
21:27 < xHans> Free Software Stammtisch in Prescott is next week, bring pillows and diapers for slofgren :)
21:27 < tyche> LOL
21:27 < flakeparadigm> haha
21:27 < xHans> and that's that for this week
21:28 < johnc4510> xHans: thx bud
21:28 < xHans> bitte
21:28 < johnc4510> xHans: i will sign up for a presentation again this yr
21:28 < xHans> johnc4510: cool, danke
21:28 < johnc4510> nods
21:29 < xHans> what we need now is a liaisan for azloco :)
21:29 < tyche> xHans: you still want something on running a full distro on the Mini 9?
21:29 < johnc4510> ok, does anyone have anything else that they wish to discuss with the group??
21:29 < johnc4510> flakeparadigm: again, welcome to the group...glad to have you here :)
21:30 < johnc4510> ok, meeting adjourned
21:30 < johnc4510> thx all
 </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
