{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


01 August – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* NO DATA AVAILABLE
02 August – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2002%2C%202020%20Meeting
06 August – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 5 attendees
* Reviewed the Ubuntu 20.04.1 release
* conducted a demonstration of a sample GTK3+ app with Makefile
* Added radar info to the Weewx weather station
13 August - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees. (one new person)
* An email was sent to the mailing list with the Full Circle Magazine URL.  It is https://fullcirclemagazine.org/ for those of you that missed or misplaced it.
* In addition the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue643?action=show&redirect=UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter%2FCurrent  It deals strictly with Ubuntu (and its flavors)
* Ubuntu 20.04.1 was released on 31 July 2020.  All of our DVDs and flash drives have been updated to that version.  We are retaining Linux Mint 19.3 (32 bit) in addition to the newest version because Canonical no longer supports 32 bit computers and Linux Mint 19.3 will be supported for an additional 2 years and 8 months.  It has become our go to install for 32 bit computers.
* We are re-introducing the 5-15 minute mini-presentations at our meetings to give members experience in conducting presentations and using Libre Office Impress.  It is of course voluntary and is in addition to our main presentation.
* Discussed the pros and cons of upgrading to the next Ubuntu or Linux Mint LTS version.
* It was decided to create and maintain a list of trusted PPAs.  To be placed on the list a member must have used the PPA for a number of years without incident or problems.  We want this list to be trusted by us.
* The Put & Take box was once again present at the event.  As a reminder only fully functional computer components are eligible to be placed in there.
13 August - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* NO DATA AVAILABLE
15 August – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* NO DATA AVAILABLE
16 August - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2016%2C%202020%20Meeting
27 August - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 1 attendee
* Fixed DNS latency issue in IpFire
