{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
[21:00]<toddc>Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]<toddc>+1
[21:01]<Dazed_75>Yea, I was going to try to borrow one today but had a lazy day after staying up til 5 am this morning
[21:01]<kennymc0>+1
[21:01]<toddc>Our launch pad site https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona 
[21:01]<toddc>Our web site is azloco.com 
[21:01]<toddc>azlocobbb.banditti.com Big Blue Button sever-- Audio Video Chat with others but still in testing
[21:01]<toddc>Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.[21:01]<toddc>Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?[21:02]<toddc>John4510 was going to update us with team status news but he has been down with the flu all week and will be back next week to update us and guide us on getting everything caught up again. We all hope you are feeling better soon
[21:03]<toddc>Here is new news from ubuntu news:
[21:03]<kennymc0>get well soon johnc4510
[21:03]<toddc>Learn 11.04's Keyboard Shortcuts with this wallpaper
[21:03]<toddc>http://www.lifehacker.com.au/2011/04/learn-ubuntu-11-04s-keyboard-shortcuts-with-this-wallpaper/
[21:03]<toddc>I am currently using this
[21:04]<toddc>Things to tweak after installing 11.04
[21:04]<toddc>http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/things-to-tweak-fix-after-installing.html
[21:04]<toddc>phoronix tests ubuntu 11.04 boot speeds and campares to win and mac
[21:04]<toddc>http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_natty_boot&num=1
[21:04]<toddc>6.06 server end of life on june 1 2011
[21:04]<toddc>Ubuntu 8.04 End of life on may 12 2011
[21:04]<toddc>I also would like some help copying meeting logs to out team wiki and azloco this would be weekly and should only take a few minutes
[21:05]<toddc> JOB LIST
[21:05]<toddc>Jr. Linux System Administrator
[21:05]<toddc> 
[21:05]<toddc>We're looking for someone who has a passion for technology and wants
[21:05]<toddc>to learn some great new technologies while developing your Linux
[21:05]<toddc>sysadmin skills. Working at a startup it is not uncommon for our
[21:05]<toddc>sysadmins to spend part of the day editing configs, part running cable
[21:05]<toddc>in the server room, and part troubleshooting servers that need help.
[21:05]<toddc> 
[21:05]<toddc>Description
[21:05]<toddc>- Hardware install and cabling
[21:05]<toddc>- OS setup, configuration and monitoring (CentOS & Ubuntu)
[21:05]<toddc>- Provide 24/7 support in an on-call rotation
[21:05]<toddc>- Application software support
[21:05]<toddc>- Basic desktop (OSX) support
[21:05]<toddc>- Troubleshoot any/all IT issues
[21:05]<toddc>The ideal candidate will have some Linux experience and wants to know
[21:05]<toddc>more, but can still try and troubleshoot effectively. We are looking
[21:05]<toddc>for someone who runs a Linux server at home for fun, maybe attends the
[21:05]<toddc>local Linux Users' Group, and likes to tinker with the latest gadgets.
[21:05]<toddc>Please send resumes to:
[21:05]<toddc>sysadmin-job@imemories.com
[21:06]<toddc>TEMPE INSTALLFEST NEWS
[21:06]<toddc>We had a lot of fun SAT thank to bj0 he helped build a usable PXE server that should be the perfect solution for the Installfests. We had around 10-12 show up and several new users and did 3 installs and lots of talking and tweaking
[21:06]<toddc>The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:07]<toddc>UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:07]<toddc>may 2 intro ,promoting your project in press
[21:07]<toddc>may 2 -5 training covers a interveiw with mark shuttleworth building banners and posters and basic CLI join if you can 
[21:07]<toddc>training on lernid classroom
[21:07]<toddc>https://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=canonical.com_qg6t4s8i7mg8d4lgfu9f93qid4@group.calendar.google.com&gsessionid=wjtoB1LNBIRNiQ8WMfoVMA
[21:07]<toddc>FUTURE EVENTS
[21:08]<toddc>Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?[21:08]<toddc>PLUG EVENTS
[21:08]<toddc>Plug Developer meeting may 5 19.30-21.30
[21:08]<toddc>XHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:09]<toddc>anyone else have any news or items to bring up?
[21:10]<toddc>if there is nothing else? 
[21:10]<toddc>thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question 
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
