{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 02 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:22 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-12-02-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azTeam events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466  (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/pwall-photo-video-viewer-organizer/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/feeds-news-reader-gnome/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/pdftools/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/MusicServers/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/openreads/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/mousam-weather-python/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-remote-desktop/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://bashscript.net/bash-script-as-a-simple-to-do-list/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/review/intel-xe2-lunarlake-compute   (stephen_laptop_, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Raspberry-Pi-CM5   (stephen_laptop_, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/find-flatpak-applications-using-a-specific-runtime-in-linux/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.13-exFAT   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://hackaday.com/2024/11/26/alternatives-dont-need-to-be-bashed/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/warp-is-a-power-users-dream-terminal-for-linux/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-remote-desktop-servers/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/lxd-6-2-introduces-cdi-for-flexible-gpu-integration/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-python-static-site-generators/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/brotli-vs-gzip/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://bashscript.net/binary-clock-with-bash-script/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-Kernel-Bottlenecks-Mold   (stephen_laptop_, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2024/11/how-to-install-snaps-in-linux-mint   (stephen_laptop_, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/find-unix-timestamp-for-specific-date-and-time/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/convert-timestamps-to-strings-in-linux/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/arch-linux-post-installation-steps/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/harnessing-quantum-potential-quantum-computing-and-qiskit-ubuntu   (stephen_laptop_, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:16)
* ''LINK:'' https://jobs.statefarm.com/main/jobs?categories=Technology%20and%20UX   (toddc, 04:17)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:17)
* ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Articles/994961/   (toddc, 04:18)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/MusicServers/   (toddc, 04:18)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:20)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephen_laptop_ (60)
* toddc (54)
* MajB (35)
* meetingology (2)
* Stephenm (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:11 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> please sign in in a with a +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azTeam events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:01 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL PIE DAY

 04:02 <toddc> I had mine did you have yours?

 04:02 <MajB> Yes

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <MajB> Leftover pumpkin

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:05 <toddc> Stephenm: ? news

 04:06 <stephen_laptop_> sorry Internet flopped for a minute there

 04:06 <toddc> np

 04:08 <toddc> we can come back to the news when your intenet is back

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> I'm still connected right?

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> I'm back right now

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> I'm just not sure if everyone can see me

 04:09 <MajB> you are good

 04:09 <toddc> yes welcome back

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> OK so if news is still needed, I have an a sortment of articles.

 04:10 <MajB> go for it

 04:10 <toddc> Yes all yours

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> pwall – photo/video viewer and organizer

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/pwall-photo-video-viewer-organizer/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> Feeds – news reader for GNOME

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/feeds-news-reader-gnome/

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> 17 Useful Free and Open Source PDF Tools

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/pdftools/

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> 12 Best Free and Open Source Linux Music Servers

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/MusicServers/

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> Openreads: An Open Source Mobile App To Keep Track of Your Books

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://news.itsfoss.com/openreads/

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> Mousam – weather at a glance

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/mousam-weather-python/

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Remote Desktop

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-remote-desktop/

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> Bash Script as a Simple To-Do List

 04:11 <stephen_laptop_> https://bashscript.net/bash-script-as-a-simple-to-do-list/

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> Intel Xe2 Lunar Lake Graphics Compute / OpenCL Performance Looking Great

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.phoronix.com/review/intel-xe2-lunarlake-compute

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> Raspberry Pi Launches The Compute Module 5 For $45 USD

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Raspberry-Pi-CM5

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> How To Find Flatpak Applications Using A Specific Runtime In Linux

 04:12 <stephen_laptop_> https://ostechnix.com/find-flatpak-applications-using-a-specific-runtime-in-linux/

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> exFAT Driver With Linux 6.13 Reduces FAT Chain Traversal For Better Performance

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.13-exFAT

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> Alternatives Don’t Need To Be Bashed

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://hackaday.com/2024/11/26/alternatives-dont-need-to-be-bashed/

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> Warp Is a Power User’s Dream Terminal for Linux

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://thenewstack.io/warp-is-a-power-users-dream-terminal-for-linux/

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> 13 Best Free and Open Source Remote Desktop Servers

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-remote-desktop-servers/

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> LXD 6.2 Introduces CDI for Flexible GPU Integration

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxiac.com/lxd-6-2-introduces-cdi-for-flexible-gpu-integration/

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> 17 Best Free and Open Source Python Static Site Generators

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-python-static-site-generators/

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> The Difference between Brotli vs gzip to speed up your site

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/brotli-vs-gzip/

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> Binary Clock with Bash Script

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> https://bashscript.net/binary-clock-with-bash-script/

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> Linux Kernel Performance Bottlenecks Spotted By Mold Developer

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-Kernel-Bottlenecks-Mold

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> Want to Install Snap Apps in Linux Mint? Here’s How

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2024/11/how-to-install-snaps-in-linux-mint

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> How To Find The Unix Timestamp For A Specific Date And Time In Linux

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> https://ostechnix.com/find-unix-timestamp-for-specific-date-and-time/

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> How To Convert Unix Timestamps To Strings In Linux

 04:14 <stephen_laptop_> https://ostechnix.com/convert-timestamps-to-strings-in-linux/

 04:15 <stephen_laptop_> Arch Linux Post-Installation Essential Steps

 04:15 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxiac.com/arch-linux-post-installation-steps/

 04:15 <stephen_laptop_> Harnessing Quantum Potential: Quantum Computing and Qiskit on Ubuntu

 04:15 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/harnessing-quantum-potential-quantum-computing-and-qiskit-ubuntu

 04:15 <stephen_laptop_> Alright, that's all the news I havefor tonight.

 04:15 <stephen_laptop_> back to the speaker

 04:15 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:15 <stephen_laptop_> welcome

 04:15 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:15 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:15 <stephen_laptop_> you're welcome

 04:16 <toddc> If you hold a Linux shell close to your ear can you hear the C?

 04:16 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:16 <toddc> Digital High Performance Computing Sr. Principal Specialist - ONSITE Tucson AZ

 04:16 <toddc> Raytheon

 04:16 <toddc> Linux System Administrator    TEKsystems in Tucson, AZ

 04:16 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:17 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 260

 04:17 <toddc> https://jobs.statefarm.com/main/jobs?categories=Technology%20and%20UX

 04:17 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 62 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:17 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:17 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:17 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:17 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:18 <toddc> The OpenWrt One system

 04:18 <toddc> https://lwn.net/Articles/994961/

 04:18 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:18 <toddc> 12 Best Free and Open Source Linux Music Servers

 04:18 <toddc> https://www.linuxlinks.com/MusicServers/

 04:18 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:19 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:19 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:19 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:19 <MajB> 05 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:19 <MajB> 07 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:19 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:19 <MajB> 12 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:19 <MajB> 12 December, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:20 <MajB> 15 December, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:20 <MajB> 21 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:20 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:20 <MajB> 26 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:20 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:20 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:20 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:20 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:20 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 12 December, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:20 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 17 December, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:20 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:20 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:20 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:21 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 17 December, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:21 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:21 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:21 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:21 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:21 <MajB> As of January 2025, AZLOCO will be moving to one regular team meeting per month.  It will occur on the 1st Sunday of each month from 2100-2130 (9-9:30 pm) on this channel (#ubuntu-us-az).  Of course should additional team meetings be required they will be scheduled.  The meetings that were to take place on the 3rd Sunday have been officially canceled.

 04:22 <MajB> Take note stephenm

 04:22 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:22 <stephen_laptop_> aye-aye

 04:22 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:22 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
