{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #107 for the week November 23, November 29.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Seventh Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-December 2, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday December 6, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the November 29, 2009 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09November29

scott_ev then gave an announcement:

* Welcome everyone.  Thank you for attending tonight's meeting.  I haven't been around all that much on sunday nights.  I do know that our leader johnc4510 has been very very busy in other areas of his life and has had to step back from us a little.  This Lo``Co is important to me and I hope it is to you also and I feel that we can keep things rolling in john's absence.  I doubt this is a permanent thing, but, for now we just need to divide up.

scott_ev then mentioned that he would be trying to get ahold of johnc4510 in the next week.  He added, "I think the most important thing for us to do as a Lo``Co is get back in the habit of having meetings.  It's in the meetings that everything gets organized.  We plan all the fun things in the meetings."  scott_eve also asked if there were any documents about team leadership. [Ed. note:  Found after the meeting were the following links - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto , https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-community/+spec/community-ubuntu-loco-leaderhsip , and http://www.ubuntu.com/community/leadership-conduct ]

scott_ev then discussed the possibility of an Ubuntu 10.04 release party.  "I think it would be a good idea to get a jump on organizing a release party for 10.04 whatever it's gonna be called Lucid Lynx or something like that.  Maybe we could do it right after the installfest at UAT in April.  I know we may not have the CDs by then, but installing it isn't the main point of a release party.  We could go over to Boulders on Broadway from the installfest."  Ubuntu 10.04 is an Long Term Support release, and an effort to have CDs available for the release party is important.  Also, scott_ev will be getting in touch with Lenards about the possibility of another install fest in Tucson

scott_ev then asked for PLUG announcements from xHans.

* PLUG Hackfest security lab this Tuesday in Phoenix.  Topic: Metasploit.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2115

* PLUG devel meeting this Thursday in Tempe.  Topic: debugging from local Sun sales engineer.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/555

* PLUG and AZLoCo end of year Installfest this Saturday in Tempe.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/1400

* PLUG annual end of year party next Thursday in Mesa.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/154

* Other than the Installfest all PLUG Dezember meetings should happen at the correct date and time.

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:17 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
