{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 26 Sep at 03:59 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-09-26-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://qz.com/789867/ups-is-starting-to-test-drone-deliveries-in-the-us/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.craveonline.com/design/1124445-people-actually-drilling-holes-iphone-7-make-headphone-jack#/slide/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-china-is-the-next-proving-ground-for-open-source-software/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/NEWS/21-OPEN-SOURCE-PROJECTS-IOT 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/turn-your-feature-tv-smart-tv-30 
''LINK:'' http://www.esecurityplanet.com/network-security/40-percent-of-organizations-store-admin-passwords-in-word-documents.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/09/23if_your_company_has_terrible_it_security_that_could_be_a_rational_business_decision/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/how-easily-roll-back-changes-snapper 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/beginning-grep-linux-sysadmins 
''LINK:'' http://hackerboards.com/open-source-projects-for-the-internet-of-things-from-a-to-z/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.technologyreview.com/s/602434/is-an-editable-blockchain-the-future-of-finance/ 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/09/the-power-of-protocol-analyzers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/cloud/red-hat-updates-enterprise-container-platform.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.ostechnix.com/apticron-get-email-alerts-pending-package-updates/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/9/linux-users-guide-lvm 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://twitter.com/lgreer84/status/774653619522142208/photo/1?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/gravitational/teleconsole 
''LINK:'' https://opensprinkler.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (58)
* stephenm (41)
* MajB (25)
* xHans (17)
* pavlos (4)
* meetingology (3)
* nhasian1 (1)
* Ron_A (1)
* wmack (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 26 03:59:24 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <MajB> Not sure stephen-desktop

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <mark91> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 94338.08

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> numskull IRC

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> OK here is the news I have for this week.

 04:02 <stephenm> UPS is starting to test drone deliveries in the US

 04:02 <stephenm> http://qz.com/789867/ups-is-starting-to-test-drone-deliveries-in-the-us/

 04:02 <nhasian1> +1

 04:02 <stephenm> someone is copying Amazon

 04:02 <stephenm> People Are Actually Drilling Holes Into Their iPhone 7 to “Make a Headphone Jack”

 04:02 <stephenm> http://www.craveonline.com/design/1124445-people-actually-drilling-holes-iphone-7-make-headphone-jack#/slide/1

 04:03 <stephenm> This is pretty sad, I might now like Apple but why

 04:03 <stephenm> Why China is the next proving ground for open source software

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-china-is-the-next-proving-ground-for-open-source-software/

 04:03 <stephenm> Interesting article actually

 04:03 <stephenm> 21 Open Source Projects for IoT

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/NEWS/21-OPEN-SOURCE-PROJECTS-IOT

 04:03 <stephenm> Turn Your Feature TV Into A Smart TV For $30

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/turn-your-feature-tv-smart-tv-30

 04:03 <stephenm> Depends on how much you paid for your TV in the first place

 04:04 <stephenm> 40 Percent of Organizations Store Admin Passwords in Word Documents

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.esecurityplanet.com/network-security/40-percent-of-organizations-store-admin-passwords-in-word-documents.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Old news which is very sad

 04:04 <stephenm> Sad reality: It's cheaper to get hacked than build strong IT defenses

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/09/23if_your_company_has_terrible_it_security_that_could_be_a_rational_business_decision/

 04:04 <stephenm> sad but true sometimes

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Easily Roll Back Changes with Snapper

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/how-easily-roll-back-changes-snapper

 04:05 <stephenm> Beginning Grep for Linux SysAdmins

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/beginning-grep-linux-sysadmins

 04:05 <stephenm> Open source projects for the Internet of Things, from A to Z

 04:05 <stephenm> http://hackerboards.com/open-source-projects-for-the-internet-of-things-from-a-to-z/

 04:05 <stephenm> Is an Editable Blockchain the Future of Finance?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.technologyreview.com/s/602434/is-an-editable-blockchain-the-future-of-finance/

 04:05 <stephenm> I don't know how I feel about this one

 04:05 <stephenm> The power of protocol analyzers

 04:05 <stephenm> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/09/the-power-of-protocol-analyzers/

 04:05 <stephenm> Red Hat Updates Enterprise Container Platform

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/cloud/red-hat-updates-enterprise-container-platform.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Apticron – Get Email alerts for pending package updates

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.ostechnix.com/apticron-get-email-alerts-pending-package-updates/

 04:06 <stephenm> A Linux user's guide to Logical Volume Management

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/business/16/9/linux-users-guide-lvm

 04:06 <stephenm> Alright folks thats all the news I have for tonight along with commentary

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <MajB> Jolly good stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <toddc> ready?

 04:07 <toddc> Q: Why did the computer squeak?

 04:07 <toddc> A: Because someone stepped on it's mouse!

 04:08 <MajB> Nooooo

 04:08 <toddc> Q: What does a baby computer call his father?

 04:08 <pavlos> data

 04:08 <toddc> A: Data!

 04:08 <toddc> pavlos: correct!

 04:08 <pavlos> ding ding

 04:08 <MajB> Yo pavlos

 04:09 <pavlos> yes sir

 04:09 <toddc> 1 nickel

 04:09 <toddc> Software Developer and Technical Support Specialist and Java dev

 04:09 <toddc> https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/

 04:09 <toddc> 24 current canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <toddc> Software Developer Tempe

 04:09 <toddc> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:10 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:10 <toddc> Amazon pick up and drop off Kiosks run linux

 04:10 <toddc> https://twitter.com/lgreer84/status/774653619522142208/photo/1?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw

 04:10 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:10 <toddc> Command line tool to share your UNIX terminal and forward local TCP ports to people you trust.

 04:11 <toddc> https://github.com/gravitational/teleconsole

 04:11 <toddc> who do I trust?

 04:11 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:11 <toddc> Keeping your lawn and flowers beautiful doesn’t have to be stressful. OpenSprinkler unchains you from your sprinkler or irrigation control box, enabling you to program, run, or stop zones at any time from anywhere.

 04:11 <toddc> https://opensprinkler.com/

 04:12 <toddc> now you run it on a pc and a PI

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:13 <MajB> 01 October, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 .  Gangplank, 260 S Arizona Avenue, Chandler, AZ.  There is free public parking just across the street next to Circle K.   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer yo

 04:13 <MajB> 06 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 15 October, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:14 <MajB> 27 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 27 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <toddc> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:15 <toddc> When Tue, September 27 8-9am

 04:15 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:15 <toddc> also be advised they are moving to youtube soon

 04:15 <toddc> infact all G+ meetings ar moving to youtube

 04:15 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:16 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:16 <xHans> Estrella Mountain Community College LUG is having a meeting this Wednesday

 04:16 <xHans> Club House Grill (Next to Safeway) @ 18:00

 04:16 <xHans> 14175 W Indian School Rd, Goodyear, AZ 85395

 04:16 <xHans> Oktober PLUG east presentations are on KDE and dynamic HA deployments

 04:16 <xHans> Title: An overview of HashiCorp's opensource tool set and how to get started on using it yourself.

 04:16 <xHans> Speaker: Anthony Kosednar

 04:17 <xHans> Title: KDE 20 year Celebration My Journey

 04:17 <xHans> Speaker: Scarlett Clark

 04:17 <xHans> For November we have dynamic environment creation for security testing and CLI f

 04:17 <xHans> inance tools

 04:17 <xHans> October is a jobs networking event before Stammtisch

 04:17 <xHans> we'll start at 18:00

 04:17 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:18 <MajB> xHans.  When I checked out Estrella Mountain LUG it was just for students.  has that changed?

 04:18 <xHans> MajB: I don't know, but they were advertising publicly

 04:19 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:19 <MajB> Roger that.  perhaps they have a guest speaker and want to draw a crowd.

 04:19 <xHans> toddc: bitte

 04:19 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:19 <xHans> MajB: I think they're electing officers and re-orging

 04:19 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:19 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 07 October 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 09 October 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:20 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 11 October 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD, Prescott, AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 12 October 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room B159, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 12 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 22 October 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 23 October 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 23 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> That is all I have for now.

 04:21 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:21 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:22 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
