{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 05 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-03-05-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/open-source-cloud-royalty-openstack-queens-released/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/elc-openiot/2018/3/hot-chips-face-mwc-and-embedded-world 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/memcached-ddos-the-biggest-baddest-denial-of-service-attacker-yet/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/When-Its-Time-for-a-Linux-Distro-Change-85165.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Endless-OS-Helps-Tear-Down-Linux-Wall-85152.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/SentinelOne-Debuts-Unified-OS-Threat-Protection-85136.html 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/thread-optimized-iot-gateway-adds-ubuntu-core-support/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/2/step-step-guide-becoming-kubernetes-contributor 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/security-modern-data-center/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Microsoft-Gives-Devs-More-Open-Source-Quantum-Computing-Goodies-85173.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Red-Hat-Adds-Zing-to-High-Density-Storage-85170.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/shell-scripting-and-security 
''LINK:'' https://kerneltalks.com/howto/how-to-upgrade-kernel-in-rhel-suse-ubuntu-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/bleachbit-2-release/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxscoop.com/video/whats-new-netrunner-rolling-2018-01 
''LINK:'' https://www.datamation.com/open-source/ubuntu-desktops-compared.html 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-fixes-ubuntu-16-04-lts-regression-causing-boot-failure-on-some-pcs-519320.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://phoenix.craigslist.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://system76.com/careers 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (52)
* MajB (37)
* stephenm (33)
* toddc (5)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar  5 04:00:01 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date   95774.59

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> I am three he is 4

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team events portal

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> 5 growing

 04:01 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <Ron_A> 

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <stephenm> News starts from general to more Linux.

 04:01 <stephenm> Open-source cloud royalty: OpenStack Queens released

 04:01 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/open-source-cloud-royalty-openstack-queens-released/

 04:02 <stephenm> Hot Chips Face Off at MWC and Embedded World

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/elc-openiot/2018/3/hot-chips-face-mwc-and-embedded-world

 04:02 <stephenm> Memcached DDoS: The biggest, baddest denial of service attacker yet

 04:02 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/memcached-ddos-the-biggest-baddest-denial-of-service-attacker-yet/

 04:02 <stephenm> When It's Time for a Linux Distro Change

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/When-Its-Time-for-a-Linux-Distro-Change-85165.html

 04:02 <stephenm> Endless OS Helps Tear Down Linux Wall

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Endless-OS-Helps-Tear-Down-Linux-Wall-85152.html

 04:02 <stephenm> SentinelOne Debuts Unified OS Threat Protection

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/SentinelOne-Debuts-Unified-OS-Threat-Protection-85136.html

 04:02 <stephenm> Thread-optimized IoT gateway adds Ubuntu Core support

 04:02 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/thread-optimized-iot-gateway-adds-ubuntu-core-support/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to make your first upstream Kubernetes contribution

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/2/step-step-guide-becoming-kubernetes-contributor

 04:03 <stephenm> Security in the Modern Data Center

 04:03 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/security-modern-data-center/

 04:03 <stephenm> Microsoft Gives Devs More Open Source Quantum Computing Goodies

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Microsoft-Gives-Devs-More-Open-Source-Quantum-Computing-Goodies-85173.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Red Hat Adds Zing to High-Density Storage

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Red-Hat-Adds-Zing-to-High-Density-Storage-85170.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Shell Scripting and Security

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/shell-scripting-and-security

 04:04 <stephenm> How to upgrade kernel in RHEL, Suse, Ubuntu Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://kerneltalks.com/howto/how-to-upgrade-kernel-in-rhel-suse-ubuntu-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Open Source Disk Cleaner App BleachBit Gets First Update After 19 Months

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/bleachbit-2-release/

 04:04 <stephenm> What’s New in Netrunner Rolling 2018.01

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxscoop.com/video/whats-new-netrunner-rolling-2018-01

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for this week.  Before I give it back to Ron_A, I found this earlier today.  Disclaimer keep children or Mac fanboys away from the screen, https://goo.gl/images/dcG8Nq

 04:05 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:05 <Ron_A> Ubuntu Desktops Compared

 04:05 <Ron_A> https://www.datamation.com/open-source/ubuntu-desktops-compared.html

 04:05 <Ron_A> Canonical Fixes Ubuntu 16.04 LTS Regression Causing Boot Failure on Some PCs

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-fixes-ubuntu-16-04-lts-regression-causing-boot-failure-on-some-pcs-519320.shtml

 04:05 <MajB> Excellent stephenm

 04:06 <Ron_A> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 01 April 			(Easter)

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:06 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:06 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:06 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:06 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:06 <Ron_A> Some people have told me they don't think a fat penguin really embodies the grace of Linux, which just tells me they have never seen an angry penguin charging at them in excess of 100mph. They'd be a lot more careful about what they say if they had.

 04:06 <Ron_A> -- Linus Torvalds, announcing Linux v2.0

 04:07 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <Ron_A> I  still maintain the point that designing a monolithic kernel in 1991 is a fundamental error. Be thankful you are not my student. You would not get a high grade for such a design :-) (Andrew Tanenbaum to Linus Torvalds)

 04:07 <Ron_A> Anyone can build a fast processor. The trick is to build a fast system. (Seymour Cray)

 04:07 <Ron_A> and get a new one every six months.  ~Clifford Stoll

 04:08 <Ron_A> 34 current canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:08 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:08 <Ron_A> Craigslist has 250 IT jobs

 04:08 <Ron_A> https://phoenix.craigslist.org/

 04:08 <toddc> Current Openings at System76

 04:08 <toddc> https://system76.com/careers

 04:08 <Ron_A> Thank you toddc

 04:08 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:08 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:09 <MajB> 17 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:09 <MajB> 22 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <MajB> 22 March, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 05 April,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 07 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:10 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 8 March 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:11 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 March 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:11 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 March 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 15 March 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:12 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  We will be discussing how I2P can increase your privacy, enhance your security, and reduce major corporations from being able to track you or use your browsing habits for their profits. We will also be discussi

 04:12 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 March 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the convers

 04:12 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 March 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 March 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 April 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:13 <Ron_A> Toddc do you have anything to add?

 04:13 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:13 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:13 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:13 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:13 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:13 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:13 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:13 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:13 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:13 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:14 <Ron_A> Good night all

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
