{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

02 May – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed the 24.04 release and a few problems that have arisen and work arounds associated with them.
* Discussed General Linux topics
04 May – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Discussed Nix OS, video cards, ProxMox, IPFire, Snap & SnapD, and Linux TV.
* Discussed the pros and cons of Linux containers/Flatpaks/Snaps/Docker.
* Conducted one install (Ubuntu 24.04)
05 May – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2005%2C%202024%20Meeting
09 May - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed the upcoming Installfest to be held 18 May.
* Displayed the new stickers, lanyards, etc that we have received from Canonical
* Discussed the new version of Ubuntu that was released on 25 April and the new and changed features that it contains.
* Demonstrated the features on a laptop with the new version installed.
09 May - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed Ubuntu 22.04
* Discussed VPNs and routers
18 May – AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest
* 8 attendees
* 11 installs (10 Ubuntu 24.04 and 1 Linux Mint Debian Edition)
* Repaired and updated computer with Ubuntu 22.04 installed
* Conducted one on one training sessions with two separate individuals
18 May - AZLOCO/PLUG Virtual Installfest/Workshop
* Data Not Available
19 May – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2019%2C%202024%20Meeting
23 May - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour
* Data Not Available
