{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



<pre>
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddc	+1
[21:00]	toddc	+2
[21:00]	spinrage	+1
[21:00]	TRG	+1
[21:00]	TRG	present
[21:00]	toddc	Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[21:00]	TRG	checks in with foursquare
[21:00]	toddc	Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
[21:00]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:00]	toddc	some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
[21:01]	toddc	Anybody here that is new tonight?
[21:01]	toddc	TRG say yes
[21:01]	TRG	yes?
[21:01]	TRG	this whole computer thing is new to me
[21:01]	toddc	tell a bit about yourself
[21:02]	toddc	who made you visit us?
[21:02]	TRG	My own curiosity made me visit. Once upon a time I was on IRC and decided to search for channels specific to AZ.
[21:03]	toddc	ok cool and welcome
[21:03]	TRG	I've been into linux distros for a long time. I ran slackware for years.
[21:03]	TRG	ran ubuntu 10.04 for a long time
[21:04]	toddc	what are you running on now?
[21:05]	scott_ev	TRG: runs OS/2 Warp
[21:05]	TRG	I am on an old XP machine. I have a dual boot Win7/Crunchbang Thinkpad too
[21:05]	toddc	close enough!!!---I love warp OS2
[21:05]	toddc	hey scott_ev
[21:06]	toddc	UBUNTU NEWS
[21:06]	TRG	OS/2 Warp 4.52 with the connect package yummy
[21:06]	scott_ev	allo
[21:06]	toddc	Homeland Security warns to disable Java amid zero-day flaw
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.zdnet.com/homeland-security-warns-to-disable-java-amid-zero-day-flaw-7000009713/
[21:06]	TRG	I like old hardware
[21:06]	TRG	wtf
[21:07]	toddc	I love puppy linux for my old stuff
[21:07]	toddc	and love my raspberry too
[21:07]	toddc	New Unity Tweak Tool Unleashed for Power Users
[21:07]	toddc	http://ostatic.com/blog/new-unity-tweak-tool-unleashed-for-power-users
[21:07]	TRG	since it got cold I fired up an old Prescott P4 machine to act as a space heater.
[21:08]	TRG	all I need to do is play a youtube video and my room gets warm
[21:08]	toddc	HA it might get tooo hot in there
[21:08]	toddc	Ultimate Edition 3.5 reveiw
[21:08]	toddc	http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/2013/01/08/ultimate-edition-3-5/
[21:08]	TRG	yeah damn this thing warms my legs big time
[21:08]	-->|	Rich__ (46c7c4ed@gateway/web/freenode/ip.70.199.196.237) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:08]	xHans	the raspberry generation with warp technology
[21:08]	TRG	PS there is already a fix out for that java thing I believe
[21:09]	xHans	or am I mixing up t* nicks
[21:09]	toddc	I may need to fire up some server's tonight
[21:09]	TRG	Oh I don't have a raspberry pi yet
[21:09]	TRG	but I might get one just so I can build a lego case for it
[21:10]	_ericcc	Excited for xHans' class tomorrow
[21:10]	toddc	homeland notice came out yesterday there are two concerns I belive
[21:10]	toddc	Ultimate Edition 3.5 reveiw
[21:10]	toddc	http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/2013/01/08/ultimate-edition-3-5/
[21:11]	toddc	LEGO Goes Linux
[21:11]	toddc	http://www.internetnews.com/blog/skerner/lego-goes-linux.html
[21:11]	_ericcc	linux legos!?!
[21:11]	_ericcc	bookmarked
[21:11]	toddc	yes robots kits
[21:11]	toddc	Euro Truck Simulator 2 Coming To Linux
[21:11]	toddc	http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTI3MzM
[21:12]	toddc	2013 linux gets gaming!!!
[21:12]	toddc	GNOME Disk Utility 3.7.1 Features Lots of Improvements
[21:12]	toddc	http://news.softpedia.com/news/GNOME-Disk-Utility-3-7-1-Features-Lots-of-Improvements-320713.shtml
[21:12]	TRG	http://www.raspberrypi.org/archives/1515
[21:12]	toddc	Pybackpack (Python Backpack) Manager tool for Ubuntu and Linux Mint
[21:12]	toddc	http://www.tecmint.com/pybackpack-python-backpack-manager-tool-for-ubuntu-and-linux-mint/
[21:13]	toddc	Install Ubuntu Linux on the $100 Zealz GK802 quad-core mini PC
[21:13]	toddc	http://liliputing.com/2013/01/install-ubuntu-linux-on-the-100-zealz-gk802-quad-core-mini-pc.html
[21:13]	toddc	Canonical narrows timeframe for Ubuntu for smartphones to 'late February'
[21:13]	toddc	http://www.engadget.com/2013/01/07/canonical-narrows-timeframe-for-ubuntu-for-smartphones-February/
[21:13]	toddc	I am Drooling
[21:13]	_ericcc	bookmark #2
[21:14]	TRG	linux powered rifle: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rogCB6FjAMw
[21:14]	toddc	Ubuntu On A Phone Or Firefox OS: Which Scares iPhone And Android Most?
[21:14]	toddc	http://www.techweekeurope.co.uk/comment/ubuntu-phone-firefox-os-linux-iphone-androi-103206
[21:14]	toddc	Top 5 reasons the Ubuntu Linux phone might make it
[21:14]	toddc	http://www.zdnet.com/top-5-reasons-the-ubuntu-linux-phone-might-make-it-7000009721/
[21:14]	toddc	Ubuntu 13.04 Desktop Comparison: 6 Desktops, 5 Driver/GPU Combinations
[21:14]	toddc	http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_raring_desktops1&num=1
[21:15]	toddc	The Perfect SpamSnake - Ubuntu Jeos 12.04 LTS Precise Pangolin
[21:15]	toddc	http://www.howtoforge.com/the-perfect-spamsnake-ubuntu-jeos-12.04-lts-precise-pangolin
[21:15]	toddc	Ubuntu Mobile Shows The Way For The Whole CE Industry
[21:15]	toddc	http://www.forbes.com/sites/ewanspence/2013/01/02/ubuntu-mobile-shows-the-way-for-the-whole-ce-industry/
[21:15]	toddc	has CES gone downhill ubuntu phone is big but not that big is it?
[21:16]	toddc	More fun with Windows 8 UEFI, Secure Boot, Fedora and Ubuntu
[21:16]	toddc	http://www.zdnet.com/more-fun-with-windows-8-uefi-secure-boot-fedora-and-ubuntu-7000009292/
[21:16]	toddc	$17,000 Linux-powered rifle brings “auto-aim” to the real world
[21:16]	toddc	http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2013/01/17000-linux-powered-rifle-brings-auto-aim-to-the-real-world/
[21:16]	toddc	The Bad news we no longer have the use of OneNeck to Host our severs.
[21:17]	toddc	The current plan
[21:17]	toddc	is to attempt to get our own rack at the same same location. I will be attempting this monday
[21:17]	toddc	but until futher notice our severs are offline and removed and stored here. And we will be open to other ideas as this unfolds. And we hope to be back up this week.
[21:17]	TRG	I'm not into this new ubuntu phone thing but I think I could get down with the firefox OS
[21:18]	toddc	azloco.com is Down
[21:18]	toddc	azloco.org is Down
[21:18]	toddc	lugy.com is down
[21:18]	TRG	you know you want that linode!
[21:18]	TRG	I'll try to fire it up tomorrow
[21:18]	ArchFan89	find a vps
[21:18]	xHans	toddc: need a place to host the sites ( but not hardware )?
[21:18]	TRG	guarantee it will be up by tuesday
[21:19]	toddc	I will know more mid week after I talk to Oneneck tomorrow
[21:19]	TRG	whats your email toddc I'll send you the credentials
[21:19]	toddc	toddc@azloco.com
[21:20]	TRG	email hosting still works?
[21:20]	xHans	TRG: he uses magic
[21:20]	xHans	or toddc has been wondering why he hasn't been getting any email
[21:20]	toddc	xHans that may be the next option but when we have everything built and ready and working as the class projects
[21:22]	toddc	many involved in the projects enjoyed A-Z build with donated parts and being able to install rack and boot
[21:22]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:22]	xHans	Tux keyboard at ZAReason: http://zareason.com/shop/Lighted-Tux-Keyboard.html
[21:22]	toddc	Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
[21:22]	toddc	jobs@oneneck.com
[21:22]	toddc	Several openings at Limelight Networks
[21:22]	toddc	http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
[21:23]	xHans	may I say something about those?
[21:23]	toddc	yes
[21:23]	xHans	as toddc said, Limelight Networks is hiring
[21:23]	xHans	Mostly sysadmins, but also network engineer ( lots and lots of routers ), managers and NOC
[21:23]	xHans	Some of the jobs: http://lists.phxlinux.org/lurker/message/20130109.200841.4cebea1d.en.html and http://lnkd.in/nXPn9G and http://lnkd.in/4rJNSb
[21:23]	TRG	lol @ http://www.winextra.com/tech/hardware/windows-phone-bsod-spotted-in-the-wild/
[21:24]	xHans	most do not require working in Tempe, but NOC must be on site in Tempe
[21:24]	_ericcc	wonders about the limelight noc, any jr/green positions open?
[21:24]	xHans	if you're interested, contact me
[21:24]	TRG	YHGTBFKM! http://cultofandroid.cultofmaccom.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/BAKUzguCIAADOjd.jpg
[21:24]	xHans	_ericcc: yes!
[21:25]	xHans	also, a recruiter who I might have recently been working with has started at a new company that is hiring, I will pass on info when I have it
[21:25]	xHans	toddc: ok, danke
[21:25]	toddc	+1 _ericcc add my support for him xHans
[21:25]	xHans	toddc: ok
[21:25]	xHans	_ericcc: please get me a resume
[21:25]	_ericcc	xHans, can I have your contact info?
[21:26]	_ericcc	I can ship that resume out to you tonight
[21:26]	xHans	_ericcc: no
[21:26]	xHans	_ericcc: see the pvt msg and get me your contact info, I'll send you the most accurate job description I have
[21:27]	toddc	Technical Operations Analyst at Athletes Performance
[21:27]	toddc	http://www.ziprecruiter.com/job/Technical-Operations-Analyst/2a5fa771/?
[21:27]	xHans	toddc: that's all the job stuff from me, thanks for giving me a chance to pipe up
[21:27]	toddc	anytime thanks
[21:28]	toddc	my new linux app of the week
[21:28]	toddc	nmon
[21:28]	toddc	http://nmon.sourceforge.net/pmwiki.php
[21:28]	toddc	ANDROID APP PICK
[21:28]	toddc	XBMC Server
[21:28]	toddc	https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.hogdex.XbmcServerFree&feature=nav_other#?t=W251bGwsMSwyLDYsImNvbS5ob2dkZXguWGJtY1NlcnZlckZyZWUiXQ..
[21:29]	toddc	UBUNTU HOUR
[21:29]	toddc	Thursday January 31 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
[21:29]	toddc	http://xtremebeancoffee.com
[21:29]	toddc	this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
[21:29]	toddc	TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
[21:30]	toddc	The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday January 9 at UAT 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
[21:30]	toddc	this Sat!!!!! be there
[21:30]	toddc	Tagose planning and development meeting on February 9 10am-4 pm 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
[21:30]	toddc	For more info see
[21:30]	toddc	AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28 but it is no longer there
[21:31]	toddc	TEMPE INSTALLFEST
[21:31]	toddc	Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is Febuary 2 at UAT 10am to 4 PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
[21:31]	toddc	We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/ but until we get organized
[21:31]	toddc	I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
[21:31]	toddc	If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:31]	toddc	UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:32]	toddc	January 15 7:00PM intro to QA testing
[21:32]	toddc	January 15 9:00PM intro to manual testing Cases Class
[21:32]	toddc	Ubuntu offers free online training several time a year
[21:32]	toddc	use the program Lernid or #ubuntu-clasroom in IRC freenode
[21:33]	toddc	Xhans do have any other classes?
[21:33]	xHans	toddc: ja
[21:33]	xHans	community college classes start this week ( universities probably do as well )
[21:33]	xHans	shell scripting, GNU/Linux network administration and intro to GNU/Linux are among the classes
[21:33]	xHans	http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=linux&subject_code=any&all_classes=true&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&startafter=&instructors=
[21:34]	xHans	instructors from MCC are regular participants in the LUGs and the LoCo
[21:34]	xHans	http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=linux&subject_code=any&all_classes=true&terms%5B%5D=4132&institutions%5B%5D=MCC04&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&startafter=&instructors=
[21:34]	xHans	toddc: that's the class info
[21:34]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:34]	toddc	Any thoughts on other events or projects???
[21:35]	toddc	xHans do you want to cover the other PLUG events?
[21:36]	xHans	sure, danke
[21:36]	xHans	The Free Software Stammtisch is this Tuesday night
[21:36]	xHans	19:00 at Iguana Macks in Chandler
[21:36]	xHans	we will also be discussing job openings this time
[21:36]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:36]	TRG	hey Iguana Macks is right by my work!
[21:37]	xHans	TRG: there you go, we made it easy just for you
[21:37]	TRG	okay I'll go. who all is gonna be there?
[21:37]	xHans	come hang out with us Tuesday night
[21:37]	toddc	meee
[21:37]	TRG	should I bring an SD card or something?
[21:38]	toddc	any nes on the Dev meetings?
[21:38]	xHans	TRG: sure
[21:38]	toddc	news
[21:38]	xHans	toddc: Ed has started up a github account. I believe the goal is for the dev group to help with the development of cheese
[21:39]	xHans	I do not know about the meetings
[21:39]	xHans	oh, one other thing
[21:39]	xHans	next month's PLUG east side meeting is on Valentine's Day
[21:39]	xHans	while we want people to show up, we also want those of us who might have personal obligations on that day to make sure they plan appropriately
[21:40]	toddc	do we know where yet?
[21:40]	xHans	toddc: no
[21:40]	TRG	trust me none of us have girlfriends/wives
[21:40]	toddc	ok we will announce that at a later date
[21:40]	TRG	sorry that was supposed to be funny
[21:40]	xHans	TRG: believe me, some of us do
[21:40]	xHans	
[21:40]	toddc	Developer Meeting Thursday Febuary 7
[21:40]	toddc	University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
[21:41]	toddc	is one the plug schedule but I have verified it is still on
[21:42]	toddc	xHans Thanks for keeping us up to date on plug/training events and classes
[21:42]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:43]	toddc	or everyone run out and buy a 17000.00 linux rife and have a good evening !!!
[21:43]	toddc	Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
