{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===

{{{
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<spinrage2> +1
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<dennisk> +1
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.04 CD's are in get with me and help Distribute them
<toddc> Ubuntu News
<spinrage2> jason, been using Ubuntu off on for 3yrs almost
<Dazed_75> Hi Jason
<toddc> hello I have seen you here a few times so welcome
<spinrage2> thanks
<toddc> http://galaxytabhacks.com/galaxy-tab-10-1-hacks/how-to-install-ubuntu-linux-on-galaxy-tab-10-1-tabuntu/
<toddc> install guide for LibreOffice 3.4
<toddc> http://www.libre-software.net/how-to-install-libreoffice-on-ubuntu-linux-mint
<scar> +1
<toddc> Phoronix benchmark tests Ext4 vs Btrfs
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_3_filesystems&num=1
<toddc> welcome scar
<scar> thx todd
<toddc> 88 Days till 11.10
<toddc> Install Linux MultiMedia Studio a great way to make or edit music 64 channels
<toddc> http://www.linuxnov.com/install-lmms-0-4-12-in-ubuntu-11-04-natty-narwhal-ppa/
<toddc> Munich Germany to convert 15,000 PC's to ubuntu 80% with IBM giving support on the migration
<toddc> http://www.muktware.com/news/28/2011/1578
<toddc> Thanks to Dazed_75 for keeping up the logs and dennisk for taking on education team and wiki and helping develop azloco.com
<toddc> During a recent Kbuntu 11.04 install I have found a new respect for Kbuntu and will be looking more at it in the future it really has come a long way
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> https://www.chandleraz.gov/hr/jobs/CSSPage_JobDetail.ASP?T=20110713121655&
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thanks to Shane Lofgren for getting both the azloco.com and test.azloco servers up to 10.04
<toddc> this is a bit of work so thank him if you see him in the channel he will also be updating  the Drupal soon so any Ideas to update the site please let us know we do hope to add our big blue button server
<toddc> to it as a user access from azloco.com
<toddc> lso the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Ubuntu Community Week training all week on #ubuntu-classroom see azloco.com calender
<toddc> free traning is good!
<toddc> Q and A with Amanda Brock of the Legal Team #ubuntu-classroom Friday July 22 10.30 am
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> I am planning on attending LUGY (Prescott LUGS)meeting August 9 7-9 if anyone else would like to go it should be a nice drive up
<toddc> I was thinking about a 11.10 release party/ meet and greet Oct 11 but need Idea's as to where?
<toddc> Some thoughts are UAT or a bar/ coffee shop or I hear there is wifi at Tempe Town lake maybe a BBQ?
<toddc> Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
<toddc> Team status must be renewed by July 19 we need to go before the loco councel on Tuesday AT 1PM
<toddc> at #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net. The more that show up to support us will help!
<dennisk> HeatSync Labs
<dennisk> München has been moving to Linux for a few years now. Anyone want to do an InstallFest there? We can take over the Mercedes showroom near the Hofgarten, in the heart of BMW town.
<toddc> that would work!
<Dazed_75> Cool
<toddc> both for the release party and a installfest and since you are buying the tickets
<dennisk> If Condor Air was still around I could afford the airfare. Great service, low prices.
<toddc> no comment? but heat sink will be fine  lets talk after the meeting
<toddc> this needs to be done if we want to keep active status as a Team we will also need to show events like the installfests and keep up your personal wiki's and
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> software Stammtisch Tuesday at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> West side free software Stammtisch Tuesday at Buffalo Wings  and Rings 7:00PM 2935 Dysart Rd. Avondale, AZ 85323
<dennisk> If I add something Ubuntu related to sahuaro.us does that help?
<toddc> it all helps
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<spinrage2> nothing from me.
<toddc> what day would be a good one for the release party
<dennisk> MySQL class at MCC coming up in the Fall with Phil Waclawski. Monday & Wednesday nights.
<toddc> cool
<toddc> oct 13 is the official release day
<toddc> for 11.10
<Dazed_75> I prefer release parties to FOLLOW the actual release
<dennisk> Also, I'm teaching two Intro to Linux classes Tuesdays & Thursdays - a morning class 8 to noon and again in the evening 6 to 9:40.
<toddc> a thursday the following sat would be hackfest but I can miss that with no problom
<dennisk> Can we combine a release party with an InstallFest on the usual Saturday?
<Dazed_75> Shall we say on 10/15 then?
<toddc> we need those classes on the wiki and azloco.com
<toddc> that woulds work also
<Dazed_75> Dennisk: We could but installfest days are often busy
<dennisk> I'll put them up this week.
<toddc> super
<Dazed_75> we could also ask Eric if he thinks he will still be doing server fests in October
<dennisk> Do we actually need to *do* something for a release party to be a release party?:-S
<Dazed_75> we should at least PRESENT the release
<Dazed_75> have some discussion on it
<toddc> no more of a advertisement and documentation so it would work fine and not subject us to a special part
<toddc> party
<dennisk> Tie CDs to helium balloons and release?
<toddc> ok can we tye you to one too?
<Dazed_75> 10.04.3 will be released this week on 7/21
<dennisk> LoL
<toddc> or use the old 11.04 cd/s
<toddc> scare birds and planes
<Dazed_75> Skeet anyone?
<dennisk> One of the techs at MCC is installing Slackware 3.5 (1997) on a machine just to see if he can.
<toddc> someone with too much spare time?
<dennisk> I bet the CDs would shine in the moonlite and look like UbuntuFos
<dennisk> Yep, and getting paid for it.
<toddc> reminder
<toddc> Team status must be renewed by July 19 we need to go before the loco councel on Tuesday AT 1PM
<toddc> at #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net. The more that show up to support us will help!
<dennisk> 1pm local time?
<toddc> we are also requesting a free ubuntu book for the team see
<toddc> http://www.jonobacon.org/2011/07/05/free-official-ubuntu-book-for-approved-loco-teams/
<toddc> yes 1 pm az time
<toddc> I triple check that one
<scar> guys my system froze and, upon rebooting, apparently some errors to /tmp were repaired. is there a log of what actually happened someplace? i checked syslog and messages but nothing's there
<toddc> https://wiki.kubuntu.org/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplicationrenewal#preview if you have any comments or wish to add a recommendation
<Dazed_75> not unless your IRC client keeps a log
<dennisk> If anyone has unwanted tech books HeatSync Labs has a community bookshelf.
<toddc> I found that chatzilla does but I have not turned it on
<Dazed_75> xchat does.  Its what I use
<toddc> I have a large collection of pdf computer related if they would like them approx 10gb as I recall
<scar> lol i mean a log of the hard drive errors/what was repaired, etc.
<dennisk> No, real books
<Dazed_75> ROFL  I did not understand
<toddc> ohh DuH
<Dazed_75> Lots of books, but mostly quite old
<toddc> scar not that I know of I would need to check the forum
<toddc> test hdd first
<scar> yeah i'll try the manufacturer's diagnostic
<Dazed_75> Disk Utility in Ubuntu will show you the S.M.A.R.T. dqta but there is really no log of errors there
<toddc> I have noticed that 11.04 on my main pc will get real slow with a lot of time /pages open latley so there may be a bug
<dennisk> I've read that S.M.A.R.T. isn't that reliable.
<[R]> if it doesnt report an error, that doesnt mean anyhting
<[R]> but if it does, taht means theres an error
<toddc> thanks [R]
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<dennisk> I've seen Fedora 15 report a failing hard drive using LiveCD & LiveCD. Don't know if S.M.A.R.T. is sending false info or Fedora is misreading something.
<toddc> I still keep a lot of OE HDD tools to test suspect drives
<dennisk> Steve Moulton (yourharddrivejustfailed.com, I think) has some great Tutorials on Youtube.
 }}}
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
