{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 February – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees
* Repaired a proxmox server with root delay to allow time to boot before bringing the zpool online
* Troubleshot a Zentyal server which was setting the gateway incorrectly
* Installed LineageOS (successor to Cyanogen) to an android phone
* A member sent a 15 unit, pi3 Lab to Oaxaca, Mexico for school kids
* There was lively discussion on various topics
* 03 February – AZLOCO/PLUG installfest/Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* Installed Ubuntu 16.04 in a Virtual box
* Repaired key ring for Ubuntu OS
* Changed permissions on the server settings
* Reset the sudo password for a PC
* Solved some Samba Server issues
* Installed Ubuntu 16.04 as a dual boot with Windows 10 on a laptop
* Built a Raspberry Pi for an attendee starting from an out of the box machine
* Built a Next Cloud server using a Raspberry Pi
* 04 February – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2004%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 11 February – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2011%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 18 February – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2018%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 22 February - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees (one new person)
* Discussed the upcoming events for for AZLOCO and the CLUG especially the Release Party on  21 April in Chandler and our own installfest on 28 April at the Sierra Vista Public Library.
* Discussed the upcoming release of Ubuntu 16.04.4 on 01 March.
* Handed out GRUB rescue cheat sheets to those present.
* Raised the question of whether we want to participate in the West End Fair this year.  All of the equipment that we require is already on hand.  The benefit from the two years that we have participated was only a total of three new Linux users.  No decision was made.
* Discussed the proposed Sunsites installfest.  That project is currently on hold until more information is obtained.
* In addition to the AZLOCO website, wiki pages, IRC channel, and mailing list, there exists the CLUG website, IRC channel, and mailing list.  So there is a wealth of places that you can go for assistance with your Linux problems.  Make use of them.  You of course can also bring your problem to a Ubuntu Hour or any of the CLUG meetings.
* Discussed what is Linux with the new attendee and demonstrated what a Linux distro looked like and what it could do.  Also handed out a list FOSS equivalents for Windows programs.
* 22 February Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Worked on software router Raspberry Pi project 
* Edit config files on a Raspberry Pi 
* General Linux chat
* 25 February AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2025%2C%202018%20Meeting
