{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #103 for the week August 5, August 9.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Third Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-August 12, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday August 16, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the August 9, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:04 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09August09

johnc4510 began by asking supergeekdave to introduce himself:  "new to Linux and Ubuntu, just want to see what its all about.  I live just outside of Florance, Johnsons ranch area"  The Team welcomed supergeekdave aboard.

johnc4510 , then gave some announcements:

* Karmic Alpha 4 freeze ahead: The fourth Karmic alpha release is planned for next Thursday, August 13. For more info visit this link: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-August/000598.html

* Landscape: Canonical Systems Management and Monitoring Tool: Landscape provides the growing number of businesses deploying multiple instances of Ubuntu on servers and desktops with the means to more easily manage and maintain their systems. The tool significantly reduces the cost of ownership and improves the efficiency of resources for any Ubuntu deployment. Landscape will now be available in two architectures: installed on-site or hosted as software as a service (SaaS) by Canonical.  When available in late September 2009, Landscape Dedicated Server will be offered at $150 per node plus server, installation and support fees. Those interested in being the first to get updates on this as well as the latest information may register at: http://www.canonical.com/landscape-server. The Landscape hosted service is currently available for a free 60 day trial at http://www.canonical.com/landscape/register. http://www.ubuntu.com

* Good article here on Migrating to an Encrypted Home Directory: http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/06/migrating-to-encrypted-home-directory.html .  For everyone who has a home directory that wants for make it encrypted.

* Full Circle Magazine #27 - the independent magazine for the Ubuntu Linux community: http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-27/

* Ubuntu-UK Podcast: Day of Reckoning - Ubuntu-UK Podcast: Day of Reckoning - http://podcast.ubuntu-uk.org/

* Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue154

johnc4510 then began a discussion on the Tucson installfest:

"scott_ev has been in contact with lenards working on the location.  It looks like the computer dept is wanting to get with us on this event and we could be in a room similar to this: http://cdb.uaav.arizona.edu/RoomDetails_fview.asp?roomID=386 .  Wifi, hard links, projectors, etc.  They are also wanting to make it an event that reoccurs."  scott_ev mentioned that the cs dept has migrated alot of their machines to Ubuntu.  He said that lenards has a meeting with them this week to find out a lot more.  scott_ev felt that we should have a location finalized by the end of the week.  Once we get the final to tyche we'll want to get the flier ready.  tyche asked for scott_ev to check on the permission to use either the U of A or CS department logo on the flier.  So...equipment won't be a problem for the installfest...we might want to have a few RJ45 cables.  tyche, if he gets to come is going to do an informal netbook demo.

scott_ev has been unable to get hold of zach at ASU about setting up a game server.  The discussion then led to the possibility of using the AZ LoCo server as a game server for this.  Jeff_Martin felt that it could be done.  There is a group that does games on Ubuntu, and they may also be requested for information on the "how-to's" and what kind of games to run.  It was felt that it should be limited to one or two games, since the primary purpose is to demonstrate, not to run a tournament.

Also, we have about 3 or so members in Flagstaff now...so he'd like to see us get an installfest going up there to down the road.

johnc4510 then asked xHans for the PLUG announcements:

* Classes start in two weeks, but this week is usually make or break week.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes .  We need a couple more students for the intro GNU/Linux class, CIS126DL:  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/CIS239DL.html .  We need a bunch of students for the OpenOffice.org and shell scripting classes: http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/BPC110.html .  Please note that the OpenOffice.org class is online and available outside Maricopa County.

* Prescott Free Software Stammtisch is Tuesday night: http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch and http://www.lugy.net/

* PLUG east side meeting this Thursday:
** ASUS EeePC with several different distros
** The Mozilla Suite: Songbird and Chatzilla
http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/134

* BlenderCAD in person and online meetings this Saturday:  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/1148

* Both Tempe and Avondale Stammtische are next week.  Hope everyone in the Valley shows up for at least one or the other.

* ABLEconf will have a call for presentations out this week.  Social networks for ABLEconf were updated this week:  http://www.ABLEconf.com/networks

johnc4510 thanked xHans for his announcements.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:49.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
