{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> +2?
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<Rich_> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc>  In the land of Linux, if you listen hard at night you can hear the whirr of Windows machines rebooting.
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS or just news
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> The Linux Filesystem Explained
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117435/htg-explains-the-linux-directory-structure-explained
<Dazed_75> Seven Ubuntu File Manager Features You May Not Have Noticed
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117494/7-ubuntu-file-manager-features-you-may-not-have-noticed
<Dazed_75> How to Enable Session Saving in Linux Mint 13
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/06/how-to-enable-session-saving-in-linux.html
<Dazed_75> KDE No Longer Competitive?  Developer Calls It Quits
<Dazed_75> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTEyNzI
<Dazed_75> How to Record Terminal Activities and Outputs to a log file.
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/06/how-to-record-terminal-activities-and.html
<Dazed_75> ASUS Quietly Launches New Ubuntu 12.04 Netbook
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/asus-quietly-launch-new-ubuntu-netbook
<Dazed_75> How to Fix Spotify Repo Key Change Error
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/how-to-fix-spotify-repo-key-change-error
<Dazed_75> Lens Toggle: Useful Apps to Enable/Disable Unity Lenses (Individually)
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/lens-toggle-useful-apps-to-enabledisable-unity-lenses.html
<Dazed_75> Here Are 6 Useful System Information Indicator for Ubuntu Based Distro
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/heres-6-system-information-indicator-for-ubuntu-12-04-lts.html
<Dazed_75> How Software Installation and Package Managers Work on Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117579/htg-explains-how-software-installation-package-managers-work-on-linux
<Dazed_75> Find Out Which Web Sites Are Tracking You
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117337/find-out-which-websites-are-tracking-you-across-the-web
<Dazed_75> Banish Duplicate Photos with Visipic (runs in WINE)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117559/how-to-banish-duplicate-photos-with-visipic
<Dazed_75> How to Install KVM and Create Virtual Machines on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117635/how-to-install-kvm-and-create-virtual-machines-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Another Dual Core Android Computer on a Stick
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2012/06/27/andhdm2s-dual-core-android-computer-on-a-stick-with-hdmi-connectivity/
<Dazed_75> Deluge vs Transmission
<Dazed_75> http://worldofgnome.org/deluge-vs-transmission/
<Dazed_75> Linux Essentials Program (Certification) is Available Now
<Dazed_75> http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/169388/
<Dazed_75> Enable Screen Lock in Linux Mint 13 MATE
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/06/enable-screen-lock-in-linux-mint-13.html
<Dazed_75> Use Apt-Fast to Speed Up Your Package Download Speed in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/apt-fast-speed-up-package-download-in-ubuntu/2012/06/29
<Dazed_75> Qubes OS: A Linux Distro for Security and Virtualization
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/qubes-os-a-linux-distro-for-security-and-virtualization/2012/06/28
<Dazed_75> Install Hundreds of Fonts in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/install-hundreds-of-fonts-in-ubuntu/2012/06/27
<Dazed_75> Browse Ubuntu Folders from Your Android on a LAN
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/browse-ubuntu-folders-from-android-on-lan/2012/06/26
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.10 Alpha 2 Released
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/ubuntu-12-10-alpha-2-released
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Adoption in India Grew 160% Last Year
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/ubuntu-adoption-grew-160-in-india-last-year
<Dazed_75> AppShowdown Update and How to Add Unity, Ubuntu One. Social Features and More to Your App
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/how-to-add-unity-ubuntu-one-social-features-more-to-your-appshowdown-apps
<Dazed_75> Calise Sets the Screen Backlight Based on Ambient Brightness
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/calise-sets-screen-backlight-based-on.html
<Dazed_75> Pinguy OS 12.04 LTS Released
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/pinguy-os-1204-lts-has-been-released.html
<Dazed_75> Nvidia Display Driver 301.17 Stable for Linux Released! How to Install It on Ubuntu Based Distros
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/06/nvidia-display-driver-302-17-released-how-to-install-it-on-ubuntu-based-distros.html
<Dazed_75> How to Enable Hibernation in Linux Mint 13
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/06/how-to-enable-hibernation-in-linux-mint.html
<Dazed_75> How to Enable Session Saving on Linux Mint 13 MATE
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/06/how-to-enable-session-saving-in-linux.html
<Dazed_75> The Weird Code Names for Linux Kernels
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/06/weird-names-of-linux-kernels.html
<Dazed_75> How to Change Your Default Applications on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     (NOTE: If you copy the cli commands, change the long dash to double hyphens)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117709/how-to-change-your-default-applications-on-ubuntu-4-ways
<Dazed_75> A Standing Desk for $22 (and some ideas)
<Dazed_75> http://iamnotaprogrammer.com/Ikea-Standing-desk-for-22-dollars.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.tinkeringmonkey.com/site/do-your-back-a-favor-get-a-standing-desk/
<Dazed_75> How to View and Write to System Logs
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117878/how-to-view-write-to-system-log-files-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> The Best Web Sites for Free Online Courses, Certificates, and Educational resources
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/117674/the-best-websites-for-free-online-courses-certificates-degrees-and-educational-resources
<Dazed_75> Screenshots of MANY Linux Distributions
<Dazed_75>     http://www.chrishaney.com/?linux
<Dazed_75> The State of Firewire Audio Inyerfaces Support on Linux
<Dazed_75> http://libregraphicsworld.org/blog/entry/the-state-of-firewire-audio-interfaces-support-on-linux
<Dazed_75> Best of Both Worlds?  Add Classic Menu Indicator to Unity
<Dazed_75> http://lifehacker.com/5922344/classicmenu-indicator-brings-ubuntus-classic-menu-to-unity
<Dazed_75>     http://www.florian-diesch.de/software/classicmenu-indicator/
<Dazed_75>     and just a reminder how to add a PPA to Your Software Sources
<Dazed_75>     https://help.launchpad.net/Packaging/PPA/InstallingSoftware
<Dazed_75> Thats it from Apache Junction
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc> I have one more
<toddc> Ubuntu Adoption Grew 160% in India Last Year
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/ubuntu-adoption-grew-160-in-india-last-year
<toddc> New Asus PC Comes with Ubuntu Linux Preloaded
<toddc> http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/258454/new_asus_pc_comes_with_ubuntu_linux_preloaded.html
<toddc> Ubuntu Unity: Making the desktop seriously efficient again
<toddc> http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/opensource/ubuntu-unity-making-the-desktop-seriously-efficient-again/3701
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> We now have 12.04 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 Adrenaline or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Operations / Applications Engineer
<toddc> http://d8030050.lyjob9.com/74106cha4
<toddc> Computer Support Specialist Chandler AZ
<toddc> Reply to: emp@mtitechsolutions.com
<toddc> Linux System- Team Lead (Los Angeles)
<toddc> la-systems-jobs@inmotionhosting.com
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> NOC Services Technician (T1)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit/?id=1560271
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> is thursday July 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extream Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is July 7  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on Saturday July 14 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> this event was cancelled but we are going to meet and build a new team server.  IJoin us if you can.
<toddc> Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday July 21 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> July 14 we have Special Build event . We are planning on a team VM server. All are welcome to join and help and debug before we install it at the Data center.
<toddc> Thanks to Dewayne and Justin  we have cleaned up the server cabnet and verified three extra IP's to play with and tested bandwith at 33M down 17 up per IP Thanks guys!!!
<toddc> if some one has a few minuets and some drupal knowledge need some web redesign
<toddc> please contact adrenaline or myself
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> No classes this week
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest has a new home
<toddc> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/meetings/20-linux-security-hackfest/87-linux-security-hackfest-has-a-new-home.html
<toddc> Developer Meeting July 5, 7-9pm at University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday July 12 7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday July 17 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
