{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

01 November - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2001%2C%202020%20Meeting
05 November - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* Canceled because of technical problems.
07 November - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Repaired a computer that had a sound issue and cleaned the system.
* Discussed AWS.
12 November - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees.  One new person.
* Canonical has announced the release date for Ubuntu 21.04, Hirsute Hippo as 22 April 2021. 	The release of Ubuntu 20.04.2 is expected some time early January.
* Linus has pushed a new kernel, 5.10 rc3.
* There are 10 computers that have been upgraded, had a Linux system installed on them, and are ready to be donated.  Six are 32 bit and 4 are 64 bit.
* A member had a problem mounting his external hard drive.  That problem was solved and the drive was formatted and partitioned for him.
* A member had an HP printer problem.  His printer would only print one page of a multi-page document.  Two solutions were  offered.  Install HPLIP to get the new version.  Also sudo HP-setup -i has worked in the past.
* A member had a problem with Chromium crashing his system.  Since he did not have his computer with him it was recommended that he use the software manager to install the browser after he uninstalled what he had currently installed.
* Discussed whether it was a good idea to store passwords on Firefox.  If you create a Firefox account they can be synced with your account.
