{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
[21:00]	toddc_	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddc_	+1+2
[21:00]	tuxmann	+1
[21:00]	toddc_	Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[21:00]	toddc_	Team Website is http://azloco.org/
[21:00]	toddc_	Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
[21:00]	toddc_	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:00]	toddc_	some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
[21:01]	toddc_	Anybody here that is new tonight?
[21:01]	toddc_	lets start with the news!!
[21:01]	toddc_	the news tonight is brought to you by tuxmann and ArchFan89
[21:01]	tuxmann	Thanks toddc!
[21:01]	toddc_	over to tuxmann for the news
[21:01]	tuxmann	Debian gets served by Bytemark ( New hosting Server)
[21:01]	tuxmann	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Debian-gets-served-by-Bytemark-1836410.html
[21:02]	tuxmann	Ubuntu only supports non lts releases for 9 months now
[21:02]	tuxmann	http://www.muktware.com/5415/ubuntu-cuts-non-lts-support-18-months-9-months
[21:02]	tuxmann	Upgrade To Gvfs With MTP Support In Ubuntu 12.10 Or 12.04 To Easily Connect Android 4.0+ Devices
[21:02]	tuxmann	http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/upgrade-to-gvfs-with-mtp-support-in.html
[21:02]	tuxmann	Firefox 20 Lands In Ubuntu, Brings Per-Window Private Browsing, New Download Manager
[21:02]	tuxmann	http://www.webupd8.org/2013/04/firefox-20-lands-in-ubuntu-brings-per.html
[21:02]	tuxmann	Ubuntu Virtual Machine: Guest and Host ( intro to Virtual Machines)
[21:02]	tuxmann	http://www.datamation.com/open-source/ubuntu-virtual-machine-guest-and-host-1.html
[21:03]	tuxmann	New Ubuntu T-Shirts Go On Sale in Canonical Store
[21:03]	tuxmann	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/official-raring-t-shirts-new-notebook-added-to-ubuntu-online-shop
[21:03]	tuxmann	HTML5: Alive And Well With CIOs
[21:03]	tuxmann	http://www.linux.com/news/software/applications/712670-html5-alive-and-well-with-cios
[21:03]	tuxmann	Ubuntu 13.04 (Raring Ringtail) Beta 2 released
[21:03]	tuxmann	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule
[21:04]	tuxmann	Ubuntu “Raring Ringtail” hits beta, disables Windows dual-boot tool
[21:04]	tuxmann	http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/04/ubuntu-raring-ringtail-hits-beta-disables-windows-dual-boot-tool/
[21:04]	tuxmann	Chromium announces new open source rendering engine project Blink
[21:04]	tuxmann	http://www.linuxtoday.com/it_management/chromium-announces-new-open-source-rendering-engine-project-blink.html
[21:04]	tuxmann	Apache OpenMeetings hits first Open Source Top Level Project Release
[21:04]	tuxmann	http://www.internetnews.com/blog/skerner/apache-openmeetings-hits-first-open-source-top-level-project-release.html
[21:05]	tuxmann	Alienware/Dell sells Gaming PCs with Ubuntu
[21:05]	tuxmann	http://www.steamforlinux.com/?q=en/node/204
[21:05]	tuxmann	http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2013/04/alienwares-latest-gaming-pc-has-linux-on-it-plays-over-25-games/
[21:05]	tuxmann	Nvidia's 3D Tegra driver now open sourced
[21:05]	tuxmann	http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/183599/index.html
[21:05]	tuxmann	DistroWatch.com announces changes from tracking 746 distros to the top 25
[21:05]	tuxmann	http://distrowatch.com/weekly.php?issue=20130401
[21:06]	tuxmann	That's all I have tonight.
[21:06]	toddc_	Thanks tuxmann!! great Job!! toddc is clapping his KB
[21:06]	toddc_	JOB LIST
[21:07]	tuxmann	thanks!
[21:07]	toddc_	Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
[21:07]	toddc_	https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
[21:07]	toddc_	Several openings at Limelight Networks
[21:07]	toddc_	http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
[21:07]	toddc_	Systems/Infrastructure Engineer
[21:07]	toddc_	wkqxh-3718691037@job.craigslist.org
[21:07]	toddc_	NetApp Engineer
[21:07]	toddc_	http://mediariders.com/jobDetails.php?jobOrdrNo=273&companyuser=mri&akken_jpage=jobDetails.php&akken_cpage=jobLogin.php&akken_cppage=applicantProfile.php&akken_url=http://mediariders.com&akken_source=&akken_jloc=&akken_jtype=
[21:08]	toddc_	Android App Pick of the week
[21:08]	toddc_	ASC
[21:08]	toddc_	https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.benzul.asc&hl=en
[21:08]	toddc_	Linux App of the week
[21:08]	toddc_	Jitsi
[21:08]	toddc_	https://jitsi.org/
[21:08]	toddc_	vokoscreen ( a new Way to record your desktop)
[21:08]	toddc_	http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=de&u=http://www.kohaupt-online.de/hp/&prev=/search%3Fq%3Dvokoscreen%26hl%3Den%26client%3Dubuntu%26hs%3DHpK%26channel%3Dfs&sa=X&ei=DP1hUbfCDKmq2gXPsoGYDg&ved=0CD4Q7gEwAQ
[21:09]	toddc_	UBUNTU HOUR
[21:09]	toddc_	Thursday April 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
[21:09]	toddc_	http://xtremebeancoffee.com
[21:09]	toddc_	this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
[21:10]	toddc_	we are also close to announcing a Tuscan Ubuntu hour possibly on april 20 I will know more later tonight
[21:10]	toddc_	TEMPE INSTALLFEST
[21:10]	toddc_	Please note that that we have had to cancel the April 13th Tagose event since UAT will be need all of there rooms that day. But we are looking into alternative locations
[21:10]	toddc_	We have also had to cancel the April 20 installfest for the same reason
[21:11]	xHans	toddc: I just let Brian know about those cancellations
[21:11]	toddc_	On the Tucson ubuntu hour I may drive down there to help it get started so we could carpool if anyone is interested
[21:12]	toddc_	Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday May 4 and Saturday May 18 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
[21:13]	toddc_	thanks xhans we did tell him and Dazed_75 emailed him I think
[21:13]	toddc_	For more info see
[21:13]	tuxmann	I will be creating a google+ event approximately 2 wks before the event.
[21:13]	toddc_	AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
[21:13]	toddc_	If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:13]	xHans	toddc: ok, just wanted to make sure. Figured Dazed_75 told him.
[21:14]	toddc_	UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:14]	toddc_	all classes are canceled this week the ubuntu training team is on vacation!
[21:14]	toddc_	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:14]	toddc_	Any thoughts on other events or projects???
[21:15]	toddc_	over to xHans for plug and MCC
[21:15]	tuxmann	There are some new people who appear interested in attending the next installfest.
[21:15]	xHans	PLUG east side is moving to a new location this week
[21:15]	xHans	Desert Breeze Substation in Chandler
[21:15]	xHans	251 N Desert Breeze Blvd W, Chandler, AZ 85226-6913
[21:15]	xHans	the presentation will be about graphing with gnuplot from Walter
[21:15]	xHans	I'm looking forward to Walter's presentation
[21:16]	xHans	Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday at Iguana Mack's
[21:16]	toddc_	tuxmann: yes we should point out that you are doing G+ event listing and it seems to be helping
[21:16]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:17]	xHans	and that's it from me
[21:17]	toddc_	xHans Thanks for keeping us up to date on phoenix linux user group events
[21:17]	xHans	bitte
[21:18]	toddc_	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:18]	toddc_	Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
