{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 08 Apr at 03:59 &mdash; 04:14 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-04-08-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://techrights.org/2019/03/28/lf-priority-should-be-freedom/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.eweek.com/development/the-apache-software-foundation-continues-to-grow-open-source-software 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/4/mindfulness-over-multitasking 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/4/write-git 
''LINK:'' https://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2019/04/linux-for-slow-laptop.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.eweek.com/cloud/suse-advances-enterprise-cloud-efforts 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/disable-ssh-root-login-and-permit-the-root-user-via-su-user-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-curl-commands-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/get-cpu-information-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-compress-and-decompress-files-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhandbook.com/linux-memory-usage/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/03/ksnip-screenshot-tool-adds-wayland.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/linux-tr-command.html 
''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/command-line-quick-tips-cutting-content-out-of-files/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/suse-linux-and-enterprise-raspberry-pi/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/04/automatically-mount-usb-drives-on.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-create-the-bulk-users-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-compress-files-folders-to-zip-tar-xz-and-7z-format-in-ubuntu-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/boot-recovery-mode-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/squid-proxy-server-clustering-pacemaker-centos7-rhel7/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/blugon-blue-light-filter-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-memcached-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/25-years-later-interview-linus-torvalds 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/990/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (51)
* stephenm (48)
* RexB (27)
* xHans (14)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (2)
* pirateP (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <Ron_A> #startmeeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Apr  8 03:59:44 2019 UTC.  The chair is Ron_A. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 03:59 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <RexB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <pirateP> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date 96866.14

 04:00 <Ron_A> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:00 <Ron_A> 

 04:00 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:00 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <stephenm> News is long because I forgot that last week wasn't meeting.

 04:01 <stephenm> Constructive Suggestions for the Linux Foundation

 04:01 <stephenm> http://techrights.org/2019/03/28/lf-priority-should-be-freedom/

 04:01 <stephenm> The Apache Software Foundation Continues To Grow Open-Source Software

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.eweek.com/development/the-apache-software-foundation-continues-to-grow-open-source-software

 04:02 <stephenm> Why you should choose mindfulness over multitasking

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/4/mindfulness-over-multitasking

 04:02 <stephenm> How writers can get work done better with Git

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/4/write-git

 04:02 <stephenm> Linux For A Slow Laptop

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2019/04/linux-for-slow-laptop.html

 04:02 <stephenm> SUSE Advances Enterprise Cloud Efforts

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.eweek.com/cloud/suse-advances-enterprise-cloud-efforts

 04:02 <stephenm> Disable SSH root Login And Permit The root User Via su User In Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/disable-ssh-root-login-and-permit-the-root-user-via-su-user-in-linux/

 04:02 <stephenm> How to Use cURL Command in Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-curl-commands-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Get CPU Information on Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/get-cpu-information-on-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to compress and decompress files using gzip and bzip2 programs

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-compress-and-decompress-files-in-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Check Memory Usage in Linux With These Commands

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxhandbook.com/linux-memory-usage/

 04:03 <stephenm> Ksnip Screenshot Tool Adds Wayland Support, New Annotation Tools

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/03/ksnip-screenshot-tool-adds-wayland.html

 04:03 <stephenm> An interesting look at the Linux tr Command

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/linux-tr-command.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Command line quick tips: Cutting content out of files

 04:04 <stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/command-line-quick-tips-cutting-content-out-of-files/

 04:04 <stephenm> SUSE Linux and enterprise Raspberry Pi

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/suse-linux-and-enterprise-raspberry-pi/

 04:04 <stephenm> Automatically Mount USB Drives On Ubuntu Or Debian Server With USBmount

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/04/automatically-mount-usb-drives-on.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Create The Bulk Users In Linux?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-create-the-bulk-users-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Compress Files/Folders to .zip, tar.xz and 7z format in Ubuntu Desktop

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-compress-files-folders-to-zip-tar-xz-and-7z-format-in-ubuntu-desktop/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Boot to Recovery Mode (Safe Mode) in Ubuntu

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/boot-recovery-mode-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Configure two node Squid (Proxy Server) Clustering using Pacemaker on CentOS 7 / RHEL 7

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechi.com/squid-proxy-server-clustering-pacemaker-centos7-rhel7/

 04:05 <stephenm> Blugon - A Blue Light Filter for X

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/blugon-blue-light-filter-for-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Memcached (Caching Server) on CentOS 7

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-memcached-on-centos-7/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you Ron_A

 04:05 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:05 <Ron_A> 

 04:05 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:05 <RexB> Thanks stephenm

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:05 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:05 <Ron_A> 25 Years Later: Interview with Linus Torvalds

 04:05 <Ron_A> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/25-years-later-interview-linus-torvalds

 04:06 <Ron_A> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <RexB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <RexB> 04 May, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop

 04:06 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:06 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:06 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:06 <Ron_A> See any adminitrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:06 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <Ron_A> What’s a aliens favorite computer key?

 04:07 <Ron_A> The space bar!

 04:07 <Ron_A> ... one of the main causes of the fall of the Roman Empire was that,

 04:07 <Ron_A> lacking zero, they had no way to indicate successful termination of

 04:07 <Ron_A> their C programs.

 04:07 <Ron_A> -- Robert Firth

 04:08 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:08 <Ron_A> 65 current canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:08 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:08 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:08 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:08 <Ron_A> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:08 <RexB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:08 <RexB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <RexB> 11 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <RexB> 20 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:09 <RexB> are.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <RexB> 25 April,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <RexB> 02 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <RexB> 04 May, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  Canceled.  Venue not available.

 04:09 <RexB> 04 May, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Drive, Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media.

 04:09 <RexB> You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:10 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:10 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:10 <xHans> PLUG east side meeting is this Thursday at 19:00

 04:10 <xHans> we have two topics

 04:10 <xHans> 75 Years of Computing in 60 Minutes

 04:11 <xHans> SUNI the Robot presents STEM in America open source addition

 04:11 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/990/east-valley-meeting/

 04:11 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:11 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday

 04:11 <xHans> There's a jobs networking event first at 18:00

 04:11 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:11 <xHans> PLUG Security is a week from Thursday

 04:11 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:12 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:12 <Ron_A> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:12 <RexB> Thanks xHans

 04:12 <xHans> bitte

 04:12 <RexB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:12 <RexB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:12 <RexB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:12 <RexB> Meeting on 28 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:12 <RexB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:12 <RexB> Meeting on 03 May 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:13 <RexB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 10 April 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:13 <RexB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 27 April 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:13 <RexB> 04 May, CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest, 1100-1500, Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Drive, Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media.

 04:13 <RexB> You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:13 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB!

 04:13 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:13 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:13 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:14 <Ron_A> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
