{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #37 for the week February 25 - March 2.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Thirty-Seventh Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-March 5, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday March 9, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

It looks like enigmastrat will be able to host the Phoenix Installfest in conjunction with a local LAN party he hosts there. They meet in a local church's gym so there is plenty of room. They also have wired and wireless net access and plenty of power. He is going to check on whether or not there are tables available. We will get the address and set up the flier accordingly. A big thanks to him for helping the team out on this!

==== Summary of the March 2, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

There was a new member present, and johnc4510 asked him to introduce himself.  rich1 lives in Phoenix, and has been using K/Ubuntu for about 4 years.  rich1 was welcomed into the team.

Last week we were working on the flier for the InstallFest.  soldats and tyche had both come up with proposals during the week, and they could be found at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=704786.  A general discussion of the two resulted in the selection of soldat's proposal for the artwork, but tyche's for the basis of the text.  The text would have to be suitably trimmed down to fit the available space.  johnc4510 suggested that the AWN style dock at the bottom of the page should be eliminated because it is not part of the Ubuntu distribution and to create more space.

A discussion took place about whether or not to include a brochure with the flier.  This would mean that there would be more printing, which would mean more expense.  It was determined that Office Max charged 44 cents per copy for color printing.  Staples charged 49 cents per copy.  Some felt that they might be able to pay for printing, but most agreed that printing them at home would be less expensive.

A discussion then took place concerning what text to pare out of tyche's version of the flier.  A number of things were deleted, and some added, and the list of applications was generalized to descriptions rather than being named.  tyche will send soldats the changes he's made in the text, and soldats will post a revision on the AZ forum for further input.

As a final note, johnc4510 mentioned that there had been a problem in the channel concerning the references to what people were listening to.  As a result, johnc4510 created a new channel, ##Arizona-Music, specifically for "now playing" posts and music references.

The meeting was adjourned at 10:09 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

