{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #120 for the week March 1, march 7, 2010.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Twentieth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-March 10, 2010
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

* Next meeting: Sunday March 14, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the March 7, 2010 meeting ====

toddc called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10March7

toddc began with some announcements:

* Lucid Alpha 3 Released - You can download it here:
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-3/ (Ubuntu)
** http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-3/ (Ubuntu Server for UEC and EC2)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-3/ (Kubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-3/ (Xubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-3/ (Edubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-3/ (Mythbuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/lucid/alpha-3/ (Ubuntu Studio)

* Can you hear the music? - Ubuntu One Store FAQ: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOne/MusicStore

* New Ubuntu Members: Americas Board Meeting - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-news-team/2010-February/000872.html

* Ubuntu Brainstorm Top 5 this week:
** Idea Lifetimes - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23756/
** Auto-solving problems in synaptic, when "no space left on device" - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23784/
** Avoid duplication of the "Generating Grub.cfg" script during upgrade - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23797/
** evolution should import emails and addressbook at instalation - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23774/
** slow ISP bandwidth speeds and no way to prove it - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23789/
 Ubuntu Brainstorm is a community site geared toward letting you add your ideas for Ubuntu. You can submit your own idea, or vote for or against another idea. http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/

* Dustin Kirkland: Attention Encrypted Home Users:
** http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/08/moving-your-encrypted-home-meta-data.html
** http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2010/02/attention-encrypted-home-users.html

* Laura Czajkowski: Ubuntu Women has a new IRC Channel - http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/02/25/ubuntu-women-new-channel/

* A preview of Ubuntu 10.04 - http://thepcreport.net/2010/02/preview-of-ubuntu-10-04/

* An Update On The Boot & Power Performance In Ubuntu 10.04 - http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_lucid_boot2&num=1

* Ubuntu goin' gray, like the Mac OS way? - http://www.junauza.com/2010/02/ubuntu-goin-gray-like-mac-os-way.html

* Ubuntu 10.04 Alpha 3 Released - What's new? - http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/02/ubuntu-1004-alpha-3-released-later.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28Omg!+Ubuntu!%29

* It has been noted that not many people have been making it to out installfests looking for help.  This is, perhaps, because there's no real advertising.  So a few of us got together and discussed options.  What we came up with is adding another installfest at the Tempe Escalante Community Center on a trial (3 months) basis.  This way The City of Tempe offers us 3 ways to get the word out:  via their newsletter that goes to every resident of Tempe, by adding us to the bulletTODDin board on channel 11, and by adding us to the website for the city.  We can get more advertising by putting fliers up at other city locations like schools, libraries, community centers, and other city facilities.  We went ahead and made arrangements because we were trying to get into the newsletter.  The manager of the Escalante Center thought we could get into it this quarter but he was wrong.  It's not a huge commitment so we went for it without team approval.  Please also not that this is a co-operative effort between PLUG and the AZ Loco and every effort is being made to keep it that way.  We want everyone to be informed and have an opportunity to add their input.  So the schedule for installfests will be as follows for the next few months:
** Feb 27th - UAT,
** Mar 20 - Escalante
** Mar 27 - UAT
** April 10 Escalante
** April 24 - UAT
** April 24 - Licid Release Party - Boulders,
** May 8 - Escalante
** May 22 - UAT
 http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1399585
 http://www.azloco.com/node/128

* We are testing a standerized install for ubuntu that should help new users install a complete system start to finish if anyone would like a copy to test and give me feed back please email me at toddc@azloco.com .  We also are making new check in sheets for the installfests that we can use if they get real busy that should help speed installs.  Sheet 1 is a sign in and to find out what they are ther to do IE learn or install.  #2 has them fill in machine info and what type of install dual boot or type of install IE vm,vb multi os.  We trying to make the installs faster and easier for every one and more fun so come and join the fun.

* There will be a 10.04 Lucid Lynx release party at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe (http://www.bouldersonbroadway.net/) on the 24th of April. Boulders on Broadway has a room upstairs that we will have all to ourselves.We'll have wifi access too.  It's going to be a good chance to eat some good grub, have a few drinks or brewski's and meet some of the other UbuGeekTODDs that you have only met online. You're not going to want to miss this.  Someone can pick out new features in 10.04 and present them or concentrate on one for example.  Anything to do with Ubuntu will be OK.  Things like how to navigate Launchpad and report bugs.  Actually, if you have a favorite piece of software that you use you can present that even if it's not in Ubuntu's repos.  Please be thinking about this.  It will only make the Release Party more of a success.  Here is a link to the Lucid Lynx planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/LucidLynx  Feel free to add to the ideas section or fill in anything that might be missing.  We will be heading there from the monthly installfest at UAT. http://tinyurl.com/yemru26 If you've never been to an installfest at UAT, you may want to consider checking it out.  Our LoCo co-sponsors it with PLUG but we are poorly represented.  There's a proposed flyer posted at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1388113 please give us your feedback in the form of a vote with coments if needed.  It's a chance to help another linux user or, better yet, possibly install Linux an a computer that currently is running that other OS.  http://azloco.com/node/120

* I've started the making plans for our next instalfest in Tucson at the University.  Andrew Lenards made the necessary introductions to get the ball rolling and start communication between us ans the CS dept. One of our team in Tucson, syn-ack, has volunteered to be our local person of contact for this.  I have sent him all contact info I have in the CS dept.  So, it's time to start thinking about how we want to organize this event.  I'll need feedback from those of you that attended last time.  And I'm open to input.  We'll need to do alot of planning so we can put on a good show for all attendees.  Remember that the University called it a Windows Removal Event.  That's because the CS dept has migrated to Ubuntu Linux!  I'd imagine they are wondering where we've been since they wanted us to schedule regular installfests.  This would be a great opportunity to promote Ubuntu Linux to students and the general public in Tucson.  We'll need volunteers for a variety of duties so please please spread the word in channel and via email that we are calling for help.

* Nate Hutchuns brought up the point that we need to set some guidelines about hardware requirements for different types of installs at an installfest.  There are regular installs, dual boot installs, Virtual Machine installs, and Wubi installs.  Apparently there was some issue with low powered machines and VM installs.  We really should avoid trying to run into this at the next installfest.

toddc then asked xHans for any PLUG and class announcements:

* PLUG security hackfest Tue - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2136

* PLUG East Side meeting Thur - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/168

* Both Valley Stammtische next week:
** Tempe on Tue - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/422
** Avondale/Goodyear on Wed - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/590

* Next PLUG planning IRC meeting is two weeks from tonight.  It's the hour before the LoCo meeting and in #PLUGaz - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2276

* Free Software Stammtisch in Prescott Tue - http://www.lugy.net/

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:23 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
