{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

01 October – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2001%2C%202023%20Meeting
05 October – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed and attempted to repair an update issue on Ubuntu
* Conducted testing of repository feed
07 October – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Discussed and attempted to repair an update issue on Ubuntu
* Repaired a boot issue with Ubuntu on an HP laptop (upside down screen)
12 October – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed installing A Linux operating system on a Mac.  With some Macs it is not possible especially a 15 year old I-Mac.
* Discussed alternatives to using the latest version of OpenBox.
* Discussed options for other dates and times for future meetings.
12 October – Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Finally repaired the update issue on Ubuntu
15 October – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2015%2C%202023%20Meeting
21 October – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Discussed how to share a printer connected to one computer via a USB cable  with computers on a wired LAN.
26 October – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed Linux news of the week
* Conducted a Mint drive repair
