{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 02 Mar at 03:57 &mdash; 04:34 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2015/ubuntu-us-az.2015-03-02-03.57.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/GCompris-Is-a-Great-Linux-Teaching-Tool-for-Small-Kids-474090.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/best-linux-distro-first-time-switchers-windows-mac/ 
''LINK:'' http://todogroup.org/blog/why-we-run-an-open-source-program-walmart-labs/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.maketecheasier.com/process-using-excessive-bandwidth-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://medium.com/backchannel/why-i-m-saying-goodbye-to-apple-google-and-microsoft-78af12071bd 
''LINK:'' http://www.pcworld.com/article/2888959/ubuntu-14-04-2-arrives-with-updated-hardware-support-and-a-new-linux-kernel.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.getfreeebooks.com/?p=11197 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntualive.blogspot.com/2014/06/russian-government-avoid-using-amd-and.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/02/26/fcc-approves-net-neutrality-plan-to-control-internet-access/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2015/02/ubuntu-mate-is-now-an-official-ubuntu-flavor 
''LINK:'' http://www.unixmen.com/how-to-install-onlyoffice-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.webupd8.org/2015/02/youtube-viewer-complete-youtube-client.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux-magazine.com/Issues/2015/172/Tuning-Your-SSD?utm_source=Linux+Update&utm_campaign=Linux_Update_79_SSDs_in_Linux_2015-02-24&utm_medium=email 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/logwatch-installation-on-debian-and-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://opensource.com/life/15/2/4-tips-breaking-open-source-community 
''LINK:'' http://blog.scoutapp.com/articles/2015/02/24/understanding-linuxs-cpu-stats 
''LINK:'' http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-subnet-calculator-cidr/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/kvm-management-tools-to-manage-virtual-machines/ 
''LINK:'' http://blog.documentfoundation.org/2015/02/26/libreoffice-4-4-1-fresh-is-available-for-download/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/android-ski-goggles-offer-augmented-reality-display/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.milo.name/2015/03/01/book-review-how-linux-works/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vi9OnotrDX4&amp;t=1h02m16s 
''LINK:'' http://scribblesandsnaps.com/2015/02/22/build-a-raspberry-pi-based-cable-shutter-release-for-sony-cameras/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/kvm-management-tools-to-manage-virtual-machines/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://cybersponse.com/careers 
''LINK:'' https://localmotors.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d1iT_RyXzo4 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Brasero 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free more classes have been added and more dates
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (165)
* pixionus1 (5)
* MajB (3)
* indieross (3)
* meetingology (3)
* BobTucson (3)
* wmack (2)
* pavlos (1)
* Yorokobi (1)
* markthomas (1)
* Ron_A (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:57 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:57 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar  2 03:57:36 2015 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:57 <meetingology> 

 03:57 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <Yorokobi> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 92767.73

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <BobTucson> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> lets start with the news!!

 04:01 <toddc> the news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:02 <toddc> Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:02 <toddc> GCompris Is a Great Linux Teaching Tool for Small Kids

 04:02 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/GCompris-Is-a-Great-Linux-Teaching-Tool-for-Small-Kids-474090.shtml

 04:02 <toddc> The Best Linux Distros for First Time Switchers from Windows and Mac

 04:02 <toddc> http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/best-linux-distro-first-time-switchers-windows-mac/

 04:02 <toddc> Why we run an open source program - Walmart Labs

 04:02 <toddc> http://todogroup.org/blog/why-we-run-an-open-source-program-walmart-labs/

 04:03 <toddc> Easily Find Out Which Process Is Using Too Much Bandwidth in Linux

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.maketecheasier.com/process-using-excessive-bandwidth-linux/

 04:03 <toddc> Why I’m Saying Goodbye to Apple, Google and Microsoft

 04:03 <toddc> https://medium.com/backchannel/why-i-m-saying-goodbye-to-apple-google-and-microsoft-78af12071bd

 04:03 <toddc> Ubuntu 14.04.2 arrives with updated hardware support and a new Linux kernel

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.pcworld.com/article/2888959/ubuntu-14-04-2-arrives-with-updated-hardware-support-and-a-new-linux-kernel.html

 04:04 <MajB> Why am I saying goodbye to the BBB.

 04:04 <toddc> Download Free Ebooks, Legally » Raspberry Pi: 10 Sites & Various Free Ebooks

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.getfreeebooks.com/?p=11197

 04:04 <toddc> Russian Government Avoid Using AMD and Intel Chips | Ubuntu Alive, Explore, And Learn.

 04:04 <toddc> http://ubuntualive.blogspot.com/2014/06/russian-government-avoid-using-amd-and.html

 04:05 <toddc> FCC Approves 'Net Neutrality' Plan to Control Internet Access - Breitbart

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/02/26/fcc-approves-net-neutrality-plan-to-control-internet-access/

 04:05 <toddc> Ubuntu MATE Is Now An Official Ubuntu Flavor

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2015/02/ubuntu-mate-is-now-an-official-ubuntu-flavor

 04:05 <toddc> How To Install ONLYOFFICE On Ubuntu

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.unixmen.com/how-to-install-onlyoffice-on-ubuntu/

 04:06 <toddc> YouTube Viewer: A Complete YouTube Client For Linux [Ubuntu PPA] ~ Web Upd8: Ubuntu / Linux blog

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2015/02/youtube-viewer-complete-youtube-client.html

 04:06 <wmack> +1

 04:06 <toddc> Getting the best performance from solid state drives on linux

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Issues/2015/172/Tuning-Your-SSD?utm_source=Linux+Update&utm_campaign=Linux_Update_79_SSDs_in_Linux_2015-02-24&utm_medium=email

 04:06 <BobTucson> ubuntu-mate-is-now-an-official-ubuntu-flavor ***** 'bout time

 04:06 <toddc> How to monitor server log files with Logwatch on Debian and Ubuntu

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/logwatch-installation-on-debian-and-ubuntu/

 04:07 <toddc> 4 tips for breaking into an open source community

 04:07 <toddc> http://opensource.com/life/15/2/4-tips-breaking-open-source-community

 04:07 <toddc> Understanding Linux CPU stats

 04:07 <toddc> http://blog.scoutapp.com/articles/2015/02/24/understanding-linuxs-cpu-stats

 04:08 <toddc> Linux: IP Subnet (CIDR) Calculator That Will Help You With Network Settings

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-subnet-calculator-cidr/

 04:08 <toddc> How to Manage KVM Virtual Environment using Commandline Tools in Linux( part 4)

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.tecmint.com/kvm-management-tools-to-manage-virtual-machines/

 04:08 <toddc> LibreOffice 4.4.1 “Fresh” is available for download

 04:08 <toddc> http://blog.documentfoundation.org/2015/02/26/libreoffice-4-4-1-fresh-is-available-for-download/

 04:09 <toddc> Android ski goggles offer augmented reality display

 04:09 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/android-ski-goggles-offer-augmented-reality-display/

 04:09 <toddc> Book Review: How Linux Works

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.milo.name/2015/03/01/book-review-how-linux-works/

 04:09 <toddc> Watch Jono's "Ubuntu: The Past, Present, and Future."

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vi9OnotrDX4&amp;t=1h02m16s

 04:09 <toddc> Build a Raspberry Pi-Based Cable Shutter Release for Sony Cameras

 04:10 <toddc> http://scribblesandsnaps.com/2015/02/22/build-a-raspberry-pi-based-cable-shutter-release-for-sony-cameras/

 04:10 <toddc> How to Manage KVM Virtual Environment using Commandline Tools in Linux

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.tecmint.com/kvm-management-tools-to-manage-virtual-machines/

 04:10 <toddc> I am building a Proxmox with ZFS raid1 new options in versions 3.4 Proxmox more notes to follow

 04:10 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:11 <toddc> we will be planning a ubuntu membership prep class in the near future for those that would like to become ubuntu members.

 04:11 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership

 04:11 <toddc> We have reached out to Azstrut to assist in installing Linux to many of their systems for local donation there will be more information in the next few days.

 04:12 <toddc> we are also working to update and maintain the face book page and linked-in and g+ if anyone has a few minutes  and figure a way to keep them current.

 04:12 <toddc> We have a team project board to list projects that could/should be done for team http://www.azloco.org/node/184 if you pick one please leave a comment and status and ask for help

 04:12 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:13 <toddc> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.

 04:13 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:13 <toddc> JOB list

 04:13 <toddc> 41 current canonical Jobs today

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <toddc> Several jobs at Cybersponce

 04:14 <toddc> http://cybersponse.com/careers

 04:14 <toddc> User Interface Developer and Dev Ops Engneer

 04:14 <toddc> Local Motors Chandler Az

 04:14 <toddc> https://localmotors.com/

 04:14 <toddc> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data)

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:15 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:15 <toddc> http://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/

 04:15 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592

 04:15 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:15 <toddc> Runescape, Runs Linux

 04:16 <toddc> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d1iT_RyXzo4

 04:16 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:16 <toddc> Brasero is an application to burn CD/DVD for the Gnome Desktop. It is designed to be as simple as possible and has some unique features to enable users to create their discs easily and quickly.

 04:16 <toddc> https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Brasero

 04:17 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:17 <toddc> Phoenix Ubuntu Hour

 04:17 <toddc> Phoenix Ubuntu hour will be meeting on the first and third Tuesday at 6pm Burton Barr library on the 4th floor in the mach1 area.1221 North Central Avenue, Phoenix, AZ 85004

 04:17 <toddc> Stop by for all your linux questions chat and have fun and see Linux in action!

 04:18 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be March 04 7pm – 9pm at Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA   http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:18 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:18 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:18 <toddc> Linux Workshop

 04:18 <toddc> Sat, March 7, 10am – 4pm University of Advancing Technology: 2625 W Baseline,Tempe, AZ 85283 (between 48th and Fry's) room 207/206

 04:19 <toddc> Anyone interested in learning more about open source or Linux is invited to a open workshop! We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer router or all most any device

 04:19 <toddc> that can run on linux(you must bring everything needed to use your computer e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, router, server, etc).

 04:19 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:20 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  Thursday February 26. 2014 17:30 - 18:30 MST , 5:30pm – 6:30pm

 04:20 <pixionus1> +1

 04:20 <toddc> Sierra Vista Public Library (foyer) 2600 East Tacoma St. Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:20 <wmack> A note on Linux Workshop - don't forget printer if you want us to install drivers...

 04:20 <toddc> Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your

 04:20 <toddc> personal computer and the FREE software that is available as an

 04:20 <toddc> alternative to Microsoft Windows and other software that you must buy.

 04:21 <toddc> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:21 <toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:21 <toddc> Thursday February 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock

 04:21 <toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:21 <toddc> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:22 <toddc> Tucson Linux Workshop

 04:22 <toddc> Sat, March 28, 1pm – 5pm Wheeler Taft Abbett Library 7800 N Schisler Dr,Tucson, AZ 85743

 04:22 <toddc> install /fix or chat and meet other local Unix/Linux users.

 04:22 <BobTucson> Tucson Linux Workshop- yeah

 04:22 <toddc> Computer users of all types are welcome. Stop by and see Linux in action! See more at http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:23 <toddc> Fianally Tucson is On!!

 04:23 <MajB> About time Tucson.  Let's go.

 04:24 <toddc> seems there has been a lot of interest in a Tucson event

 04:24 <toddc> LINUX TRAINING

 04:24 <toddc> Linux Intro Course Available Online for Free from edX and The Linux Foundation

 04:24 <toddc> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free more classes have been added and more dates

 04:25 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/

 04:25 <toddc> LFD331 Developing Linux Device Drivers

 04:25 <toddc> 02 Mar » 06 Mar - Virtual

 04:25 <toddc> LFS426 Linux Performance Tuning

 04:25 <toddc> 16 Mar » 19 Mar - Virtual

 04:25 <toddc> Ubuntu On-Air

 04:25 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:25 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:26 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:26 <toddc> When Tue, March 03, 9am – 10am local time

 04:26 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:26 <toddc> Ubuntu Engineering Live!

 04:26 <toddc> WhenWed, March 4, 2pm – 3pm UTC

 04:26 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net (map)

 04:26 <toddc> We have two Linux sysadmin classes starting the week of March 23rd including a Monday-Wednesday

 04:26 <toddc> 1:30-4:45 afternonn class Also, a Linux security class Monday-Wednesday evening.

 04:27 <toddc> at MCC in mesa

 04:27 <toddc> MCC is an Linux Professional Institute Academy with discounded vouchers for the CompTIA Linux+

 04:27 <toddc> certification. The network Academy has gotten a good response on the afternoon classes and will be adding more, Cisco, etc.

 04:27 <toddc> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:28 <toddc> PLUG EVENTS

 04:28 <toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday March 12 7-9 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226 Misc presentations and chat about linux and open source projects.

 04:29 <toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday March 17 at  7:00PM Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210 7PM till ??

 04:29 <toddc> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:29 <toddc> Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux. Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:29 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:29 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:30 <toddc> OTHER  LUG EVENTS

 04:30 <toddc> Lugy (Prescott users group)

 04:30 <toddc> Tue, March 10, 6:30pm – 9:00pm

 04:30 <toddc> Raven Cafe 142 N. Cortez St Prescottt AZ 86301 928-717-0009

 04:30 <toddc> SLUG Sunland Village East Computer Club

 04:30 <toddc> March 11 6-8 PM in the Computer Club Training Facility 2145 So. Farnsworth Mesa AZ 85209

 04:31 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:31 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:31 <pixionus1> Other events/projects: we are putting together a "hacknight" event and am gathering knowledge on interested parties.

 04:32 <toddc> where and when?

 04:32 <toddc> or keep us updated

 04:33 <pixionus1> Not crack as in crack into a system, but hack as in hackerspace.  Mostly still exploring subject matter but the idea is generally an opportunity for people to bring their projects and explore new intersts not all necessarily linux but all open software or hardware related

 04:33 <pixionus1> Hope to tie them into some makerspace or colabshop's hack night or maybe stamstich

 04:33 <indieross> it was fantastic seeing everyone at the last Stammtisch, i hope i can make it out again on the 17th

 04:33 <toddc> cool let us know if we can help

 04:34 <indieross> oh and +1

 04:34 <toddc> better late than never indieross

 04:34 <pixionus1> Just let Pixionus know if you have any thoughts on the matter

 04:34 <indieross> :D

 04:34 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
