{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 21 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-10-21-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/elf-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/10/survival-game-valheim-adds-a-new-feast-mechanic-and-the-bog-witch-in-testing/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/podcasttools/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.fosslicious.com/2024/10/wow-we-can-play-minecraft-mobile-on.html   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/install-melonds-emulator-on-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/pi-apps-store/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tomshardware.com/software/linux/how-to-create-a-custom-linux-app-menu-with-zenity   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.xda-developers.com/steam-update-native-linux-gaming-much-simpler/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/analyze-elf-binaries-with-binsider-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/android-open-source-ham-radio/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/easy-ways-access-r-python/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/easy-ways-access-python-r/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/bash-file-extension-how-to-name-your-bash-script   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-curl/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/bash-sh-command-learn-the-difference-between-bash-vs-shell   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/bob-version-manager/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://securityboulevard.com/2024/10/linux-persistence-mechanisms-and-how-to-find-them/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/simple-overview-grub-bootloader-configuration   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-warehouse/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/install-minikube/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://thehackernews.com/2024/10/critical-kubernetes-image-builder.html   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org   (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/svecc-events/   (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/   (MajB, 04:13)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (57)
* Stephenm (45)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:04 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:01 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeamTeam membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <Stephenm> New is scatter around a few different topics.

 04:02 <Stephenm> Introduction To ELF In Linux: A Simple Guide To Executable Files

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/elf-in-linux/

 04:02 <Stephenm> Survival game Valheim adds a new feast mechanic and The Bog Witch in testing

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/10/survival-game-valheim-adds-a-new-feast-mechanic-and-the-bog-witch-in-testing/

 04:03 <Stephenm> 13 Best Free and Open Source Graphical Podcast Tools

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/podcasttools/

 04:03 <Stephenm> Wow, we can play minecraft mobile on Linux PC!

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.fosslicious.com/2024/10/wow-we-can-play-minecraft-mobile-on.html

 04:03 <Stephenm> Play Nintendo DS Games Using MelonDS Emulator on Linux

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/install-melonds-emulator-on-linux/

 04:03 <Stephenm> Pi-Apps: The Unofficial but Definitely Better App Store for Raspberry Pi

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/pi-apps-store/

 04:03 <Stephenm> How To Create a Custom Linux App Menu With Zenity

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.tomshardware.com/software/linux/how-to-create-a-custom-linux-app-menu-with-zenity

 04:04 <Stephenm> A new Steam update is making native Linux gaming much simpler

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.xda-developers.com/steam-update-native-linux-gaming-much-simpler/

 04:04 <Stephenm> How To Analyze ELF Binaries With Binsider In Linux

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/analyze-elf-binaries-with-binsider-in-linux/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Turn Your Android Phone into a Ham Radio with this Open-Source Project

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/android-open-source-ham-radio/

 04:04 <Stephenm> 3 Easy Ways to Access R from a Python Program

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/easy-ways-access-r-python/

 04:04 <Stephenm> 2 Easy Ways to Access Python from R

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/easy-ways-access-python-r/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Bash File Extension – How to name your Bash Script

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/bash-file-extension-how-to-name-your-bash-script

 04:05 <Stephenm> Installing and Using Curl on Linux Like a Pro

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-curl/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Bash sh Command: Learn the difference between Bash vs Shell

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/bash-sh-command-learn-the-difference-between-bash-vs-shell

 04:05 <Stephenm> Manage Multiple Versions of NeoVim via Bob Version Manager

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/bob-version-manager/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Linux Persistence Mechanisms and How to Find Them

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://securityboulevard.com/2024/10/linux-persistence-mechanisms-and-how-to-find-them/

 04:06 <Stephenm> A Simple Overview of GRUB Bootloader Configuration

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/simple-overview-grub-bootloader-configuration

 04:06 <Stephenm> Warehouse is an Ultimate Toolbox for Managing Flatpak Apps

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-warehouse/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Install, Configure, and Use Minikube on Ubuntu

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/install-minikube/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Critical Kubernetes Image Builder Vulnerability Exposes Nodes to Root Access Risk

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://thehackernews.com/2024/10/critical-kubernetes-image-builder.html

 04:07 <Stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:08 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 260 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 25 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 10 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:10 <MajB> 24 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 02 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:10 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 03 November, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> 07 November,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 14 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 14 November, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 16 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:11 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 17 November, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> 28 November, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour (conflicts with Thanksgiving)

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group

 04:13 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 14 November, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 19 November, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:13 <MajB> https://svecc.com/svecc-events/

 04:13 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:13 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S. Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group

 04:13 <MajB> https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 22 October, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:13 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
