{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 03 January - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees
* Configured Amazon account and use USB stick to transfer files
* Upgraded Linux Mint from 18.3 to 19.1
* Flashed ASUS AC3100 router with DD-WRT
* Used command line to update 18.04 laptop
* Resolved printer issue on 18.04 laptop
* 06 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2006%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 10 January - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees
* Discussed the manning requirements for the upcoming Installfest on 02 February.
* Discussed the use of the Cochise Linux mailing list.
* Discussed the difference between open source drivers vs proprietary drivers (specifically for video cards.)
* Discussed the possibility of ransom-wear showing up on a Linux machine.  Reminder, be careful when clicking on pop-ups.
* A member raised a problem of not being able to connect to his router with his Ubuntu installed operating system.  He was given several options to successfully accomplish this.
* Discussed the various search engines available.  Personal preferences are of course why one uses one or another.
* 13 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2013%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 19 January - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop.
* 20 attendees
* 5 installs (3 Ubuntu, 1 Mint, 1 Raspbian)
* 1 IP FIRE Server assistance
* 2 equipment repairs (notably had to reset the password on an Enterprise Juniper switch)
* Configured two printers to work on Mint operating systems
* 20 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense.
* 5 attendees.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2020%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 24 January - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees
* Installed nvme ssd drive to laptop
* Discussion on debian based distros
* Demo on robotics industrial controllers
* Setup hulu on raspberry pi osmc
* 27 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2027%2C%202019%20Meeting
