{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 16 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:11 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-10-16-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/fedora-slimbook/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.geeksmint.com/hide-top-bar-in-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-is-now-based-on-debian-bookworm-supports-raspberry-pi-5-and-pipewire   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-zammad-helpdesk-on-almalinux-rocky-linux/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/ubuntu-vs-kubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/install-python-3-12-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.geeksmint.com/install-kde-plasma-on-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/debians-stable-and-old-stable-branches-receive-upgrades/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/new-cryptographic-protocol-aims-to-bolster-open-source-software-security/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ardour-8-0-open-source-daw-released-with-launchpad-pro-support-region-grouping   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/openzfs-2-2-released-with-linux-6-5-support-block-cloning-and-more   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/bottles-next-revolutionizing-linux-emulation-for-windows-apps/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/configure-vlan-tagging-over-network-bonding-rhel/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-openmrs-on-ubuntu-server-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/10/11/cve-2023-38545-socks5/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/10/10/cve-2023-43641/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-set-up-local-dns-with-dnsmasq-on-debian-12/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/   (MajB, 04:09)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (58)
* stephenm (38)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:04 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:01 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:01 <stephenm> news is all over the place but should be able to find something interesting

 04:02 <stephenm> Fedora & Slimbook Announce a New Intel i7 Linux Ultrabook

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/fedora-slimbook/

 04:02 <stephenm> How to Hide Top Bar and Side Panel in Ubuntu Desktop

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.geeksmint.com/hide-top-bar-in-ubuntu/

 04:02 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi OS Is Now Based on Debian Bookworm, Supports Raspberry Pi 5

 04:02 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-is-now-based-on-debian-bookworm-supports-raspberry-pi-5-and-pipewire

 04:02 <stephenm> How to Install Zammad Helpdesk on AlmaLinux or Rocky Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-zammad-helpdesk-on-almalinux-rocky-linux/

 04:02 <stephenm> Ubuntu vs Kubuntu: Which Is the Better Choice for You?

 04:02 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/ubuntu-vs-kubuntu/

 04:02 <stephenm> How to Install Python 3.12 in Ubuntu and Other Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/install-python-3-12-ubuntu/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Install Latest KDE Plasma on Ubuntu Desktop

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.geeksmint.com/install-kde-plasma-on-ubuntu/

 04:03 <stephenm> Debian’s Stable and Oldstable Branches Receive Upgrades

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/debians-stable-and-old-stable-branches-receive-upgrades/

 04:03 <stephenm> New Cryptographic Protocol Aims to Bolster Open-Source Software Security

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/new-cryptographic-protocol-aims-to-bolster-open-source-software-security/

 04:03 <stephenm> Ardour 8.0 Brings Launchpad Pro Support, Region Grouping

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/ardour-8-0-open-source-daw-released-with-launchpad-pro-support-region-grouping

 04:03 <stephenm> OpenZFS 2.2 Released with Linux 6.5 Support, Block Cloning, and More

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/openzfs-2-2-released-with-linux-6-5-support-block-cloning-and-more

 04:03 <stephenm> Bottles Next: Revolutionizing Linux Emulation for Windows Apps

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/bottles-next-revolutionizing-linux-emulation-for-windows-apps/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Configure VLAN Tagging Over Bonding on RHEL

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/configure-vlan-tagging-over-network-bonding-rhel/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install OpenMRS on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-openmrs-on-ubuntu-server-22-04/

 04:04 <stephenm> Curl Project Squashes High-Severity Bug in Omnipresent libcurl Library

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/10/11/cve-2023-38545-socks5/

 04:04 <stephenm> GNOME Users at risk of RCE Attack

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/10/10/cve-2023-43641/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Set Up Local DNS With Dnsmasq on Debian 12

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-set-up-local-dns-with-dnsmasq-on-debian-12/

 04:05 <stephenm> that's all I have tonight

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:05 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:05 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:05 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:06 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:06 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:06 <MajB> There are 213 open canonical Jobs today

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:06 <MajB> There are 63 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:06 <MajB> There are 16 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:07 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:07 <MajB> 21 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:07 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:07 <MajB> 26 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 02 November,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 04 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:08 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 05 November, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 09 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, hello

 04:08 <MajB> 09 November, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:08 <MajB> 18 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:08 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 19 November, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> Tempe Ubuntu Hour 23 November because of a conflict with Thanksgiving

 04:09 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:09 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:09 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:09 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 09 November, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:09 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 21 November, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:09 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:09 <MajB> https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:09 <MajB> Monthly meeting 08 November 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month),

 04:09 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:10 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:10 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 24 October 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:10 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:10 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:11 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
