{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
[21:02]	toddcnb	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:02]	wmack	_+1
[21:02]	toddcnb	Star Date 91714.37 check it at http://www.stoacademy.com/tools/stardate.php
[21:02]	toddcnb	+1
[21:02]	TuxMann	+1
[21:02]	Rich__	+1
[21:02]	toddcnb	Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[21:02]	toddcnb	Team Website is http://azloco.org/
[21:02]	toddcnb	Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
[21:02]	toddcnb	https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
[21:03]	toddcnb	Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/
[21:03]	toddcnb	http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209
[21:03]	toddcnb	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:03]	toddcnb	some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
[21:03]	toddcnb	Anybody here that is new tonight?3
[21:04]	toddcnb	UBUNTU NEWS
[21:04]	toddcnb	I only have a few items tonight
[21:04]	toddcnb	Docker 0.8 just released
[21:04]	toddcnb	Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS released
[21:04]	toddcnb	http://www.ubuntu-news.net/2014/02/09/ubuntu-12-04-4-lts-released/
[21:04]	toddcnb	How To Fix A Non-Bootable Ubuntu System Due To Broken Updates Using A LiveCD And Chroot
[21:04]	toddcnb	http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/how-to-fix-non-bootable-ubuntu-system.html
[21:05]	toddcnb	TEAM NEWS
[21:05]	toddcnb	We are still looking for a central Phoenix meeting location for presentations - if anyone has    location ideas please let us know!
[21:05]	toddcnb	Scale12x February 21-23, 2014, Hilton Los Angeles Airport
[21:05]	toddcnb	https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale12x
[21:06]	toddcnb	The California` loco has excess 12.04 cd's they are willing to donate to us. I need a volunteer to pick them up and bring them home. They
[21:06]	toddcnb	will give us a bunch at the booth and offered the left overs after Scale but I think 50-75 should be way more than enough.
[21:06]	toddcnb	JOB list
[21:06]	toddcnb	Field Engineer / Systems Engineer (Tempe)
[21:06]	toddcnb	40 W. Baseline No phone calls or recruiters please.
[21:06]	toddcnb	System Administor
[21:06]	toddcnb	http://phoenix.craigslist.org/evl/sad/4321872456.html
[21:07]	toddcnb	57 current canonical Jobs
[21:07]	toddcnb	http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies
[21:07]	toddcnb	NOC Engineer (Tempe, AZ)
[21:07]	toddcnb	AIM IT Services http://aimitservices.com
[21:07]	toddcnb	Runs LINUX
[21:08]	toddcnb	The Cew of Despicable Me 2, Run Linux
[21:08]	toddcnb	https://plus.google.com/109797684537320994845/posts/cbkTPN779FL https://plus.google.com/+MartinGr%C3%A4%C3%9Flin/posts/TxtmkNPzQQz
[21:08]	toddcnb	http://blogs.kde.org/2014/02/09/kde-plasma-movies
[21:08]	toddcnb	Linux App of the week
[21:09]	toddcnb	linux-dash A drop-in, low-overhead monitoring web dashboard for a linux machine.
[21:09]	toddcnb	https://github.com/afaqurk/linux-dash#installation
[21:09]	toddcnb	TEMPE INSTALL-FEST this weekend
[21:09]	toddcnb	The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday Febuary 15 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the
[21:09]	|<--	DougsTech has left freenode (Ping timeout: 260 seconds)
[21:09]	toddcnb	front building. For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
[21:09]	toddcnb	We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
[21:09]	toddcnb	If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:10]	toddcnb	NORTH INSTALLFEST next week end
[21:10]	toddcnb	Sat, Febuary 22, 9am – 2pm
[21:10]	toddcnb	Paradise Valley Community College 18401 North 32nd Street, Phoenix, AZ 85032, USA
[21:10]	toddcnb	Enter from the north east or east lot toward the center and look for the computer commons area Building E Room E152 For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
[21:10]	toddcnb	TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
[21:11]	toddcnb	Thursday Febuary 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
[21:11]	toddcnb	http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information
[21:11]	wmack	22nd is two saturdays away
[21:11]	-->|	DougsTech (~DougsTech@c-98-230-105-210.hsd1.al.comcast.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:11]	toddcnb	yes this is tempe then north
[21:12]	toddcnb	WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
[21:12]	toddcnb	West side ubuntu hour will be March 5 7pm – 9pm
[21:12]	toddcnb	Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
[21:12]	toddcnb	If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find
[21:12]	toddcnb	out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
[21:12]	toddcnb	There were 6+4 new people at January's event this has started out as a great event.
[21:13]	toddcnb	TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
[21:13]	toddcnb	Thursday Febuary 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
[21:13]	toddcnb	http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information
[21:13]	adrenaline	+1 late
[21:13]	toddcnb	np
[21:13]	fuzzyvader	+1 me too
[21:13]	toddcnb	TUCSON UBUNTU HOUR
[21:13]	toddcnb	We need one!!
[21:14]	toddcnb	and lake havasu
[21:14]	toddcnb	TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:14]	toddcnb	Thanks to adrenaline ArchFan markthomas wmack rudgan and any others I missed
[21:14]	toddcnb	get the new server on-line and rudgan will be maintaining drupul and user lists
[21:15]	toddcnb	Thanks to wmack he has completed a our first dualboot with uefi and secure boot
[21:15]	toddcnb	notes are on azloco docs and at azloco.org we expect a lot of variations and would love more input and
[21:15]	toddcnb	and testing on other boxes
[21:15]	toddcnb	ArchFan also built a new BBB server for the team and after some testing we hope to deploy it since it has a lot of new features.
[21:15]	toddcnb	UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:16]	toddcnb	adreanline is doing a Basic Linux Adminsitration and also has two blogs out see at azloco.org on the front page
[21:16]	toddcnb	ubuntu on-air
[21:16]	toddcnb	http://ubuntuonair.com/
[21:16]	toddcnb	http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
[21:16]	|<--	DougsTech has left freenode (Ping timeout: 260 seconds)
[21:16]	toddcnb	Jono Bacon Q&A Tuesday February 11 at noon local time every Tuesday
[21:16]	toddcnb	Ubuntu Engineering Live! Wed, Febuary 12, at 11 AM
[21:16]	toddcnb	Wednesday Febuary 12 at 7 am App design Clinic
[21:16]	toddcnb	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:17]	toddcnb	Any thoughts on other events or projects???
[21:17]	toddcnb	xHans would you like to do the Plug news?
[21:17]	toddcnb	PLUG EVENTS
[21:18]	toddcnb	Plug East side meeting Thursday Febuary 13 7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226 presentation on Salt Stack
[21:18]	toddcnb	http://blogs.isostech.com/author/michael_march/
[21:18]	toddcnb	Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday Febuary 18 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
[21:18]	toddcnb	http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:18]	toddcnb	that is all I have, any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:18]	fuzzyvader	slashdot beta?
[21:19]	fuzzyvader	http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2014/02/07/slashdot-creator-on-redesign-backlash-every-slashdot-change-met-with-objections/
[21:19]	fuzzyvader	dunno if anyone else gets news from there, but I do
[21:19]	toddcnb	good one
[21:19]	adrenaline	It is my home page at work
[21:20]	toddcnb	thanks for coming here tonight and have a good evening I will be here a while if anyone has a question
[21:21]	wmack	toddc - any news on rack space?
[21:22]	toddcnb	none but I did request to set up a meeting to discussit
[21:23]	adrenaline	toddcnb: jason inspired me to do something with my raspberry pi so I mounted it to the garage door opener and am working on making it open and close the door remotely.
[21:23]	adrenaline	It is headless and I can vnc to it
[21:23]	toddcnb	will start the truck and drive it to you with a cup of coffee?

    
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
