{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 02 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-10-02-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/exploring-the-future-of-open-source-solutions-in-the-mobile-industry   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/next-generation-raspberry-pi-5-opens-up-for-preorders/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://techrights.org/n/2023/09/30/Community_is_the_Lifeblood_of_Freedom_in_the_GNU_Linux_World.shtml   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/linux-terminal-shortcuts/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-shortcuts/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://debugpointnews.com/peppermint-pepmini-beta/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-noise-suppression-tools/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/cozy-audiobook-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/bazzite/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/xfce-vs-gnome/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/09/28/kubecon_shanghai/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/cbconvert/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-pscircle-visualizes-linux-processes/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/post/pipe-and-splice   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/get-linux-filesystems-information-using-dysk/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/install-libreoffice-extensions/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/core-knowledge-modern-linux-kernel-developer-should-have   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/post/mkfsext4-what-it-actually-creates   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/09/25/bindiff-open-source-comparison-tool-for-binary-files/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/best-tools-create-bootable-usb-iso-linux   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/usbimager-cross-platform-disk-image-writer/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-roaming-home-directories-linux-with-idm/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all?   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-5/   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://lifehacker.com/is-ethernet-still-worth-it-1850887111   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:16)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (61)
* stephenm (53)
* MajB (26)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:04 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> mee two!

 04:00 <toddc> Join us on http://bbb.azloco.net

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 101347.71

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL HAIR DAY

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News is random so pick what you like

 04:04 <stephenm> Exploring the Future of Open Source Solutions in the Mobile Industry

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/exploring-the-future-of-open-source-solutions-in-the-mobile-industry

 04:04 <stephenm> Next-Generation Raspberry Pi 5 Opens Up for Preorders

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/next-generation-raspberry-pi-5-opens-up-for-preorders/

 04:04 <stephenm> This design looks interesting I might get it since I have a Pi 2b for a media center

 04:04 <stephenm> Community is the Lifeblood of Freedom in the GNU/Linux World

 04:04 <stephenm> https://techrights.org/n/2023/09/30/Community_is_the_Lifeblood_of_Freedom_in_the_GNU_Linux_World.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> 21 Useful Terminal Shortcuts Pro Linux Users Love to Use

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/linux-terminal-shortcuts/

 04:05 <stephenm> I can state I do use most of these shortcuts

 04:05 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Shortcuts

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-shortcuts/

 04:05 <stephenm> Peppermint Introduces PepMini: Minimal OS with Debian

 04:05 <stephenm> https://debugpointnews.com/peppermint-pepmini-beta/

 04:05 <stephenm> 4 Best Free and Open Source Noise Suppression Tools

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-noise-suppression-tools/

 04:05 <stephenm> Short article but good advice

 04:05 <stephenm> Cozy: Linux Audiobook Player You’ve Been Waiting For

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/cozy-audiobook-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Bazzite: Distro for Linux Gaming on Steam Deck and PCs

 04:06 <stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/bazzite/

 04:06 <stephenm> Xfce vs. GNOME: Which Desktop Is for You?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/xfce-vs-gnome/

 04:06 <stephenm> GNOME but that's just me

 04:06 <stephenm> If the Linux Foundation was a software company, it'd be the biggest in the world

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/09/28/kubecon_shanghai/

 04:06 <stephenm> CBconvert: Convert Comic Books With This Open-Source Tool!

 04:06 <stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/cbconvert/

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Candy: pscircle visualizes Linux processes in a form of radial tree

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-pscircle-visualizes-linux-processes/

 04:07 <stephenm> Pipe and Splice

 04:07 <stephenm> https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/post/pipe-and-splice

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Get Linux Filesystems Information Using Dysk Utility

 04:07 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/get-linux-filesystems-information-using-dysk/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install and Use LibreOffice Extensions

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/install-libreoffice-extensions/

 04:07 <stephenm> Core Knowledge That Modern Linux Kernel Developer Should Have

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/core-knowledge-modern-linux-kernel-developer-should-have

 04:07 <stephenm> mkfs.ext4 – What it actually creates

 04:07 <stephenm> https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/post/mkfsext4-what-it-actually-creates

 04:07 <stephenm> BinDiff: Open-Source Comparison Tool for Binary Files

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/09/25/bindiff-open-source-comparison-tool-for-binary-files/

 04:08 <stephenm> The 6 Best Tools to Create a Bootable USB From an ISO in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/best-tools-create-bootable-usb-iso-linux

 04:08 <stephenm> They didn't include multi-pass though

 04:08 <stephenm> USBImager – cross-platform disk image writer

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/usbimager-cross-platform-disk-image-writer/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Create Roaming Home Directories in Linux with IdM

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-roaming-home-directories-linux-with-idm/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:09 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> So I want to dress up as a UDP packet for Halloween, but I don???t know if anyone will get it.

 04:10 <toddc> What did the Dalek say when it shot the Linux user?

 04:10 <toddc> xterm-inate!

 04:11 <toddc> What's the cutest Linux distribution?

 04:11 <toddc> 1

 04:11 <toddc> 2

 04:11 <toddc> 3

 04:11 <toddc> UwUbuntu.

 04:11 <toddc> New user: "How come my new printer doesn't work in Linux?" Linus: "You need the right driver."

 04:11 <toddc> "My chauffeur's outside."

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:12 <toddc> Senior Technical Support for Software Company

 04:12 <toddc> Teapplix Inc

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 202 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all?

 04:12 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 3 local open jobs many remote

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development

 04:12 <toddc> Western Semiconductor In Tempe has several it openings dealing with AI development

 04:13 <toddc> Runs on linux

 04:13 <toddc> Raspberry pi 5 is available for pre-order to be available October 2023 lots of new features

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-5/

 04:13 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Why It???s Still Worth It to Wire Your House for Ethernet

 04:14 <toddc> https://lifehacker.com/is-ethernet-still-worth-it-1850887111

 04:14 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:14 <MajB> 05 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 07 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your persona

 04:15 <MajB> l projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> 12 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 12 October, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:15 <MajB> 15 October,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:15 <MajB> 21 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your persona

 04:15 <MajB> l projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 26 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:16 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:16 <MajB> Many events are being held on line.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:16 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 12 October, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 17 October, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:17 <MajB> Monthly meeting 11 October, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:17 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 24 October, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),  Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:17 <MajB> That's all I have

 04:17 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:17 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:18 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
