{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 06 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-10-06-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/09/29/california_cops_self_driving/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/4060215/9-linux-certifications-to-boost-your-career.html   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/09/23/openssf_open_source_infrastructure/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/bash-tips-and-tricks/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-is-now-based-on-debian-13-trixie-with-fresh-new-look   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/check-user-groups-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/access-the-grub-menu-in-virtual-machine/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/linux-command-help-guide/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/linux-foundation-welcomes-newton-next-open-physics-engine-robotics   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/open-printer-promises-freedom-from-proprietary-cartridges/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-get-notified-on-ssh-logins-on-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/10/why-bazaar-is-the-best-flatpak-app-store-youre-not-using/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-make-a-basic-intrusion-detection-system-with-bash   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/gui-based-terminal-alternatives-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://chrisbinnie.github.io/linux-server-security/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/10/02/curl_project_swamped_with_ai/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.18-HID   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.xda-developers.com/stop-trusting-your-isp-router/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-is-now-based-on-debian-13-trixie-with-fresh-new-look   (toddc, 04:13)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (58)
* Stephenm (37)
* MajB (22)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:37 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +3

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> stardate 79227.9

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY

 04:01 <toddc> Y

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL DO SOMETHING NICE DAY

 04:03 <toddc> have you done anything nice today?

 04:03 <MajB> nope

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <MajB> well, maybe

 04:03 <toddc> 

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <Stephenm> The news is random tonight and short

 04:04 <Stephenm> California cops confused after trying to give ticket to self-driving car

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/09/29/california_cops_self_driving/

 04:04 <Stephenm> 9 Linux certifications to boost your career

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/4060215/9-linux-certifications-to-boost-your-career.html

 04:04 <Stephenm> OpenSSF warns that open source infrastructure doesn't run on thoughts and prayers

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/09/23/openssf_open_source_infrastructure/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 9 Bash Tips and Tricks Every User Should Know

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/bash-tips-and-tricks/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Raspberry Pi OS Is Now Based on Debian 13 “Trixie” with Fresh New Look

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-is-now-based-on-debian-13-trixie-with-fresh-new-look

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Check User Groups in Linux

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/check-user-groups-in-linux/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Access the GRUB Menu in Virtual Machine

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/access-the-grub-menu-in-virtual-machine/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How To Find Command Help In Linux (Man, Info, Apropos, Whatis, –help)

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/linux-command-help-guide/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Linux Foundation Welcomes Newton: The Next Open Physics Engine for Robotics

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/linux-foundation-welcomes-newton-next-open-physics-engine-robotics

 04:06 <Stephenm> Open Printer Promises Freedom From Proprietary Cartridges

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/open-printer-promises-freedom-from-proprietary-cartridges/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Get Notified on SSH Logins on Linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-get-notified-on-ssh-logins-on-linux/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Why Bazaar Is the Best Flatpak App Store You’re Not Using

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/10/why-bazaar-is-the-best-flatpak-app-store-youre-not-using/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Build a Simple Linux Intrusion Detection System in Bash for Home Networks

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-make-a-basic-intrusion-detection-system-with-bash

 04:06 <Stephenm> Replace the Terminal with These Useful GUI-Based Alternatives

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/gui-based-terminal-alternatives-linux/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Chris Binnie - Linux Server Security: Hardening Your Infrastructure

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://chrisbinnie.github.io/linux-server-security/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Curl project, swamped with AI slop, finds not all AI is bad

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/10/02/curl_project_swamped_with_ai/

 04:07 <Stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:07 <Stephenm> toddc

 04:07 <Stephenm> You're welcome

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> I mount my soul at /dev/null

 04:09 <toddc> Micro$oft broke Volkswagen's world record: Volkswagen only made 22 million bugs!

 04:09 <toddc> Why is learning linux stupid?

 04:09 <toddc> All of the lessons are full of sudo science

 04:09 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> Systems Network Engineering Support Specialist

 04:10 <toddc> General Dynamics Mission Systems, IncY

 04:10 <toddc> systems operations engineer

 04:10 <toddc> Randstad Digital

 04:10 <toddc> Linux System Administrator

 04:11 <toddc> E-Solutions

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 275 most are remote

 04:11 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:11 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 24 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:11 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:12 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:12 <toddc> Haptic Touchpad Support Makes It Into Linux 6.18

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.18-HID

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Stop trusting your ISP's router blindly

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.xda-developers.com/stop-trusting-your-isp-router/

 04:13 <toddc> Raspberry Pi OS Is Now Based on Debian 13 ???Trixie??? with Fresh New Look

 04:13 <toddc> https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-is-now-based-on-debian-13-trixie-with-fresh-new-look

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:14 <MajB> 09 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 09 October, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 18 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:14 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 23 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 01 November, Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop,  1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:14 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 02 November. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for LUG events and activities with map locations can be found on their websites.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities.

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:15 <MajB> 09 October, PLUG East meeting, 1900-2200, 1702 E. Highland Ave. (3rd floor), Phoenix, AZ (2nd Thursday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> 21 October, Free Software Stammtisch, 1900-2200, BOULDERS ON SOUTHERN, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ (3rd Tuesday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> 28 October, monthly meeting, 1700-1830, La Casita, 465 E. Fry Blvd, Sierra Vista, AZ (4th Tuesday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> That's all I have

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:16 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:16 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
