{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #76 for the week December 29, January 4.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Seventy Sixth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 7, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday January 11, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the January 4, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 8:59 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09January04

* johnc4510 started the meeting with a report on the installfest.  His last emails to zach and shawn were on the 21st.  First, his email to Zach at ASU:

{<pre>
Zach,

Installfest would be to promote Intrepid Ibex 8.10. We're a little late getting going on this release. There were some hiccups we wanted to see fixed before we did an event.

We'd love it if you guys would join us and make it a big event for the ASU campus. We need a room that has internet connections both hard and wifi if possible. Tables and any patch lines you might have would be appreciated too. As to room size, you might have a better idea than me as to what kind of participation we can expect from the campus folks.

A game server would be great to help attracting attention to the event. We would want to highlight that in flyers. Speaking of which, we can print out a bunch, we already have a draft ready. We just need to know the address, maybe directions, the official name of your group, and your logo if you have one. We could also use help as to how to distribute them on campus. Maybe your group could help with that?
</pre>}

johnc4510 has received no answer to this, yet.  Zach may be on vacation.

* johnc4510 then presented the email from Shawn at U of A:

{<pre>
University-wide:

    Wireless:
        Unsecured wireless: limited to destination ports 22,80,or 443.  Routed to DakotaCom directly (not "on-campus" really...)
        Secured wireless: Requires valid NetID/Password.  Routed through the campus net, no port restrictions.

    Wired: Requires registration of client mac address (and a valid Netid).

So basically both places have similar restrictions. The conference rooms only have 2-3 wired ports, where as the lab has many... I think it would be a good idea for someone to bring a commodity wireless router/switch (I can bring mine if needed). I'll manually authorize this mac address and everyone else can use the wireless/wired ports on this device.

The conference rooms are pretty far apart (on different floors mostly).  The lab is really big, but crowded with tables (for all the machines).
</pre>}

This means that we can get wired and wireless access at U of A, and one conference room.  It would be smaller, but would save us the worry about breakage.

* johnc4510 then talked about the fact that we don't have directions to put on the fliers.  It was decided, in discussion, that we would join with PLUG's monthly installfest at UAT on January 31 for the Phoenix group.  johnc4510 will set up with the U of A for January 24 for the Tucson group.  One additional reason for having the event on separate days is that the team banner could then be used for both.  Maurici1 will act as liaison between PLUG and the AZ Team, through information from their respective mailing lists.

[Ed. note:  The Phoenix installfest flier can be found at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1032499.  This can still be changed, but changes should be made as soon as possible to allow time for people to print and distribute them.  tyche]

xHans then added announcements:

* PLUG east side meeting this Thursday.  Dennis will cover some emacs modes.  we might have another presentation, but I took a couple weeks off and haven't checked what we have.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/99
* Hackfest this Saturday, we have a guest speaker this month.  Kristy Westphal is the CSO for the Arizona Department of Economic Security on forensics.  The December online Hackfest appears to have gone really, really well.  The plan is to move back to that type of thing in February, but we're excited to have Kristy guest-speaking in January.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/652
* Community college classes start up again mid-month.  The OpenOffice.org online class is running again, check with MCC to see if your county gets Maricopa County pricing.  We really, really want to make sure to fill this class.  It's over half full, but we need a few more people to make sure it runs.  the OOo class is a full semester.  We will also have Intro to GNU/Linux and GNU/Linux Network Administration as 8 week courses in Mesa.  Other CCs in the Phoenix such as EMCC, PVCC and SCC have Free Software classes coming up as well.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes
* Finally, we need to get moving on ABLEconf.  ABLEconf local committee needs to form.  http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/23

The meeting was adjourned at 9:43 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
