{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 03 Jun at 03:58 &mdash; 04:14 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-06-03-03.58.log.html]]</nowiki>

''LINK:'' http://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-2g6-9wc 
''LINK:'' http://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-2g6-9wc 
''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2019/05/writing-in-style-with-libreoffice/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.datacenterknowledge.com/hardware/companies-pushing-open-source-risc-v-silicon-out-edge 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Linux-Mint-Turns-Cinnamon-Experience-Bittersweet-86033.html 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-5-2-to-come-with-improved-support-for-logitech-wireless-devices-526200.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/grep-find-specific-word-in-file-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/real-linux-desktop-experience-x410-wsl/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/5/graphically-programming-pythonic 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/elvish-shell/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Linux-5.3-100GbE-Improvements 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/apache-commands-you-should-know/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/5/shortcomings-rootless-containers 
''LINK:'' https://blogspot.thereglueblog.com/2019/05/lodestar.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/05/2-tools-to-test-internet-speed-from.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-iredmail-server-on-ubuntu-1804/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/05/terminal-file-manager-nnn-25-adds.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/search-linux-applications-on-appimage-flathub-and-snapcraft-platforms/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (49)
* MajB (37)
* stephenm (36)
* toddc (4)
* meetingology (3)
* programmer317 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:58 <Ron_A> #startmeeting

 03:58 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun  3 03:58:41 2019 UTC.  The chair is Ron_A. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:58 <meetingology> 

 03:58 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:58 <Ron_A> Join us on There are several of us here

 03:58 <Ron_A> http://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-2g6-9wc

 03:58 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 03:58 <Ron_A> +1

 03:58 <toddc> +1

 03:58 <stephenm> +1

 03:59 <programmer317> +1

 03:59 <MajB> +1

 03:59 <toddc> http://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-2g6-9wc

 03:59 <Ron_A> Star Date   97019.36

 03:59 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 03:59 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 03:59 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 03:59 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 03:59 <Ron_A> Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 03:59 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 03:59 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 03:59 <Ron_A> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 03:59 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 03:59 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 03:59 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 03:59 <Ron_A> 

 03:59 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 03:59 <toddc> what is the BBB link?

 03:59 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 03:59 <stephenm> News is general and then gets a little more advanced.

 04:00 <stephenm> Writing in Style With LibreOffice

 04:00 <stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2019/05/writing-in-style-with-libreoffice/

 04:00 <stephenm> Companies Pushing Open Source RISC-V Silicon Out to the Edge

 04:00 <stephenm> https://www.datacenterknowledge.com/hardware/companies-pushing-open-source-risc-v-silicon-out-edge

 04:00 <stephenm> Linux Mint Turns Cinnamon Experience Bittersweet

 04:00 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Linux-Mint-Turns-Cinnamon-Experience-Bittersweet-86033.html

 04:00 <stephenm> Linux Kernel 5.2 to Come with Improved Support for Logitech Wireless Devices

 04:00 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-5-2-to-come-with-improved-support-for-logitech-wireless-devices-526200.shtml

 04:00 <stephenm> How to Find a Specific Word in a File on Linux

 04:00 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/grep-find-specific-word-in-file-linux/

 04:00 <stephenm> Real Linux Desktop Experience with X410 and WSL?

 04:00 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/real-linux-desktop-experience-x410-wsl/

 04:01 <stephenm> Graphically program in Python with Pythonic

 04:01 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/5/graphically-programming-pythonic

 04:01 <stephenm> A Quick Look at Elvish Shell

 04:01 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/elvish-shell/

 04:01 <stephenm> 100GbE Networking Improvements On Tap For Linux 5.3

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Linux-5.3-100GbE-Improvements

 04:01 <stephenm> Apache Commands You Should Know

 04:01 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/apache-commands-you-should-know/

 04:01 <stephenm> The shortcomings of rootless containers

 04:01 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/5/shortcomings-rootless-containers

 04:02 <stephenm> Lodestar

 04:02 <stephenm> https://blogspot.thereglueblog.com/2019/05/lodestar.html

 04:02 <stephenm> 2 Tools To Test Internet Speed From The Command Line

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/05/2-tools-to-test-internet-speed-from.html

 04:02 <stephenm> How to Setup IRedMail Server on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-iredmail-server-on-ubuntu-1804/

 04:02 <stephenm> Terminal File Manager nnn 2.5 Adds Plugins, Mouse And SSHFS Support

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/05/terminal-file-manager-nnn-25-adds.html

 04:02 <stephenm> Search Linux Applications On AppImage, Flathub And Snapcraft Platforms

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/search-linux-applications-on-appimage-flathub-and-snapcraft-platforms/

 04:03 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight.  As for the LinuxFest here in Dallas, wasn't to bad.

 04:03 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:03 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:03 <Ron_A> MajB has the list of Canceled meetings and events.

 04:03 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> welcome

 04:03 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:03 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:04 <MajB> 06 June,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:04 <MajB> 13 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:05 <MajB> 15 June,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:05 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:05 <MajB> 27 June,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:05 <MajB> 04 July, Tempe Ubuntu Hour,  CANCELED

 04:06 <MajB> 06 July, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwar

 04:06 <MajB> e.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:06 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:06 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:06 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:06 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:06 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:06 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:06 <Ron_A> I haven't lost my mind...it's backed up on tape somewhere.

 04:06 <Ron_A> What Yoda meant to say:

 04:07 <Ron_A> Java leads to Shockwave.

 04:07 <Ron_A> Shockwave leads to RealAudio.

 04:07 <Ron_A> RealAudio leads to suffering.

 04:07 <Ron_A> shin (n): A device for finding furniture in the dark.

 04:07 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:07 <Ron_A> 58 current canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:07 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:08 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:08 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:09 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:10 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:10 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 13 June 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:10 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 18 June  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things

 04:10 <MajB> tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:10 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 20 June 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:10 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:11 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:11 <MajB> Meeting on 23 June 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:11 <MajB> Meeting on 07 June 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:11 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:11 <MajB> Meeting on 12 June 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:11 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:11 <MajB> We will have a computer laptop repair-recovery fest Saturday June 8th at my house at 99 School Dr., Sierra Vista AZ at 12 pm noon. All interested parties are invited. Don’t worry if you have not done this before and have no experience, this is about learning. We will set up monitors to look at U-Tube videos to guide you (us) through the steps at getting into the various computers. (There mostly all different.) This will be a grea

 04:11 <MajB> t opportunity to get down and dirty even if you were too squeamish to do this on your own. If you have one that is dead, bring it along. We have nine clunkers to work on in various states of disrepair. Our first objective is to determine what power supplies they will need. Second, what memory they have and if they have a working hard drive. We will probably be switching out memory and hard drives to determine what in fact is workin

 04:11 <MajB> g then determine if we make a viable computer. Bring any power supplies you may have that are in the 19.5 to 20 volt range. We can at least power up the computers even if they do not have a working battery and decide what to do from there. (Like install an operating system) In addition a small screwdriver that will work on those tiny screws one finds in the back of laptops would be helpful. I have some old memory and hard drives. W

 04:11 <MajB> e will see what works and what don’t. So lets go!

 04:11 <MajB> Meeting on 22 June 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:12 <MajB> Back to you Ron_A

 04:12 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:12 <Ron_A> El jeffe do you have anything to add?

 04:12 <toddc> no

 04:13 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> 04 July Tempe Ubuntu Hour Canceled because of the National holiday.

 04:13 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:13 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:13 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:13 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:14 <Ron_A> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
