{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 06 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:23 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-12-06-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tomshardware.com/news/raspberry-pi-walnut-atari-themed-arcade   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-desktops-for-pros/#ftag=RSSbaffb68   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/12/kdenlive-linux-creative-ap   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-photos/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/what-is-apache-cassandra/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/post/vm-secure-boot-db-updates-with-ol   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.tuxmachines.org/node/158485   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/11/compiling-code   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/11/30/aws_reinvent_rust/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-find-the-execution-time-of-a-command-or-process-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/12/how-to-use-guake-terminal-under-wayland.html   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/check-supported-tls-ssl-version-ciphers-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/backup-restore-files-borg-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/persistent-iptables-firewall-rules/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://bytexd.com/chattr-command-linux/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-hash-passwords-on-linux   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://owlhowto.com/how-to-create-a-multiboot-usb/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-rudder-system-configuration-and-auditing-tool-on-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/find-default-gateway-ip-address-linux/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-securely-transfer-files-between-ubuntu-systems-using-croc/   (stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/ssh-login-without-password/   (stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/11/linux-diff-patch   (stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.datafix.com.au/BASHing/2021-12-01.html   (stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.infoq.com/news/2021/11/linux-dns-vulnerability/   (stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://liliputing.com/2021/12/raspberry-pi-os-gets-a-legacy-version-to-offer-extended-stability.html   (stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://bytexd.com/slickstack/   (stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/packaging-applications-python   (stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-zentyal-as-primary-domain-controller-and-integrate-windows-system/   (stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/manage-zentyal-pdc-from-windows/   (stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/creating-organizational-units-and-enableing-group-policy-in-zentyal/   (stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/web/d/phoenix-junior-full-stack-developer/7393947065.html   (toddc, 04:16)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:16)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/lxd-4-20/   (toddc, 04:17)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/cutiepi-raspberry-pi-based-linux-tablet-is-already-sold-out/   (toddc, 04:17)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:21)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (70)
* toddc (53)
* MajB (27)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:25 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 99528.38

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also National NATIONAL Bathtub Party Day

 04:03 <toddc> read into that what you will??? or want!!

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:04 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <stephenm> News is from simple to How Tos

 04:04 <stephenm> This Raspberry Pi Atari-Themed Walnut Arcade is Made For Two

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tomshardware.com/news/raspberry-pi-walnut-atari-themed-arcade

 04:04 <stephenm> This was an actually cool project, need to start some pi projects here soon

 04:05 <stephenm> Best desktop Linux for pros 2021: Our top 5 choices

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-desktops-for-pros/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:05 <stephenm> Vivaldi 5.0 Introduces Shareable Browser Themes, Automatic Translationhttps://www.debugpoint.com/2021/12/vivaldi-5-0-release/

 04:05 <stephenm> Edit video on Linux with Kdenlive

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/12/kdenlive-linux-creative-ap

 04:05 <stephenm> If you are into RedHat

 04:05 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Photos

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-photos/

 04:06 <stephenm> What is Apache Cassandra | Introduction To Cassandra

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/what-is-apache-cassandra/

 04:06 <stephenm> Virtual Machine Secure Boot Database Updates Made Easy with Oracle Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/post/vm-secure-boot-db-updates-with-ol

 04:06 <stephenm> Why We Can't Teach Cybersecurity

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.tuxmachines.org/node/158485

 04:06 <stephenm> I beg to differ

 04:06 <stephenm> Anyone can compile open source code in these three simple steps

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/11/compiling-code

 04:06 <stephenm> Can Rust save the planet? Why, and why not

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/11/30/aws_reinvent_rust/

 04:07 <stephenm> Find The Execution Time Of A Command Or Process In Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-find-the-execution-time-of-a-command-or-process-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Use Guake Terminal under Wayland (GNOME)

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/12/how-to-use-guake-terminal-under-wayland.html

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Check Supported TLS and SSL Ciphers (version) on Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/check-supported-tls-ssl-version-ciphers-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Backup and Restore Files Using Borg in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/backup-restore-files-borg-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Make iptables Firewall Rules Persistent on Debian/Ubuntu

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/persistent-iptables-firewall-rules/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Change File Attributes in Linux with Chattr Command

 04:08 <stephenm> https://bytexd.com/chattr-command-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Hash Passwords in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-hash-passwords-on-linux

 04:08 <stephenm> How to create a multiboot USB on Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://owlhowto.com/how-to-create-a-multiboot-usb/

 04:08 <stephenm> And it's not multisystem

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install Rudder System Configuration and Auditing Tool on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:08 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-rudder-system-configuration-and-auditing-tool-on-ubuntu/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Find Default Gateway IP in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/find-default-gateway-ip-address-linux/

 04:09 <stephenm> How to Securely Transfer Files between Ubuntu Systems Using Croc

 04:09 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-securely-transfer-files-between-ubuntu-systems-using-croc/

 04:09 <stephenm> How to Setup SSH Login Without Password

 04:09 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/ssh-login-without-password/

 04:09 <stephenm> Collaborate on a file using Linux diff and patch

 04:09 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/11/linux-diff-patch

 04:10 <stephenm> Combinations from 2 lists: speed trials

 04:10 <stephenm> https://www.datafix.com.au/BASHing/2021-12-01.html

 04:10 <stephenm> New Side-Channel Vulnerability in the Linux Kernel Enabling DNS Cache Poisoning

 04:10 <stephenm> https://www.infoq.com/news/2021/11/linux-dns-vulnerability/

 04:10 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi OS gets a legacy version to offer extended stability

 04:10 <stephenm> https://liliputing.com/2021/12/raspberry-pi-os-gets-a-legacy-version-to-offer-extended-stability.html

 04:10 <stephenm> Not really backwards compatible, but the article seems to say it works for what it's used for

 04:11 <stephenm> Using SlickStack to Install WordPress Automatically on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:11 <stephenm> https://bytexd.com/slickstack/

 04:11 <stephenm> Packaging applications to install on other machines with Python

 04:11 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/packaging-applications-python

 04:11 <stephenm> Install Zentyal as PDC (Primary Domain Controller) and Integrate Windows System – Part 1

 04:11 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-zentyal-as-primary-domain-controller-and-integrate-windows-system/

 04:11 <stephenm> How to Manage Zentyal PDC (Primary Domain Controller) from Windows System – Part 2

 04:11 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/manage-zentyal-pdc-from-windows/

 04:11 <stephenm> How to Create Organizational Units (OU) and Enable GPO (Group Policy) in Zentyal – Part 3

 04:11 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/creating-organizational-units-and-enableing-group-policy-in-zentyal/

 04:11 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:12 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:12 <MajB> Thanks stephenm.  I use Ventoy for multiboot USB's.  It is great

 04:12 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:12 <stephenm> welcome

 04:12 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:12 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> 23 December Tempe Ubuntu Hour – Conflict with Christmas Holiday

 04:12 <MajB> 01 January Installfest/Linux Workshop – Conflict with New Year holiday

 04:12 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:13 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:13 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:13 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:13 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:13 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:14 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:14 <toddc> What comes after Ununoctium in the periodic table ?

 04:14 <toddc> Gnomium.

 04:14 <toddc> Why will Gnome launch from a shell ?

 04:15 <toddc> It can't reach up to the balcony.

 04:15 <toddc> How do penguins break through sea ice ?

 04:15 <toddc> Boot in Gnome first.

 04:16 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:16 <toddc> Junior Full Stack Developer (Phoenix AZ)

 04:16 <toddc> https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/web/d/phoenix-junior-full-stack-developer/7393947065.html

 04:16 <toddc> Canonical has 139 open positions

 04:16 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:16 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:17 <toddc> LXD 4.02 Released

 04:17 <toddc> https://linuxiac.com/lxd-4-20/

 04:17 <toddc> CutiePi Raspberry Pi Based Linux Tablet is Already Sold Out

 04:17 <toddc> https://linuxiac.com/cutiepi-raspberry-pi-based-linux-tablet-is-already-sold-out/

 04:17 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:17 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:18 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:18 <MajB> 09 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour - 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:18 <MajB> 09 December, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour – https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000, Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:19 <MajB> 18 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal proj

 04:19 <MajB> ects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:19 <MajB> 19 December, AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az, 2100-2130.

 04:20 <MajB> 02 January, AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az, 2100-2130.

 04:20 <MajB> That's all I have

 04:20 <toddc> LuftHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:21 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:21 <MajB> Most events are being held on line.

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:21 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:21 <MajB> 09 December PLUG Meeting

 04:21 <MajB> 16 December Security Meeting

 04:21 <MajB> 21 December Stammtisch

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:22 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month, 1800-1930, Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 18 December, 1300-1500,  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:22 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:22 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:23 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:23 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
