{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



<pre>
[21:00]	toddcnb	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddcnb	+1
[21:00]	TuxMann	Hi toddcnb! How are you tonight?
[21:00]	TuxMann	+1
[21:00]	wmack1	+1
[21:00]	toddcnb	Star Date 91733.52 check it at http://www.stoacademy.com/tools/stardate.php
[21:00]	markthomas	+1
[21:00]	toddcnb	Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[21:00]	toddcnb	Team Website is http://azloco.org/
[21:00]	toddcnb	Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
[21:00]	toddcnb	https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
[21:01]	toddcnb	Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/
[21:01]	toddcnb	http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209
[21:01]	toddcnb	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	toddcnb	some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
[21:01]	toddcnb	Anybody here that is new tonight?
[21:01]	toddcnb	lets start with the news!!
[21:01]	toddcnb	China Downloaded More Than 1.5 Million Copies of Ubuntu in 2013
[21:01]	toddcnb	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/02/number-of-ubuntu-downloads-in-china
[21:02]	-->|	StephenM (~stephen@ip68-226-114-109.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:02]	toddcnb	hello StephenM
[21:02]	StephenM	Hi Todd
[21:02]	toddcnb	Ubuntu to ditch Upstart and switch to systemd
[21:02]	toddcnb	http://www.muktware.com/2014/02/ubuntu-ditch-upstart-switch-systemd/21036
[21:02]	toddcnb	Google to banish mobe-makers using old Androids: report
[21:02]	toddcnb	http://www.theregister.co.uk/2014/02/13/google_trying_to_unify_android_reports/
[21:02]	toddcnb	Vodafone hooks up with Canonical for Ubuntu Linux for mobile
[21:02]	toddcnb	http://betanews.com/2014/02/06/vodaphone-hooks-up-with-canonical-for-ubuntu-linux-for-mobile/
[21:03]	toddcnb	How to: Install PostgreSQL 9.3 on Ubuntu – Complete Guide
[21:03]	toddcnb	http://technobytz.com/install-postgresql-9-3-ubuntu.html
[21:03]	toddcnb	Smart joins Ubuntu Carrier Advisory Group
[21:03]	toddcnb	http://insights.ubuntu.com/news/press-releases/smart-joins-ubuntu-carrier-advisory-group/
[21:03]	toddcnb	What Does Your Linux Candy Heart Say?
[21:03]	toddcnb	http://www.linux.com/news/featured-blogs/200-libby-clark/762077-what-does-your-linux-candy-heart-say/
[21:04]	toddcnb	HOWTO: Switch to HDMI audio out automatically on Linux
[21:04]	toddcnb	http://jeffhoogland.blogspot.com/2014/02/howto-switch-to-hdmi-audio-out.html
[21:04]	toddcnb	Mozilla Will/may Sell Ads In Firefox To Create A New Revenue Stream
[21:04]	toddcnb	http://techcrunch.com/2014/02/12/mozilla-will-sell-ads-in-firefox-to-create-a-new-revenue-stream/
[21:04]	toddcnb	Pennsylvania High School Rolls Out 1,700 Linux Laptops to Students
[21:04]	toddcnb	http://www.linux.com/news/featured-blogs/200-libby-clark/761499-pennsylvania-high-school-rolls-out-1700-linux-laptops-to-students
[21:05]	toddcnb	Because You Can: Windows 8 GTK Theme For Linux
[21:05]	toddcnb	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/02/windows-8-metro-gtk-theme
[21:05]	StephenM	That was an interesting article too bad they didn't do that when I was in school
[21:05]	toddcnb	but why?
[21:05]	gnewbie	+1
[21:05]	toddcnb	5 ways to get involved today: Ubuntu Documentation
[21:05]	toddcnb	http://princessleia.com/journal/?p=9070
[21:05]	toddcnb	Sound Switcher Ubuntu Indicator
[21:05]	toddcnb	http://www.webupd8.org/2014/02/sound-switcher-ubuntu-indicator.html
[21:06]	StephenM	I wanted to learn about Linux in high school my first introduction was red hat. I was a little kid so it was as user friendly has it is now
[21:06]	toddcnb	Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS released
[21:06]	toddcnb	http://www.ubuntu-news.net/2014/02/09/ubuntu-12-04-4-lts-released/
[21:06]	toddcnb	there may soon be a .5 version
[21:06]	toddcnb	How To Fix A Non-Bootable Ubuntu System Due To Broken Updates Using A LiveCD And Chroot
[21:06]	toddcnb	http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/how-to-fix-non-bootable-ubuntu-system.html
[21:06]	markthomas	toddcnb: .5 is likely.
[21:07]	toddcnb	TEAM NEWS
[21:07]	toddcnb	We are still looking for a central Phoenix meeting location for presentations - if anyone has location ideas please let us know!
[21:07]	toddcnb	thanks markthomas
[21:07]	toddcnb	WE will be doing a ubuntu/linux demo Wednesday February 19 at
[21:07]	toddcnb	Sun Village Resort Computer Room - 17300 N. Sun Village Pkwy., Ste A
[21:07]	-->|	Ron_A (18171006@gateway/web/freenode/ip.24.23.16.6) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:07]	Ron_A	+1
[21:07]	toddcnb	hi Ron_A
[21:08]	Ron_A	HI Todd
[21:08]	toddcnb	WE will be doing a ubuntu/linux demo Wednesday February 19 at
[21:08]	toddcnb	Sun Village Resort Computer Room - 17300 N. Sun Village Pkwy., Ste A
[21:08]	toddcnb	Surprise,Arizona 85374 members are welcome to attend and participate 7-9pm and we will hope to do a installfest on a following event
[21:08]	toddcnb	Scale12x February 21-23, 2014, Hilton Los Angeles Airport
[21:08]	toddcnb	https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale12x
[21:08]	toddcnb	The California` loco has excess 12.04 cd's they are willing to donate to us. I need a volunteer to pick them up and bring them home. They
[21:09]	toddcnb	will give us a bunch at the booth and offered the left overs after Scale but I think 50-75 should be way more than enough.
[21:09]	toddcnb	JOB list
[21:09]	toddcnb	50 current canonical Jobs
[21:09]	toddcnb	http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies
[21:09]	toddcnb	System/Network Admin and DevOps
[21:09]	toddcnb	www.telelanguage.com
[21:10]	toddcnb	Runs LINUX
[21:10]	toddcnb	MikroTik Wired Router
[21:10]	toddcnb	An entirely new class of product in the RouterBOARD lineup, the RB750 is a small five port ethernet router in a nice plastic case.
[21:10]	toddcnb	http://routerboard.com/RB750 http://altispeed.tictail.com/product/mikrotik-wired-router
[21:10]	toddcnb	House of Cards Season 2, Runs Linux
[21:10]	toddcnb	http://i.imgur.com/3g9thWY.jpg
[21:11]	toddcnb	Linux App of the week
[21:11]	toddcnb	KDE Partition Manager - Partition Editor
[21:11]	toddcnb	http://kde.org/applications/system/kdepartitionmanager/
[21:11]	toddcnb	NORTH INSTALLFEST
[21:11]	toddcnb	Sat, February 22, 9am – 2pm
[21:11]	toddcnb	Paradise Valley Community College 18401 North 32nd Street, Phoenix, AZ 85032, USA
[21:12]	toddcnb	Enter from the north east or east lot toward the center and look for the computer commons area Building E Room E152 For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
[21:12]	toddcnb	TEMPE INSTALL-FEST
[21:12]	toddcnb	The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday March 1 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the
[21:12]	toddcnb	front building. For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
[21:12]	toddcnb	We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
[21:12]	toddcnb	If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:13]	toddcnb	WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
[21:13]	toddcnb	West side Ubuntu hour will be March 5 7pm – 9pm
[21:13]	toddcnb	Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
[21:13]	toddcnb	If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find
[21:13]	toddcnb	out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
[21:13]	toddcnb	There were 6+4 new people at January's event this has started out as a great event.
[21:13]	toddcnb	TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
[21:13]	toddcnb	Thursday February 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
[21:13]	toddcnb	http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information
[21:14]	toddcnb	TUCSON UBUNTU HOUR
[21:14]	toddcnb	We need one!!
[21:14]	toddcnb	TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:14]	toddcnb	Thanks to adrenaline ArchFan markthomas wmack rudgan and any others I missed
[21:14]	toddcnb	get the new server on-line and rudgan will be maintaining drupul and user lists
[21:14]	toddcnb	Thanks to wmack he has completed a our first dualboot with uefi and secure boot
[21:14]	toddcnb	notes are on azloco docs and at azloco.org we expect a lot of variations and would love more input and
[21:14]	toddcnb	and testing on other boxes
[21:15]	toddcnb	ArchFan also built a new BBB server for the team and after some testing we hope to deploy it since it has a lot of new features.
[21:15]	toddcnb	adreanline is doing a Basic Linux Adminsitration and also has two blogs out see at azloco.org on the front page
[21:15]	toddcnb	UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:15]	toddcnb	no classes this week
[21:16]	toddcnb	ubuntu on-air
[21:16]	toddcnb	http://ubuntuonair.com/
[21:16]	toddcnb	http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
[21:16]	toddcnb	Jono Bacon Q&A Tuesday February 11 at noon local time every Tuesday
[21:16]	toddcnb	Ubuntu Engineering Live! Wed, Febuary 12, at 11 AM
[21:16]	toddcnb	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:16]	toddcnb	Any thoughts on other events or projects???
[21:17]	toddcnb	xHans would you like to do the Plug news?
[21:17]	xHans	soitanly
[21:17]	xHans	Stammtisch this Tuesday at Iguana Macks
[21:17]	xHans	starts at 19:00
[21:18]	xHans	SCaLE starts this Friday in LA, a bunch of us will arrive Thu night
[21:18]	xHans	and I will not be sleeping again until the first full week of March
[21:18]	xHans	
[21:18]	xHans	that's it
[21:19]	toddcnb	that is all I have, any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:19]	toddcnb	Thanks for coming here tonight I will bee here for a while if you have any questions
[21:19]	xHans	we should have someone new for you at the next Tempe Ubuntu hour
[21:19]	xHans	he might make it Tuesday as well
[21:19]	toddcnb	cool
[21:20]	toddcnb	I have your box also
[21:20]	markthomas	Good night, all
[21:21]	xHans	ok
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
