{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 10 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-09-10-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azYY 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/the-hidden-benefit-of-giving-back-to-open-source-software 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/raspberry-pi-based-zerophone-promises-an-open-source-linux-powered-handset/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/linus-torvalds-talks-frankly-about-intel-security-bugs/ 
''LINK:'' https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/ksummit-discuss/2018-September/005308.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/alternatives/flash-media-player 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/angrysearch-linux-desktop-file-search-tool/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/9/tips-productivity-zsh 
''LINK:'' https://githubengineering.com/mysql-high-availability-at-github/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/how-to-see-whats-going-on-with-your-linux-system-right-now-1807.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-limit-network-bandwidth-in-linux-using-wondershaper/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-get-the-windows-look-feel-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/9/what-serverless 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/9/how-use-netplan-network-configuration-tool-linux 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhint.com/install_bind9_ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-apache-pluck-cms-installation/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/keep-your-clock-sync-with-internet-time-servers-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.responsivedata.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-hat-does-hydroponic-root-zone-monitoring/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-thin-client-runs-on-raspberry-pi-3-b/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/175/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/150/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactuscon.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactusconkids.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (50)
* stephenm (35)
* MajB (27)
* xHans (21)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 10 04:00:12 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <wmack> Hello

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 96291.58

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azYY

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> over to stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> News is simple to more Linux based.

 04:03 <stephenm> https://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/the-hidden-benefit-of-giving-back-to-open-source-software

 04:03 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi-based ZeroPhone Promises 'an Open-Source, Linux-Powered' Handset

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/raspberry-pi-based-zerophone-promises-an-open-source-linux-powered-handset/

 04:03 <stephenm> Linus Torvalds Talks Frankly About Intel Security Bugs

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/linus-torvalds-talks-frankly-about-intel-security-bugs/

 04:03 <stephenm> Linus Torvalds Books the Wrong Flight and They Decide to Move the Entire Conference

 04:03 <stephenm> https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/ksummit-discuss/2018-September/005308.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Two open source alternatives to Flash Player

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/alternatives/flash-media-player

 04:04 <stephenm> ANGRYsearch - A Fast File Search Tool for Linux Desktops

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/angrysearch-linux-desktop-file-search-tool/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Tips to Improve Productivity with zsh

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/9/tips-productivity-zsh

 04:04 <stephenm> MySQL High Availability at GitHub

 04:04 <stephenm> https://githubengineering.com/mysql-high-availability-at-github/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to See What's Going On With Your Linux System Right Now

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/how-to-see-whats-going-on-with-your-linux-system-right-now-1807.html

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Limit Network Bandwidth In Linux Using Wondershaper

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-limit-network-bandwidth-in-linux-using-wondershaper/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to get the Windows Look & Feel on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-get-the-windows-look-feel-on-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> What is serverless?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/9/what-serverless

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Use the Netplan Network Configuration Tool on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/9/how-use-netplan-network-configuration-tool-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> Install BIND 9 on Ubuntu and Configure It for Usage

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxhint.com/install_bind9_ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Pluck CMS on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-apache-pluck-cms-installation/

 04:06 <stephenm> Keep Your Clock Sync with Internet Time Servers in Ubuntu 18.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/keep-your-clock-sync-with-internet-time-servers-in-ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to you toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <Ron_A> thanks stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:07 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <toddc> ?

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> You know youre texting too much when?

 04:08 <toddc> youre happy when you get stopped at a red light.

 04:08 <MajB> Right on

 04:09 <toddc> Why did Jack and Jill "really" go up the hill?

 04:09 <toddc> To get better Wi-fi.

 04:09 <toddc> What did mommy spider say to baby spider?

 04:10 <toddc> You spend too much time on the web.

 04:10 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical has 54 open positions

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <toddc> Full Stack Web Developer PHP, Javascript, Mysql and Linux systems administration Mesa

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.responsivedata.com/

 04:11 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:11 <toddc> Autogrow has released open source files for building an ???OpenMinder??? root zone monitor HAT and API for the Raspberry Pi that manages water, pH, and nutrient usage in hydroponic farming.

 04:11 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-hat-does-hydroponic-root-zone-monitoring/

 04:11 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:11 <toddc> Clientron has launched an ???S-Cube Pi 3 B+ Thin Client??? built around the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ SBC with Citrix XenDesktop, Microsoft RDP, and VMware Horizon View support.

 04:12 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-thin-client-runs-on-raspberry-pi-3-b/

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:12 <MajB> 15 September,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source S

 04:12 <MajB> oftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 27 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 27 September,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 04 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 06 October, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:13 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:14 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:14 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:14 <xHans> We have one topic thus far for this week's PLUG meeting:

 04:14 <xHans> Federating the cloud: ActivityPub

 04:14 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/175/east-valley-meeting/

 04:14 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:15 <xHans> please let me know if you would like to present Thursday as well

 04:15 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday

 04:15 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/150/floss-stammtisch/

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:15 <xHans> PLUG security is a week from Thursday

 04:15 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:15 <xHans> CactusCon starts two weeks from Friday at Mesa Convention Center

 04:15 <xHans> Friday and Saturday the 28th and 29th of September

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:15 <xHans> you need tickets, no cost tickets available or pay in order to get badge

 04:15 <xHans> CactusCon Kids Kids is Saturday at CactusCon, requires no cost registration

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.cactusconkids.com/

 04:16 <xHans> DevOpsDays Phoenix is Tuesday, 2018Oct23 at Galvanize in Phoenix

 04:16 <xHans> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/

 04:16 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:16 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:16 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:16 <xHans> aber bitte :)

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:16 <MajB> Meetting on 23 September 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 05 October 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 12 September 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 12 September 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 22 September 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:18 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:18 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:18 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:18 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <Ron_A> Thanks all

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
