{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.+1
<toddc> +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<Siph0n> +!
<Siph0n> +1
<isz_id> +1
<toddc> +!??
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<Dazed_75> Is +! bigger than +1 or just NOT 1
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.04 CD's are in, get with me to help Distribute them
<toddc> Our Team renewal date is August 19 at 1:pm Tuesday on #ubuntu-meeting on IRC freenode.net
<toddc> please show up and support us!!!
<toddc> Unity Simplify Your life---A great guide for the new user or new to unity short cuts
<toddc> http://ubuntuone.com/p/1AAB/ this is a pdf book
<Dazed_75> FYI, that is 1PM MST
<toddc> August 25 is the 20 Year anniversary of Linux
<toddc> How to install Drupal 7 on Ubuntu Linux
<toddc> http://how-to.linuxcareer.com/how-to-install-drupal-7-on-ubuntu-linux
<toddc> Canonical Expands Partnerships with Game Developers
<toddc> http://www.thevarguy.com/2011/08/04/canonical-expands-partnerships-with-game-developers/
<toddc> 31002893
<toddc> Netflix Instant is coming to the entire Linux Community!
<toddc> http://benjaminkerensa.com/netflix-instant-is-coming-to-the-entire-linux
<toddc> Ubuntu Open Stack Book
<toddc> http://cloud.ubuntu.com/2011/08/ubuntu-natty-gets-openstack-book/
<toddc> Ubuntu One upgraded to 5GB free storage
<toddc> http://www.geek.com/articles/news/ubuntu-one-upgraded-to-5gb-free-storage-20110729/
<toddc> Guide to create a Vmware workstation on Ubuntu 10.10
<toddc> http://blogs.vmware.com/kbtv/2011/08/creating-and-installing-a-ubuntu-1010-based-virtual-machine-in-vmware-workstation.html
<toddc> 59 Days till 11.10will be released
<toddc> I now have access to set up azloco.com email address so if you would like one please contact me!
<toddc> At toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> Mark Shuttleworth on patents, tablets and the future of Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.techcentral.co.za/mark-shuttleworth-on-patents-tablets-and-the-future-of-ubuntu/25192/
<toddc> great article
<toddc> 10/29/2011 will be the 11.10 release party at the Installfest at UAT
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> several jobs are availible at Limelight networks
<Siph0n> you say the renewal date is aug 19th 1pm (Tuesday)... but the 19th is a Friday
<toddc> http://www.limelightnetworks.com/content-delivery-company/careers/
<toddc> 16 tuesday
<Siph0n> ok, so aug 16th is the renewal. thx
<toddc> must remeber recheck dates
<toddc> SRP has a posting on their website for a Sr. Linux Admin:
<toddc> https://www.srp.apply2jobs.com/ProfExt/index.cfm?fuseaction=mExternal.showJob&RID=4565&CurrentPage=1
<toddc> http://www.phoenixinternet.net
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thanks to Shane Lofgren for getting both the azloco.com and test.azloco servers up to 10.04
<toddc> this is a bit of work so thank him if you see him in the channel.  He will also be updating  the Drupal soon so any Ideas to update the site please let us know.  We do hope to add our big blue button server
<toddc> to it as a user access from azloco.com
<toddc> lso the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated.  So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> No classes this week
<toddc> September  9 at 9.30 am Q and A with Amanda Brock in #ubuntu-clasroom or Lerid
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> We discussed at the last Plug meeting about a joint Software Freedom Day at maker bench in tempe
<toddc> and will have more info as details are set.
<toddc> Global Jam Event  should be September 2-4 to debug 11.10 looking at our current calender this may be hard to do any thoughts would be helpful?????
<toddc> our trip to YLUG's Tuesday we passed out CD's and did demo's of eyeos and BBB
<toddc> The Prescott lugs plan to come down for some events Installfests and Security labs so be sure to say hi
<toddc> and they are Talking about a Installfest up there so stay tuned we may have another trip up there soon.
<Dazed_75> But ideas how to further or celebrate FOSS are welcome
<toddc> Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest   12-3 Sat AT Gangplank see azloco.com calender or plugaz for more info
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> West side free software Stammtisch Tuesday at Buffalo Wings  and Rings 7:00PM 2935 Dysart Rd. Avondale, AZ 85323
<toddc> Server installfest Saturday 10-4PM at University of Advancing Technology 2625 W Baseline Rd
<toddc> Tempe AZ Room 208
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<Dazed_75> I will have the PXE server running at the Install fests
<Dazed_75> It will boot ubuntu across the Lan in about 3 minutes
<Dazed_75> and similar for other Live Distros
<toddc> I might bring one up just to test saterday
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<Dazed_75> PXE boot is a neat way to try different Live Distros as well as to do installs
<toddc> P.S I had a great time at the security event at Maker Bench sat
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<Dazed_75> Reminder to be at the renewal mtg Tuesday at 1 pm MST
<toddc> tep
<toddc> yep
<isz_id> Question,
<toddc> go?
<isz_id> what are the benefits to being "approved" by ubuntu (other than a banner and CDs)
<toddc> that is about it but also it shows that we are active and can help more than unapproved
<toddc> we also can get book and business cards ect
<isz_id> ok, thanks.
<spinrage> also is there a way to show support without showing up on Tuesday? i generally begin work at that time.
<toddc> yes add a testimonial to the application
<toddc> 1 sec for app
<spinrage> ok cool, I'll need to do that then.
<toddc> https://wiki.kubuntu.org/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplicationrenewal#preview
<toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
* Siph0n has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<toddc> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona
* spinrage has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
* spinrage (~spinrage@ip70-190-142-30.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<spinrage> i got dc b/c my phone accidentally went into airplane mode X(
<Dazed_75> LOL
<spinrage> i should probably move it further away from the brightness settings.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
