{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 03 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-04-03-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-5-2-open-source-office-suite-is-out-with-96-bug-fixes-download-now   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/products/firefox/firefox-tips/land-your-next-job-with-these-firefox-extensions/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/new-orangepi-sbc-is-enabled-with-wifi6-bt5-connectivity/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/distro-hoppers-guide-hacking-linux-beginners/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/note-taking-apps-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/mark-surman-mozilla-25-years/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/linux-lite-6-4-the-improved-and-enhanced-version/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-fbcnn-jpeg-artifacts-removal/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-easy-diffusion/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/proxmox-backup-server-2-4-adds-ldap-realm-authentication/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://cameracode.coffee/language-hack-generate-wallpaper/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/pip-command-not-found/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/rustdesk-virtual-remote-desktop-software/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/vim-tips-edit-remote-files-with-vim-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/proc-cpuinfo-file/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://fosspost.org/kali-linux-purple/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/sniffnet-to-monitor-your-network-traffic/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-dalai-llama-alpaca/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/move-home-folder-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://venturebeat.com/ai/open-source-kubeflow-1-7-set-to-transform-mlops/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/error-handling-in-ansible-playbooks/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/xcp-ng-management-console/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.sofmen.com/   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://store.steampowered.com/hwsurvey/Steam-Hardware-Software-Survey-Welcome-to-Steam?platform=linux   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/3-fundamental-tools-to-troubleshoot-linux-performance-problems/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (55)
* stephenm (48)
* MajB (24)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:49 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Stardate 100849.64

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL PEANUT BUTTER AND JELLY DAY

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News is all over the place this week

 04:04 <stephenm> LibreOffice 7.5.2 Open-Source Office Suite Brings 96 Bug Fixes

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-5-2-open-source-office-suite-is-out-with-96-bug-fixes-download-now

 04:04 <stephenm> Land your next job with these Firefox extensions

 04:04 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/products/firefox/firefox-tips/land-your-next-job-with-these-firefox-extensions/

 04:04 <stephenm> OrangePi SBC is enabled with WiFi6/BT5 connectivity

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/new-orangepi-sbc-is-enabled-with-wifi6-bt5-connectivity/

 04:04 <stephenm> A Distro-Hopper’s Guide to Hacking on Linux for Beginners

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxstans.com/distro-hoppers-guide-hacking-linux-beginners/

 04:04 <stephenm> 11 Best Open-Source Note-Taking Apps for Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/note-taking-apps-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Making the impossible possible — again

 04:04 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/mark-surman-mozilla-25-years/

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux Lite 6.4: The Improved and Enhanced Version

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/linux-lite-6-4-the-improved-and-enhanced-version/

 04:05 <stephenm> FBCNN: JPEG Artifacts Removal

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-fbcnn-jpeg-artifacts-removal/

 04:05 <stephenm> Easy Diffusion: A Stable Diffusion UI

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-easy-diffusion/

 04:05 <stephenm> Proxmox Backup Server 2.4 Adds LDAP Realm Authentication

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/proxmox-backup-server-2-4-adds-ldap-realm-authentication/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Generate a ‘Word of the day’ Wallpaper in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://cameracode.coffee/language-hack-generate-wallpaper/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Fix the ‘pip command not found’ Error in Linux Distros

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/pip-command-not-found/

 04:05 <stephenm> RustDesk: Virtual and Remote Desktop Software

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/rustdesk-virtual-remote-desktop-software/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Edit Remote Files With Vim on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/vim-tips-edit-remote-files-with-vim-on-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> The Most Common Flags in /proc/cpuinfo With Examples

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/proc-cpuinfo-file/

 04:06 <stephenm> Meet Kali Purple: The Defensive Security Linux Distribution

 04:06 <stephenm> https://fosspost.org/kali-linux-purple/

 04:06 <stephenm> Sniffnet: Application to Comfortably Monitor Your Network Traffic

 04:06 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/sniffnet-to-monitor-your-network-traffic/

 04:06 <stephenm> Machine Learning in Linux: Dalai – LLaMA and Alpaca

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-dalai-llama-alpaca/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Move Your Home Folder to Another Partition in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/move-home-folder-ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> Open-Source Kubeflow 1.7 Set to Transform MLops

 04:06 <stephenm> https://venturebeat.com/ai/open-source-kubeflow-1-7-set-to-transform-mlops/

 04:06 <stephenm> Error Handling in Ansible Playbooks

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/error-handling-in-ansible-playbooks/

 04:07 <stephenm> Getting Started With XCP-ng Management Console

 04:07 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/xcp-ng-management-console/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> My favorite is the Linux windows cleaner.

 04:09 <toddc> Zombies Eat Brains   windows users are safe.

 04:09 <toddc> Why are people from Norway so good at editing files in Linux?

 04:09 <toddc> Their ancestors are vi-kings.

 04:10 <toddc> I farted in the Apple store and everyone got pissed at me

 04:10 <toddc> Not my fault they don't have Windows

 04:10 <toddc> My son asked me this morning why our 10 year old dog is no good with Linux. Then he explained to me that "you can't teach an old dog Gnu tricks."

 04:11 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:11 <toddc> software dev

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.sofmen.com/

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical has 130 open positions

 04:11 <toddc> hhttps://canonical.com/careers/all?

 04:11 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 141 local open jobs

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development

 04:12 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:12 <toddc> Steam Hardware Survey March 2023

 04:12 <toddc> https://store.steampowered.com/hwsurvey/Steam-Hardware-Software-Survey-Welcome-to-Steam?platform=linux

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> The Mozilla project celebrates 25 years of existence.

 04:12 <toddc> 3 fundamental tools to troubleshoot Linux performance problems

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.linux.com/news/3-fundamental-tools-to-troubleshoot-linux-performance-problems/

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:13 <MajB> 06 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 13 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 13 April, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 15 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal

 04:14 <MajB> projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 16 April,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:14 <MajB> 27 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:15 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:15 <MajB> Many events are being held on line.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:16 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 13 April, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 18 April, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly meeting 12 April, 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 25 April, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),  Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:16 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:17 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:17 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:17 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
