{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
 [20:59]	Siph0n	+1
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddc	+1
[21:00]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:00]	toddc	Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:00]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
[21:00]	toddc	ubuntu news
[21:01]	toddc	Ubuntu 11.10 will sync your installed apps across computers
[21:01]	toddc	http://liliputing.com/2011/09/ubuntu-11-10-will-sync-your-installed-apps-across-computers.html
[21:01]	toddc	Siph0n: just us tonight?
[21:01]	toddc	Ubuntu 11.10 will sync your installed apps across computer
[21:01]	-->|	LuftHans (~lufthans@wsip-174-79-56-141.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:01]	toddc	http://liliputing.com/2011/09/ubuntu-11-10-will-sync-your-installed-apps-across-computers.html
[21:02]	toddc	Rebooting vs. Stop/Start of Amazon EC2 Instance
[21:02]	toddc	http://cloud.ubuntu.com/2011/09/rebooting-vs-stopstart-of-amazon-ec2-instance/
[21:02]	toddc	welcome LuftHans
[21:02]	toddc	Ubuntu web site launched to encourage application developers
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Ubuntu-web-site-launched-to-encourage-application-developers-1342994.html
[21:02]	toddc	17 Days till 11.10 will be released on October 13 2011
[21:03]	LuftHans	moin moin
[21:03]	toddc	Oneiric 11.10 is now our in Beta 2 for testing and seems stable on my test after three weeks
[21:03]	toddc	I now have access to set up azloco.com email address so if you would like one please contact me!
[21:03]	toddc	At toddc@azloco.com
[21:03]	toddc	server admin
[21:03]	toddc	https://tbe.taleo.net/NA7/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CYRACOM&cws=1&rid=203
[21:03]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:04]	toddc	Software Test Engineer
[21:04]	toddc	Web / Linux Developer
[21:04]	toddc	recruiter@adonnetwork.com
[21:04]	toddc	(602) 266-8138
[21:04]	toddc	NOC Engineer
[21:04]	toddc	http://newton.newtonsoftware.com/career/SubmitResume.action?id=8aa00506328ba3a401328cc64e301d2b&source=Craigslist
[21:04]	toddc	Solutions Specialist I
[21:04]	toddc	Cable ONE
[21:04]	toddc	Desktop Support
[21:04]	toddc	www.apsmsystems.com
[21:04]	toddc	TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:05]	toddc	Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated. So, if someone has time /
[21:05]	toddc	http://test.azloco.com/ipxe/
[21:05]	toddc	Thugal is looking at to see what needs to be done AND WE HAVE APPROVAL TO START THIS WEEK--CAPS
[21:06]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:06]	|<--	Siph0n has left freenode (Quit: Leaving)
[21:06]	toddc	We are planning a 11.10 Release party for the October installfest stay tuned for more info
[21:07]	-->|	dennisk (~dennisk@ip70-162-80-2.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:07]	toddc	also we will be adding video of installfests on BBB and running demos starting next month at the installfest
[21:07]	toddc	
[21:07]	dennisk	+1
[21:08]	toddc	welcome dennisk
[21:08]	dennisk	Hi Todd, can't stay long
[21:09]	toddc	LuftHans: that is about all the team info I had would you like add plug and or?
[21:09]	LuftHans	devel mtg is a week from Thursday
[21:10]	LuftHans	it's an off week for us
[21:10]	toddc	dennisk: np thanks
[21:10]	toddc	will there be a west side meeting ?
[21:11]	dennisk	LuftHans: Please mention MCC classes, esp. CIS236DL, M-W pm, Tu-Th am
[21:11]	dennisk	at dev
[21:12]	LuftHans	dennisk: send that to Paul
[21:12]	dennisk	Will do
[21:12]	LuftHans	danke
[21:12]	toddc	LuftHans or should I remove it from the calender?
[21:12]	LuftHans	toddc: I don't know
[21:13]	toddc	ok I heard that at the current time there was nothing on the west side
[21:14]	toddc	I will leave all west side events up for the time being
[21:14]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:15]	toddc	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
[21:16]	LuftHans	have a good night
[21:16]	dennisk	Bye all
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
