{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> +1
<dennisk> +1
<toddc> none here!
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you wa
<toddc> nt to talk or see me
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.04 CD's are in get with me and help Distribute them
<toddc> Ubuntu News
<toddc> install guide for LibreOffice 3.4
<toddc> http://www.libre-software.net/how-to-install-libreoffice-on-ubuntu-linux-mint
<toddc> How to change the default application of file type
<toddc> http://www.libre-software.net/change-the-default-application-linux-mint-ubuntu
<toddc> update status on Onerick Alpha 2
<toddc> http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/06/30/ubuntu-oneiric-development-update/
<toddc> 95 Days till 11.10
<toddc> Thanks to Dazed_75 for keeping up the logs and dennisk for taking on education team and wiki and helping develop azloco.com
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Global Support Engineer for Stratus Technologies
<toddc> JOB SUMMARY
<toddc> The Global Support Engineer (GSE) is part of a highly-focused 24/7 support/system administration team with responsibility for managing our client’s mission critical application environments. The GSE team is responsible for day-to-day proactive administration and operational support for the server and application environments with the objective of 100% business availability. The GSE team...
<toddc> ...designs and implements best practices methodologies for change management and ongoing operations, and designs and implements proactive monitoring, problem resolution, and corrective action procedures. GSEs
<toddc> must possess a passion for this support role and how it contributes to meeting the client’s business objectives. An effective GSE possesses a broad background in technology combined with strong collaboration and teamwork capabilities.
<toddc> I have a contract to hire position available for a client in Scottsdale,AZ. The client is looking for a Linux Administrator with RHEL and SUSE experience. If interested please email your resume to Asad@midcom.com or feel free to call me at (800) 737-1632 ext. 3717. Thanks.
<dennisk> I'm in class for the next four weeks.
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<dennisk> I turned off the sound.
<toddc> ok count you out then
<toddc> Thanks to Shane Lofgren for getting both the azloco.com and test.azloco servers up to 10.04
<toddc> this is a bit of work so thank him if you see him in the channel he will also be updating  the Drupal soon so any Ideas to update the site please let us know we do hope to add our big blue button server
<toddc> to it as a user access from azloco.com
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Server installfest is this Saturday 7/16 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is next weekend 7/23 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from
<toddc> Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<dennisk> I turned off BBB. This "bootleg" connection is too slow for it.
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Ubuntu developer week this week hosting online classes all week all day
<toddc>  http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28 for schedule and event list
<toddc> install lernid for full features and a local time calender of events
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<Dazed_75> I will have the PXE server running the next two Saturdays at installfest
<toddc> I am planning on attending LUGY (Prescott LUGS)meeting August 9 7-9 if anyone else would like to go it should be a nice drive up
<toddc>  I was thinking about a 11.10 release party/ meet and greet Oct 11 but need Idea's as to where?
<toddc> Some thoughts are UAT or a bar/ coffee shop or I hear there is wifi at Tempe Town lake maybe a BBQ?
<toddc> Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest   12-3 Sat AT Gangplank see azloco.com calender or plugaz for more info
<toddc> Plug east side meeting thur July 14 at MCC Souther ave and Dobson at the Kirk student center 7-9 pm
<dennisk> We're always welcome at Heatsync.
<toddc> I have been wanting to che3ck it and maker bench
<dennisk> I'm bringing my class to PLUG.
<toddc> 3-6 at gangplank for the hackfest
<toddc> XHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone nee
<toddc> ds help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
