{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<Dazed_75> Better question is whether anyone beside we 2 are here
<toddc> We have a lot of news tonight so I will start there and wait for the late comers!
<toddc> might be just us
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.10: Xen vs. KVM vs. VirtualBox
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1110_xenkvm&num=1
<Dazed_75> Lets wait for anyone to show up then
<toddc> kk
<Dazed_75> Any luck getting BBB to work on 11.10 yet?
<xHans> moin moin
<toddc> Dazed_75: My father -inlaw is back in the hospital so I may need you to cover next week---no I have not had time to mess with 11.10
<Dazed_75> :ile I said I found it worked on Kubuntu 11.10 but have not gottem sound to work
<toddc> hello xHans! :)
<Dazed_75> Hiya Hans
<toddc> Due to flooding in Thailand Harddrive are now rationed and prices are rising fast.
<toddc> Canonical: Biting Off More Than it Can Chew with Ubuntu?
<toddc> http://ostatic.com/blog/canonical-biting-off-more-than-it-can-chew-with-ubuntu
<toddc> Microsoft has contributed code to Samba!? Is this a new leaf?
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Samba-gets-Microsoft-code-contribution-1370610.html
<toddc> gpl even
<toddc> Ubuntu developer Summit finished this week so I will review this week and point out expected changes
<toddc> for 12.04 next week
<toddc> Rasberry pi may go on sale this or next week 25$ pc http://www.raspberrypi.org/ watch for the site
<toddc> Gedit Dash Plugin Released
<toddc>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/11/gedit-dash-plugin-released/
<toddc> Unity and Power Users (Opinions)
<toddc>     http://www.datamation.com/open-source/shuttleworth-linux-power-users-arent-too-cool-for-unity.html
<toddc>     http://jeffhoogland.blogspot.com/2011/10/shuttleworth-misses-point-yet-again.html
<toddc> Preliminary Unity User Test Results
<toddc>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/11/user-testing-of-unity-reveals-some-surprising-results/
<toddc> Where Native Application Development Stands: An interesting perspective on why Unity is not really the issue.
<toddc>     http://www.itworld.com/it-managementstrategy/220185/where-native-linux-app-development-stands
<toddc> Expected Changes in Ubuntu 12.04 Precise Pangolin
<toddc>     http://www.webupd8.org/2011/11/expected-changes-in-ubuntu-1204-precise.html
<toddc>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/11/banshee-tomboy-and-mono-dropped-from-ubuntu-12-04-cd/
<toddc>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/11/multi-monitor-support-to-improve-in-ubuntu-12-04-video/
<toddc>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/11/ubuntu-12-04-disc-size-to-be-750mb/
<toddc> Leading PC Makers Confirm: no Windows 8 plot to lock out Linux
<toddc>     http://www.zdnet.com/blog/bott/leading-pc-makers-confirm-no-windows-8-plot-to-lock-out-linux/4185?tag=nl.e539
<toddc> Mint 12 Will Come with Gnome 3.2 and Mint Gnome Shell Extensions
<toddc>     http://www.linuxnov.com/linux-mint-12-will-come-with-gnome-3-and-mgse/
<toddc>     http://www.webupd8.org/2011/11/linux-mint-12-to-use-gnome-shell-by.html
<toddc> Some Handy uses for the find command
<toddc>     http://technonstop.com/fun-with-unix-linux-find-command
<toddc> Banshee Adds DVD Playback
<toddc>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/11/banshee-adds-dvd-playback/
<toddc> Fedora to simplify filesystem hierarchy
<toddc>     http://www.itworld.com/it-managementstrategy/218847/fedora-simplify-filesystem-hierarchy
<toddc> Post-Installation Script "Fedora Utils" Updated for Fedora 16.  What a Great Idea, We've had 3rd parties do this for Ubuntu, But the could be an official one included on the published media.
<toddc>     http://www.webupd8.org/2011/11/fedora-post-installation-script-fedora.html
<toddc> For Web Site Developers
<toddc>     http://www.webupd8.org/2011/09/test-websites-in-internet-explorer-9-8.html
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75  for most of the great news tonight!!!!! :)
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Affinity Technology is hiring a Network Engineer/Administrator.
<Dazed_75> and that last was testing against IE from within Linux
<toddc> jobs@atechaz.com
<toddc> Impressive results I read part of it a while ago
<toddc> Systems Administrator at Pitch Black Games
<toddc> job-cch9y-2672319594@craigslist.org
<toddc> Linux System Administrator
<toddc> staffing@inmotionhosting.com
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated.  So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
<toddc> http://test.azloco.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Due to Thanksgiving and Christmas we have a new schedule for November and December
<toddc> There will be one installfest on December 3 at UAT only
<toddc> There will be one Server installfest on November 19 at UAT
<toddc> xHans would you like to take the floor?
<xHans> sure
<xHans> Thursday is PLUG east side
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/11/10/15/-/plug-east-meeting.html
<xHans> Dazed_75: you said you'd do a presentation on 11.10?
<Dazed_75> Yep
<xHans> would you send a description to Brian for the web site and announcements?
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> TEDxPhoenix is this Friday
<xHans> http://www.tedxphoenix.com/
<xHans> ABLEconf call for participation is open
<xHans> http://www.ableconf.com/2012/Phoenix/CfP
<xHans> SCaLE CfP closing in 11 days
<xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp/cfp-information
<xHans> soldering and arduino workshop at Heatsync Labs over Thanksgiving weekend
<xHans> http://www.heatsynclabs.org/arduino-for-total-newbies-with-mitch-altman/
<xHans> and that's it from me this week
<toddc> thanks for the News from Plug events
<toddc> I will heading to Prescott LUGY for there meeting on Tue November 8 Please contact me if Interested in going.
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
