{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<TuxMann> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<TuxMann> +
<pjdamws> +1
<TuxMann> +1
<nhasian> +1
<wmack> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> +1
<scott_ev> +1
<TuxMann> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<TuxMann> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<TuxMann> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<TuxMann> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<TuxMann> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<TuxMann> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<TuxMann> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<TuxMann> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<TuxMann> lets start with the news!!
<TuxMann> UBUNTU NEWS
<TuxMann> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/09/googlers-turn-raspberry-pi-into-web-server-that-teaches-you-to-code/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/172141/how-to-fix-browser-settings-changed-by-malware-or-other-programs/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/172077/why-secure-file-deletion-tools-arent-foolproof/
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/09/install-ubuntu-linux-alongside-windows.html
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/06/how-to-set-up-secure-sftp-server-in-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://netrunner-mag.com/?p=3184 Best KDE distro of 2013
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/quick-tips/clear-spotify-cache
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/system-information-in-terminal/2013/09/16
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/09/flowblade-video-editor-010-released.html (NOTE: I don't have time to try this but would love to chat with anyone who does - Larry)
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/clementine-1-2-has-been-released-how-to-install-clementione-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-and-elementary-os/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/16/both-basement-nerds-and-major-corporations-contribute-to-the-linux-kernel/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-device-offers-web-video-audio-conferencing/
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/ibm-and-linux-the-next-billion-dollars-7000020757/
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/valve-ceo-why-linux-is-the-future-of-gaming-7000020735/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/09/how-to-check-graphics-card-on-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/hp-china-ubuntu-retail-stores-expansion
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/17/hewlett-packard-brings-ubuntu-to-communist-china/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/system-76-new-leopard-extreme-pc
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/09/lightweight-ubuntu-software-center.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/unity-tweak-tool-0-0-5-has-been-released-how-to-install-unity-tweak-tool-0-0-5-on-ubuntu-13-10-13-04-12-10/
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/09/our-favourite-linux-cheat-sheets.html
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Is-The-First-Linux-Distribution-with-Firefox-24-383856.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Arch-Linux-Deprecates-etc-sysctl-conf-User-Intervention-Required-383858.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.org/threads/google-authenticator-for-ssh.4590/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/09/how-to-identify-video-formats-from-command-line-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/krusader-for-better-file-management/2013/09/18
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-plex-media-server-0-9-8-6-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-elementary-os-fedora-and-centos/
<Dazed_75> http://lifehacker.com/how-to-get-started-with-3d-printing-without-spending-a-1340345210
<Dazed_75> How to enable Remote Desktop Sharing on Ubuntu (there may be better articles around)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/magazines/nseditions/2013/Aug13_Edition/brainuse.php
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Happy-Birthday-Mark-Shuttleworth-384241.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/AMD-s-New-Linux-Video-Driver-Supports-Linux-Kernel-3-10-384244.shtml
<Dazed_75> Raspberry Pi running well on Wayland
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQ2NDU
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/elementary-os-linux-distro/2013/09/19
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/glances-an-all-in-one-system-monitoring-tool/
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/09/20/ubuntu_smart_phone_rush/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/ubuntu-touch-stable-nexus-release-coming-soon/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/07/how-to-speed-up-x11-forwarding-in-ssh.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/twelve-videos-from-linuxcon-2013/
<Dazed_75> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/slideshows/linux-luminaries-paint-a-bright-future-at-linuxcon.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.drdobbs.com/architecture-and-design/driving-continuous-integration-from-git/240161383
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/tesla-autopilot-system-likely-to-include-linux/
<Dazed_75> A better file manager [than nautilus] for Ubuntu http://blog.mpshouse.com/?p=849
<gnewbie> +1
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/07/what-is-gui-based-flickr-upload-tool-in-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/evernote-web-clipper-6-for-chrome/2013/09/22
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/split-screen-layouts-chrome/2013/09/20
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/quick-tips/close-multiple-tabs-browser
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/09/raspberry-pi-configuration-manager.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/meet-google-coder-a-web-development-environment-for-raspberry-pi/
<adrenaline> +1
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/134132/how-to-use-traceroute-to-identify-network-problems/
<Dazed_75> ... and thats all from Apache Junction.  I hope everyone found SOME piece of news useful
<TuxMann> Dazed_75 great news as always!
<TuxMann> TEAM NEWS
<wmack> I second
<TuxMann> Saturday's Installfest was full even in room 245 and we will be working to get more UAT students involved thru the schools internal media sources.
<TuxMann> We have canceled the following meetings due to holidays
<TuxMann> Meetings
<TuxMann> October 13 due to Columbus Day and
<TuxMann> November 10 meeting due to veterans day weekend holiday?
<TuxMann> Ubuntu Hour
<TuxMann> November 28 Ubuntu hour due to Thanksgiving
<TuxMann> December Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas
<TuxMann> Team renewal is finished and we're renewed for another 2 yrs.
<TuxMann> Congratulations to everyone that helped!!!
<scott_ev> -1 (gettin sleepy)
<TuxMann> JOB LIST
<TuxMann> Operations Developer
<TuxMann> devjobs@logos.com
<TuxMann> Operating systems Engineer 4 Wellsfargo
<TuxMann> https://employment.wellsfargo.com/psp/PSEA/APPLICANT_NW/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM.HRS_CE.GBL
<TuxMann> Impact Tech has several local openings
<TuxMann> http://www.go-impact.com/IT/join_our_team.html
<xHans> congrats on the renewal
<TuxMann> Entry Level PC Techs
<TuxMann> Call Jason 949-230-1192 for a Interview
<TuxMann> RUNS LINUX
<TuxMann> cool new ARM PC 45-199.00
<TuxMann> https://imx.solid-run.com/
<TuxMann> NEW MEMBERS
<TuxMann> Any new members tonight? would you like to introduce yourself?
<TuxMann> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<TuxMann> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday October 5 and Saturday October 19th at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<TuxMann> For more infoumation see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<TuxMann> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<TuxMann> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<TuxMann> November 2 installfest is canceled due to the school using the classroom
<TuxMann> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<TuxMann> This Thursday September 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<TuxMann> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<TuxMann> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<TuxMann> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<TuxMann> Wednesday October 2, 7pm – 9pm
* pjdamws has quit (Ping timeout: 264 seconds)
<TuxMann> Barnes and Noble 13719 West Bell Road Surprise AZ 85374 623-544-4435
<TuxMann> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other uses and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<wmack> What time is the Tempe Ubuntu Hour?
<toddc> 7pm
<TuxMann> until 8pm or a little later.
<TuxMann> ubuntu on-air
<TuxMann> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<TuxMann> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<TuxMann> There is an App Design Clinic This wednesday from 1-2pm.
<TuxMann> FUTURE EVENTS
<TuxMann> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<TuxMann> We'd like to set up some installfests in the north valley area. If you have any suggestions, Please contact Toddc or Dazed_75 or myself TuxMann or ZzzTuxMann.
<TuxMann> xhans are you here? and would you like to do the Plug news?
<xHans> would PVCC work?
<xHans> just one thing this week
<xHans> Great turnout for the resume writing workshop! Thanks to those who participated.
<xHans> We're planning another jobs event at Stammtisch. The next one will be a job fair.
<toddc> we are also looking for a plce to hold a meeting in the central phx area
<xHans> It will probably be November or January.
<TuxMann> xHans, I will try to get in contact with them & see if they can assist.
<xHans> I have a contact at PVCC if it's in the right area
<TuxMann> Ok, Great! I'd be happy to explore that.
<xHans> as to Central Phoenix, the weather should be cooled down now, so outside like the tables in the middle of the town and country might work
<toddc> wifi?
<xHans> same thing as a food court, bring food and drinks from whereever, but usually not as noisy as a food court
<xHans> a couple of the restaurants provide wifi, haven't specifically tested it outside
<xHans> well, I have used it once or twice, but I didn't give it much exercise
<xHans> was in there today, someone stole Baby Kay's :(
<xHans> that was it from me
<toddc> we should start to plan a tempe town park event for next spring
<xHans> thanks again to those who participated in the resume fair
* travis_2501 (~travis@ip68-3-117-231.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<xHans> yeah
<xHans> spring being November?  :)
<toddc> they book the remodas 6 months in advance
<TuxMann> xHans, did you want to do the PLUG events?
<travis_2501> Hi
<xHans> TuxMann: that was all I had for tonight
* xHans is busy grading
<TuxMann> Plug East side meeting Thursday October 10th 7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<xHans> TuxMann: danke
<TuxMann> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday October15 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<TuxMann> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<TuxMann> xHans, Does the PLUG east side meeting have a topic yet?
<xHans> no
<TuxMann> Ok. That's no problem.
<TuxMann> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> how to play solitare on a computer?
* programmer317 has quit (Quit: Leaving)
* smccarthy has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<adrenaline> xHans: does MCC have a MySQL specific class?
<TuxMann> toddc, has volunteered to make a talk on the next PLUG meeting.
<xHans> adrenaline: yes
<xHans> it
<TuxMann> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<xHans> 's running right now
<adrenaline> ughh
<xHans> a student mentioned it will also run next semester
<xHans> contact Phil W to ask about it
<adrenaline> OK I am going to sign up for it
<wmack> I was wondering if we could have some meeting to work on the team server - mainly to come up with a plan on how to approach ISPs for hosting...
<toddc> good idea i should have brought it up
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
