{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 03 May - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees (one new individual)
* Discussed 18.04 release and upgrade issues
* Tested network tethering using 2 laptops
* Reconfigured VPN certs for local servers
* Discussed things to do after installing 18.04
* Started project to migrate our website to Drupal 8.
* 05 May - AZLOCO/PLUG Intsallfest/Linux Workshop
* 12 attendees
* 1 install (Ultra Linux) on a Dell laptop
* Downloaded new SSL certificates for our azloco.org server
* Attempted unsuccessfully to flash a custom image to a new cell phone
* Loaded several different desktop environments on a Raspberry Pi
* Conducted one on one assistance for an individual who was having problems with VMware
* Configured a USB flash drive to to read and write
* Conducted one on one assistance to configure a Ubuntu email server
* Attempted unsuccessfully to change the monitor settings on a Dell computer.
* 06 May - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2006%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 19 May – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 10  attendees (one new individual)
* Completed maintenance on the Team Server
* Conducted one on one training session on the use of the terminal
* Installed custom kernel and graphics driver for an individual
* Provided assistance to an individual working on a personal mail server project
* Provided assistance to an individual working on a ThinkPad KB driver problem
* 20 May – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4  attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2020%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 24 May – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees (2 new individuals)
* An individual brought in a 2004 Sony Vaio laptop which had Microsoft Windows XP installed on it.  He wanted to install a Linux system on it.  Because it only had 704 Mbs of RAM we tried to install Xubuntu and Lubuntu but the computer would not boot from either a USB flash drive or a DVD install disk.  Possible solutions were discussed and will be acted on at the next meeting.
* Information on Ubuntu was distributed to the new individuals.
* Discussed the relative requirements to install Xubuntu and Lubuntu on an older computer.
