{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 27 Aug at 03:59 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-08-27-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharingY 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/8/duzeru-os-easy-it-gets 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/8/aryalinux-distribution-and-platform 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/chess/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/windows-95-is-now-available-on-linux-mac-and-windows-as-an-electron-app-522375.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/new-features-to-use-raspberry-pi/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhint.com/install_elementary_os_virtualbox/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-user-to-group-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/monitor-ubuntu-server-with-prometheus/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2018/08/james-bottomley-on-linux-containers-leading-edge/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/8/tools-container-security 
''LINK:'' http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/articles/commons-clause-helpful-new-tool-or-end-open-source-we-know-it 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-view-list-the-available-packages-updates-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/8/introduction-pipes-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/encrypting-nfsv4-stunnel-tls 
''LINK:'' https://towardsdatascience.com/what-is-machine-learning-891f23e848da 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/2018/8/zephyr-project-embraces-risc-v-new-members-ancd-expanded-board-support 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/8/mano-nfv? 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/8/getting-started-sensu-monitoring-solution 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/rugged-linux-ready-mini-pc-showcases-ryzen-v1000/ 
''LINK:'' https://atom.io/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.com/Gosky-Titan-Monocular-Smartphone-Holder/dp/B06XKNDJHP/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1535337143&sr=8-3&keywords=starscope+monocular 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQjN5Fs5QSz1loJqLb5bkew 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (50)
* stephenm (41)
* MajB (32)
* xHans (9)
* meetingology (3)
* Ron_A (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug 27 03:59:46 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> 1+

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 96253.28

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/YY

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.Y

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharingY

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight! All the way from TX

 04:02 <stephenm> New is going to start out random and then get into more higher level stuff.

 04:03 <stephenm> DuZeru OS: As Easy as It Gets

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/8/duzeru-os-easy-it-gets

 04:03 <stephenm> AryaLinux: A Distribution and a Platform

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/8/aryalinux-distribution-and-platform

 04:03 <stephenm> 12 of the Best Free Linux Chess Apps (Updated 2018)

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/chess/

 04:03 <stephenm> Windows 95 Is Now Available on Linux, Mac, and Windows as an Electron App

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/windows-95-is-now-available-on-linux-mac-and-windows-as-an-electron-app-522375.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> Don't ask just read

 04:03 <stephenm> 8 New Raspbian Features to Start Using on Your Raspberry Pi

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/new-features-to-use-raspberry-pi/

 04:04 <stephenm> Installing Elementary OS Loki on VirtualBox

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxhint.com/install_elementary_os_virtualbox/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Add User to Group in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-user-to-group-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Install Prometheus on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/monitor-ubuntu-server-with-prometheus/

 04:04 <stephenm> James Bottomley on Linux, Containers, and the Leading Edge

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2018/08/james-bottomley-on-linux-containers-leading-edge/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 open source tools for container security

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/8/tools-container-security

 04:05 <stephenm> The Commons Clause - Helpful New Tool or the End of the Open Source as We Know it?

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/articles/commons-clause-helpful-new-tool-or-end-open-source-we-know-it

 04:05 <stephenm> How To View/List The Available Packages Updates In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-view-list-the-available-packages-updates-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> An introduction to pipes and named pipes in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/8/introduction-pipes-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> Encrypting NFSv4 with Stunnel TLS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/encrypting-nfsv4-stunnel-tls

 04:05 <stephenm> What is Machine Learning?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://towardsdatascience.com/what-is-machine-learning-891f23e848da

 04:06 <stephenm> Zephyr Project Embraces RISC-V with New Members and Expanded Board Support

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/2018/8/zephyr-project-embraces-risc-v-new-members-ancd-expanded-board-support

 04:06 <stephenm> How NFV deployments are driven by open source projects

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/8/mano-nfv?

 04:06 <stephenm> Getting started with Sensu monitoring

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/8/getting-started-sensu-monitoring-solution

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you toddc

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <xHans> Bradley Kuhn on the commons clause, https://sfconservancy.org/blog/2018/aug/22/commons-clause/ h

 04:07 <MajB> As always

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <Ron_A> some good stuff their stephenm ,thanks

 04:07 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest 01 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> autocorrect

 04:08 <toddc> I tried to say, ???I???m a functional adult,??? but my phone changed it to ???fictional adult,??? and I feel like that???s more accurate.

 04:09 <toddc> I saw a driver texting and driving. It made me so mad I threw my beer at him.

 04:09 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:09 <toddc> Canonical has 52 open positions

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:10 <toddc> Rugged, Linux-ready mini-PC showcases Ryzen V1000

 04:10 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/rugged-linux-ready-mini-pc-showcases-ryzen-v1000/

 04:10 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:10 <toddc> Atom just updated. a lightweight yet powerful editor designed for experienced programmers and web designers, and works as a general purpose editor as well with the IDE.

 04:10 <toddc> https://atom.io/

 04:11 <toddc> weird things I found today

 04:11 <toddc> Gosky Titan 12X50 High Power Prism Monocular and Quick Smartphone Holder

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.com/Gosky-Titan-Monocular-Smartphone-Holder/dp/B06XKNDJHP/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1535337143&sr=8-3&keywords=starscope+monocular

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:12 <MajB> 06 September,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 15 September,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source S

 04:13 <MajB> oftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 27 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 27 September,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:14 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:14 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:14 <xHans> We have one topic thus far for next month's PLUG meeting:

 04:14 <xHans> Federating the cloud: ActivityPub

 04:14 <xHans> The Nextclaud conference was this weekend with live streaming

 04:14 <xHans> at least some is now available on YouTube

 04:14 <xHans> https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQjN5Fs5QSz1loJqLb5bkew

 04:14 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:15 <toddc> Thank you Xhans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:15 <xHans> bitte

 04:15 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:15 <MajB> Meetting on 23 September 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 07 September 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 12 September 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 12 September 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 22 September 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> That is all that i have toddc

 04:17 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:17 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:17 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:17 <MajB> CactusCon https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:17 <MajB> September 28-29 at the Mesa Convention Center

 04:17 <MajB> 263 N Center St

 04:17 <MajB> Mesa, AZ 85201

 04:17 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
