{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 02 January – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Installed Ubuntu 20.04 beta in VM
* Worked on git to submit a patch
* Setup a pi as open vpn server
* 04 January - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 15 attendees
* 4 installs (3 Ubuntu, 1 Free BSD)
* 3 server repair/assistance
* 05 January - AZLOCO Team Meeting hosted by Ron Ash
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2005%2C%202020%20Meeting
* 09 January - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Discussed the upcoming Installfest and the preparations for it.
* Gene discussed the possibility of obtaining some donated laptops.  He will report back with the results.
* A question was raised concerning how to create multiple launchers for Firefox that would go to specific URLs when launched which was answered.
* An individual who had purchased a computer with Ubuntu installed asked for assistance in how to do some simple tasks in Linux.  We discussed that at length.
* 09 January - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees (1 new individual)
* Discussed Linux based routers and cyber security
* 18 January - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 15 attendees
* 5 Ubuntu installs
* Repaired 2 Linux Mint installs
* Recovered a forgotten/lost password.
* Repaired a scanner/printer on Ubuntu
* Repaired a J-Pilot on Ubuntu
* Post Egress database conversion
* Installed VB and enabled USB passthru
* Backed up a computer and created a file system.
* 19 January - AZLOCO Team Meeting hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2019%2C%202020%20Meeting
* 23 January – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 5 attendees
* Configured pass-through NIC to VM (VT-d, VT-x flags)
* Discussed to upgrade team-server & discord server
* Reviewed 3D printers (Cartesian, Delta type)
