{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===

<pre>
 <toddc> +1
<dennisk> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc> isz_id: say hi
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.04 CD's are in, get with me to help Distribute them
<toddc> Please look over the following applications and add testimonials or improve it if you can help
<toddc> this what our application should look like https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrenchTeam/ApprovalApplication
<toddc> this is our currant application
<isz_id> +1
<toddc> thanks and say hi
<isz_id> hi...
<toddc> this is our currant application  https://wiki.kubuntu.org/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplicationrenewal#preview
<toddc> Say what? GNU Emacs violates the GPL
<toddc> http://www.xydo.com/toolbar/25469965-say_what_gnu_emacs_violates_the_gpl_-_network_world
<toddc> Netflix Instant is coming to the entire Linux Community!--maybe
<toddc> http://benjaminkerensa.com/netflix-instant-is-coming-to-the-entire-linux
<toddc> Ubuntu One upgraded to 5GB free storage
<toddc> http://benjaminkerensa.com/netflix-instant-is-coming-to-the-entire-linux
<toddc> Ubuntu goes head-to-head with Red Hat and Windows in businesses
<toddc> http://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/news/2097312/ubuntu-goes-head-head-red-hat-windows-businesses
<toddc> 73 Days till 11.10
<toddc> We have been contacted by the International School in Tucson about ubuntu and found that it is one of their main OS's and we will be listing them as a Ubuntu user on the azloco.com page and are checking to see what else we can do to support them. So, another Tucson installfest or trip may be in the future.
<toddc> I am planning on a Global Jam event and need to set a date so more to follow
<toddc> Recommended Dates are 2-4 of September 2011
<toddc> http://www.jonobacon.org/2011/07/20/calling-those-to-rock-the-ubuntu-11-10-global-jam/
<toddc> Thanks to Dazed_75 for keeping up the logs and dennisk for taking on education team and wiki
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> several jobs are availible at Limelight networks
<toddc> http://www.limelightnetworks.com/content-delivery-company/careers/
<toddc> SRP has a posting on their website for a Sr. Linux Admin:
<toddc> https://www.srp.apply2jobs.com/ProfExt/index.cfm?fuseaction=mExternal.showJob&RID=4565&CurrentPage=1
<toddc> I am looking to hire an administrator/technician.
<toddc> http://www.phoenixinternet.net
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thanks to Shane Lofgren for getting both the azloco.com and test.azloco servers up to 10.04
<toddc> this is a bit of work so thank him if you see him in the channel.  He will also be updating  the Drupal soon so any Ideas to update the site please let us know.  We do hope to add our big blue button server
<toddc> to it as a user access from azloco.com
* toddcnb has quit (Ping timeout: 276 seconds)
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated.  So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> See http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/classroom.html for calender of events
<toddc> Please note that all training events have been removed from azloco.com calender due to over crowding issues but let me know what you want in and out of the calender so we can sync it and not overload your calenders
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> I am planning on attending LUGY (Prescott LUGS)meeting August 9 meeting is 7-9 PM if anyone else would like to go it should be a nice drive up plan to leave around 5 but we can be flexible.
<toddc> Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
<Dazed_75> Leave at 5 from where?
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
* toddcnb (~chatzilla@ip98-165-91-141.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> I think az mills but can be anywhere
<toddc> Developer Meeting Thursday, August 04, 2011, 19:30 - 21:30 uat
<toddc> All are invited but topics are about software and hardware development with and/or for Linux.
<toddc> First Thursday of each month at 7:30PM at UAT
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<dennisk> Here's a link to the Linux Foundation's 20th Anniversary of Linux video. It's perfect for showing to friends. Explains what Linux is and where it's used -- everywhere. Very professional! http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ocq6_3-nEw
<toddc> Thanks dennisk  it a good clip I started watching it eariler
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<isz_id> Thanks Todd.
<toddc> thanks isz_id for the vitual beer!
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
