{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Jaunty Jackalope 9.04 Events ===

This wiki page has been set up to aide in the planning of the Ubuntu Jaunty Jackalope Events for our LoCo Team. Events will include ReleaseParties and InstallFests. Please feel free to put your ideas for our events in the "Ideas" section of this wiki page.

==== Release Parties ====

===== Phoenix =====

* Location: Boulders on Broadway (530 W Broadway Road - Tempe, AZ 85282)
* Date: Saturday, April 25, 2009
* Time: 5:00 PM

Note: This release party is in conjunction with PLUG. There is an Installfest from 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM at UAT, with the release party immediately afterwards at Boulders on Broadway.

* University of Advancing Technology(UAT)
* www.uat.edu
* 2625 W Baseline Rd, Tempe

===== Tucson =====

* Location: Silver Mine Subs (760 N. Tyndall Ave. - Tucson, AZ 85719)
* Date: Saturday, April 25, 2009
* Time: 2:00 PM

==== Install Fests ====

===== Phoenix =====

* Location:
* Date:
* Time:

===== Tucson =====

* Location:
* Date:
* Time:

=== Ideas Section ===

* Fall back idea for phoenix is having the release party at peter piper pizza again. No power connections, but free wifi for everyone that has a laptop.

* We could have a BBQ/pool party if someone has a pool and a grill. Could run wireless out close enough to the pool so people can connect to the internet.

* Might be a little late now, but could see if we could do a release party in conjunction with Red Seven's release party.

=== Pictures ===
