{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 16 Jul at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-07-16-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/take-our-survey-on-open-source-programs/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/python-language-founder-steps-down/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/7/5-open-source-principles-help-devops-teams-excel 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/open-networking-interview 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/sysadmin-cert/2018/7/5-reasons-open-source-certification-matters-more-ever 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/introduction-go-arrays-and-slices 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/users-groups-and-other-linux-beasts 
''LINK:'' https://jvns.ca/blog/2018/07/11/netdev-day-1--ipsec/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/07/bootiso-easy-iso-to-bootable-usb-drive.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/becoming-a-senior-developer-9-experiences-youll-encounter-1807.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/sysadmin-guide-selinux 
''LINK:'' https://containerjournal.com/2018/07/10/container-adoption-starts-to-outpace-devops/?platform=hootsuite 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/how-vmware-manages-open-source-code-and-compliance 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/clear-linux-makes-strong-case-your-next-cloud-platform 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactuscon.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (69)
* stephenm (34)
* Ron_A (5)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* toddc (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul 16 04:00:02 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology>

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> News is kinda short and no commentary.

 04:02 <stephenm> Take Our Survey on Open Source Programs

 04:02 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/take-our-survey-on-open-source-programs/

 04:02 <stephenm> Haven't started this yet

 04:02 <stephenm> Python language founder steps down

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/python-language-founder-steps-down/

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 open source principles that help DevOps teams excel

 04:03 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/7/5-open-source-principles-help-devops-teams-excel

 04:03 <stephenm> How developers can get involved with open source networking

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/open-networking-interview

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 Reasons Open Source Certification Matters More Than Ever

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/sysadmin-cert/2018/7/5-reasons-open-source-certification-matters-more-ever

 04:03 <stephenm> An introduction to Go arrays and slices

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/introduction-go-arrays-and-slices

 04:03 <stephenm> Users, Groups, and Other Linux Beasts

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/users-groups-and-other-linux-beasts

 04:04 <stephenm> Netdev Day 1: IPsec!

 04:04 <stephenm> https://jvns.ca/blog/2018/07/11/netdev-day-1--ipsec/

 04:04 <stephenm> bootiso: Easy ISO To Bootable USB Drive From The Command Line

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/07/bootiso-easy-iso-to-bootable-usb-drive.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Becoming a Senior Developer: 9 Experiences You'll Encounter

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/becoming-a-senior-developer-9-experiences-youll-encounter-1807.html

 04:04 <stephenm> A SysAdmin's Guide to SELinux: 42 Answers to the Big Questions

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/sysadmin-guide-selinux

 04:04 <stephenm> Container Adoption Starts to Outpace DevOps

 04:04 <stephenm> https://containerjournal.com/2018/07/10/container-adoption-starts-to-outpace-devops/?platform=hootsuite

 04:04 <Ron_A> Hi wmack

 04:04 <stephenm> evening wmack

 04:05 <wmack> Hello

 04:05 <wmack> +1

 04:05 <stephenm> How VMware Manages Open Source Code and Compliance

 04:05 <toddc> hi wmack

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/how-vmware-manages-open-source-code-and-compliance

 04:05 <stephenm> Clear Linux Makes a Strong Case for Your Next Cloud Platform

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/clear-linux-makes-strong-case-your-next-cloud-platform

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news that I have for tonight ya'll.  Back to you MajB

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <Ron_A> Good work stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:06 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 46 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are a total of 160 Linux administrator jobs, 43 of which are new listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are a total of 57 Linux administrator jobs, 15 of which are new, listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <MajB> 21 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:09 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 26 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 02 August,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 04 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:10 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 04 August, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free softw

 04:10 <MajB> are. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:11 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS:

 04:11 <MajB> Not a new member but Ron_A is applying for Ubuntu membership.  If you would like to post a testimonial, his wiki page is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/helpme-t

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:11 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 July 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things

 04:13 <MajB> tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem...

 04:13 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 19 July 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:13 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:13 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 22 July 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 28 July 1-3:30 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 03 August 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <MajB> 04 August, CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free softw

 04:14 <MajB> are. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 08 August 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 08 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:15 <MajB> CactusCon

 04:15 <MajB> September 28-29 at the Mesa Convent== Agenda ==ion Center

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:15 <MajB> 263 N Center St

 04:15 <MajB> Mesa, AZ 85201

 04:15 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:16 <Ron_A> Toddc and I went to the CLUG meetimg on Thursday. It was a very well run meeting and I recommend attending one if you have the chance. They have a good group of people that all seem to participate.

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <Ron_A> Thanks MajB

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
