{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> 1+1
<ericcc_> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<Yorokobi> +1
* linuxsurveyor (~Dwayne@wsip-24-249-177-197.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<dennisk> +1
* mrascii (dennisk@192.94.73.30) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<mrascii> DNA AKA mrascii
<toddc> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<mrascii> member Omaha LUG, in town one day.
<toddc> cool welcome then!!
<ericcc_> welcome
<ericcc_> hope you don't love this weather, it never lasts
<dennisk> Hi DNA!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<mrascii> Did Isay I was from Omaha? ;-)
<Dazed_75> What you need to know about Nvidia Optimus (brief Linux note at the end)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/136123/htg-explains-what-you-need-to-know-about-nvidia-optimus/
<Dazed_75> How to easily back up and migrate your browser bookmarks
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/136116/how-to-easily-back-up-and-migrate-your-browser-bookmarks/
<Dazed_75> Prospective new Ubuntu based distro will target disabled users
<Dazed_75>     http://www.pcworld.com/article/2027129/new-linux-distro-will-target-disabled-users.html
<Dazed_75> WINE Mono isn't too fit for .NET
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTI5MjQ
<Dazed_75> City of Munich disagrees with HPs Linux migration study
<Dazed_75>     http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/article.php?story=20130204095252396
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/no-microsoft-open-source-software-really-is-cheaper-insists-munich-7000010918/
<Dazed_75> Android utilities for System Administrators
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/android-system-administration-utilities
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu One turning off Tomboy note sync late February
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/02/ubuntu-one-announce-tomboy-note-sync-to-stop-working-late-february
<Dazed_75> Three top Ubuntu apps get updates
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/02/three-top-ubuntu-apps-get-weekend-updates
<Dazed_75> Is Canonical working on a new custom display server for unity? (I certainly hope NOT - LT)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/02/canonical-working-on-new-display-server
<Dazed_75> Quicklist Window switching patch proposed for Unity
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/01/quicklist-window-switching-patch-proposed-for-unity
* linuxsurveyor has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
* nhasian (~nhasian@ubuntu/member/nhasian) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Oracle releases critical security update for Java7 (7U13) and Java 6 (6u39), PPA updated
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/02/oracle-releases-critical-update-for.html
* linuxsurveyor (~Dwayne@wsip-24-249-177-197.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Microsoft Office and the big subscription bet
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Microsoft-Office-and-the-Big-Subscription-Bet-77226.html
<Dazed_75> Improve WordPress security with this checklist
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/improve-wordpress-security-with-this-checklist/2013/02/04
<Dazed_75> How to use rsync to backup your data
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/135533/how-to-use-rsync-to-backup-your-data-on-linux/
<Dazed_75> Microsoft's involvement in the purchase of Dell
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/computing/147646-dell-sold-to-microsoft-silver-lake-for-24-billion-what-it-means-for-the-pc
<Dazed_75> Deployment of Kippo SSH Honeypot on Ubuntu Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://how-to.linuxcareer.com/deployment-of-kippo-ssh-honeypot-on-ubuntu-linux
<Dazed_75> LinuxQuestions.org Survey results: Top Linux and open source programs
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/top-linux-and-open-source-programs-survey-results-7000010858/
<Dazed_75> Calligra 2.6 released: Features, Usability, Bug fixes
<Dazed_75>     http://dot.kde.org/2013/02/06/calligra-26-features-usability-bugfixes
<Dazed_75>     http://www.calligra.org/
<Dazed_75> Steam's January 2013 hardware survey: Linux is growing
<Dazed_75>     http://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/steams-january-2013-hardware-survey-is-on-linux-is-growing.1709
<Dazed_75> How to turn your DVD/CD Library into a digital library
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/turn-dvd-cd-into-digital-library/2013/02/05
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu smartphones
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/mobile/147895-ubuntu-smartphones-will-ship-in-october-but-who-will-they-be-made-by
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/02/08/ubuntu_on_galaxy_nexus_in_february/
<Dazed_75> Smartphone OSs: Rise of Android, fall of Windows -> what next?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/smartphone-operating-systems-the-rise-of-android-the-fall-of-windows-7000011004/
<Dazed_75> Smartphones and tablets make people use PCs less
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/02/07/believe-it-smartphones-and-tablets-make-people-use-pcs-less/
<Dazed_75> Microsoft rumored to be looking to release Office for Linux in 2014 (and it's not even April 1 yet)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/computing/147813-microsoft-looking-to-release-office-for-linux-in-2014
<Dazed_75> LibreOffice 4.0 released
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/libreoffice-4-0-0-released
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/02/07/libreoffice-4-0-arrives-get-it-now/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.h-online.com/open/features/Highlights-of-LibreOffice-4-0-1799408.html
<Dazed_75>     http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/02/libreoffice-goes-for-cleaner-and-leaner-code-base-with-major-update/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/libreoffice-4-a-new-better-open-source-office-suite-7000011016/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/article.php?story=20130204095252396
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/02/libreoffice-hits-4-0-adds-unity-integration-persona-theming
<Dazed_75> GIMP 2.8.4 adds improvements and polish to the popular image editor
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/02/07/gimp-2-8-4-adds-improvements-and-polish-to-the-popular-image-editor/
<Dazed_75> Intel to improve "Out of the Box" Linux gaming
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTI5NjM
<Dazed_75> Linux won the desktop wars a long time ago (interesting perspective)
<Dazed_75>     http://fossforce.com/2013/02/linux-won-the-desktop-wars-a-long-time-ago/
<Dazed_75> Introducing Grive (Google drive for Linux)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/introducing-grive
<Dazed_75> Chromebooks pick up steam with CDW deal
<Dazed_75>     http://www.thevarguy.com/2013/02/07/chromebooks-pick-up-steam-with-cdw-deal/
<Dazed_75> Using your Raspberry Pi to rip music from online radio stations
<Dazed_75>     http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/02/using-your-raspberry-pi-to-rip-music.html
<Dazed_75> 4 ways to host your website on DropBox
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/4-ways-to-host-your-website-on-dropbox/2013/02/06
<Dazed_75> Introducing [yet another] Unity Tweak tool
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/02/introducing-unity-tweak-tool
<Dazed_75> Enable the new KDE 4.10 appmenu (Title bar button or top screen menubar)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/02/how-to-enable-new-kde-410-appmenu-title.html
<Dazed_75> What does "This Package is of Bad Quality" mean on Ubuntu?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/136640/htg-explains-what-does-this-package-is-of-bad-quality-mean-on-ubuntu/
<toddc> would any linux user buy MS office?
<Dazed_75> 9 of the best free C++ books
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20130208155256300/9oftheBestFreeC++-Part1.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxlinks.com/ looks like a pretty good resource to keep around
<Dazed_75> LAMP installation of Question2Answer on Ubuntu Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://how-to.linuxcareer.com/lamp-installation-of-question2answer-on-ubuntu-linux
<Dazed_75> Samsung UEFI bug definitely not fixed
<Dazed_75>     http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Samsung-UEFI-bug-definitely-not-fixed-1800541.html
<Dazed_75> How to [on demand] use a GUI on an Ubuntu server
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/use-a-gui-on-a-ubuntu-server/2013/02/09
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 13.04 Stuff
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/02/100-scopes-list-ubuntu-13-04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/02/new-sync-menu-added-to-ubuntu-13-04-by-default
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/01/unity-to-ship-with-smarter-scope-searching-in-13-04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/02/ubuntu-1304-raring-ringtail-changes.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/02/raring-retires-system-tray-whitelist
<Dazed_75>   that's all folks - hope it was useful to someone
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75
<toddc> linuxsurveyor  added
<toddc> 25 Things I did After Installing Ubuntu 12.04 LTS "Precise Pangolin
<toddc> http://www.techdrivein.com/2012/06/25-things-i-did-after-installing-ubuntu.html
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> Linux Foundation Secure Boot System Released
<toddc> http://blog.hansenpartnership.com/linux-foundation-secure-boot-system-released/
<toddc> Space X runs linux and need programmers
<toddc> http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/1853ap/we_are_spacex_software_engineers_we_launch/
<toddc> Feb 16 Tempe Geeks night out including A costume contest and AZ GhostBusters will patrol mill avenue all night
<toddc> http://www.tempe.gov/index.aspx?page=2679
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> Ubuntu global jam is back Saturday March 2 at UAT's installfest
<toddc> this a great time to give back and spend some time with other linux/ubuntu users
<toddc> you can also attend online at http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/2221/detail/
<toddc> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-arizona/2223/detail/
<toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
<toddc> Reminder SCALE Conf Febuary 22-24th
<toddc> AzLoco.org Is back up and online thanks to adrenaline and his his G/F
<toddc> other?  Please thanks them for their hard work and server use.
<toddc> Several members have decided to start a security team based at MCC we will be starting to schedule soon so keep a eye on the schedule
<toddc> at http://www.azloco.org/node/28
<toddc> We “the Team” have been invited to play in the First Annual Ubuntu LoCo Games. See http://pad.ubuntu.com/LocoGames fpr more information or contact me if to start a team.
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings tofill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Linux System Administrator
<toddc> jobs@ebocom.net
<toddc> Systems Engineer
<toddc> https://mediware.igreentree.com/CSS_External/CSSPage_Referred.asp?Req=13-338
<toddc> Android app Pick this week
<toddc> RedPhone provides end-to-end encryption for your calls, securing your conversations so that nobody can listen in
<toddc> thanks to oda
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.redphone&hl=en
<toddc>  app of the week
<toddc> Calligra 2.6 thanks to Dazed_75
<toddc> http://www.calligra-suite.org/
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday Febuary 28 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> The last one had a great turn out and we met lots of Linux users
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday February 16 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the rear of the  front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on March 9 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is March 2  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Ubuntu User Days Feb06-Feb16 more free classes online at  #ubuntu-classroom
<toddc> February 16 6-8pm your first ISO test
<toddc> Ubuntu offers free online training several time a year
<toddc> use the program Lernid or #ubuntu-clasroom in IRC freenode
<toddc> one other local calass caught my eye
<toddc> Crashed Course: Open Sourcery Gimp
<toddc> http://www.ecollegetimes.com/student-life/crashed-course-open-sourcery-1.2809038#.URVgp5HRE8h
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<xHans> a few things
<xHans> Cory Doctorow speaks tomorrow as part of a panel, 10:30 - 12:00
<xHans> "Hackers + Activism: Aaron Swartz, Anonymous and the Ethics of Digital Community"
<xHans> it's part of the Arizona Sci-Tech Festival
<xHans> http://azscitechfest.org/events/hackers-activism-aaron-swartz-anonymous-and-ethics-digital-community
<xHans> I went to his book reading today and it was a unanimous vote to have his talk rather than his book reading
<xHans> the talk was essentially what he'll cover tomorrow and it was well worth seeing
* smccarthy has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<xHans> PLUG east side is Tuesday, at MCC, but a different room: BP1S
<xHans> that's on the outside of the business building on the northeast part of campus
<xHans> this will likely be the last meeting at MCC as they're converting the old room into office space
<xHans> "High Availability Clustering with Corosync and DRBD"
<xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/
<xHans> SCaLE coming up in a couple of weeks, Feb 20-22
<xHans> we're doing ride-sharing again this year, contact me or hop in the thread on PLUG-discuss if you're interested
<xHans> I'm running the BoFs during the evenings again, so let me know if you'd like to help
<xHans> dennisk, Robyn B, Thomas C and I are Arizonans doing presentations this year
<xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale11x
<xHans> CactusCon: security conference in Phoenix, 2013Mar22
<xHans> http://www.cactuscon.com/speakers
* mrascii (dennisk@192.94.73.30) has left #Ubuntu-US-AZ ("ERC Version 5.3 (IRC client for Emacs)")
<xHans> the Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> and that's it from me
* adrenaline_ raises his hand
<toddc> Developer Meeting Thursday March 7  7-9pm
<toddc> University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc> adrenaline_: you have the floor
<adrenaline_> xHans, I wanted to know if you made it to changing hands today, and if so how was it?
<xHans> adrenaline_: see above :)
<xHans> yup, made it, it was a good talk
<adrenaline_> I was reading but wasn't sure if that was the actual same thing
<adrenaline_> cool thanks
<toddc> xHans Thanks for keeping us up to date on plug
* [R] has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<xHans> the talk didn't center around Aaron Swartz, but did cover him and his contributions along with how his case is something we should be aware of
<xHans> Cory also managed to mention how his new book and the book before it are pertinent to the current state of privacy :)
<xHans> I would go again tomorrow if I could
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
