{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 02 Jun at 04:02 &mdash; 04:13 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-06-02-04.02.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.fosslicious.com/2025/05/how-to-install-and-play-roblox-on-linux.html   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/05/greeces-tech-leap-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/05/27/elusive_goal_of_simplicity/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/linux-myths/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/05/20/centml_ai_performance/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/FreeBSD-Q1-2025   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/05/20/torvalds_typing_taste_test_touches/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/05/nobara-linux-fedoras-wild-side-unleashed/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/sed-command/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/getting-started-with-containers-via-podman-no-docker-daemon-required   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://theregister.com/2025/05/28/three_ways_to_win_on_lin/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/terminator-linux-terminal-app-updated-after-prolonged-hiatus/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-keep-containers-up-to-date-with-whats-up-docker-wud/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/olimex-showcases-open-source-e20-smart-home-server-project/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/transform-your-workflow-these-10-essential-yet-overlooked-linux-tools-you-need-try   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/beyond-basics-unlocking-power-advanced-bash-scripting   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.16-Btrfs-Performance   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/fixing-update-grub-command-not-found-error-in-arch-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/linux-networking-mastering-vlan-trunking-bonding-and-qos-high-performance-systems   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Ubuntu-25.10-Chrony   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/wireguard-easy-v15-launches-with-full-rewrite/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/fortifying-debian-selinux-enforcing-mandatory-access-control-ultimate-system-security   (Stephenm, 04:09)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Stephenm (48)
* MajB (36)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:02 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:02 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:02:44 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:03 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:03 <MajB> +1

 04:03 <Stephenm> +1

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:03 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:03 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:03 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:04 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:04 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeamTeam membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:04 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:04 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:04 <Stephenm> News is all over the place so take what you'd like.

 04:04 <Stephenm> <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.fosslicious.com/2025/05/how-to-install-and-play-roblox-on-linux.html

 04:04 <Stephenm> Greece’s Tech Leap: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/05/greeces-tech-leap-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly/

 04:05 <Stephenm> The elusive goal of Unix – or Linux – simplicity

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/05/27/elusive_goal_of_simplicity/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 13 Common Linux Myths Debunked (With Real Facts)

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/linux-myths/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How open systems drive AI performance

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/05/20/centml_ai_performance/

 04:05 <Stephenm> FreeBSD Continues Improving Hardware Support For Framework Laptops, WiFi Devices

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/FreeBSD-Q1-2025

 04:06 <Stephenm> Torvalds' typing taste test touches tactile tragedy

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/05/20/torvalds_typing_taste_test_touches/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Nobara Linux: Fedora’s Wild Side, Unleashed

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/05/nobara-linux-fedoras-wild-side-unleashed/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Beginners Guide for Sed Command on Linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/sed-command/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Getting Started with Containers via Podman (No Docker Daemon Required)

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/getting-started-with-containers-via-podman-no-docker-daemon-required

 04:06 <Stephenm> Three ways to run Windows apps on a Linux box

 04:06 <Stephenm> http://theregister.com/2025/05/28/three_ways_to_win_on_lin/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Terminator Linux Terminal App Updated After Prolonged Hiatus

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/terminator-linux-terminal-app-updated-after-prolonged-hiatus/

 04:07 <Stephenm> How to Keep Containers Up-to-Date with What’s Up Docker (WUD)

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-keep-containers-up-to-date-with-whats-up-docker-wud/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Olimex Showcases Open Source €20 Smart Home Server Project

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/olimex-showcases-open-source-e20-smart-home-server-project/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Transform Your Workflow With These 10 Essential Yet Overlooked Linux Tools You Need to Try

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/transform-your-workflow-these-10-essential-yet-overlooked-linux-tools-you-need-try

 04:07 <Stephenm> Beyond Basics: Unlocking the Power of Advanced Bash Scripting

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/beyond-basics-unlocking-power-advanced-bash-scripting

 04:07 <Stephenm> Btrfs To See More Performance Improvements With Linux 6.16

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.16-Btrfs-Performance

 04:08 <Stephenm> Fixing the ‘update-grub: command not found’ Error in Linux

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/fixing-update-grub-command-not-found-error-in-arch-linux/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Linux Networking: Mastering VLAN Trunking, Bonding, and QoS for High-Performance Systems

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/linux-networking-mastering-vlan-trunking-bonding-and-qos-high-performance-systems

 04:08 <Stephenm> Ubuntu 25.10 Switching To Chrony By Default, Enabling Network Time Security

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Ubuntu-25.10-Chrony

 04:08 <Stephenm> WireGuard Easy v15 Launches with Full Rewrite

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/wireguard-easy-v15-launches-with-full-rewrite/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Fortifying Debian With SELinux by Enforcing Mandatory Access Control for Ultimate System Security

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/fortifying-debian-selinux-enforcing-mandatory-access-control-ultimate-system-security

 04:09 <Stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you Stephenm.  Lots of stuff there

 04:09 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:10 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:10 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:10 <MajB> 05 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:11 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 June, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 21 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:11 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 03 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 05 July, Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, CANCELED – Independence Day Weekend

 04:12 <MajB> 06 July. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:12 <MajB> That is all I have.

 04:12 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:12 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:13 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
