{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #48 for the week May 19, May 25, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Forty Eighth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-May 28, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday June 1, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

It's been another busy week for the team. We are closing in on being considered for "Approved Team" status. We are already working on the installfest party for Intrepid Ibex 8.10, and we are busy working on a gnome theme for branding our Lo``Co. WOW!

The team approval process is a VERY important step for us. It means we would be able to get bulk shipments of CDs from Canonical for our use. This would free us up from having to supply blank CDs and burn them ourselves for our advocacy programs and parties as we have done in the past. Please try to attend the upcoming Council meeting to help cheer us on. The meeting of the LoCo Council will be on Wednesday, June 4, 2008, at 9:00 AM, in #ubuntu-meeting. Having team members there is of the utmost importance, so please make plans now to attend.

The Intrepid Ibex installfest parties are a long way off, but we have already started working on it. We are in the early stages of putting together a gnome theme that would be made available to team members. But the biggest news of the planning is that the ASULug in Phoenix wants to combine their installfest party with ours. This is a big plus as they are centrally located, offer hard wired internet and any number of rooms to have our party in according to the size of the group. They have approximately 40 members and most use Ubuntu.

So as you can see, we are very busy. If you haven't been participating, you should drop by our team channel, #ubuntu-us-az  to attend a meeting, or just get to know us. Everyone is welcome!!

==== Summary of the May 25, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

johnc4510 began with an overview of last week's meeting. Last week we talked about the barcamp and team approval.  He has been working on the team approval during the week.  johnc4510 put up the link to the application,  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplication, which was followed immediately by a flurry of activity correcting grammer, spelling and capitalization.  Various suggestions were offered by members of the team, as well as questions about the current status of some of the LUGS and the appropriateness of references.  johnc4510 mentioned that he has had some outside help with the application which has resulted in some further suggestions being made, which will be put in during the next week.

The next meeting of the Lo``Co Council will be on Wednesday, June 4, 2008, at 9:00 AM, in #ubuntu-meeting.

Since this is the meeting at which our application will be considered, all team members are encouraged to attend.  Having team members attending the meeting and supporting the team can make a real difference.

johnc4510 then asked if there was anything else to discuss.  tyche asked, "Do we want to discuss creating a theme for Gnome?"  This is the branding that had been briefly discussed at the last meeting.  The idea is to create icons/desktop/window decorator and home page in Firefox that people could choose to install and use.  The intention is to make it something people can choose rather than actually creating branded installation disks, since one of the benefits of being an approved Team is the ability to get bulk shipments of CDs from Canonical.  We hope to have the branding (theme and Firefox home page) available for demo in time for the Intrepid release and install fest parties.  The suggestion was duely noted, and johnc4510 will be adding it to the Approval application.  tyche will continue researching how to create the branding.

It was suggested that the Firefox home page should be some sort of New User Help page.  word suggested that we could get a google adsense account for the team and integrate a google search engine into the branded firefox homepage and make money for the team with it.  johnc4510 asked word to get the particulars on it, and present it at the next meeting.

kennymc0 mentioned that Hans, from the PLUGAZ was having a security class at MCC.  http://plug.phoenix.az.us/node/481.  They are also having a "geek paintball" June 14th, http://lists.plug.phoenix.az.us/lurker/message/20080526.031545.3eaf1e6a.en.html.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:52 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

