{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc_> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxmann> +1
<toddc_> +1
<turbidtux> +1
<zombian> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc_> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc_> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc_> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<pjdamws> +1
<wmack> wmack +1
<toddc_> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc_> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc_> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc_> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<toddc_> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc_> over to Dazed_75 for the news and welcome back!
<Dazed_75> I don't have much for this edition as I have been largely incapacitated this past week
<Dazed_75> Why Ubuntu doesn't come with support for MP3s, Flash, and other Multimedia formats
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/144083/why-ubuntu-doesnt-come-with-support-for-mp3s-flash-and-other-multimedia-formats/
<Dazed_75> How to install software from outside Ubuntu's software repositories
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/142414/how-to-install-software-from-outside-ubuntus-software-repositories/
<Dazed_75> Oracle VirtualBox 4.2.12 kills bugs dead
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/04/12/virtualbox-4-2-12-kills-bugs-dead/
<Dazed_75> Free antivirus apps for Linux ... and why some may want one
<Dazed_75>     http://www.rolo.org/free-antivirus-apps-for-linux.html
<Dazed_75> How to scan Linux for vulnerabilities with lynis
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/pills/how-to-scan-linux-for-vulnerabilities-with-lynis?lang=en
<Dazed_75> SSH an ill-managed mess says SSH author Tatu Ylonen
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/04/11/ssh_security_undermined_by_management/
<Dazed_75> VLC not allowed to support Blu-ray disc playback in France
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/04/vlc-not-allowed-to-support-blu-ray-disc.html
<Dazed_75> Install Gnome 3.8 on Ubuntu 12.10 or 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxlibrary.org/install-gnome-3-8-ubuntu-12-10-13-04/
<Dazed_75> Quick image editing with Gwenview
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/quick-image-editing-and-viewing-with-gwenview/2013/04/13
<Dazed_75> Installing Minecraft on Ubuntu just got easy
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/minecraft-installer-for-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> VLC 2.0.6 released with a boatload of bug fixes
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/vlc-2-0-6-released-with-boatload-of-bug-fixes
<Dazed_75> Focus pip added to Unity Quicklists
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/unity-quicklist-precense
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu website warns Windows 8 users: Don't use WUBI
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/wubi-advice
<Dazed_75> Fix Skype not working in Ubuntu 13.04 [for users of proprietary Nvidia drivers]
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/04/fix-skype-not-working-in-ubuntu-1304.html
<Dazed_75> Install Friends app (Gwibber re-written in QML) in Ubuntu 12.10 or 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/04/install-friends-app-gwibber-rewritten.html
<Dazed_75> How to use the Intel Linux graphics drivers repository) in Ubuntu based distros
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/04/how-to-use-intel-linux-graphics-drivers.html
<Dazed_75> Easily sign the Ubuntu Code of Conduct with COC signing agent
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/04/easily-sign-ubuntu-code-of-conduct-with.html
<Dazed_75> Nvidia releases Linux graphics drivers 319.12 beta with Optimus support
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/04/nvidia-releases-linux-graphics-drivers.html
<Dazed_75> 7 subtle Unity changes you might not notice in 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/7-unity-changes
<Dazed_75> ... and that is all from me for this issue
<Dazed_75> Larry
<toddc_> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toddc_> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc_> Ubuntu 13.04 Linux Can Outperform Apple OS X 10.8.3
<toddc_> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu1304_apple_osx1083&num=1
<toddc_> The Real Reason No One's Buying PCs Anymore: They've Gotten Too Good
* Quan (46abf90d@gateway/web/freenode/ip.70.171.249.13) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc_> http://www.slate.com/blogs/future_tense/2013/04/12/why_pc_sales_are_declining_old_pcs_still_work_just_fine.html?wpisrc=most_viral
<toddc_> welcome Quan
<toddc_> Hijacking airplanes with an Android phone
<toddc_> http://www.net-security.org/secworld.php?id=14733
<toddc_> JOB LIST
<toddc_> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<toddc_> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<toddc_> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc_> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc_> Systems/Infrastructure Engineer
<toddc_> wkqxh-3718691037@job.craigslist.org
<toddc_> Resource Technical Management
<toddc_> http://www.resource-technical.com
<toddc_> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc_> clay-j-knight
<toddc_> Android App Pick of the week
<toddc_> SSHTunnel
<toddc_> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.sshtunnel
<toddc_> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hjsULboaMZw   You tube How to
<toddc_> Linux App of the week
* ththandle (~ththandle@ip68-3-217-140.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<ththandle> +1
<toddc_> Gnome SSH Tunnel Manager
<toddc_> http://sourceforge.net/projects/gstm/
* ththandle is now known as akrhodey
<toddc_> hi ththandle
<ArchFan89> hello akrhodey we are at http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc_> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc_> Thursday April 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<akrhodey> hi toddc_ sorry I am late guys :0)
<toddc_> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc_> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc_> we have been trying to arrange a ubuntu hour in Tucson for next week but have not been able to lock down the location or time
<toddc_> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc_> Please note that that we have had to cancel the April 20th installfest event since UAT will be need all of there rooms that day.
<toddc_> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday May 4 and Saturday May 18 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc_> Tagose planning and development meeting on May 11 10 am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc_> For more info see
<toddc_> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc_> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc_> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc_> ubuntu on air
<toddc_> ubuntu deveopment hang out tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
<toddc_> Jono Bacon O&A wedsday 7-8 pm GMT
<toddc_> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc_> Ubuntu Clasroom
<toddc_> No classes this week
<toddc_> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc_> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc_> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc_> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc_> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday April 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc_> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc_> Developer Meeting Thursday May 2  7-9pm
<toddc_> University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc_> The developer group is adding bar code reading features to cheese
<toddc_> Plug East side meeting Thursday May 09  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc_> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
* akrhodey has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
<toddc_> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<wmack> Thanks, toddc
<xHans> PLUG east side was last Thursday :)
<toddc_> xHans next east side
<xHans> ah, OK :)
<toddc_> May 9
<wmack> may beso
<xHans> Estrella Mountain Community College LUG is the last Wednesday of the month, so a week from Wednesday
<toddc_> did not have that one
* ththandle (~ththandle@ip68-3-217-140.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Those going to Stammtisch need to NOT try to come in the back door this week
<toddc_> we should have someone stop by there and see if we can help them
<xHans> the clubhouse grill, Southwest corner of Indian School & Litchfield. 18:00
<xHans> Dazed_75: yes, thanks for remembering to mention that
<xHans> there will be another group in our normal room at 19:00, so we'll be meeting in the dinnig area instead
* Quan has quit (Quit: Page closed)
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
