{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<TRG__> +1
<toddc> +3?
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.org/
* Rich_ (c757e5ab@gateway/web/freenode/ip.199.87.229.171) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> hi Rich_
<Rich_> Howdy
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<TRG__> hrmm that link didn't work for me toddc
<toddc> WHICH LINK?
<TRG__> bbb
<toddc> azlocobbb.banditti.com
<Dazed_75> 3 of us are on it
<alison> link failed for me too
<TRG__> ah the https
<TRG__> doesn't work
<TRG__> how do I log in
<alison> removed s; was successful
<toddc> it uses fash and you must do a mod since flash is poor in linux
<toddc> close bb tab and go to https://www.google.com/search?client=ubuntu&channel=fs&q=adobe+global+settings+manager&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8
<Dazed_75> but it IS an http:, not https:
<TRG__> I think I'm on
<Dazed_75> we have Alison, Android, Anthony, Dazed_75 and toddc
<toddc> add the url to the global security settings tab as aproved
<toddc> or always allow
<Dazed_75> alison has not activated mike or camers, Android cannot
<TRG__> I think mine works
<Dazed_75> ack-fin is in bbb now too
<toddc> the add the url to website privacey settings and allow
<toddc> it is due to a glitch in adobe flash that settings cannot be made locally
* dennisk (18fb450c@gateway/web/freenode/ip.24.251.69.12) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Welcome Dennis
<toddc> hi dennisk
<dennisk> Hi All
<ericcc_> +1
<dennisk> +1
<Rich_> +1
<ack-fin> +1
<Dazed_75> Todd and I would like AZloco to add some activities.  Currently we hold two installfests per month, one Ubuntu Hour per month, visit LUGs in other cities and hold our wekly IRC meetings.  We would like to see us hold some face to face meetings here in the Valley and with presentations at those meetings.
* ArchFan9x (~test@wsip-24-249-177-197.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> We would like to get everyone's input both as to the idea and some volunteers to do some presentations.  Please contact Todd and/or I directly or even here in this meeting.  Obviously, we would also need a place to meet so suggestions would be welcome.
<Dazed_75> <--- listens closely :)
<alison> listening; may have a camera. working on it atm. :)
<toddc> np you are getting closer
<toddc> We “the Team” have been invited to play in the First Annual Ubuntu LoCo Games. See http://pad.ubuntu.com/LocoGames fpr more information or contact me if to start a team.
<toddc> Several members have decided to start a Hackfest based at MCC we will be starting to schedule soon so keep a eye on the schedule
<toddc> at http://www.azloco.org/node/28
<toddc> now back to Dazed_75 for the news
<toddc> ubuntu news
<toddc> 1 sec while he gets his notes
<Dazed_75> UEFI enabled Samsung laptops get bricked with Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.itwire.com/business-it-news/open-source/58512-uefi-enabled-samsung-laptops-get-bricked-with-linux
<Dazed_75> ... and a kernel fix
<Dazed_75>     http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Protection-against-Samsung-UEFI-bug-merged-into-Linux-kernel-1795332.html
<dennisk> Toddc: Do you mean the official MCC security Club? I would call it a hackfest at the moment.
<Dazed_75> Should I start including 13.04 stories?  I did include the following because people have wondered what happened to Wayland for quite some time now.
<Dazed_75> ?????
<alison> sure
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 13.04 enables the Wayland Support for GTK+
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTI4NDg
<Dazed_75> Hmmm, another possibly scary development
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theopensourcerer.com/2013/01/ubuntu-smart-scopes/
<Dazed_75> Thanks for the input
<Dazed_75> BitTorrent launches private and secure Dropbox alternative
<Dazed_75>     http://torrentfreak.com/bittorrent-launches-private-and-secure-dropbox-alternative-130125/
<toddc> dennisk: yes no offcial name yet but I wanted to get a few words out about it
<Dazed_75> User Abuse (a superbly written article concerning s/w development with a focus on FOSS)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.ofb.biz/safari/article/797.html
<Dazed_75> Systemd myths
<Dazed_75>     http://0pointer.de/blog/projects/the-biggest-myths.html
<Dazed_75> Kdenlive 0.9.4 was released on January 28
<Dazed_75>     http://www.kdenlive.org/discover/0.9.4
<Dazed_75> I-nex tool to list hardware information in Linux (similar to CPU-Z)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/i-nex-tool-to-list-hardware-information.html
<Dazed_75> Watch LOVEFILM and RedBox videos in Ubuntu using the NetFlix Desktop PPA
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/watch-lovefilm-and-redbox-videos-in.html
<Dazed_75> RhythmBox CoverArt Browser Plugin sees new release
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/rhythmbox-coverart-browser-plugin-sees.html
<Dazed_75> Why you don't need an AntiVirus on Linux (and when you DO)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/135392/htg-explains-why-you-dont-need-an-antivirus-on-linux-and-when-you-do/
<Dazed_75> How to anonymize the programs run in your terminal with torify
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/howto/how-to-anonymize-the-programs-from-your-terminal-with-torify?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Raspberry Pi Foundation receives Google Grant for schools
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/raspberry-pi-foundation-receives-google-grant-for-schools
<Dazed_75> Process film negatives with digiKam
<Dazed_75>     http://scribblesandsnaps.com/2013/01/29/process-film-negatives-with-digikam/
<Dazed_75> Ten ways to get started with Open Source
<Dazed_75>     http://opensource.com/life/13/1/10-ways-get-started-open-source
<Dazed_75> Provision a new Dev environment in nothing flat with Puppet
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux.com/news/software/applications/694157-setup-your-dev-environment-in-nothing-flat-with-puppet
<Dazed_75> Learning Linux commands: export
<Dazed_75>     http://how-to.linuxcareer.com/learning-linux-commands-export
<Dazed_75> Slax 7.0 - Slax is back
<Dazed_75>     http://all-things-linux.blogspot.com/2013/01/slax-70-slax-is-back.html?m=1
<Dazed_75> XBMC 12.0 Frodo stable released.  Use it on Ubuntu, Raspberry Pi, Android and more
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/xbmc-120-frodo-stable-released-use-it.html
<Dazed_75> Linux achieves Bodhi 'Enlightment'
<Dazed_75>     http://fossforce.com/2013/01/linux-achieves-bodhi-enlightenment/
<Dazed_75> 5 reasons Chromebooks win after Linux netbooks lost
<Dazed_75>     http://www.thevarguy.com/2013/01/30/5-reasons-chromebooks-win-after-linux-netbooks-lost/
<Dazed_75> How to install and un-install Ubuntu on your Nexus 7
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-Ubuntu-on-Nexus-7-323489.shtml
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Reinstall-Android-on-Nexus-7-Removing-Ubuntu-325016.shtml
<Dazed_75> Hacking: The new national pastime?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Hacking-The-New-National-Pastime-77202.html
<Dazed_75> 5 lesser known Ubuntu alternatives worth checking out
<Dazed_75>     http://www.extremetech.com/computing/144885-5-ubuntu-alternatives-worth-checking-out
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<Dazed_75> LPI (Linux Professional Institute) Certifications exceed 350,000 Worldwide
<Dazed_75>     http://www.lpi.org/news/lpi-certification-exams-exceed-350000-worldwide
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<Dazed_75> Aeon Command: Yet another new game for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTI4OTE
<Dazed_75> High availability servers using GlusterFS
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/setting-up-a-standalone-storage-server-with-glusterfs-and-samba-on-debian-squeeze
<Dazed_75>     http://how-to.linuxcareer.com/configuration-of-high-availability-storage-server-using-glusterfs
<Dazed_75> The boy is stuttering
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<Dazed_75> Seafile: Robust file synchronization and collaboration tool that you can run on your Linux server
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/02/seafile-robust-file-synchronization-and.html
<Dazed_75> How to get Unity Dodge back in 12.10 or 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/02/how-to-get-unity-launcher-window-dodge.html
<Dazed_75> Dropbox uploader Bash Script: Useful for servers, Raspberry Pi and more
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/dropbox-uploader-bash-script-useful-for.html
<Dazed_75> Definitely read THIS one about WHAT to back up
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/migrate-linux-installation-between-machines/2013/02/02
<Dazed_75> Linux alternatives to popular Windows apps (Parts 1 AND 2)
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/migrate-linux-installation-between-machines/2013/02/02
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/linux-alternative-to-windows-app-part-2/2013/02/01
<Dazed_75> ... That's all for me -- hope everyone found SOME part of it useful
<toddc> Ubuntu at the heart of Obama for America success--- interesting reading
<toddc> http://insights.ubuntu.com/cloud/ubuntu-powered-obama-for-america-success/
<toddc> Ubuntu phones to come with a terminal
<toddc> http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2013/01/ubuntu-phones-to-come-with-a-terminal-prepare-your-command-line-skills/
<toddc> Head-to-Head Desktop Comparison: Ubuntu 12.10 vs. OS X Mountain Lion
<toddc> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/head-to-head-desktop-comparison-ubuntu-12.10-vs.-os-x-mountain-lion-1.html
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> Reminder SCALE Conf Febuary 22-24th
<toddc> AzLoco.org Is back up and online thanks to adrenaline and his his G/F
<toddc> other?  Please thanks them for their hard work and server use.
<toddc> We now have more time to locate a permanent home and we need ideas and other options
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings tofill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Linux System Administrator
<toddc> jobs@ebocom.net
<toddc> Linux Systems Administrator
<toddc> http://employment.ccbill.com/
<toddc> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc> Alison  say hi!!
<alison> hi!
<toddc> Tyler Dinsmoor
<toddc> Android app Pick
<toddc> Last Message   saves just nough batter to send one last sms text
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=it.fatbrain.lastmessage
<toddc> linux app of the week
<toddc> etherpad  open source version of google docs
<toddc> https://etherpad.mozilla.org/
<toddc> http://etherpad.org/
<toddc> Fotoxx 13.02 Allows Now To Convert An Image Into Cartoon-like Drawing (More Features) - Ubuntu/Linux Mint
<toddc> http://www.upubuntu.com/2013/02/fotoxx-1302-allows-now-to-convert-image.html
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday Febuary 28 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> The last one had a great turn out and we met lots of Linux users and Dazed_75 even did a install
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is March 2  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc> Yesterday we were wall to wall and did 4-5 installs and a server build and discussion on PGP keys
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on February 9 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday February 16 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor of the front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> AzloCo.org calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Ubuntu User Days Feb06-Feb16 more free classes online at  #ubuntu-classroom
<toddc> Ubuntu offers free online training several time a year
<toddc> use the program Lernid or #ubuntu-clasroom in IRC freenode
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<alison> everyone heard that it's now illegal to unlock phones, right?
<alison> not that that would stop anyone. just advocating informed choices. ;)
<xHans> alison: illegal under certain circumstances
<toddc> no you can root or jailbreak but not open the phone carrier portion
<alison> oh
<dennisk> See Matt Garrett's blog for the current state of UEFI. Matt will be speaking at SCaLE11x. http://mjg59.dreamwidth.org/22028.html
<alison> that's better than i thought
<alison> thanks - ill check it out
<Dazed_75> yes, but it is not the unlocking that is illegal, it is unlocking in order to take the phone to another carrier
<toddc> most carriers will unlock after your contract ends
<toddc> for you for free
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<xHans> also, don't buy subsidized phones from the carriers and make them earn your business :)
<Dazed_75> true, but before contract ends is what that stupid law is about
* xHans is not here ;-)
* ack-fin has quit (Ping timeout: 244 seconds)
<xHans> A week from Thursday is the PLUG east side meeting
<xHans> I will do a presentation on High Availability Clustering with Corosync and DRBD
<xHans> location is in the air as the MCC room we've been using is being converted
<xHans> http://phxlinux.org/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2013/02/14/31/-/plug-east-meeting.html?Itemid=1
<xHans> SCaLE is Feb 22 - 24 in LA, a great, nearby, inexpensive conference
<xHans> ride-sharing is being discussed on PLUG-discuss
<xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale11x
<alison> sounds cool. i'm unavailable next meetup, but will definitely come in the near future.
<xHans> toddc: and that's it from me for tonight
* ack-fin (~scott_ev@ip70-190-101-244.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<xHans> and the PLUG meeting is on Valentine's Day
<toddc> ArchFan9x:  you had a app to talk about?
<toddc> xHans Thanks for keeping us up to date on plug
<dennisk> From the website: Next User Day: Saturday February 9th - Sunday February 10th 2013
<Dazed_75> What is user day?
<toddc> Android app: splashtop 2, high performance remote desktop viewer, free for use on local network
<xHans> toddc: bitte, danke for giving me the opportunity
<toddc> Linux app: GLC, opengl video capturing tool, good for the gamers
<toddc> xHans np thanks for all the help
<dennisk> xHans: I think Todd looked at Escalante Center in Tempe would that work for PLUG?
<toddc> it is only open till 9PM so events must end at 8:30
<xHans> dennisk: it might, but we haven't really had a chance to review, being able to get one more month at MCC would be awesome
<xHans> ah, that's too early
<toddc> Brian said no but I have all the info and can show it to those interested
<ArchFan9x> Whats going on the background on bbb?
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
* Madrobit (46bec685@gateway/web/freenode/ip.70.190.198.133) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> someone mike is open in a noisy home
* ArchFan9x goes on gizmodo to check for news
<Madrobit> will we be particpating in athe loco games
<Madrobit> the ubuntu Olympics
<dennisk> xHans: I'll ask if there is a classroom free. I checked the library -- nothing and facilities wants an insurance policy for off campus groups.
<toddc> cool if anyone else wants to play we can form a team!!
<xHans> we've got a faculty sponsor, which should be enough
<Madrobit> ill defintly do it
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
* dennisk has quit (Quit: Page closed)
<Madrobit> I joined late sry dennisk are you talking about MCC
<xHans> Madrobit: yes we were
<toddc> we were talking about a east side meeting location and looking ing into alteranatives
<Madrobit> ok thx
<alison> thx
<alison> wrote 'em down
<alison> cool. thanks.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
