{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


01 June - AZLOCO Team Meeting Chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2001%2C%202025%20Meeting
05 June - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed System 76 laptops
* Discussed problems associated with installing Ubuntu on older computers
07 June – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Assisted an attendee with setting up his Brother printer on his network
* Repaired system d booting problem for an attendee
* Repaired TMUX problem for an attendee
* Conducted a one on one training session on basic terminal commands for an attendee
12 June - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed how Linux is better for the average user than Microsoft Windows.
* Discussed why we install Ubuntu for a new user.
* Pointed out the website of the Western North Carolina Linux User Group who tapes their meetings and presentations and posts them on You-Tube.  This may be something that we want to do.
12 June - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed setting up scanners in Ubuntu
* Discussed donations of Linux computers to individuals and groups
21 June - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* Data not available
26 June - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour
* Data not available
