{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 21 Jun at 04:01 &mdash; 04:24 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-06-21-04.01.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/security-oriented-alpine-linux-3-14-released-with-kde-plasma-5-22-qemu-6-0-and-more   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/you-should-write   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/increasing-earning-potential   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/06/send-messages-from-your-scripts-to.html   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/micro-terminal-based-text-editor/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/introduction-to-ranger-file-manager   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-copy-a-file-to-multiple-directories-in-command-line-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/7-great-network-commands   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/ansible-tutorial-for-beginners-on-linux   (stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/squid-proxy-configuration-tutorial-on-linux   (stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/squid-proxy-configuration-tutorial-on-linux   (stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-gdu-disk-usage-analyzer-on-ubuntu-20-04/   (stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/create-cpu-load-linux/   (stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/add-mysql-user-grant-privileges/   (stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/limit-linux-network-bandwidth-usage-with-trickle/   (stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/nginx-most-popular-web-server/   (stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-change-kvm-libvirt-default-storage-pool-location/   (stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/debug-rootless-podman-mounted-volumes   (stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.learnlinux.tv/getting-started-with-lxd-containerization/   (stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-edit-a-system-file-with-sudoedit-preserving-the-invoking-user-environment   (stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/how-to-kill-a-process-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:18)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntu.com/advantage   (toddc, 04:19)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:20)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (47)
* MajB (44)
* toddc (15)
* MajB1 (13)
* lolberpunk1 (5)
* meetingology (2)
* markthomas (2)
* Eleison23 (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:01 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:01:19 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:02 * lolberpunk1 jumps up and down

 04:02 <toddc> +1

 04:02 <stephenm> +1

 04:02 <Eleison23> +1

 04:02 <markthomas> +1

 04:03 <toddc> one second network issues for MajB and since it is his meeting tonight

 04:04 <MajB1> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:04 <toddc> can you see me now?

 04:04 <MajB1> Yes

 04:04 <lolberpunk1> +1

 04:05 <MajB1> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:05 <toddc> I will anyway

 04:05 <MajB1> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:05 <MajB1> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:05 <MajB1> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:05 <MajB1> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:05 <MajB1> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:05 <MajB1> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:05 <MajB1> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:05 <MajB1> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:05 <toddc> please I hate to look at MajB1

 04:06 <MajB1> LINUX NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB1> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:06 <stephenm> the news is like normal, easy stuff and then some indepth stuff.

 04:07 <stephenm> Security-Oriented Alpine Linux 3.14 Released with KDE Plasma 5.22, QEMU 6.0, and More

 04:07 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/security-oriented-alpine-linux-3-14-released-with-kde-plasma-5-22-qemu-6-0-and-more

 04:07 <stephenm> Linux Sysadmins: 6 Reasons You Should Write Technical Articles

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/you-should-write

 04:07 <stephenm> 6 ways to increase your Linux sysadmin earning profile and potential

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/increasing-earning-potential

 04:07 <stephenm> Send Messages From Your Scripts to Multiple Messaging Platforms Using PingMe

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/06/send-messages-from-your-scripts-to.html

 04:08 <stephenm> Micro: CLI-Based Text Editor for Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/micro-terminal-based-text-editor/

 04:08 <stephenm> Introduction to Ranger File Manager

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/introduction-to-ranger-file-manager

 04:08 <stephenm> How To Copy A File To Multiple Directories From Command Line On Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-copy-a-file-to-multiple-directories-in-command-line-on-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> 7 Linux Networking Commands Every Sysadmin Should Know

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/7-great-network-commands

 04:09 <stephenm> Ansible Tutorial for Beginners on Linux

 04:09 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/ansible-tutorial-for-beginners-on-linux

 04:09 <stephenm> Squid Proxy Configuration Tutorial on Linux

 04:09 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/squid-proxy-configuration-tutorial-on-linux

 04:09 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/squid-proxy-configuration-tutorial-on-linux

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-gdu-disk-usage-analyzer-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:09 <stephenm> How to Create 100% CPU Load on Linux System

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/create-cpu-load-linux/

 04:10 <stephenm> How to Add a New MySQL User and Grant Access Privileges

 04:10 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/add-mysql-user-grant-privileges/

 04:10 <stephenm> How to Limit Network Bandwidth Usage in Linux

 04:10 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/limit-linux-network-bandwidth-usage-with-trickle/

 04:10 <stephenm> Nginx is Now the World's #1 Web Server, Overtaking Apache

 04:10 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/nginx-most-popular-web-server/

 04:11 <stephenm> How to Change KVM Libvirt Default Storage Pool Location in Linux

 04:11 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-change-kvm-libvirt-default-storage-pool-location/

 04:11 <stephenm> How to Debug Issues with Volumes Mounted on Rootless Containers

 04:11 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/debug-rootless-podman-mounted-volumes

 04:11 <stephenm> Getting Started with LXD Containerization (Video Tutorial)

 04:11 <stephenm> https://www.learnlinux.tv/getting-started-with-lxd-containerization/

 04:11 <stephenm> How to Edit a System File with sudoedit Preserving the Invoking User Environment

 04:11 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-edit-a-system-file-with-sudoedit-preserving-the-invoking-user-environment

 04:12 <toddc> I like LXD

 04:12 <stephenm> A Guide to Kill, Pkill and Killall Commands to Terminae a Process in Linux

 04:12 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/how-to-kill-a-process-in-linux/

 04:12 <stephenm> ya LXD is fine, I just have tried docker right now

 04:12 <stephenm> anyways that's all I have for tonight, back to MajB1

 04:12 <stephenm> or not

 04:13 <stephenm> MajB you're up

 04:13 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:13 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:14 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:14 <MajB> 

 04:14 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:14 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:14 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:14 <MajB> There are 138 open canonical Jobs today

 04:14 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <MajB> There are 165 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:14 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:15 <MajB> There are 27 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:15 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:15 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:15 <MajB> 24 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 01 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 03 July,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:16 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 08 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <MajB> 08 July, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:16 <MajB> 17 July,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:16 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <MajB> 18 July, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:17 <MajB> 22 July, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:17 <MajB> Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:18 <MajB> 04 July, AZLOCO Team meeting (conflict with Independence day celebration)

 04:18 <MajB> 25 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour (conflict with Thanksgiving holiday)

 04:18 <MajB> 23 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour (conflict with Christmas holiday)

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:19 <toddc> Ubuntu counsil has arranged to get ubuntu advantage accouts for the community 3 for ubuntu uses 50 for members a great reason to become a member

 04:19 <toddc> https://ubuntu.com/advantage

 04:19 <toddc> I plan to start testing this week

 04:19 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  LuftHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:19 <toddc> I may need some help markthomas

 04:20 <markthomas> Ack

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:20 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:20 <toddc> may I will try first

 04:20 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:20 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:20 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month at the Sunland Village East computer lab 1800-1930.

 04:21 <toddc> I was just a great deal to pass on

 04:21 <toddc> it was

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 26 June 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:21 <lolberpunk1> Cool!

 04:22 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:22 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:23 <lolberpunk1> Not I.

 04:23 <MajB> Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.

 04:23 <lolberpunk1> T'was good.

 04:24 <MajB> #endmeeting

 04:24 <stephenm> night all

 04:24 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
