{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre>
=== Log ===

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 05 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:13 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-02-05-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2018/02/uber-says-its-self-driving-trucks-will-be-good-for-truckers/551879/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-02-01/tesla-expands-sales-of-solar-gear-at-home-depot-in-critical-test 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/cisco-jumps-into-containers/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/2/news-february-3 
''LINK:'' http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/251928/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/open-source-turns-20/#ftag=RSSbaffb68 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/how-run-your-own-public-time-server-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/2/which-linux-kernel-version-stable 
''LINK:'' http://www.securityweek.com/embracing-cultural-shift-comes-secure-devops 
''LINK:'' https://mybroadband.co.za/news/smartphones/246583-how-programmers-learn-to-code.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/1/containers-gpl-and-copyleft 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-fix-the-docker-and-ufw-security-flaw/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/how-manage-pgp-and-ssh-keys-seahorse 
''LINK:'' https://techcrunch.com/2018/01/30/heptio-launches-its-kubernetes-un-distribution/ 
''LINK:'' https://jaxenter.com/5-agile-myths-avoid-140653.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/mitigating-known-security-risks-in-open-source-libraries 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-16-04-4-lts-delayed-due-to-meltdown-and-spectre-security-vulnerabilities-519572.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/libreoffice-the-best-office-suite-gets-even-better-with-libreoffice-6-0/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/check-linux-meltdown-spectre-vulnerability/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-performance-before-and-after-meltdown-and-spectre-fixes/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/c02ugga2hkmlqfcfetud4l9jpuk 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (41)
* stephenm (39)
* MajB (33)
* xHans (16)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* wmack (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb  5 04:00:05 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> +2

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date   95697.98

 04:00 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:00 <Ron_A> 

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <stephenm> The news starts from beginning to end however you want to define that.

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> Could Self-Driving Trucks Be Good for Truckers?

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2018/02/uber-says-its-self-driving-trucks-will-be-good-for-truckers/551879/

 04:01 <stephenm> Tesla Expands Sales of Solar Gear at Home Depot

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-02-01/tesla-expands-sales-of-solar-gear-at-home-depot-in-critical-test

 04:02 <stephenm> This sounds awesome too bad I don't make enough to rent a house let alone buy one.

 04:02 <stephenm> Cisco jumps into containers

 04:02 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/cisco-jumps-into-containers/

 04:02 <stephenm> Sounds as strange as them getting into blade servers a few years ago.  Never did look up what became of that market though.

 04:03 <stephenm> 'Open source software' turns 20, new Firefox Quantum privacy features, and more news

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/2/news-february-3

 04:03 <stephenm> The February 2018 Issue of the PCLinuxOS Magazine

 04:03 <stephenm> http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/251928/

 04:03 <stephenm> Open source is 20: How it changed programming and business forever

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/open-source-turns-20/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Run Your Own Public Time Server on Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/how-run-your-own-public-time-server-linux

 04:03 <stephenm> Anyone up for building us a NTP server?

 04:04 <stephenm> Which Linux Kernel Version Is ‘Stable’?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/2/which-linux-kernel-version-stable

 04:04 <stephenm> Embracing the Cultural Shift that Comes with Secure DevOps

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.securityweek.com/embracing-cultural-shift-comes-secure-devops

 04:04 <stephenm> How programmers learn to code

 04:04 <stephenm> https://mybroadband.co.za/news/smartphones/246583-how-programmers-learn-to-code.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Containers, the GPL, and copyleft: No reason for concern

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/1/containers-gpl-and-copyleft

 04:04 <stephenm> How to fix the Docker and UFW security flaw

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-fix-the-docker-and-ufw-security-flaw/

 04:04 <wmack> +1

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Manage PGP and SSH Keys with Seahorse

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/how-manage-pgp-and-ssh-keys-seahorse

 04:05 <stephenm> Heptio launches its Kubernetes ‘un-distribution’

 04:05 <stephenm> https://techcrunch.com/2018/01/30/heptio-launches-its-kubernetes-un-distribution/

 04:05 <stephenm> Not everyone can implement agile properly and that’s ok: 5 agile myths you should avoid

 04:05 <stephenm> https://jaxenter.com/5-agile-myths-avoid-140653.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Mitigating known security risks in open source libraries

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/mitigating-known-security-risks-in-open-source-libraries

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to you Ron_A

 04:05 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <MajB> Ubuntu 16.04.4 LTS Delayed Due to Meltdown and Spectre Security Vulnerabilities

 04:06 <MajB> http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-16-04-4-lts-delayed-due-to-meltdown-and-spectre-security-vulnerabilities-519572.shtml

 04:06 <MajB> LibreOffice, the best office suite, gets even better with LibreOffice 6.0

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.zdnet.com/article/libreoffice-the-best-office-suite-gets-even-better-with-libreoffice-6-0/

 04:06 <MajB> How to Check Your Linux PC for Meltdown or Spectre Vulnerability

 04:06 <MajB> https://www.maketecheasier.com/check-linux-meltdown-spectre-vulnerability/

 04:06 <MajB> Linux performance before and after Meltdown and Spectre fixes

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-performance-before-and-after-meltdown-and-spectre-fixes/

 04:06 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:06 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:07 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:07 <Ron_A> Part of doing Linux was that I had to communicate a lot more instead of just being a geek in front of a computer.

 04:07 <Ron_A> Linus Torvalds

 04:07 <Ron_A> Life would be much easier if I had the source code.

 04:07 <Ron_A> 32 current canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:07 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:08 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:08 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:08 <MajB> 17 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:08 <MajB> 22 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:08 <MajB> 22 February, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 01 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:09 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:09 <xHans> ja, merci

 04:09 <xHans> PLUG's general meeting is this Thursday at 19:00

 04:09 <xHans> Topic: regular expressions: a guided tour

 04:09 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/c02ugga2hkmlqfcfetud4l9jpuk

 04:09 <xHans> Desert Breeze Substation

 04:09 <xHans> 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226

 04:09 <xHans> The next security meeting is a week from Thursday on the 15th

 04:09 <xHans> Last month it from from a Tuesday to the 3rd Thursday in the month

 04:10 <xHans> The security meeting is also at the Desert Breeze Substation and starts at 19:00

 04:10 <xHans> Desert Breeze Substation

 04:10 <xHans> 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226

 04:10 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is two weeks from Tuesday

 04:10 <xHans> SCaLE is coming up at the beginning of March, registration is open

 04:10 <xHans> the hotel block is filling up

 04:10 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:10 <Ron_A> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:10 <xHans> bitte

 04:10 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:11 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 February 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:11 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:11 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 February, 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:11 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 February 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 March 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:11 <MajB> That's all I have there

 04:11 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:12 <Ron_A> Toddc do you have anything to add?

 04:12 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:12 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:12 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:12 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:12 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:12 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:12 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:12 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:12 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:12 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:13 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
