{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #25 for the week November 19 - November 25, 2007.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Twenty-Fifth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-November 28, 2007
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday December 2, 2007  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the November 25, 2007 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting together at 9:02 PM.  He expressed his hope that everyone had a good Thanksgiving holiday.

New member, mindrape, was introduced to the Team.  He's been a linux user for over 10 years... Ubuntu for the past 2-ish years.  He is in the central Phoenix area, near the airport.  mindrape was welcomed to the Team.

Next order of business was the Team Server main page (http://ubuntuaz.selfip.com/).  Due to the confusion of the holiday, enigmastrat hasn't updated the graphics for the main page yet.  johnc4510 has managed to revise the text, and added/changed the links in the pull-down menus.  He also moved it to the main area, so it would be the first thing seen.  tyche asked about setting up some information on what had been done and what needed to be done for the Team to be formally approved.  johnc4510 said that he hadn't planned on doing that on the main page, but was going to work on updating the wiki.  johnc4510 asked about adding some web buttons.  Things like Gnome, Firefox, Thunderbird, xfce, OpenOffice.org, and Apache were suggested.  These linked graphics might have to be "Gimped" to make them the same size relative to eachother, but this was not seen as a serious problem.

The next order of business was the Education Committee page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Education).  johnc4510 and tyche didn't work on it this week, due in part to the amount of time spent on it last week and the need for feedback from the rest of the team.  The subject of email support was brought up, and tyche asked how other teams handled it.  johnc4510 invited vorian in to discuss how Ohio Team managed their support.  vorian related that after the support was set up, there weren't any requests, and the team lost focus.  It was further discussed that Team members could always jump on IRC to get help from other Team members.  But it appeared that outside users weren't making requests, or were going to the forums.  tyche suggested that he look at how other teams provide support, or even if they supply support.  With that, the discussion was tabled for next week for further information and discussion.  johnc4510 asked enigmastrat to let him know when the graphics for the server page were updated.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:41 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
