{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #29 for the week December 17 - December 23.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Twenty-Ninth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-December 26, 2007
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday December 30, 2007  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the December 23, 2007 meeting: HAPPY HOLIDAYS, EVERYONE! ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

With the reduced attendence due to the holiday family activities, this was an informal meeting.

johnc4510 first reported that tyche was working on the Server page 2 (http://ubuntuaz.selfip.com/page2.html).  His thought was to gather the information together towards our becoming an approved team.  Everyone can help.  He needs lots of help, and lots of information.  He needs to know what people have done towards Ubuntu.

enigmastrat has been working on the new menu (cross platform).  Right now it's only working in Firefox.  He'll get it to work in IE, Safari, etc.

johnc4510 suggested that ianmcorvidae could help us on the ed team pages if he wanted to (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Education).  tyche added that he can always email him the information:  tyche@cox.net.  johnc4510 added that he could set it up himself.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:23 PM

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
