{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 17 Aug at 04:00 &mdash; 04:13 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-08-17-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Debian-Turns-27 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=System76-2020-Bonobo-WS 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Wine-5.15-Released 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/ssh-and-ftp-android-apps-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://anto.online/guides/most-used-linux-commands/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/vim-commands 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhandbook.com/check-linux-version/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/top-10-shortcuts 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/introduction-to-the-systemd-journal 
''LINK:'' https://medevel.com/run-a-hospital-on-a-raspberry-p-with-gnu-health/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Paragon-Read-Write-NTFS-Linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/install-ansible-way 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/whowatch-monitor-linux-users-and-processes-in-real-time/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-trace-system-calls-made-by-a-process-with-strace-on-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2020/08/07/open-source-tool-infection-monkey/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/mtr-a-network-diagnostic-tool-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/kubernetes_network_policy/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/ansibles-copy-template-modules 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/rsync-synchronize-backup-restore 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/mfa-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.pragmaticlinux.com/2020/08/move-the-raspberry-pi-root-file-system-to-a-usb-drive/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/. Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (47)
* stephenm (47)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (2)
* programmer317 (1)
* Eleison23 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug 17 04:00:07 2020 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> just in time nice!!

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.  There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <Eleison23> +1

 04:01 <programmer317> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> News is from simple to more complex.

 04:02 <stephenm> Debian GNU/Linux Turns 27 Years Old

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Debian-Turns-27

 04:02 <stephenm> Debian is old and still kicking

 04:02 <stephenm> System76 Preparing Coreboot Laptop With Core i9 10900K, Up To 128GB RAM

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=System76-2020-Bonobo-WS

 04:02 <stephenm> Wine 5.15 Release Brings Initial Work On XACT Engine Libraries

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Wine-5.15-Released

 04:02 <stephenm> 5 Best SSH and FTP Android Apps for Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/ssh-and-ftp-android-apps-for-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Most Used Linux Commands

 04:03 <stephenm> https://anto.online/guides/most-used-linux-commands/

 04:03 <stephenm> Vim: Basic and intermediate commands

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/vim-commands

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Find Which Linux Version You Are Running

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxhandbook.com/check-linux-version/

 04:03 <stephenm> My top 10 terminal shortcuts for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/top-10-shortcuts

 04:03 <stephenm> Introduction to the Systemd journal

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/introduction-to-the-systemd-journal

 04:03 <stephenm> Run a Hospital on a Raspberry Pi with GNU Health

 04:03 <stephenm> https://medevel.com/run-a-hospital-on-a-raspberry-p-with-gnu-health/

 04:04 <stephenm> Paragon Looks To Mainline Their NTFS Read-Write Driver To The Mainline Linux Kernel

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Paragon-Read-Write-NTFS-Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Add a repo and install a package the Ansible way

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/install-ansible-way

 04:04 <stephenm> whowatch - Monitor Linux Users and Processes in Real Time

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/whowatch-monitor-linux-users-and-processes-in-real-time/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to trace system calls made by a process with strace on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-trace-system-calls-made-by-a-process-with-strace-on-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Open source tool Infection Monkey allows security pros to test their network like never before

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2020/08/07/open-source-tool-infection-monkey/

 04:04 <stephenm> MTR - A Network Diagnostic Tool for Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/mtr-a-network-diagnostic-tool-for-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Network Policy in Kubernetes

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/kubernetes_network_policy/

 04:05 <stephenm> Choosing between Ansible's copy and template modules

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/ansibles-copy-template-modules

 04:05 <stephenm> Sysadmin tools: Using rsync to manage backup, restore, and file synchronization

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/rsync-synchronize-backup-restore

 04:05 <stephenm> Setting up multi-factor authentication on Linux systems

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/mfa-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> Move the Raspberry PI root file system to a USB drive

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.pragmaticlinux.com/2020/08/move-the-raspberry-pi-root-file-system-to-a-usb-drive/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:07 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 66 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <MajB> There are 95 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 22 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Many or all of these events may be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 27 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 05 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:09 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 10 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <MajB> 10 September, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 19 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bri

 04:10 <MajB> ng your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 24 September, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:10 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:12 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:12 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> meeting on 22 August 1-3:45 pm.  Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:13 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
