{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


04 March - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 2  attendees
* General discussion on covid-19 issues
* Troubleshoot remote desktop access using freerdp-x11
06 March - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* Worked on a HDMI monitor issue
* Discussed Next Cloud issues and solutions
* Conducted a Fakecam Demonstration
07 March - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2007%2C%202021%20Meeting
11 March - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees
* Discussed the new Ubuntu Installer to be previewed with the 21.10 release.  The Repair Installation option on the welcome page is probably the big addition.
* Discussed the upcoming Linux Workshop to be held at the Warrior Healing Center main conference room on 10 April from 1000-1300.
* A member had a problem sending an email which kept on being bounced back.  Since he could send it if he typed the address, the contact address was probably corrupted.  To correct the problem, he was advised to delete the contact and then add it back to his address book.
11 March - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed general Ubuntu, FOSS, and Linux subjects
20 March - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Discussed VPN
* Discussed ssh to a Pine Phone
* Created 2 Mint install media on SD and USB drives
21 March - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2021%2C%202021%20Meeting
25 March - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 2 attendees
* Troubleshoot suspend/resume operations in systemd
* General discussion on current topics
