{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# PLUG Announcements
# Announcements
# Discussion
# ETC

If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with johnc4510 or scott_ev.

=== Log ===
From: Scott_ev

I apologize for falling asleep and not having a meeting last night.
Here's the Ubuntu News I had prepared:

OK, welcome everyone to the weekly IRC meeting of the Arizona Ubuntu
Local Community Team. P)lease signify your attendance with a +1. If this
is your first time or if you haven't introduced here before please let
us know a little about yourself.

----

Archive frozen for preparation of Ubuntu 10.10
The list of release-critical bugs that we want to still try to resolve
before the release candidate on September 30 is tracked here:

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone=27462|https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone=27462]]</nowiki>

Additional bugs that are still considered "targets of opportunity" for
the release are found at:

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs|https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs]]</nowiki>

For more information go to the original posting at:

<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2010-September/031433.html|https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2010-September/031433.html]]</nowiki>

----

Reflections on Ubuntu, Canonical and the march to free software adoption
<nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/517|http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/517]]</nowiki>

----

Ubuntu Cowntdown 10.10
<nowiki>[[http://thorwil.wordpress.com/2010/09/14/ubuntu-countdown-10-10/|http://thorwil.wordpress.com/2010/09/14/ubuntu-countdown-10-10/]]</nowiki>

----

Ubuntu Brainstorm Top 5 this week

* Ubuntu logo must be shiny - <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25841/|http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25841/]]</nowiki>
* Add the ability to queue extractions in Archive Manager -
<nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25842/|http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25842/]]</nowiki>
* Save my programs list! - <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25839/|http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25839/]]</nowiki>
* Multithread powered file compression -
<nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25873/|http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25873/]]</nowiki>
* There should be an indicator for new Podcast episodes -
<nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25880/|http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/25880/]]</nowiki>

Ubuntu Brainstorm is a community site geared toward letting you add your
ideas for Ubuntu. You can submit your own idea, or vote for or against
another idea. <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/|http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki>

----

Top 5 Voted New StackExchange Questions This Week

* Ubuntu without Flash (?)
* How can I change the order of the users in the login screen?
* No Network Manager icon in the notification area, so I can't use my
VPN connection.
* What should I do when Ubuntu freezes?
* Where do applications typically store data?

People Contributing the best questions and answers this week: ændrük,
dv3500ea, Ralf, koushik and Oli

For more information visit: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.stackexchange.com|http://ubuntu.stackexchange.com]]</nowiki>

----

David Rubin: Ubuntu Books, The Unboxing

The Ubuntu-ZA team have received their complimentary copies of the
Official Ubuntu Book as well as the Official Ubuntu Server Book. David
wonders what should be done with the books now that the team has them
and lists some suggestions. What do other teams do? Feel free to comment!

<nowiki>[[http://blog.smartcube.co.za/2010/09/15/ubuntu-books-the-unboxing/|http://blog.smartcube.co.za/2010/09/15/ubuntu-books-the-unboxing/]]</nowiki>

----

Brian Murray: Launchpad Greasemonkey Scripts in Chromium Browser

Brian has been working on getting the Launchpad Greasemonkey scripts on
par for the Chromium browser than the Firefox browser. The scripts
mostly works, with some minor issues. Brian also provides instructions
for obtaining the scripts.

<nowiki>[[http://www.murraytwins.com/blog/?p=89|http://www.murraytwins.com/blog/?p=89]]</nowiki>

----

Adam Sommer - Ubuntu Server Guide Retrospective

Adam looks at the Ubuntu Server Guide development over the last release
cycle. Packaged versions have been dropped, cloud sections have been
updated and a new section for Puppet has been added.

<nowiki>[[http://adamsommer.blogspot.com/2010/09/ubuntu-server-guide-retrospective.html|http://adamsommer.blogspot.com/2010/09/ubuntu-server-guide-retrospective.html]]</nowiki>

----

Shuttleworth Responds to Ubuntu's Critics

OSNews brings us an article regarding Mark Shuttleworth's response to
recent criticism that cited Ubuntu and Canonical do not contribute
enough code back to their upstream projects. The article continues by
detailing the ways in which Ubuntu and Canonical have contributed to the
overall progress of Linux. To read the full article, click the link below:

<nowiki>[[http://www.osnews.com/story/23809/Shuttleworth_Responds_to_Ubuntu_s_Critics|http://www.osnews.com/story/23809/Shuttleworth_Responds_to_Ubuntu_s_Critics]]</nowiki>

----

Windows 7 vs Ubuntu 10.04

Barry Collins of PCPro Magazine asks the ever popular question: Is Linux
finally ready for the desktop? In an attempt to find he pits Windows 7
and Ubuntu 10.04 against each other to find out. To see the results and
ready all about the benchmarks, follow the link below:

<nowiki>[[http://www.pcpro.co.uk/features/361135/windows-7-vs-ubuntu-10-04|http://www.pcpro.co.uk/features/361135/windows-7-vs-ubuntu-10-04]]</nowiki>

----

Canonical gets physical with Ubuntu Linux

All of us are used to controlling our desktops with a mouse - but what
if you could control your desktop with your body - is the question
Canonical has been asking recently. The article below follows some of
the comments made by the Canonical Development team and the various ways
this may materialize in the Ubuntu of the future. To read more, follow
the link:

<nowiki>[[http://blog.internetnews.com/skerner/2010/09/canonical-gets-physical-with-u.html|http://blog.internetnews.com/skerner/2010/09/canonical-gets-physical-with-u.html]]</nowiki>

----

Ubuntu 10.10 moves towards completion

Maverick Meerkat follows the Lucid Lynx 10.04 LTS release so for some
this offers a chance to experiment, with a little wider tolerance for
more revolutionary features. Ubuntu developer, Dave Walker, talks us
through some new features and development background.

<nowiki>[[http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/opinion/ubuntu-10-10-moves-towards-completion/|http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/opinion/ubuntu-10-10-moves-towards-completion/]]</nowiki>

----

Belinda Lopez: Getting to the ‘aha’ moments for kids and computers

We’ve created a generation that is a great consumer of technology but
we’re not enabling them with the right tools and skills to help them
move from simple consumers to developers of that and even newer
technology. Belinda asks whether you can remember the first time you had
that 'aha' moment where you first realized that you can make your
computer do new things, and whether we should do something to give kids
today that same opportunity.

<nowiki>[[http://dindafoss.wordpress.com/2010/09/13/getting-to-the-aha-moments-for-kids-and-technology/|http://dindafoss.wordpress.com/2010/09/13/getting-to-the-aha-moments-for-kids-and-technology/]]</nowiki>

----

Ed Hewitt: Dropbox vs Ubuntu One

On Ubuntu, the two main file syncing services available are Dropbox and
Ubuntu One. Ed has been bouncing between these two services since Ubuntu
One was released last year. Dropbox has been around since 2007, and has
been the leader in this market. Ed decided to write up a a review of
both services to compare how they stack up against each other.

<nowiki>[[http://www.edhewitt.co.uk/2010/09/15/dropbox-vs-ubuntu-one/|http://www.edhewitt.co.uk/2010/09/15/dropbox-vs-ubuntu-one/]]</nowiki>

----

Unity Netbook Interface Debuts for Ubuntu 10.10

Christopher Tozzi,WorksWithU writes - It’s been a while since we last
took a look at Unity, the new version of Ubuntu customized for netbooks.
A lot has changed since then, however, so it’s time for some updates on
how the desktop environment is evolving.

We first blogged about Unity when Canonical introduced it back in May.
We made some unfair conclusions at that time, failing to appreciate the
extent to which the interface was still in development.

For more information go to:

<nowiki>[[http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/WorksWithU/~3/zUVASNQ8ApI/|http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/WorksWithU/~3/zUVASNQ8ApI/]]</nowiki>

----

A Canonical Controversy

Mark Shuttleworth’s blog was added into Planet Gnome after he made a
request for it to be added. Why is this a controversy? Mainly because
some people want blogs that are featured on Planet Gnome to be from
authors that are active in the Gnome community and to actually blog
about Gnome as a topic. If Canonical’s contributions to Gnome are being
called into question (as evident from the links in closing thoughts
below) then what results is a controversial decision for Mark’s blog to
be added in.

<nowiki>[[http://linux-blog.org/a-canonical-controversy/|http://linux-blog.org/a-canonical-controversy/]]</nowiki>

----

Why Red Hat should fear Amazon Linux

While Red Hat's leadership in the enterprise Linux market is without
question, the cloud tells a different story altogether. Red Hat's cloud
strategy has thus far focused too narrowly on customer retention,
opening significant opportunities for Ubuntu to gain traction in the
cloud -- and gain traction it has, according to EC2 cloud market statistics.

<nowiki>[[http://www.infoworld.com/d/open-source/why-red-hat-should-fear-amazon-linux-675|http://www.infoworld.com/d/open-source/why-red-hat-should-fear-amazon-linux-675]]</nowiki>

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
