{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

02 June – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed the effect of the change in the Google suite on AZLOCO
04 June - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* 2 Ubuntu 22.04 installs
* Installed the correct Broad Com Wireless driver for an attendee
* Assisted attendee in conducting a backup of his /home directory
05 June - Team meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2005%2C%202022%20Meeting
11 June - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees.  One new person
* Mike announced that he has four desktop computers (minus the monitors) to donate. He was advised to deliver them to the Warrior Healing Center where they will be stored until we can gather a group to conduct an installfest.
* Discussed creating a place where we can talk to each other. This cannot be done on our website because it is hosted on GitHub. Facebook exists but not everyone is active on it. The mailing list exists but it is often misused by some of our members. The solution arrived at was to use Google Drive and create three separate files, Problems, Presentation Requests, and Forum. 
* Discussed our activities with the Warrior Healing Center and the Bisbee Science Lab.
11 June - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour
* 1 attendee
18 June - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 3 attendees
* Discussed update of IRC statistics server
* Discussed update of Big Blue Button server
19 June - Team meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2019%2C%202022%20Meeting
