{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 05 May at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-05-05-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-spotlight/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-corel-capture/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/calibre-8-3-ebook-manager-brings-enhanced-performance/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/vim-vs-neovim/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://idolinux.com/how-to-set-the-default-text-editor-in-csh-and-tcsh/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/documentprocessors/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/what-is-my-server-address/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/excellent-command-line-ftp-clients/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-see-your-network-latency-using-a-ping-test/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/ttyd-share-linux-terminal-over-web/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/caddy-2-10-web-server-debuts-enhanced-tls-privacy/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtuto.com/how-to-install-mysql-8-4-on-ubuntu-24-04/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxhostsupport.com/blog/http-307-temporary-redirect-status-code/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/how-to-fix-http-407-error-proxy-authentication-required/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/backrest-web-ui-orchestrator-restic-backup/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/bash-script-for-mysql-backup/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/bulk-text-replacement-in-bash/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/news-and-events/raising-the-bar-for-open-source-standards-through-openchain.html   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/linux-os/ai-ready-linux-distributions-to-watch-in-2025   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (54)
* Stephenm (40)
* MajB (26)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:04 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> stardate -297660.73059360724

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:01 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL SELF-EMPLOYED DAY

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <Stephenm> My news is shorter then I thought but still good diverse news.

 04:03 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Spotlight

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-spotlight/

 04:03 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Corel Capture

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-corel-capture/

 04:03 <Stephenm> Calibre 8.3 eBook Manager Brings Enhanced Performance

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/calibre-8-3-ebook-manager-brings-enhanced-performance/

 04:03 <Stephenm> Vim vs Neovim: Which One is Better, and Which Should You Use?

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/vim-vs-neovim/

 04:04 <Stephenm> How to Set the Default Text Editor in csh and tcsh

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://idolinux.com/how-to-set-the-default-text-editor-in-csh-and-tcsh/

 04:04 <Stephenm> 10 Best Free and Open Source Linux Document Processors

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/documentprocessors/

 04:04 <Stephenm> What Is My Server Address?

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/what-is-my-server-address/

 04:04 <Stephenm> 8 Best Free and Open Source Command-line FTP clients

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/excellent-command-line-ftp-clients/

 04:04 <Stephenm> How to see Your Network Latency Using a Ping Test

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-see-your-network-latency-using-a-ping-test/

 04:05 <Stephenm> ttyd: Share Your Linux Terminal on the Web Securely

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/ttyd-share-linux-terminal-over-web/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Caddy 2.10 Web Server Debuts Enhanced TLS Privacy

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/caddy-2-10-web-server-debuts-enhanced-tls-privacy/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Install MySQL 8.4 on Ubuntu 24.04

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxtuto.com/how-to-install-mysql-8-4-on-ubuntu-24-04/

 04:05 <Stephenm> HTTP 307 Temporary Redirect Status Code

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxhostsupport.com/blog/http-307-temporary-redirect-status-code/

 04:05 <Stephenm> HTTP Error 407 Proxy Authentication Required

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/how-to-fix-http-407-error-proxy-authentication-required/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Backrest – web UI and orchestrator for restic backup

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/backrest-web-ui-orchestrator-restic-backup/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Automate MySQL Database Backups with Shell Script and Cron

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/bash-script-for-mysql-backup/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Bulk Text Replacement in Bash: Easy Step-by-Step Guide

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/bulk-text-replacement-in-bash/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Raising the Bar for Open Source Standards Through OpenChain

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/news-and-events/raising-the-bar-for-open-source-standards-through-openchain.html

 04:06 <Stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:07 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <toddc> MicroSoft is not the answer, MicroSoft is the question, the answer is no.

 04:07 <toddc> Question: How many Microsoft engineers do you need to replace a broken light-bulb?

 04:08 <toddc> Answer: None, Microsoft will standardize the darkness in such cases!

 04:08 <toddc> Question:What is the difference between Windows and an apple ?

 04:08 <toddc> Answer:Apples only fall down once a year.

 04:08 <toddc> What killed the Linux user?

 04:08 <toddc> A terminal disease.

 04:09 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:09 <toddc> Senior Linux System Administration Specialist

 04:09 <toddc> General Dynamics Mission Systems, Inc ??? Scottsdale, AZ ??? via General Dynamics Mission Systems

 04:09 <toddc> Linux System Engineer: Any Level

 04:09 <toddc> Uhost 1423 South Higley Road, Mesa, AZ 85206

 04:10 <toddc> Linux Infrastructure Engineering and Operations

 04:10 <toddc> MUFG back Tempe Az Remote

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> 248

 04:10 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:10 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 40 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:10 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:11 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:11 <toddc> System76 Refreshes Meerkat Mini PC  up to 14 cores on a mini pc

 04:11 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> AI-Ready Linux Distributions To Watch in 2025

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.itprotoday.com/linux-os/ai-ready-linux-distributions-to-watch-in-2025

 04:13 <toddc> MaB has some meetings and events.

 04:13 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:13 <MajB> 08 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 08 May, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 17 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your

 04:13 <MajB> personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 22 May,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 01 June. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:14 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:14 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 08 May, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 20 May, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/locations/computer-lab/

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 14 May, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 27 May, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:15 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:16 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:16 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
