{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 11 Jun at 04:01 &mdash; 04:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-06-11-04.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/vote-your-favorite-linux-sbc-and-be-entered-win-free-board 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/intel-amd-and-arm-reveal-new-processor-designs 
''LINK:'' https://www.theverge.com/circuitbreaker/2018/6/5/17428806/samsung-chromebook-plus-linux-app-support-beta-launched 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/mark-shuttleworth-dishes-on-where-canonical-and-ubuntu-linux-are-going-next/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/ibm-unveils-summit-the-worlds-faster-supercomputer-for-now.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/training/2018/6/get-essential-git-linux-and-open-source-skills-new-training-course 
''LINK:'' https://www.darkreading.com/threat-intelligence/10-open-source-security-tools-you-should-know/d/d-id/1331913?image_number=1 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/gpu-virtualization-update 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/5/you-dont-know-bash-intro-bash-arrays 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/6/screen-scraping 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/zstd-fast-data-compression-algorithm-used-by-facebook/# 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/6/how-not-kill-your-devops-team 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/open-source-security-zip-slip-critical-flaw-hits-thousands-of-projects-update-now/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/mesos-and-kubernetes-its-not-competition 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudcomputing-news.net/news/2018/jun/01/designing-new-cloud-architectures-exploring-cicd-data-centre-cloud/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY 
''LINK:'' https://job.listings.cpanel.net/x/apply/a2ldog90oqie/aaa6 
''LINK:'' https://www.hireart.com/jobs/5183be16/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/06/atari-vcs-preorder-specs-price 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (47)
* toddc (44)
* stephenm (40)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* vish_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:01 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun 11 04:01:03 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:01 <meetingology> 

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <vish_> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <stephenm> wmack is here also

 04:01 <wmack> yes I am !

 04:02 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <MajB> Which is down at the moment

 04:02 <stephenm> OK

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> here

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:04 <stephenm> toddc is now here

 04:04 <toddc> +1

 04:04 <stephenm> News is scattered right now

 04:04 <stephenm> Vote for Your Favorite Linux SBC and Be Entered to Win a Free Board

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/vote-your-favorite-linux-sbc-and-be-entered-win-free-board

 04:04 <stephenm> Intel and AMD Reveal New Processor Designs

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/intel-amd-and-arm-reveal-new-processor-designs

 04:05 <stephenm> Samsung’s Chromebook Plus now supports Linux apps

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theverge.com/circuitbreaker/2018/6/5/17428806/samsung-chromebook-plus-linux-app-support-beta-launched

 04:05 <stephenm> Mark Shuttleworth dishes on where Canonical and Ubuntu Linux are going next

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/mark-shuttleworth-dishes-on-where-canonical-and-ubuntu-linux-are-going-next/

 04:05 <stephenm> IBM Unveils Summit, the World's Fastest Supercomputer (For Now)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/ibm-unveils-summit-the-worlds-faster-supercomputer-for-now.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Get Essential Git, Linux, and Open Source Skills with New Training Course

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/training/2018/6/get-essential-git-linux-and-open-source-skills-new-training-course

 04:06 <stephenm> 10 Open Source Security Tools You Should Know

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.darkreading.com/threat-intelligence/10-open-source-security-tools-you-should-know/d/d-id/1331913?image_number=1

 04:06 <stephenm> GPU Virtualization Update

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/gpu-virtualization-update

 04:06 <stephenm> You don't know Bash: An introduction to Bash arrays

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/5/you-dont-know-bash-intro-bash-arrays

 04:06 <stephenm> How to use screen scraping tools to extract data from the web

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/6/screen-scraping

 04:07 <stephenm> zstd – A Fast Data Compression Algorithm Used By Facebook

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/zstd-fast-data-compression-algorithm-used-by-facebook/#

 04:07 <stephenm> How not to kill your DevOps team

 04:07 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/6/how-not-kill-your-devops-team

 04:07 <stephenm> Open-source security: Zip Slip critical flaw hits thousands of projects. Update now

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/open-source-security-zip-slip-critical-flaw-hits-thousands-of-projects-update-now/

 04:07 <stephenm> Mesos and Kubernetes: It's Not a Competition

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/mesos-and-kubernetes-its-not-competition

 04:08 <stephenm> Designing new cloud architectures: Exploring CI/CD – from data centre to cloud

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.cloudcomputing-news.net/news/2018/jun/01/designing-new-cloud-architectures-exploring-cicd-data-centre-cloud/

 04:08 <stephenm> For a little extra news, Texas Linux fest was fine for the most part

 04:09 <MajB> Great.  Can you write a blog post on it.

 04:09 <stephenm> Small compared to SCALE

 04:09 <MajB> Yes but it was Texas

 04:10 <stephenm> well it was smaller than what Texas anything should be

 04:10 <MajB> :)

 04:10 <stephenm> I will some time this week, I was lazy today.

 04:11 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> Good job stephenm

 04:11 <stephenm> welcome

 04:11 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:11 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:11 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:12 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:12 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:12 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:12 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY

 04:13 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:13 <toddc> wich shoukld be up soon---thanks COx

 04:13 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:13 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:13 <toddc> A ragged individual stranded for several months on a small desert island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean one day noticed a bottle lying in the sand with a piece of paper in it.

 04:14 <toddc> Rushing to the bottle, he pulled out the cork and with shaking hands withdrew the message. ???Due to lack of maintenance,??? he read,

 04:14 <toddc> ???we regretfully have found it necessary to cancel your e-mail account.???

 04:14 <toddc> This customer comes into the computer store. ???I m looking for a mystery Adventure Game with lots of graphics.

 04:14 <toddc> You know, something really challenging.???

 04:15 <toddc> ???Well,??? replied the clerk, ???Have you tried Windows 98????

 04:15 <toddc> windows 10?

 04:15 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:16 <toddc> Linux Technical Analyst

 04:16 <toddc> https://job.listings.cpanel.net/x/apply/a2ldog90oqie/aaa6

 04:16 <toddc> System Administrator Deer Valley Airpark

 04:16 <toddc> Gruber Power services sc6@gruber.com

 04:16 <toddc> Autonomous Vehicle Test Engineer

 04:16 <toddc> https://www.hireart.com/jobs/5183be16/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist

 04:17 <toddc> Canonical has 45 open positions

 04:17 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:17 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:17 <toddc> Atari VCS, the Linux-Powered Games Console, is Available to Preorder

 04:17 <toddc> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/06/atari-vcs-preorder-specs-price

 04:17 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:17 <toddc> Billly Gates shares a report: It was this time last year that Microsoft announced that it was bringing Ubuntu to the Windows Store (now the Microsoft Store),

 04:18 <toddc> along with other Linux distributions. If you check out the app in the Store now though, you'll find that it only works on x64 devices,

 04:18 <toddc> meaning that you can't run it on any of the new Windows 10 on ARM PCs. That's all about to change though.

 04:18 <toddc> In a session at Microsoft's Build 2018 developer conference today called Windows 10 on ARM for Developers,

 04:18 <toddc> he company showed off Ubuntu running on an ARM PC, with the app coming from the Microsoft Store. It will finally suppotrt ARM64 PCs, although x86 devices are still out of luck.

 04:19 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:19 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:19 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:19 <MajB> 16 June,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:19 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:20 <MajB> 28 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:20 <MajB> 05 July,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:20 <MajB> 07 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:20 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.  Rumor has it that Ron_A will be attending the Installfest.  Come out and meet him.

 04:21 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:22 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:22 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 June 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 June 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:23 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 14 June 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:23 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 19 June 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things

 04:23 <MajB> tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem...

 04:23 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:23 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 21 June 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:23 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 23 June 1-3:30 p.m. Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St, Sierra Vista

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 24 June 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:23 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 July 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:24 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:24 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:24 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:24 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:25 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:26 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:26 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
