{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 30 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-04-30-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/4/cpu-utilization-wrong 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/high-availability-microsoft-sql-server-linux-environment 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/15/5/write-better-docs 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/automotive-linux-summit-os-summit-japan-schedule-announced/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/what-do-high-school-students-know-or-understand-about-open-source-software-3 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/os-jobs/2018/4/take-open-source-job-survey-dice-and-linux-foundation 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/4/news-april-28 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/4/how-compile-linux-kernel-0 
''LINK:'' http://blog.ffwll.ch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-18-04-lts-the-linux-for-ai-clouds-and-containers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-check-system-hardware-manufacturer-model-and-serial-number-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/synchronize-time-with-ntp-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-python-microframeworks/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/debugfs-command-show-file-creation-time-in-linux/# 
''LINK:'' http://www.quickfixlinux.com/linux/steps-to-install-oracle-database-12c-on-redhat-linux-7-5/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/hands-on-with-ubuntu-s-brand-new-welcome-screen-in-ubuntu-18-04-lts-520805.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/password-protect-folders-files-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/ubuntu-18.04-bionic-beaver-lts-release-gets-a-new-linux-desktop 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/9-great-lxde-themes/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/ubuntu-18-04-faq/ 
''LINK:'' http://blog.bityard.net/articles/2018/April/in-beaver-we-trust-a-lengthy-pedantic-review-of-ubuntu-1804-lts.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (75)
* stephenm (43)
* Ron_A (5)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Apr 30 04:00:13 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <Ron_A> stephenm: Are going to sign in?

 04:02 <stephenm> =1

 04:02 <stephenm> yes

 04:02 <stephenm> +1

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <stephenm> didn't notice and it's late here

 04:03 <toddc> 1+1=2

 04:03 <Ron_A> stephenm: your up

 04:03 <stephenm> News starts out simple and then gets complex

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> CPU utilization is wrong

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/4/cpu-utilization-wrong

 04:03 <stephenm> You're late MajB

 04:03 <MajB> 13 seconds

 04:03 <stephenm> High Availability Microsoft SQL Server in a Linux Environment

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/high-availability-microsoft-sql-server-linux-environment

 04:04 <stephenm> RTFM? How to write a manual worth reading

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/business/15/5/write-better-docs

 04:04 <stephenm> Late is late

 04:04 <MajB> Had a visitor from from Texas this week

 04:04 <stephenm> Automotive Linux Summit & OS Summit Japan Schedule Announced

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/automotive-linux-summit-os-summit-japan-schedule-announced/

 04:04 <MajB> She didn't seem to like MST

 04:04 <stephenm> Odd I know it wasn't me, I'm too busy

 04:04 <stephenm> What Do High School Students Know or Understand about Open Source Software?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/what-do-high-school-students-know-or-understand-about-open-source-software-3

 04:05 <stephenm> I'm not to fond of DST but I can tolerate the weather

 04:05 <stephenm> Take the Open Source Job Survey from Dice and The Linux Foundation

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/os-jobs/2018/4/take-open-source-job-survey-dice-and-linux-foundation

 04:05 <stephenm> Germany, Israel, and the UK turn to open source, new driverless car tech, and more news

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/4/news-april-28

 04:05 <stephenm> 26 Things To Do After Installing Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic Beaver Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Compile a Linux Kernel

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/4/how-compile-linux-kernel-0

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Kernel Maintainer Statistics

 04:06 <stephenm> http://blog.ffwll.ch/

 04:06 <stephenm> Ubuntu 18.04 LTS: The Linux for AI, clouds, and containers

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-18-04-lts-the-linux-for-ai-clouds-and-containers/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Check System Hardware Manufacturer, Model And Serial Number In Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-check-system-hardware-manufacturer-model-and-serial-number-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Synchronize Time with NTP in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/synchronize-time-with-ntp-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> Best Free Python Microframeworks – Build Fast App Backends and Microservices

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-python-microframeworks/

 04:07 <stephenm> DEBUGFS Command – Show File Creation Times in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/debugfs-command-show-file-creation-time-in-linux/#

 04:07 <stephenm> Steps to Install Oracle Database 12c Release 2 in Redhat Linux 7.5

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.quickfixlinux.com/linux/steps-to-install-oracle-database-12c-on-redhat-linux-7-5/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the stuff I have for tonight ya'll

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> thax stephenm

 04:08 <MajB> I have a few more items

 04:08 <MajB> Hands-On with Ubuntu's Brand New Welcome Screen in Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:08 <MajB> https://news.softpedia.com/news/hands-on-with-ubuntu-s-brand-new-welcome-screen-in-ubuntu-18-04-lts-520805.shtml

 04:08 <Ron_A> Thanks stephenm for your work

 04:08 <MajB> How to Password-Protect Folders and Files in Linux

 04:08 <MajB> https://www.maketecheasier.com/password-protect-folders-files-linux/

 04:08 <MajB> Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic Beaver LTS Gets a New Linux Desktop

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/ubuntu-18.04-bionic-beaver-lts-release-gets-a-new-linux-desktop

 04:09 <MajB> 10 Great LXDE Themes

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.maketecheasier.com/9-great-lxde-themes/

 04:09 <MajB> Things You Should Know About Ubuntu 18.04

 04:09 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/ubuntu-18-04-faq/

 04:09 <MajB> A Lengthy, Pedantic Review of Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:09 <MajB> http://blog.bityard.net/articles/2018/April/in-beaver-we-trust-a-lengthy-pedantic-review-of-ubuntu-1804-lts.html

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:10 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:10 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:10 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May (Mothers Day)

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May (Memorial Day week-end)

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:11 <MajB> There are 40 open canonical Jobs today

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <MajB> There are 12 open jobs under "Data Science" at Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:11 <MajB> There are a total of 106 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are a total of 26 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:12 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:12 <MajB> 03 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 05 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:13 <MajB> 19 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:13 <MajB> 24 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 04 May 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 09 May 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 09 May 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 10 May 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 15 May 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversat

 04:15 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 17 May 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:15 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 19 May 1-3:30 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 27 May 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:16 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB

 04:16 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
