{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


04 November – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed the team events for 2022
* Discussed the 2021 application for re-verification
06 November - Virtual Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees (one new person)
* Configured Cisco switch
07 November - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2007%2C%202021%20Meeting
11 November - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 13 attendees (2 new people)
* A member has a desktop computer that originally had Win8 installed and it was updated to Win10.  It finally displayed the Blue Screen of Death.  He wanted to know if a Linux Operating System could be installed on it.  He was advised to bring it to the next meeting and we would attempt to install.
* Discussed a bug when the installation of Steam on POP OS occurred.  This apparently caused the installer to delete the desktop Environment.  A fix has been developed.
* A new attendee asked for assistance with two of his computers (WinXP and Ubuntu 16.04 installed – both of which have reached EOL)  The computer with Ubuntu installed would be no problem but he wants to keep XP on the other one because of some proprietary software needed for his business.  Several options were extended.
* A member asked what Operating Systems could be installed on an an S10 type phone.  A discussion followed.
11 November - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
20 November - Virtual Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 5 attendees
* Discussed the proper way to clear CMOS
* Discussed phones that could be flashed with a Linux System.
* Received an update on the Christmas light project.
21 November - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2007%2C%202021%20Meeting
