{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxmann> +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<nhasian> +1
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<FernHans> going to miss the mtg, nothing in my news tonight
<toddc> np I have your basics
<Dazed_75> We'll miss you :)
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> Forget Windows Media Center: Use a Free Linux based Media Center System
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/163376/forget-windows-media-center-use-a-free-linux-based-media-center-system/
* Rich__ (6cafa4a5@gateway/web/freenode/ip.108.175.164.165) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Evolus Pencil: A great alternative to Microsoft Visio for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/evolus-pencil-a-great-microsoft-visio-alternative-for-linux/2013/05/18
<Dazed_75> 4 Open Source alternatives to Adobe Photoshop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.business2community.com/tech-gadgets/4-open-source-alternatives-to-adobe-photoshop-0495629
<Dazed_75> The beginners guide to Inkscape (Windows, Linux, Mac)
<Dazed_75>     http://ostatic.com/blog/the-beginners-guide-to-inkscape
<Dazed_75> Top Ten sleeper distros
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxadvocates.com/2013/05/top-ten-sleeper-distros.html
<Dazed_75> Google Native Code browser tech goes cross platform
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/05/18/google_portable_native_client/
<Dazed_75> Linux, Standards and the Enterprise: Why Ref Hat Enterprise Linux remains the "best" choice
<Dazed_75>     http://thelinuxworks.blogspot.com/2013/05/linux-standards-and-enterprise-why-red.html
<Dazed_75> How to sign documents in Gmail
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/sign-documents-from-gmail/2013/05/18
<Dazed_75> How to use the "tee" command
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/05/how-to-use-tee-command.html
<Dazed_75> HandBrake update makes it easier to convert videos into any format
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/05/20/handbrake-update-makes-it-easier-to-convert-videos-into-any-format/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/video-transcoder-handbrake-099-released.html
<Dazed_75> Using 6 monitors with AMD's open source Linux driver
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM3NTM
<Dazed_75> Copy - a new cloud storage service with a native Linux client
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/recensioni/copy-a-new-cloud-storage-service-with-linux-client?lang=en
<Dazed_75> The key to the success of Ubuntu (opinion piece)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.garron.me/en/blog/ubuntu-is-not-consensus-based-community.html
<Dazed_75> Canonical to close "Brainstorm" web portal. (not the same story as last week)
<Dazed_75>     http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/ubuntu-linux-community-canonical-close-brainstorm-web-portal
<Dazed_75> How to keep SSH connections alive in Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/keep-ssh-connections-alive-in-linux/2013/05/20
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Linux tablets from ZaReason and/or System76?
<Dazed_75>     http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/ubuntu-linux-tablets-zareason-system76
<Dazed_75> Hybryde Fusion 13.04: A very unique Linux distribution
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/05/20/hybryde-fusion-a-very-unique-linux-distribution/
<Dazed_75> Kubuntu 13.04 (via upgrade) review
<Dazed_75>     http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/kubuntu-ringtail.html
<Dazed_75> Linux Vim editor tips and tricks
<Dazed_75>     http://mylinuxbook.com/vim-editor-tips-tricks/
<Dazed_75> Customizing Unity
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux.org/article/view/customizing-unity
<Dazed_75> The cost of Ubuntu disk encryption
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1304_encryption&num=1
<Dazed_75> Best Linux distro for a new user?
<Dazed_75>     http://fossforce.com/2013/05/best-linux-for-a-new-user/
<Dazed_75> 10 things you can do with a USB flash drive
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/10-things-to-do-with-usb-drive/2013/05/21
<Dazed_75> Two useful apps to view CPU info in Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/view-cpu-info-in-linux/2013/05/21
<Dazed_75> Latest Chrome release fixes Ubuntu 13.04 [Chrome] install issue
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/chrome-fixed-for-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Skype for Linux 4.2 released with much needed bug fixes
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/skype-for-linux-4-2-released
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/skype-42-for-linux-released-with-minor.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/microsofts-linux-app-skype-gets-updated-7000015878/
<Dazed_75> Microsoft Office clone from Kingsoft updates interface, improves file support
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/microsoft-office-clone-wps-updates-interface-improves
<Dazed_75> It's everywhere, everywhere -- but save up your pennies for this one
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxgizmos.com/handheld-software-defined-radio-linux-arm-fpga/
<Dazed_75> Embedding other languages into BASH scripts
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux.org/article/view/embedding-other-languages-in-bash-scripts
<Dazed_75> Computers are today's pencils (looks a lot like our local http://azstrut.org/ program)
<Dazed_75>     http://opensource.com/education/13/5/kramden-in-action-video
<Dazed_75> 24 peachy free Linux games (well, 18 of 24 so far)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20130510170402421/PeachyGames.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20130518131924743/PeachyGames-Part2.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/2013052313234125/PeachyGames-Part3.html
<Dazed_75> Sugar: A Linux distro and learning platform for kids
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/sugar-linux-distro-for-kids/2013/05/24
<Dazed_75> New interface animations demoed for Ubuntu Touch
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/ubuntu-touch-animations-paper-motion
<Dazed_75> How to add extra category folders to the Gnome-shell dashboard
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/add-categories-to-gnome-shell-dashboard
<Dazed_75> Mark Shuttleworth talks Mir, Ubuntu Touch marketshare & mudslinging
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/mark-shuttleworth-on-mir-unity8-future
<Dazed_75> How to install Emerald in Ubuntu 13.04, 12.10, or 12.04 [PPA]
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/how-to-install-emerald-in-ubuntu-1304.html
<Dazed_75> Pinguy 13.04 (Final, yet Beta) released with Gnome 3.8
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/pinguy-os-1304-final-yet-beta-released.html
<Dazed_75> Unity Tomboy Lens available for Ubuntu 13.04, supports Dash previews
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/unity-tomboy-lens-available-for-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> ... and that's it from AJ
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> How to Install Malwarebytes on Ubuntu
<toddc> http://science.opposingviews.com/install-malwarebytes-ubuntu-22532.html
<toddc> xorrito are you here tonight?
<toddc> TUCSON Ubuntu Hour
<Xorrito> oh sorry yes i am
<Xorrito> i was coding
<toddc> any news fron Tucson?
<Xorrito> sadly no.
<toddc> np I will check again next week!!
<toddc> Since Ubuntu/Canonical will no longer make cd/dvd for other than LTS to teams, we do need to decide if we want to design and make them
<Dazed_75> Nothing on where/when the next Ubuntu Hour will be tried?
<toddc> with covers ect or drop them for other than LTS versions
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<toddc> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Jr. Network Engineer
<toddc> http://www.jobscore.com/jobs/codero/jr-network-engineer/a2Cb7GXler4PGJiGakhP3Q?Board=CraigsList&PID=1215065
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> dwb is a lightweight web browser based on the webkit web browser engine and the gtk toolkit
<toddc> http://portix.bitbucket.org/dwb/
<toddc> TUCSON Ubuntu Hour
<toddc> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-arizona/2402-ubuntu-hour-tucson-az/
<toddc> June 8  at 2pm at Bookmans in Tucson 1930 E. Grant at Rd 2 pm.
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday June 1 and Saturday June 15 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc>  calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<toddc> Thursday June 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on air
<toddc> ubuntu development hang out Tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
<toddc> Jono Bacon O&A Wednesday 7-8 pm GMT
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday June 13  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday June 18 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<nhasian> Thanks for hosting the meeting!
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
