{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 19 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-12-19-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/12/microsoft-office-ribbon-ui-coming-libreoffice 
''LINK:'' http://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2016/12/barclaycards-pay-pump-can-save-us-from-cocktail-wankers/ 
''LINK:'' https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/its-not-cold-fusion-but-its-something/ 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.co.uk/information-technology/2016/12/how-to-make-linux-more-trustworthy/ 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.co.uk/security/2016/12/fedora-and-ubuntu-zero-days-hacking-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tomshardware.com/news/amd-zen-ryzen-new-horizon,33194.html 
''LINK:'' https://en.goteo.org/project/vikings-world-s-first-libre-friendly-data-center 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/event/linuxcon-europe/2016/explain-yourself-documentation-better-code 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/popular-centos-linux-server-gets-a-major-refresh/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/2016121406245831/ReclaimDiskSpace.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-build-a-ceph-cluster-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZr 
''LINK:'' https://www.pine64.org/?page_id=3707 
''LINK:'' https://www.midnight-commander.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.reddit.com/r/LinuxActionShow/comments/5e62ei/my_mower_runs_linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/clroqo7iamc7hponuqo0e7tdoio 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (88)
* toddc (16)
* xHans (8)
* Toonces (3)
* meetingology (3)
* stephenm (2)
* pavlos (1)
* RioOfTheWind (1)
* smccarthy (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 19 04:00:02 2016 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Toonces> +1

 04:00 <smccarthy> +1

 04:00 <RioOfTheWind> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at http://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Star Date 94568.01

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.  Except toddc

 04:04 <MajB> First the the news of the week

 04:04 <MajB> Microsoft Office Ribbon UI Is Coming to LibreOffice

 04:04 <MajB> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/12/microsoft-office-ribbon-ui-coming-libreoffice

 04:04 <MajB> Barclaycard's Pay @ Pump Can Save Us From Cocktail Wankers

 04:04 <MajB> http://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2016/12/barclaycards-pay-pump-can-save-us-from-cocktail-wankers/

 04:05 <MajB> It's Not Cold Fusion... But It's Something

 04:05 <MajB> https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/its-not-cold-fusion-but-its-something/

 04:05 <MajB> How to make Linux more trustworthy

 04:05 <MajB> http://arstechnica.co.uk/information-technology/2016/12/how-to-make-linux-more-trustworthy/

 04:05 <MajB> Fedora and Ubuntu zero-days show that hacking desktop Linux is now a thing

 04:05 <MajB> http://arstechnica.co.uk/security/2016/12/fedora-and-ubuntu-zero-days-hacking-linux/

 04:06 <MajB> AMD Demonstrates Ryzen Performance At New Horizon Event, 95W TDP Confirmed

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.tomshardware.com/news/amd-zen-ryzen-new-horizon,33194.html

 04:06 <MajB> Vikings: World's first libre-friendly data center

 04:06 <MajB> https://en.goteo.org/project/vikings-world-s-first-libre-friendly-data-center

 04:06 <MajB> Explain Yourself! Documentation for Better Code

 04:06 <MajB> https://www.linux.com/blog/event/linuxcon-europe/2016/explain-yourself-documentation-better-code

 04:07 <MajB> Popular CentOS Linux server gets a major refresh

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.zdnet.com/article/popular-centos-linux-server-gets-a-major-refresh/

 04:07 <MajB> Essential Utilities: Reclaiming Disk Space

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/2016121406245831/ReclaimDiskSpace.html

 04:07 <MajB> How to build a Ceph Distributed Storage Cluster on CentOS 7

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-build-a-ceph-cluster-on-centos-7/

 04:08 <MajB> And that is the news for the week.  Does anyone else have some news that they would like to share.

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX QUOTES AND JOKES:

 04:09 <toddc> Q. Why was the computer late to work?

 04:10 <toddc> ???

 04:10 <toddc> A. He had a hard-drive.

 04:10 <toddc> Q. Where do computers keep their money?

 04:10 <toddc> A. In a data bank.

 04:11 <MajB> Thank you toddc for some very interesting jokes.

 04:11 <toddc> yea right!!!

 04:11 <Toonces> Very interesting . . . .

 04:11 <MajB> JOB LIST:

 04:11 <MajB> Software Engineer - Platform

 04:11 <MajB> DevOps Engineer

 04:11 <MajB> https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68

 04:12 <MajB> 28 current canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <stephenm> +1

 04:12 <stephenm> sorry I'm back

 04:12 <MajB> There are 67 new and a total of 193 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:13 <MajB> There are 15 new and a total of 54 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZr

 04:13 <MajB> TEAM SERVER NEWS:

 04:13 <MajB> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:14 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 22 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 22 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.           Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> THE WEEKLY AZLOCO ON LINE MEETINGS FOR 25 DECEMBER AND 01 JANUARY HAVE BEEN CANCELLED BECAUSE OF THE HOLIDAYS

 04:15 <MajB> 05 January, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 07 January, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:16 <MajB> 21 January, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:16 <toddc> Spotlight

 04:16 <toddc> PINEBOOK is a 11″ or 14″ notebook powered by the same Quad-Core ARM Cortex A53 64-Bit Processor used in our popular PINE A64

 04:17 <toddc> https://www.pine64.org/?page_id=3707

 04:17 <toddc> Desktop App Pick

 04:17 <MajB> LINUX TRAINING:

 04:17 <toddc> GNU Midnight Commander is a visual file manager, licensed under GNU General Public License and therefore qualifies as Free Software

 04:17 <toddc> https://www.midnight-commander.org/

 04:17 <toddc> Runs Linux

 04:18 <toddc> After about 6 months of doing research on hardware and embedded systems I finally have a decent working prototype and it runs LINUX!

 04:18 <toddc> https://www.reddit.com/r/LinuxActionShow/comments/5e62ei/my_mower_runs_linux/

 04:18 <MajB> LINUX TRAINING:

 04:19 <MajB> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:19 <MajB> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:19 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS THIS WEEK:  superfly, who will be moving to Tucson shortly

 04:19 <MajB> Please welcome him when you see him on line

 04:20 <MajB> PLUGAZ NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:20 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:20 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:20 <xHans> Stammtisch is this Tuesday

 04:21 <xHans> This month we start an hour early for family and gaming night at 18:00

 04:21 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/clroqo7iamc7hponuqo0e7tdoio

 04:21 <xHans> Did anyone have a talk accepted for SCaLE or LibrePlanet and want to have a practice run at PLUG in January or February? If so, please let me know.

 04:21 <xHans> PLUG January topic: Online Security, Privacy and Password Management

 04:21 <xHans> PLUG February topic: etckeeper

 04:21 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:21 <MajB> Thank you xHans.

 04:22 <MajB> OTHER AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:22 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 December has been CANCELED because of the holiday.  http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 January 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org/

 04:22 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 10 January 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD (See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest update on location), Prescott, AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 January 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, Learning Resource Center, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/.  This will be the last training event before the Installfest on the 28th of January.

 04:23 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 January 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 22 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:23 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:

 04:24 <MajB> AZLOCO and CLUG will be co-sponsoring an Installation Festival in Sierra Vista AZ on 28 January 2017, 10-4 pm. University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, Resource Learning Center commons area, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:24 <MajB> SCaLE 15x will be held 2-5 March 2017 at the Pasadena Convention Center, Pasadena CA.  Plan to attend if you can.  More information will be distributed as it becomes available.  https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/

 04:24 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:25 <MajB> That is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:25 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:25 <Toonces> Thanks guys.

 04:26 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
