{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #101 for the week July 19, July 26.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundredth First Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-July 29, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday August 2, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the July 26, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:08 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09July26

johnc4510 started with an announcement:

* Karmic Alpha 3 released: Pre-releases of Karmic are *not* encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent breakage. They are, however, recommended for Ubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing bugs.  Alpha 3 is the third in a series of milestone CD images that will be released throughout the Karmic development cycle. The Alpha images are known to be reasonably free of show-stopper CD build or installer bugs, while representing a very recent snapshot of Karmic. You can download it here:
** Ubuntu: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/karmic/alpha-3/
** Kubuntu: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/karmic/alpha-3/
** Xubuntu: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/karmic/alpha-3/
** Ubuntu Studio: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/karmic/alpha-3/

* Launchpad is now open source: Released under the GNU Affero General Public license, version 3, Launchpad's code is now open source. Note that although it had been previously announced that two components (codehosting and soyuz) would be held back, a last minute change now includes both. The Canonical Launchpad developers will be on IRC in channel #launchpad-dev on irc.freenode.net. That’s the place to go for real time development discussion and questions. For usage issues, #launchpad is still the place, as before.

johnc4510 then welcomed _Mrs``Apple_ to the team, as did other team members.

scott_ev then announced that vorian had resigned from his job in Ohio and was looking to move to Idaho or Utah.  He was wished well by members that remembered him as the Mentor for the team prior to its becoming an approved team.

johnc4510 then began a discussion of the Tucson Install Fest.  Among the things decided were:
* scott_ev will try to get hold of lenards about a good location for the install fest, perhaps OSCR.
* scott_ev will also try to get hold of zach at ASULUG, or whoever is in charge now, about how to set up a game server for the event.
* The event will be held on August 29 (Saturday) from 10:00 AM to 4:00 or 5:00 PM
* johnc4510 will email tfug and the tucson computer society linux sig and see if he can stir up some folks to get involved.
* tyche will look into doing a presentation on using the full distribution of Jaunty Jackalope on a netbook, depending on his ability to get to the install fest.

johnc4510 then asked xHans for the PLUG announcements:

* ABLEconf group sponsor requirements were created this week.  http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2009Phx/GroupSponsors .  We need a group liaison from Ubuntu-US-AZ.  Same for TFUG and other non-Phoenix groups!  The initial press release will be going out in the next couple of days.  We need lots of help getting it distributed.  Please sign up to help with promo!  http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2009Phx/Promotion

* This Friday is the 10th annual Sysadmin Appreciation Day.  http://www.SysadminDay.com/ .  Remember to thank your sysadmin.

* Software Freedom Day is coming up, Saturday, September 19th.  http://www.SoftwareFreedomDay.org and http://SoftwareFreedomDay.org/teams/northamerica/AZ

* No PLUG events this week, I get to sleep :)

* We did get a job posting, though.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/1123

* Classes start soon at the community colleges.  I will be updating info on my site, but we will also have posts to PLUG.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes .  We really want to fill up the Open``Office.org class!  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/BPC110.html .  In county prices for all of Maricopa and Pima counties. For some others, but I don't remember which.  Dennis is leading that, I don't yet know what he has planned.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:52.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
