{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


04 September - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
06 September - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Worked on  Team NextCloud instance to get user sync functioning again
* Attempted to fix a Zorin install for an attendee
* Discussed difference between LibreOffice and Microsoft Office 365
* Discussed difference between virtual machine use and containers and the pros and cons of each
* Attempted to provide advice to an attendee who had problems with Virtual Box on a Fedora install.
07 September – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2007%2C%202025%20Meeting
11 September - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees
* If we do not have sufficient member computer problems to work on at the Linux Workshop, Mike will be bringing 6 laptop computers.  Feel free to assist him to get them running with a Linux distro. 
* Introduced a Discord chat for the group.  You are encouraged to join.
* Discussed AI and its possibilities for the future.
20 September - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* Updated Team NextCloud certificate
* Discussed the importance of changing user passwords for security
* Discussed other general Linux subjects
