{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #95 for the week May 24, May 30.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Ninety Fifth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-June 3, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday June 7, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the May 30, 2009 meeting ====

Jeff_Martin called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09May30

First he welcomed a new member, todd, to the Arizona Lo``Co:  "I have been using ubuntu 1.5 years.  Install fest was a nice showing and helped a lot of people.  I think I joind several months ago just finnaly made here."

Jeff_Martin then started with some announcements:

* Due to circumstances beyond my control, I will be moderating this meeting.  JohnC4510 ( John Crawford ) is still on vacation, hopefully on his way home, and Tyche ( Craig Eddy ) is feeling a bit under the weather --we all hope your eyes get better soon.  I look forward to working with you and talking to you here in the irc.

* AZ Lo``Co was present at the 05/30/2009 PLUG Install``Fest held at the University of Advancing Technology in Tempe, AZ. Tyche (Craig Eddy) was on hand streaming a live video feed (  http://www.ustream.tv/channel/install-fest-from-uat---5-30-09 ) of the event using the UStream broadcaster from his Dell Mini. I was unable to view the live stream, but we should be able to record future streams for an archive and further viewing.

* The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter 144, went live this morning and is available at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue144.  We would like to thank everyone that worked on this issue, and look forward to publishing many more in the future. Special thanks go out to myrtlebeachbums ( Dave Bush ) for leading the effort this week.

* Canonical is building an Android execution environment, making it possible to run Android applications on the Ubuntu desktop. The environment will function like a simulator/emulator, thereby providing the virtual infrastructure that is needed to make the applications run. As more companies adopt the Android model for mobile communications, Canonical and Ubuntu plan on getting the resouces to the developer and to the user.

Jeff_Martin then asked xHans for any PLUG announcements:

* PLUG devel is this Thursday. http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/561

* Sunday Matthew``MPP will be throwing another Blender``CAD bash at his place, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/774 .  Ask Matthew``MPP if you have questions about that

* Dennis' next intro to GNU/Linux class starts Tuesday night. It's full, but he might be able to give you an override.  http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=&all_classes=true&terms[]=4096&institutions[]=MCC04&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&subject_code=any&instructors=vening

* Class number 28977 is an Open``Office.org class in the Fall.  We want to keep selling those out, so please call and ask why the description is wrong

The meeting was adjourned at 9:29 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
