{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> +1
<Rich_> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeamTeam membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
* _ericcc has quit (Read error: Operation timed out)
<ArchFan89> chrome won't let me hit the "allow" button on some adobe flash window
<toddc> well we know about flash issues
<Dazed_75> Sounds usual for an adobe product
<toddc> and pray for html5
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> Forget the labels, Windows 8 product keys now embedded in BIOS
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Forget-the-Labels-Windows-8-Product-Keys-Now-Embedded-in-BIOS-309178.shtml
<ArchFan89> now i'm using ff instead of chrome this time
<Dazed_75> LibreOffice 4.0 Alpha 1 is freed for testing
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTIzNTU
<Dazed_75> Bind global hotkeys to a WINE program under Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/125664/how-to-bind-global-hotkeys-to-a-wine-program-under-linux
<Dazed_75> The Ubuntu Heartbreak: Amazing potential stunted by major showstoppers
<Dazed_75>     http://www.tech-faq.com/the-ubuntu-heartbreak-amazing-potential-stunted-by-major-showstoppers.html
<Dazed_75> Netflix and Linux: What are your options?
<Dazed_75>     http://blog.mpshouse.com/?p=625
<toddc> ArchFan89: I have some trick for flash if you need them
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint 14, Vyatta 6.5, and Cinnarch
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxplanet.com/news/linux-top-3-linux-mint-14-vyatta-6.5-and-cinnarch.html
* wmack1 (~wmack@ip24-255-53-110.tc.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint 14 with Cinnamon desktop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/linux-mint-14-with-cinnamon-desktop-review
<Dazed_75> Trying OpenSUSE
<Dazed_75>     http://tuxradar.com/content/trying-opensuse
<ArchFan89> i wish i could run wine apps on android
<Dazed_75> How to install VirtualBox Guest Additions for an Ubuntu 12.10 guest
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/install-guest-addition-in-ubuntu-12-10-guest-virtualbox/2012/11/26
<Dazed_75> Hit Mac game 'RC Mini Racers' kands in Ubuntu Software Center
<Dazed_75>    http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/rc-mini-racers-hits-ubuntu-software-center-lands-on-ubuntu
<wmack1> Hello, this is Walter
<Dazed_75> How to install Ubuntu 12.10 on non-PAE CPU
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-install-ubuntu-1210-on-non-pae.html
<Dazed_75> My Weather Indicator gets new forecast map, improved geolocation
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/my-weather-indicator-gets-new-forecast.html
<Dazed_75> Hi Walter
<toddc> wmack welcome back
<Dazed_75> Gmail now supports Google Drive Integration: Share files up to 10GB
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/129983/gmail-now-supports-google-drive-integration-share-files-up-to-10gb
<Dazed_75>     http://gmailblog.blogspot.com/2012/11/gmail-and-drive-new-way-to-send-files.html
<Dazed_75> Ack: a better grep?
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/ack-a-better-grep/2012/11/28
<Dazed_75>     http://betterthangrep.com/
<Dazed_75>     http://stevengharms.com/blog/2012/04/10/use-ack-instead-of-grep-to-parse-text-files/
<Dazed_75> Make Ubuntu smarter with the "Unity Answers Lens"
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/unity-lens-answers
<Dazed_75> Compiz fix to bring better gaming performance to Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/compiz-fix-bringing-better-gaming-performance-to-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Machinarium for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/machinarium-for-linux-review
<Dazed_75> ToDo app "Nitro" hits Ubuntu Software Center
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/11/nitro-task-manager-hits-ubuntu-software-center
<toddc> Microsoft dragging its feet on Linux Secure Boot
<Dazed_75> Variety Wallpaper changer sees new release
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/variety-wallpaper-changer-sees-new.html
<toddc> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/11/21/linux_foundation_secure_boot_fix_delays/
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Linux-Foundation-struggles-with-Microsoft-s-Secure-Boot-signing-service-1754209.html
<toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/linux-foundation-uefi-secure-boot-key-for-windows-8-pcs-delays-explained-7000007841/
<Dazed_75> Dell XPS has become a Linux Ultrabook
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/11/dell-xps-has-become-linux-ultrabook.html
<toddc> KMyMoney is as simple to use as Quicken
<toddc> http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/76674.html
<toddc> Add security to your ssh server with PAM module
<toddc> http://linuxaria.com/pills/add-security-to-your-ssh-daemon-with-pam-module?lang=en
<Dazed_75> I think Toddc is throwing a few from last week when we did not meet
<toddc> Mozilla abandons 64-bit Firefox development [for Windows? pr all?] for now
<toddc> http://www.dailytech.com/Mozilla+Abandons+64Bit+Firefox+Development+for+Windows+for+Now/article29252.htm
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news tonight!!!
<xHans> moin moin wmack
<toddc> Applause for Dazed_75  clap clap
<Dazed_75> How to secure ssh with Google Authenticator's two factor authentication
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/121650/how-to-secure-ssh-with-google-authenticators-two-factor-authentication/
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> Fry's Electronics is selling linux computers http://www.frys.com/product/7126262?site=sa:adpages%20page:P17_FRI%20date:111612
<toddc>  Great LAS show on PROXMOX
<toddc> http://www.jupiterbroadcasting.com/28241/lets-talk-proxmox-las-s24e08/
<toddc> Splashtop Streamer for Ubuntu Controls Your Linux Desktop, Streams Video, and More
<toddc> http://lifehacker.com/5964266/splashtop-streamer-for-ubuntu-controls-your-linux-desktop-streams-video-and-more
<toddc> Samsung's A15 Chromebook Loaded With Ubuntu Is Crazy Fast
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=samsung_chrome_a15&num=1
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<ArchFan89> i cant hear the audio coming out from bbb?
<toddc> We now have 12.10 DVD's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<Dazed_75> click on the headphones at upper left
<toddc> Dec 11 road trip carpool to Prescott for the LUGY meeting and to meet with Shane
<toddc> We will plan to leave around 5pm Dazed_75 will be driving join us if you can!!
<toddc> and wmack is going also!!!
<wmack1> Yep...
<toddc> JOB LIST
<Dazed_75> I also find it does NOT work after running the little test, so I never do that any more
<toddc> Information Technology Manager (Phoenix)
<toddc> jobs@lawlogix.com
<toddc> Jr. Network Engineer (Tempe, AZ)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=2544021&t=1
<toddc> Sr. UNIX Administrator  State of AZ
<toddc> https://apply.hrmdirect.com/ResumeDirect/ApplyOnline/Apply.aspx?req_id=enc-15.819920797238199&source=65279-JB--2324
<toddc> Database and Operations Engineer (Scottsdale)
<toddc> www.marketinsightcorp.com
<toddc> Solaris, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Clustering, 
<toddc> Lee, David (dalee@teksystems.com
<toddc> Way too many to list contact me if you want more listings
<toddc> ANDROID APP PICK
<toddc> DriveDroid boots a pc from a ISO on your phone
<toddc> GrooVe IP with google voice   Make free wifi or data only calls on a old android or tablet
<toddc> http://lifehacker.com/5807075/groove-ip-makes-free-voip-calls-from-google-voice-over-wi+fi-or-3g4g
<toddc> I did this Sat and it works very well on a old android
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday December 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is January 5 at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc> Caleb (madrobit) say to him if you see him pop in!!!
<toddc> James (jaeddu) say to him if you see him pop in!!!
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday December 8 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on December 8 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> The test.azloco.com server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or learn to program please let us know
<toddc> The Prox-mox server is almost ready we hope to build a nginx server to do dnsnsq then complete the server config's and start testing
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> No classes this week
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> we should get set up on meetup.com anyone that would like to take this on please contact me or yell or???  Several other Teams have had great luck gaining new users/members using meetup.com
<toddc> xHans would like to take the floor/
<Dazed_75> Hoping for no snow in the mountains on 12/11 - does that count?
* xHans does a double-triple flip
<xHans> SCaLE call for presentations ends a week from tomorrow on the 10th
<xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp
<xHans> SCaLE is a great conference and a fun place to give a presentation
<xHans> SCaLE also has sub-events such as education and postgres, that need presentations
<xHans> PLUG's annual end of year party is a week from Thursday on the 13th
<xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/
<xHans> There will be a FLOSS Stammtisch this month. 2 weeks from Tues, on the 17th
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> and that's it from me
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<ArchFan89> sometimes the video freezes on bbb
<toddc> the joys of streaming!!! but both of mine work great
* Rich_ has quit (Quit: Page closed)
<wmack1> Todd, you mention above to build an nginx server to do dnsnsq.
<wmack1> What is dnsnsq?
<Dazed_75> dnsmasq he meant
<wmack1> dns masquerading?
<Dazed_75> aye
<wmack1> k
<wmack1> is this nginx server a separate virtual machine, or does it run on the same server that runs proxmox?
<Dazed_75> basically doing dns for local network and caching results from "ISP" DNS
<Dazed_75> I presume it is running on one of the virtual machines
<Dazed_75> nginx that is
<wmack1> I see.
<toddc> I am glad someone does!
<toddc> Eric Shubert is supposed to be there to guide us Sat
<wmack1> So I was googling for nginx, and found a product from a company called nginx inc. Their product seems to be a web and mail server.
<wmack1> Is that the nginx that I should be looking at?
<Dazed_75> yep
<toddc> yes is it a smaller version of apache as I understand it
<wmack1> But you want to use it as DNS server for the internal network?
<Dazed_75> though what was told to me was as an Apache replacement.  Sounds it it does more than that
<Dazed_75> no, two separate things
<Dazed_75> at least that is what I thought
* tagumcity2 (~linuxsurv@wsip-24-249-177-197.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
* tagumcity3 has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
<wmack1> So nginx and the dns server are two different things altogether, right
<wmack1> ?
<Dazed_75> So I believe
<toddc> no I think it is the same
<toddc> ArchFan89: do you remeber what eric wanted to do on the proxmox server?
<ArchFan89> no
<toddc> all I recall was that nginx was to be used to route internal DNS I think
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
