{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 18 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-02-18-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/2/new-ports-bring-linux-arm-laptops-android-pi 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3336174/linux/how-much-memory-is-installed-and-being-used-on-your-linux-systems.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/2/ampersands-and-file-descriptors-bash 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-use-ssh-to-proxy-through-a-linux-jump-host/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/Assess-USB-performance-while-exploring-storage-caching 
''LINK:'' https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/instrument-opencensus-opentracing-and-openmetrics/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/disk-encryption-low-end-hardware 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/2/5-streaming-audio-players-linux 
''LINK:'' http://superuser.openstack.org/articles/opnfv-testing-tools/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.googleblog.com/2019/02/open-sourcing-clusterfuzz.html 
''LINK:'' https://towardsdatascience.com/15-docker-commands-you-should-know-970ea5203421 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/what-open-source-really-means-today/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/why-data-scientists-love-kubernetes 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2019/02/zowe-makes-mainframe-evergreen/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2019/02/15/first-look-tuxedo-infinitycube-linux-desktop-pc-with-intel-core-i7-8700/#59e1f72d704d 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/2/getting-started-cat-command 
''LINK:'' https://jvns.ca/blog/2019/02/10/a-few-networking-tool-comics/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/3/make-container-management-easy-cockpit 
''LINK:'' https://towardsdatascience.com/finding-a-recursive-solution-184784b0aea0 
''LINK:'' https://theressomethingaboutr.wordpress.com/2019/02/12/in-memory-of-monty-hall/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3336174/linux/how-much-memory-is-installed-and-being-used-on-your-linux-systems.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' https://fediverse.blog/~/LuftHans/plug-is-1-3-of-s-ca-le-17x-libre-graphics-track 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (57)
* stephenm (46)
* xHans (13)
* toddc (4)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 18 04:00:06 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +2?

 04:00 <toddc> +5?

 04:00 <MajB> ?

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> Ok so my News is not in order but I was really lazy this week

 04:03 <stephenm> New Ports Bring Linux to Arm Laptops, Android to the Pi

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/2/new-ports-bring-linux-arm-laptops-android-pi

 04:03 <toddc> np

 04:03 <stephenm> How Much Memory Is Installed and Being Used on Your Linux Systems?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3336174/linux/how-much-memory-is-installed-and-being-used-on-your-linux-systems.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Ampersands and File Descriptors in Bash

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/2/ampersands-and-file-descriptors-bash

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Use SSH to Proxy Through a Linux Jump Host

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-use-ssh-to-proxy-through-a-linux-jump-host/

 04:03 <stephenm> Assess USB Performance While Exploring Storage Caching

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/Assess-USB-performance-while-exploring-storage-caching

 04:04 <stephenm> Performance Monitoring with OpenTracing, OpenCensus, and OpenMetrics

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/instrument-opencensus-opentracing-and-openmetrics/

 04:04 <stephenm> Disk Encryption for Low-End Hardware

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/disk-encryption-low-end-hardware

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Streaming Audio Players for Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/2/5-streaming-audio-players-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Testing, One Two Three: How These OPNFV Tools Can Help Any Open Infrastructure Project

 04:04 <stephenm> http://superuser.openstack.org/articles/opnfv-testing-tools/

 04:04 <stephenm> Open Sourcing ClusterFuzz

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.googleblog.com/2019/02/open-sourcing-clusterfuzz.html

 04:05 <stephenm> 15 Docker Commands You Should Know

 04:05 <stephenm> https://towardsdatascience.com/15-docker-commands-you-should-know-970ea5203421

 04:05 <stephenm> What Open Source Really Means Today

 04:05 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/what-open-source-really-means-today/

 04:05 <stephenm> Why Data Scientists Love Kubernetes

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/why-data-scientists-love-kubernetes

 04:05 <stephenm> Zowe Makes Mainframe Evergreen

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2019/02/zowe-makes-mainframe-evergreen/

 04:05 <stephenm> First Look: Tuxedo InfinityCube Linux Desktop PC With Intel Core-i7 8700

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2019/02/15/first-look-tuxedo-infinitycube-linux-desktop-pc-with-intel-core-i7-8700/#59e1f72d704d

 04:05 <stephenm> Getting Started with the cat Command

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/2/getting-started-cat-command

 04:06 <stephenm> Networking Tool Comics!

 04:06 <stephenm> https://jvns.ca/blog/2019/02/10/a-few-networking-tool-comics/

 04:06 <stephenm> Make Container Management Easy With Cockpit

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/3/make-container-management-easy-cockpit

 04:06 <stephenm> Recursive Programming

 04:06 <stephenm> https://towardsdatascience.com/finding-a-recursive-solution-184784b0aea0

 04:06 <stephenm> The Monty Hall Problem

 04:06 <stephenm> https://theressomethingaboutr.wordpress.com/2019/02/12/in-memory-of-monty-hall/

 04:06 <stephenm> How Much Memory Is Installed and Being Used on Your Linux Systems?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3336174/linux/how-much-memory-is-installed-and-being-used-on-your-linux-systems.html

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all I have for group news.  I have finally got to 18.04 on an SSD drive. Other than a little learning I guess it's OK.

 04:07 <stephenm> back to you MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> Effective today, the AZLOCO on line meetings will only be held on the 1st and 3rd Sundays of every month from 9:00-9:30 p.m.  The channel #ubuntu-us-az on irc.freenode.net will remain the same.  You will still be required to register your nick to join the channel.  To register your nick, you need to send a message to NickServ from the Nick that you want to register.  /msg NickServ REGISTER [password] [your email address]  This will

 04:08 <MajB> enable you to carry on a conversation in any channel that is limited to registered nicknames only.

 04:09 <MajB> Note above*****^

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 50 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 67 new jobs and a total of 136 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 24 new jobs and a total of 103 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:11 <MajB> 28 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 02 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:11 <MajB> are.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 14 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 16 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:12 <MajB> are.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:12 <xHans> ja. danke

 04:13 <xHans> Stammtisch is Tuesday at 19:00

 04:13 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/

 04:13 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:13 <xHans> Security is Thursday at 19:00

 04:13 <xHans> Aaron will cover "Introduction To Assembly Language - Reverse Engineering Software"

 04:13 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/

 04:13 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:13 <xHans> SCaLE is in a few weeks, the room blocks are filling up

 04:13 <xHans> get your reservation if you haven't already

 04:13 <xHans> PLUG is providing 1/3 of the LibreGraphics track at SCALE 17x

 04:13 <xHans> https://fediverse.blog/~/LuftHans/plug-is-1-3-of-s-ca-le-17x-libre-graphics-track

 04:14 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:14 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:14 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 24 February 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 01 March 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 13 March 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 23 February 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:16 <MajB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:16 <MajB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:16 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else?

 04:17 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:17 <MajB> Remember there is no meeting next week

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
