{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 20 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:13 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-02-20-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcareers.com/resources/blog/2023/02/breaking-into-the-linux-industry-tips-for-job-seekers-with-no-experience/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-gimp-on-rocky-linux/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/gentoo-based-distros/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/02/14/chromeos_opinion_column/?td=rt-3a   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://tipsonunix.com/2023/02/06/how-to-install-lazygit-on-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/new-steam-client-update-further-improves-the-big-picture-mode-fixes-more-bugs   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/clear-linux-terminal-screen/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.binarytides.com/check-usb-wifi-adapter-details-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/reset-mysql-or-mariadb-root-password/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/best-web-software-hosting-platforms/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/drupal-vs-wordpress-what-is-the-difference/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-configure-openvpn-server-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/remove-password-from-pdf-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/cmake-command-not-found/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2023/02/translate-selected-text-with-keyboard.html   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-self-hosted-office365-with-cryptpad/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/du-command-alternatives-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/sysctl-command-examples/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (59)
* stephenm (44)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:03 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at  if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  https://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> Alright I've got random stuff this week and look at a couple pieces of news

 04:02 <stephenm> Breaking Into the Linux Industry: Tips for Job Seekers

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcareers.com/resources/blog/2023/02/breaking-into-the-linux-industry-tips-for-job-seekers-with-no-experience/

 04:02 <stephenm> Get Started With GIMP on Rocky Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-gimp-on-rocky-linux/

 04:02 <stephenm> 7 Best Gentoo-Based Linux Distributions

 04:02 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/gentoo-based-distros/

 04:03 <stephenm> ChromeOS Now Runs on Top of Linux and Zephyr

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/02/14/chromeos_opinion_column/?td=rt-3a

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Install LazyGit on Ubuntu

 04:03 <stephenm> https://tipsonunix.com/2023/02/06/how-to-install-lazygit-on-ubuntu/

 04:03 <stephenm> Honestly after reading the article it doesn't seem much different than git but someone else might think differently

 04:03 <stephenm> Steam Client Update Improves Big Picture Mode, Fixes More Bugs

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/new-steam-client-update-further-improves-the-big-picture-mode-fixes-more-bugs

 04:04 <stephenm> 4 Useful Commands to Clear Linux Terminal Screen

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/clear-linux-terminal-screen/

 04:04 <stephenm> just ^l

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Check USB Wi-Fi Adapter Details on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.binarytides.com/check-usb-wifi-adapter-details-on-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Reset MySQL or MariaDB Root Password in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/reset-mysql-or-mariadb-root-password/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Best Web Development Platforms for Hosting Software Projects

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/best-web-software-hosting-platforms/

 04:05 <stephenm> Drupal vs. WordPress: What Is the Difference?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/drupal-vs-wordpress-what-is-the-difference/

 04:05 <stephenm> As everything else, depends what you need it for

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Configure OpenVPN Server on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-configure-openvpn-server-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> 7 Useful CLI, GUI Tools to Remove PDF Password in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/remove-password-from-pdf-on-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Fix: ‘cmake command not found’ Error

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/cmake-command-not-found/

 04:06 <stephenm> Translate Selected Text Using Crow Translate

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2023/02/translate-selected-text-with-keyboard.html

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Create Your Own Self-Hosted Office 365 With Cryptpad

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-self-hosted-office365-with-cryptpad/

 04:06 <stephenm> seems promising if you aren't going to host a server in a cloud environment

 04:06 <stephenm> 8 Best du Command Alternatives to Check Disk Usage in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/du-command-alternatives-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Modify Linux Kernel Variables Using the sysctl Command

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/sysctl-command-examples/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:08 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 195 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 82 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 19 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:10 <MajB> 23 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 02 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 04 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:10 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 05 March, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 09 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 09 March, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 18 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:10 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 19 March, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> 23 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:11 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:11 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 21 February, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 09 March, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:12 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:12 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting 08 March 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 28 February 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month), Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:12 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:12 <MajB> SCALE 20X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20X

 04:12 <MajB> 09-12 March 2023

 04:12 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:12 <MajB> 300 E Green St

 04:12 <MajB> Pasadena, CA 91101

 04:12 <MajB> (626) 449-7360

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:13 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
