{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

01 April – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 11 attendees
* Discussed installing a Linux OS on a Mac
* Discussed creating rules for UFW
02 April - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2002%2C%202023%20Meeting
06 April - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed Ubuntu Pro
* Discussed ChatGPT
13 April - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed Ubuntu Pro, advantages and disadvantages
* Discussed how to find out what is installed on your computer (apt list --installed, dnf list installed, or dkpg -l)  Can also use Synaptic PM.  To find out what snap packages are installed (snap list).  To find out what Flatpak packages are installed (flatpak list).
13 April - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Discussed the suitability of Ubuntu Pro for individual users
* Discussed recommendations for hardware builds to install Ubuntu
15 April - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* Discussed phased Ubuntu updates
* Discussed the Raspberry Pi and its capabilities
16 April -  AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2016%2C%202023%20Meeting
27 April - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed General Linux topics

   
