{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> +2
<dennisk> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<_ericcc1> +1
<toddc> do I count each pc I have on at the minute?
<toddc> +6
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in azlocobb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<_ericcc1> do i count as new?
<Dazed_75> of course >__ grins
<toddc> yes would you like to say a few words about your self
<Dazed_75> err <-- grins
<_ericcc1> Well if i knew that I wouldn't have said anything...
<toddc> every one meet _ericcc1  and most of us meet him Sat at the installfest
<spinrage> Welcome to the meeting _ericcc1.
<toddc> "The nice thing about Windows is - It does not just crash, it displays a dialog"
<_ericcc1> Hello everyone! I will just say that I am happy to come to a community that is very helpful and knowledgeable group.
<Dazed_75> Welcome!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> How to Always Open Tabs from Your Last Browsing Session in Firefox, Chrome, Opera, Safari, and IE
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/120185/always-open-tabs-from-your-last-browsing-session-in-firefox-chrome-opera-safari-and-ie
<Dazed_75> Why You Should Always Use Nginx With Microcaching
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtoforge.com/why-you-should-always-use-nginx-with-microcaching
<Dazed_75> Linux Gaming as Affected by Windows 8 per Valve and Blizzard Folks
<Dazed_75> http://www.thevarguy.com/2012/07/30/windows-8-games-blizzard-valve/
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/gaming/133669-could-this-be-the-year-of-the-linux-desktop
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/steam-on-linux-interview-with-ethan-lee/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/stallman-calls-valve-games-on-linux-unethical
<Dazed_75> How to Easily Add (and Remove) Users to Groups in Ubuntu 12.04 [Quick Tips]
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/add-remove-user-to-groups-in-ubuntu/2012/07/30
<Dazed_75> Open the Terminal at a Specific Size and Position in Ubuntu or Linux Nint
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/open-terminal-in-specific-size-and.html
<Dazed_75> What is the Target Audience for Ubuntu Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.muktware.com/4053/what-ubuntus-target-audience
<Dazed_75> Valve's "Left for Dead 2" is faster on Native Linux  with openGL than on Win7 DirectX
<Dazed_75> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTE1MjI
<toddc> _ericcc1: just look over the list and check out the ones you want to see or read later
<Dazed_75> Linux us NOT a "second string" Operating System
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/linux-is-not-a-second-string-operating-system-7000001918/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu for Android Demoed on Video at FISL
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/08/ubuntu-for-android-demoed-on-video-at-fisl
<dennisk> FYI: in konqeror your can save multiple browsing sessions
<Dazed_75> InSync Brings Google Drive to Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/08/insync-brings-google-drive-to-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> How to Install Ubuntu Server 12.04 LTS
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuserverguide.com/2012/05/how-to-install-ubuntu-server-12-04-lts-precise-pangolin-included-screenshot.html
<Dazed_75> Raspberry Pi Case is Cheap, Sturdy, and Ships Quickly
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/120641/built-to-spec-raspberry-pi-case-is-cheap-sturdy-and-ships-quickly
<Dazed_75> Test and Improve Your Search Skills Using Power Searching with Google's Online Course Work
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/120776/test-and-improve-your-search-skills-using-power-searching-with-googles-online-course-work
<Dazed_75> http://www.powersearchingwithgoogle.com/course
<Dazed_75> Download the "Achieve Personal Unity -12.04 Unity Customization Guide"
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/120807/download-the-achieve-personal-unity-12.04-unity-customization-guide-for-free
<Dazed_75> http://frenchfortunecookie.wordpress.com/2012/08/02/achieve-personal-unity-12-04-customiztion-guide/
<Dazed_75> How to Remove, or Disable, Zeitgeist in Ubuntu and Why
<Dazed_75> http://linuxaria.com/howto/how-to-remove-zeitgeist-in-ubuntu-and-why?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Nvidia Fixes Linux GPU Driver Security Hole
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTE1Mzk
<Dazed_75> Five Latest Unity Lenses for Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/five-latest-unity-lenses-for-ubuntu/2012/08/03
<Dazed_75> Humble Bundle Games Remain Top Ubuntu Downloads
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/08/humble-bundle-games-remain-top-downloads-in-ubuntu-for-july
<Dazed_75> Virtualbox 4.2 Beta 1 feature Improvements
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/08/download-virtualbox-42-beta-1.html
<Dazed_75> and thats it for me tonight.  It's been a busy week
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc> I have a couple more to add!
<toddc> Ubuntu CA is recycling/mainlining computers for schools see
<toddc> http://partimus.org/
<toddc> Ubuntu's Unity Desktop Comes To Fedora 17
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTE0Mjc
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> PLEASE NOTE The September 2 Meeting has been canceled due to the Labor Day week- end Enjoy!!
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> System Administrator
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> NOC Services Technician (T1)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit/?id=1560271
<toddc> Linux Administration Support
<toddc>  
<toddc>  Michela John ConsultNet
<toddc>  60 Rio Salado Parkway Suite 900
<toddc>  Tempe, Arizona
<toddc>  480.366.5806- Office 602.576.4841- Cell
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday August 23 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extream Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> PLEASE NOTE We have moved the September 1 installfest to August 25 so that we may have labor day weekend off
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on August 11 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday August 18 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Walter Finished the new drupal web site but we need input. It currently in drupal Zen theme
<toddc> please check it out and and give us thoughts on how it looks and or changes that we need
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> xHans are you around?
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday August 9  7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc> Tagcose Server Development
<toddc> Anyone interested in learning or assisting with the Tagcose Server Project.
<toddc> University of Advancing Technology: 2625 W Baseline,Tempe, AZ 85283
<toddc> we will be working on the new proxmox server this Saturday
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest has a new home August 11 11am-2pm
<toddc> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/meetings/20-linux-security-hackfest/87-linux-security-hackfest-has-a-new-home.html
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday August 21 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> no news on how the Tucson Ubuntu hour is going
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
* Mikeofma1y (~mikeofman@ip68-231-14-204.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> check out the new website at http://test.azloco.com/
<_ericcc1> Has anyone taken over the newsletter/ is there still a news letter?
<_ericcc1> also, with the test website, is there supposed to be a background or is it just a white fill?
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
