{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 18 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-01-18-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcareer.com/project-lenix-the-centos-replacement-interview-with-founder-igor-seletskiy   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-home-digital-art-linux/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/150-open-spec-community-backed-linux-sbcs-under-200-3/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/heroic-games-launcher/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/linux-dock-roundup/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2021/01/update-your-nvidia-drivers-due-to-multiple-security-issues-found   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/the-incomplete-guide-to-docker-for-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/git-basics/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/01/gdu-is-fast-console-disk-usage-analyzer.html   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/find-linux-uptime-shutdown-and-reboot-time-with-tuptime/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/usermod-command-examples/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/datacenter/datacenter-blog/open-source-networking-in-2020-dent-gets-first-release-opnfv-gets-its-last-release.html   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/ubuntu-block-ping-icmp/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-port-scanners/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/migrate-virtualbox-vms-into-kvm-vms/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/5-rsync-tips   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/disable-suspend-and-hibernation-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/linux-mint-20-1-ulyssa-is-now-available-for-download-this-is-whats-new   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (56)
* stephenm (38)
* toddc (6)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:02 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +2

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.  There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> The list is short and I tried a couple of the commands, they are intersting to say the least.

 04:02 <stephenm> Project Lenix - the CentOS replacement: Interview with Founder Igor Seletskiy

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcareer.com/project-lenix-the-centos-replacement-interview-with-founder-igor-seletskiy

 04:02 <stephenm> Linux at Home: Digital Art with Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-home-digital-art-linux/

 04:02 <stephenm> 150 open-spec, community-backed Linux SBCs under $200

 04:02 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/150-open-spec-community-backed-linux-sbcs-under-200-3/

 04:03 <stephenm> Good News for Linux Gamers! An Unofficial Epic Games Store Launcher for Linux is in Works

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/heroic-games-launcher/

 04:03 <stephenm> 10 of the Best Launcher Docks for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/linux-dock-roundup/

 04:03 <stephenm> Update your NVIDIA drivers on Linux due to multiple security issues found

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2021/01/update-your-nvidia-drivers-due-to-multiple-security-issues-found

 04:03 <stephenm> The (in)complete Guide To DOCKER FOR LINUX

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/the-incomplete-guide-to-docker-for-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Getting started with GIT on Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/git-basics/

 04:03 <stephenm> gdu Is A Fast Console Disk Usage Analyzer (Alternative To ncdu, du, Etc.)

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/01/gdu-is-fast-console-disk-usage-analyzer.html

 04:04 <stephenm> tuptime - Shows Historical and Statistical Running Time of Linux Systems

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/find-linux-uptime-shutdown-and-reboot-time-with-tuptime/

 04:04 <stephenm> A Complete Guide to Usage of "usermod" command - 15 Practical Examples with Screenshots

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/usermod-command-examples/

 04:04 <stephenm> Open Source Networking in 2020, Dent Gets First Release, OPNFV Gets its Last Release

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/datacenter/datacenter-blog/open-source-networking-in-2020-dent-gets-first-release-opnfv-gets-its-last-release.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How to block or unblock PING requests in Ubuntu

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/ubuntu-block-ping-icmp/

 04:04 <stephenm> 7 Linux Port Scanners for Admins and Enthusiasts

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-port-scanners/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Migrate Virtualbox VMs Into KVM VMs In Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/migrate-virtualbox-vms-into-kvm-vms/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 advanced rsync tips for Linux sysadmins

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/5-rsync-tips

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Disable Suspend and Hibernation Modes In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/disable-suspend-and-hibernation-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all I have for this week, back to MajB

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:05 <MajB> The Home Directory Will be Private in Ubuntu 21.04, What Does it Mean? https://news.itsfoss.com/private-home-directory-ubuntu-21-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> Another Linux Kernel Vulnerability Was Patched in All Supported Ubuntu Releases https://9to5linux.com/another-linux-kernel-vulnerability-was-patched-in-all-supported-ubuntu-releases

 04:06 <MajB> Linux Mint 20.1 “Ulyssa” Is Now Available for Download, This Is What’s New

 04:06 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/linux-mint-20-1-ulyssa-is-now-available-for-download-this-is-whats-new

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:07 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 107 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <MajB> There are 99 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 38 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 28 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 04 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 06 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:09 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 07 February, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> 11 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 11 February, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 20 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:10 <MajB>  your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 21 February, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 25 February, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS:

 04:10 <MajB> ThunderBeaver  Please welcome him when you see him on line.

 04:11 <toddc> woohooo!!!

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:11 <MajB> ####If Hans is not present, cover the PLUG events with the other LUG activities.

 04:12 <toddc> # is to comment out and not use the line!!!!

 04:12 <MajB> Yes operator error

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> meeting on 23 January 1300-1545, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:14 <toddc> hrllo all !!!

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:14 <toddc> hello

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.3.2 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
