{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> +1
<cc11rocks> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<adrenaline_> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> I am there now!!! :)
<Rich_> +1
<toddc> Welcome cc11rocks !
<cc11rocks> Thank you very much :)
<toddc> Welcome Rich_  !
<Rich_> Thanks
<toddc> Anybody else here that is new tonight?
<cc11rocks> I'm getting on the website as well...
<toddc> ok Lets start with the news
<toddc> Windows 8 News
<toddc> Microsoft Blocks Pirate Bay Links In Windows Messenger
<toddc> http://www.everything-microsoft.com/2012/03/30/microsoft-blocks-pirate-bay-links-windows-messenger/
<toddc> How To Personalize Windows 8
<toddc> http://www.everything-microsoft.com/2012/03/31/personalize-windows-8/
<toddc> google news
<toddc> Google is Bringing self-driving cars to NASCAR
<toddc> http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2012/03/bringing-self-driving-cars-to-nascar.html
<toddc> Gmail Tap
<toddc> Realizing the silliness of trying to cram an entire 26-key keyboard onto a smartphone, Google is replacing QWERTY with Morse code.
<toddc> Introducing Click-to-Teleport Extensions (beta)
<toddc> http://www.google.com/adwords/extensions/teleport.html
<toddc> Google's New Really Advanced Search
<toddc> http://www.google.com/js/reallyadvanced.html
<toddc> The YouTube Collection: The Magic of YouTube in Your Hands
<toddc> http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=Y_UmWdcTrrc
<toddc> Exclusive! First Look at New Ultrabook: The Sony VAIO® Q Series
<toddc> http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=l3qM05C9hMI#!
<toddc> stopping to play the last one
<cc11rocks> LOL on the last one :P
<cc11rocks> That is HILARIOUS!
<toddc> thanks! :)
<cc11rocks> I've seen an Apple version commecial spoof :P
<toddc> Introducing reddit timeline
<toddc> http://blog.reddit.com/2012/03/introducing-reddit-timeline.html
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> Ubuntu 12.04 LTS Precise Pangolin Beta 2 Released, What is New?
<toddc> http://www.linuxnov.com/ubuntu-12-04-lts-precise-pangolin-beta-2-released-whats-new/
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/ubuntu-1204-lts-beta-2-released.html
<toddc> If You Are Lucky, Ubuntu 12.04 Can Boot Faster (Note: Results could
<toddc> still change)
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1204_boots&num=1
<toddc> How to Knock into Your Network (DD-WRT)
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/104548/how-to-knock-into-your-network-dd-wrt
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/105693/how-to-knock-into-your-network-part-2-protect-your-vpn-dd-wrt/
<toddc> cool idea that I need to test
<toddc> How to Quickly Resize, Convert & Modify Images from the Linux Terminal
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/109369/how-to-quickly-resize-convert-modify-images-from-the-linux-terminal
<toddc> How to Install the Window Maker Desktop Environment on Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/109686/how-to-install-use-the-window-maker-desktop-environment-on-ubuntu
<toddc> Make New Tabs Appear at the End for Chrome / Chromium
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/109825/new-tabs-at-end-opens-new-tabs-at-the-end-of-the-chrome-tab-bar
<toddc> XBMC 11 Rocks: Improved iOS Support, Airplay, and even a Custom XBMC OS
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/109851/screenshot-tour-xbmc-11-eden-rocks-improved-ios-support-airplay-and-even-a-custom-xbmc-os
<toddc> How to Create a Custon Ubuntu Live CD or USB the Easy Way
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/109736/how-to-create-a-custom-ubuntu-live-cd-or-usb/
<toddc> How to Install the MATE Desktop and Go Back to GNOME 2 on Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/110052/how-to-install-the-mate-desktop-go-back-to-gnome-2-on-ubuntu
<toddc> Easy File Sync with Bitpocket
<toddc> http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/articles/easy_file_sync_bitpocket
<toddc> Reset Your Ubuntu Password using SystemRescueCD
<toddc> http://ubuntuportal.com/reset-password-ubuntu-using-sytemrescuecd/
<toddc> Adobe Releases Last Linux Version of Flash Player
<toddc> http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/03/adobe-releases-last-linux-version-of.html
<toddc> :(
<toddc> GIMP 2.8: So Close, Yet So Far, Yet So Close
<toddc> http://www.thepowerbase.com/2012/03/gimp-2-8-so-close-yet-so-far-yet-so-close/
<toddc> Ubuntu Boots on 8-bit Microcontroller (to a terminal anyway)
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Hackable-Ubuntu-boots-on-8-bit-microcontroller-1495707.html
<toddc> I Gotta Get Me One of These
<toddc> http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/news/2012/03/researcher-publishes-specs-for-real-linux-powered-star-trek-tricorder.ars
<toddc> http://www.tricorderproject.org/tricorder-mark2.html
<toddc> GNOME4: The Future of Portability :)
<toddc> http://distrowatch.com/weekly.php?issue=20120402
<toddc> Munich Mayor Says Switch to Linux Saved Money, Reduced Complaints
<toddc> http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/252921/munich_mayor_says_switch_to_linux_saved_money_reduced_complaints.html
<toddc> thank Dazed_75 for the news !
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
<toddc> if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know?
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Server Installfest Saturday April 7 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<slofgren> >.>
<slofgren> <.<
<toddc> slofgren: hi welcome back
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<slofgren> howdy
<toddc>  Yesterday's installfest went very well. It was not a large turn out but we have a great time and kept busy with several projects and had a very good time talking and testing and several new people showed up for help and to help it was nice to see every one
<toddc> We even got to see a prescott lug member that Dazed_75 and I Met last year when we went up there
<toddc> so we need to plan another trip up there soon   http://www.lugy.net/ they meet on the 2nd Tuesday
<toddc> thinks of a good month and lets get a group together and go up there again and show support
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> thanks to Eric for updating the azlocbbb.banditti.com stie to 0.8-3 it really works great with a lot of new features but will need a web designer to complete the upgrade and customize the API's so we need a volunteer if someone would like to take it on please let me know
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> ETA for my rasberry PI is 4/23 and as soon as it shows we will be setting up a few events test/break it in and see what it can do!  Any all ideas for projects are welcome
<toddc> xHans are you here?
<toddc> The Developer Meeting will be held on Thursday, April 5 at 7:30pm at UAT
<toddc> Plug east side meeting Thursday April 12 at MCC Southern ave and Dobson at the Kirk student center 7-9 pm
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<adrenaline_> I think xHans was taking the weekend off this weekend
<adrenaline_> Is anybody going to the developer meeting on Thursday?
<cc11rocks> Not here I don't think
<toddc> yes I said somthing about it so I checked plug for him
<Dazed_75> Not me
<adrenaline_> I was reading the link on "MATE" That is great
<cc11rocks> Just a heads up, I wouldn't be able to go the that college to hang out with you guys unless I can get a ride or part of the way there
<toddc> those tend to be hit and miss if anyone shows at all
<cc11rocks> Mike offered to take me if I made it to his house...
<cc11rocks> 15 miles approx
<adrenaline_> Ya I am about half way
<toddc> I can try to verify that there will be a developer meeting if you like
<adrenaline_> cool
<cc11rocks> http://g.co/maps/zs35c << That is where I live
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre> block.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
