{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [20:58:23] 	 * johnc4510 who's here for the team meeting?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [20:58:29] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [20:58:42] <azteech>	+1
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [20:59:35] <tyche>	+1
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:00:12] <kennymc>	+1
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:00:50] <word>	+2
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:02:37] <paul928>	me
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:03:05] <johnc4510>	hey
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:03:06] <johnc4510>	al
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:03:08] <johnc4510>	all
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:03:29] <johnc4510>	ok, looks like most of you were in the able con meeting
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:03:32] <johnc4510>	yes
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:03:39] <kennymc>	si senior
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:03:51] <johnc4510>	xHans: you around
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:04:38] <kennymc>	seems like he's still conversing in #ABLEconf
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:04:54] <johnc4510>	yeah
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:05:09] <johnc4510>	ok, i don't know about you all, but i have questions
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:05:23] <xHans>	johnc4510: in a few minutes
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:05:29] <kennymc>	whatever it was i didnt do it
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:05:38] <kennymc>	:)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:05:47] <johnc4510>	i was thinking we should use this time to coordinate with xhans
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:05:53] <johnc4510>	a little better
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:06:13] <johnc4510>	we pretty much have our table/booth ideas ready
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:06:35] <azteech>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:06:39] <johnc4510>	but there are things on the wiki page for the conference that i didn't see
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:06:47] <johnc4510>	that they were discussing
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:06:56] <johnc4510>	but i'm behind because of vacation
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:06:58] <johnc4510>	:/
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:07:04] <xHans>	ok, here
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:07:08] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:07:11] <johnc4510>	thx
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:07:30] <johnc4510>	first off xHans i am behind and need to catch up
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:07:31] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:07:41] <johnc4510>	on the wiki page to start
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:07:58] <johnc4510>	there were pages being discussed tonight that i couldn't find
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:08:09] <johnc4510>	founding sponsor page
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:08:24] <xHans>	johnc4510: that doesn't exist on the wiki
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:08:26] <johnc4510>	you mentioned you had added some hot links
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:08:32] <xHans>	I did start a list on the web site
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:08:36] <johnc4510>	ah
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:08:37] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:08:44] <xHans>	http://www.ableconf.com/organizers
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:09:01] <xHans>	I mentioned I'd added some orgs, but we need to add links to the web sites
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:09:21] <xHans>	I'm also certain I didn't get all of the orgs
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:09:22] <johnc4510>	ok, i was trying to find stuff on the wiki page
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:09:28] <johnc4510>	and was going nuts
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:09:30] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:09:46] <kennymc>	johnc4510 nuts? nah
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:09:49] <kennymc>	lol
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:10:07] <xHans>	johnc4510: I tried to wrap up the other mtg 10 minutes early so you'd have some time on the oxygen machine before this one started :)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:10:20] <xHans>	but, I'm glad others had input!
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:10:27] <johnc4510>	lol np
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:10:32] <johnc4510>	ok next
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:11:17] <johnc4510>	in the meeting tonight you said you wanted me to work on promo stuff, but on the wiki page you have me down for volunteer stuff
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:11:26] <johnc4510>	did i missunderstand
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:12:01] <xHans>	johnc4510: last week you volunteered to head coordinating volunteers and the sponsoring organizations
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:12:07] <johnc4510>	right
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:12:08] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:12:17] <xHans>	this week you volunteered to help with the promo :)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:12:32] <johnc4510>	ok, just wanted to make sure
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:12:55] <johnc4510>	and huertanix is the promo head?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:13:02] <xHans>	you and tyche had both volunteered to help on the promo, but I'm glad huertanix volunteered to lead that
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:13:07] <xHans>	johnc4510: yeah
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:13:10] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:13:26] <johnc4510>	like i said i'm trying to play catchup here
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:13:29] <johnc4510>	:/
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:13:33] <xHans>	that lets him work on coordination and making sure we don't miss stuff, but let's us take advantage of the contacts you and tyche have
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:13:42] <xHans>	oh, and the slave labor you get from kennymc :)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:13:52] <johnc4510>	sure
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:14:07] <johnc4510>	don't forget azteech and word too
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:14:11] <tyche>	But . . . I don't have contacts.  I wear glasses
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:14:16] <johnc4510>	we need to put them to work
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:14:32] <xHans>	tyche: always ready for a drink?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:14:35] <johnc4510>	i love volunteering others
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:14:44] <xHans>	johnc4510: the more the merrier
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:14:51] <tyche>	Naw, that's just my mug.
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:15:51] <johnc4510>	ok, i'd like to just start enlisting those here to get the volunteer portion started
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:15:58] <xHans>	johnc4510: I did a bit of that tonight. There's a lot to do in the next couple of weeks.
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:11] <azteech>	lol ....
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:26] <johnc4510>	we can work on that as a team to help out the cause
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:29] <johnc4510>	right group?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:31] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:33] <azteech>	already volunteered to work the booth ...
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:33] <johnc4510>	+1
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:39] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:40] <azteech>	+1
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:47] <tyche>	I'm already in for a presentation
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:16:54] <johnc4510>	ah
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:17:00] <johnc4510>	a slacker
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:17:01] <johnc4510>	hee hee
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:17:14] 	 * johnc4510 charges cattle prod
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:17:29] 	 * tyche discharges cattle prod on johnc4510
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:17:32] <azteech>	as well as seeing what I can do to get ad ready for craigslist ...
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:17:46] <tyche>	Honest, officer, it was self defense.
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:17:55] <azteech>	one heck of long pole there tyche .....
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:18:07] <johnc4510>	xHans: so the volunteer team needs to contact all the state user groups asking them to join in right?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:18:51] <xHans>	johnc4510: yeah, each of the sponsoring groups should assign coordinators to work with us and post info to the groups as well as give us feedback
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:19:15] <johnc4510>	is there one central mailing list you want them to join?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:19:22] <xHans>	I'm certain at least one person will suggest we should start the conference Saturday evening and run until daybreak :)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:19:34] <johnc4510>	lolo
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:19:37] <xHans>	johnc4510: for now they need to contact you at the volunteering mail alias
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:19:45] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:20:01] <johnc4510>	i got that mail list info this wk
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:20:09] <xHans>	we do need to create a couple more email lists, which is what my next email to the group is about
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:20:18] <xHans>	johnc4510: cool, now join ;-)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:20:30] <johnc4510>	THINK i did
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:20:32] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:20:35] <johnc4510>	i'll check
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:20:48] <johnc4510>	ok so az team
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:20:50] <azteech>	lol
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:02] <johnc4510>	we need a list of all the user groups in the state
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:21] <xHans>	johnc4510: you're still not on the promo list, but you are on the volunteering list, which is more important for now
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:33] <xHans>	johnc4510: you own the volunteering list
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:40] <johnc4510>	i saw that
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:42] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:46] <johnc4510>	#  DeLUG
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:46] <johnc4510>	# ASULUG
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:46] <johnc4510>	# EMCCLUG?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:49] <johnc4510>	# AzPHP
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:21:58] <johnc4510>	those are a start
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:22:08] <johnc4510>	also luna in flag
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:22:25] <johnc4510>	there's one in sierra vista
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:22:32] <kennymc>	im a member of delug but i only went to 1 meeting and havent heard anything from them really for a while
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:22:40] <kennymc>	:/
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:22:43] <azteech>	saw something on the conf email list about contacting #windows groups ... to let those who double boot, and those who are undecided ... know about the conference?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:22:48] <xHans>	johnc4510: create an account on the web site and we'll give you access to add groups
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:22:57] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:23:04] <azteech>	then there is the green valley group ...
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:23:07] <xHans>	kennymc: talk to huertanix, he is a past president of DeLUG
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:23:17] <azteech>	and what about TFUG ..
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:23:54] <johnc4510>	azteech: right
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:23:56] <xHans>	those that had volunteers working with us before Thursday last week can be founding sponsors, the rest can still be sponsors of the event
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:24:06] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:24:19] <xHans>	I would like *every* Free Software group in AZ to be a sponsor of the event
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:24:39] <kennymc>	that would be cool
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:24:52] <xHans>	as I said, I'm certain I didn't get all of the founding groups. I thought I had TFUG, but I might've forgot it
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:25:44] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:26:55] <johnc4510>	xHans: do we have flyers started, or someone working on them
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:26:57] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:27:33] <xHans>	johnc4510: not that I know of
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:27:38] <johnc4510>	logo?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:27:54] <azteech>	think xhans said that was up to promo group to design ...
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:27:59] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:28:02] <xHans>	tunys and huertanix are working on logo ideas, but honestly a logo is low priority
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:28:09] <johnc4510>	sure
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:28:34] <xHans>	having one would be great, but we need to put efforts into promo and getting talks first
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:28:40] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:28:57] <johnc4510>	anyone know of any user groups in the state we haven't listed
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:29:03] <tyche>	BTW, soldats popped in earlier to say, "i willl hopefully be able to go to kinkos tomorrow to see about the banner and i will let him know, its kinda hard for me to be here a lot now since i have 2 bands now and i have had practice at 9 on sundays"
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:29:23] <johnc4510>	one is the Tucson Computer Society   they have a sig
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:29:24] <xHans>	we can just use tux for now or use the mosaic tool on tux to represent all the groups working on the conference
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:29:32] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:29:48] <johnc4510>	tyche: thx
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:30:16] <johnc4510>	i hope banner works out
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:30:46] Quit	paul928 has left this server ("ChatZilla 0.9.83 [Firefox 3.0.1/2008070208]").
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:30:50] <tyche>	So do I.  Where do you want me to send Paula and my contribution?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:31:11] <johnc4510>	tyche: just hang on to it for now,
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:31:17] <tyche>	kk
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:31:23] <johnc4510>	let's see where we get lead
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:31:25] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:31:45] <johnc4510>	led
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:31:51] <johnc4510>	hmm
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:31:52] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:01] <princess|>	homonym huh
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:06] <johnc4510>	we've got a little time
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:10] <johnc4510>	princess|: ?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:26] <johnc4510>	ah soldats
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:27] <johnc4510>	hi
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:33] <johnc4510>	had to do a /whois
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:34] <tyche>	A soldats by any other name would smell
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:38] <princess|>	johnc4510: the one thing about the banner is that it can be done for 80 at most but i can get it cheaper im sure but i need someone to make it an svg
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:39] <johnc4510>	agreed
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:41] <azteech>	Johnc4510 ... how about these http://www.azacc.org/ , http://www.apcug.net/ , and http://www.aztcs.org/ ??
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:32:58] <johnc4510>	princess|: ok
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:33:18] <johnc4510>	tyche: can you make the team logo into a svg?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:33:29] <princess|>	tyche: would you do the honors of making it an svg the team logo
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:33:31] <tyche>	I don't know.  I've never tried SVG
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:33:52] <azteech>	have the tux in svg form ...
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:33:54] <johnc4510>	does gimp not do svg
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:34:17] <tyche>	I don't really know.  Like I said, I've never really played with it.
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:34:17] <princess|>	ill try an work on it tomorrow, but if someone was really fast at it it would be nice
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:34:44] <princess|>	johnc4510: inkscape is for svg and i have it its just a tougher app to use
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:34:56] <johnc4510>	ah
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:34:57] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:35:07] <johnc4510>	tyche: you want to try that or not?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:35:34] <johnc4510>	princess|: should we just make it the same size as we have
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:35:48] <tyche>	I'll take a look at it.  But until I've tried I can't be sure that I could do it.
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:35:55] <johnc4510>	sure
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:36:16] <princess|>	johnc4510: ill see what the normal logo should come out to be at around 6x2
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:36:18] <xHans>	tyche: it's like CAD, but for artists :)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:36:39] <xHans>	tyche: needed you there Tuesday as someone was asking CAD questions
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:36:58] <princess|>	johnc4510: not sure if it will be exactly 6x2 i might have to fiddle with it
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:36:58] <johnc4510>	but we have the utmost faith in your ability to perserver and get the greatest results for the time required
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:37:01] <johnc4510>	hee heee
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:37:07] <johnc4510>	princess|: k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:37:41] <johnc4510>	princess|: i meant the svg logo    should we make it any certain size?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:05] <princess|>	svg doesnt have a size
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:13] <johnc4510>	tyche: did you catch my BS above
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:21] <johnc4510>	worthy of you i think
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:22] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:30] <princess|>	you can make it whatever size and blow it up whenever and lose no quality
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:36] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:37] <johnc4510>	thx
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:51] <princess|>	the other formats wont work
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:55] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:38:58] <azteech>	johnc4510, one thing to remember, is we don't have times nailed down as of yet. So it isn't going to do any good contacting anyone until we do ...
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:39:10] <johnc4510>	ah
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:39:32] <johnc4510>	xHans: do we not have times nailed down
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:39:54] <princess|>	azteech: but if we contact people they might have a bettter chance at solidifying times and dates
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:40:19] <johnc4510>	i thought we decided last wk on 10-5
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:40:26] <xHans>	johnc4510: I need to verify the times we have access to UAT, which is part of the Tuesday mtg
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:40:28] <johnc4510>	may be wrong on that
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:40:33] <johnc4510>	ah ok
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:40:37] <azteech>	princess| xhans will have that nailed down as of Tuesday he said ...
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:40:50] <johnc4510>	xHans: you have any announcements?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:40:59] <xHans>	johnc4510: that's what we want ( or maybe 09:00-17:00 ), but we need to make sure we can be there
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:41:07] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:41:08] <xHans>	johnc4510: sure
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:41:13] <johnc4510>	go for it
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:41:17] <johnc4510>	brb
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:41:31] <xHans>	there's a Free Software conference coming up Saturday, Sept 20th, www.ABLEconf.com  ;-)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:41:47] <xHans>	the PLUG west side meeting is this week
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:42:22] <xHans>	it's the beginning of the school year, so we don't have access to the school. as a result everyone will be going straight to bertos
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:42:26] <xHans>	http://local.botw.org/Phoenix/Polibertos/158612867.html
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:42:39] <xHans>	the InstallFest is this Saturday
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:43:20] <xHans>	we started having ABLEconf meetings every Sunday at 20:00, so just before this meeting
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:43:38] <johnc4510>	back
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:43:43] <xHans>	finally, thanks to everyone for helping us promote all the Free Software classes at the community colleges
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:10] <xHans>	the OpenOffice.org class has more than double what the class capacity is supposed to be
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:16] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:20] <xHans>	my shell scripting class starts tomorrow
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:28] <johnc4510>	'do we get a cut
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:32] <johnc4510>	hee hee
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:35] <xHans>	the intro class is full this quarter and already mostly full next quarter
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:48] <xHans>	johnc4510: if you take my shell scripting class you'll learn how to use cut :)
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:55] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:57] <johnc4510>	nice
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:44:58] <princess|>	cut -d
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:45:02] <xHans>	other community colleges are doing well as well
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:45:33] <xHans>	http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5604
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:46:22] <xHans>	lots of great stuff going on and we owe it to the community for providing the critical mass to keep it going
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:46:36] <johnc4510>	yep
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:46:44] <xHans>	ok, that's it for me
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:47:03] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:47:13] <johnc4510>	thx xHans
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:47:24] <johnc4510>	ok, anyone have anything else?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:47:38] <johnc4510>	kennymc: word you guys have been quiet
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:47:40] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:47:58] <kennymc>	im here but i dont have anything to add
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:48:05] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:48:20] <johnc4510>	i guess that's it then
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:48:22] <johnc4510>	thx all
[Sun Aug 24 2008] [21:48:25] <johnc4510>	adjourned
 </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
