{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


01 April - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed argparse, pip, and virtual environments in python
* Conducted a demonstration of various languages like go, rust, quine, and scheme
* Discussed microcontrollers, uno, nano, pico, and RP2040 feather board
03 April - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees (one new person)
* Created media on windows remotely and installed Ubuntu.
* SSH rsync training
* IPFIRE discussion
* RPI thermostat discussion
04 April - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2007%2C%202021%20Meeting
08 April - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed backup programs and why they really do no good if they are on the same hard drive as your operating system.  If the hard drive fails, the backup is gone as well.  The important thing is to back up your data to an external source and two external sources are better than one.
* Discussed our new draft post installation activities checklist.  Additional changes were recommended and adopted.  The draft check list will be used on Saturday at our mini-installfest to test it.  Several members felt there was a need for additional links to be displayed automatically after boot to answer questions much as tips are displayed when Libre Office is started unless the new owner disables that option.
08 April - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* DATA NOT AVAILABLE
10 April - AZLOCO/CLUG Linux Workshop/Mini-Installfest
* 9 attendees
* 3 Ubuntu Installs
* Discussed the Post Installation Activities
17 April - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* DATA NOT AVAILABLE
18 April - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2021%2C%202021%20Meeting
22 April - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 2 attendees
* Worked on docker and containers 
* Review of just released Ubuntu 21.04
