{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# PLUG Announcements
# Announcements
# Discussion
# ETC

If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with johnc4510 or scott_ev.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:02]	<scott_ev>	it's time to get started
[19:02]	<scott_ev>	will everyone here for the meeting please signify that with a +1
[19:02]	<Doorman352>	+1
[19:02]	<Ricksna>	+1
[19:02]	|<--	Eric-A has left freenode (Ping timeout: 240 seconds)
[19:02]	<scott_ev>	welcome everyone
[19:03]	<scott_ev>	I've been missing meetings lately due to b eing reallly sick and I asppologize
[19:03]	<xHans>	+$(( 2112*2-4223))
[19:03]	<scott_ev>	and I don't really have anything prepared tonight so this will not ake too long
[19:03]	<scott_ev>	normally I start off with Ubuntu news
[19:04]	<scott_ev>	10.10 is in beta and will be released next month
[19:04]	* Doorman352	does the happy dance
[19:04]	<scott_ev>	I'm going to stay with 10.04 LTS until something really cool comes out
[19:04]	<scott_ev>	10.10 doesn't offer much new and nothing really cool as far as I can see
[19:05]	-->|	toddcnb (8cc64c64@gateway/web/freenode/ip.140.198.76.100) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[19:05]	<scott_ev>	LTS releases are always very stable and, of course, will ber supported dang near forever
[19:05]	<toddcnb>	+1
[19:05]	<scott_ev>	my 10.04 servers won't get upgraded untill the next LTS release
[19:05]	<scott_ev>	evenin todd
[19:06]	<toddcnb>	hi
[19:06]	<scott_ev>	will you log the rest of the meeting and email it to flakeparadigm?
[19:06]	<toddcnb>	'i drop here at mcc
[19:06]	<scott_ev>	I want to remind everyone about all the things we have available to us
[19:06]	<toddcnb>	i should have it at hone running
[19:07]	<toddcnb>	home
[19:07]	-->|	Eric_A (~Eric-A@184-98-89-56.phnx.qwest.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[19:07]	<scott_ev>	we have the azloco.com website where you can blog, learn about new ubuntu stuff, access our wiki and mailing list
[19:07]	<scott_ev>	the mailing list is almost never used and I'd like to see that change
[19:08]	<scott_ev>	send us an email anytime you come across anything that you think would be interesting to the team
[19:08]	<scott_ev>	especially if it's ubuntu related
[19:08]	<scott_ev>	communication is key to having a loco team
[19:08]	<scott_ev>	especially since we are so spread out
[19:09]	<scott_ev>	brb, myu pizza just showed up...talk freely
[19:10]	<Ricksna>	fuzzyvader where r u???
[19:10]	<scott_ev>	back
[19:10]	<scott_ev>	xHans: are you ready with PLUG announcements?
[19:11]	<scott_ev>	does anyone have anything to bring up
[19:11]	<scott_ev>	any ideas for the team
[19:11]	<xHans>	scott_ev: ready
[19:11]	<scott_ev>	?
[19:11]	<scott_ev>	kk
[19:12]	<xHans>	Software Freedom Day tour at Local Motors went well. We had 22 people and lots of questions for the tour guide.
[19:12]	<scott_ev>	go ahead sir
[19:12]	<xHans>	thanks to everyone who showed up
[19:12]	<scott_ev>	awesome
[19:12]	<xHans>	we also had some people at their even Tuesday that didn't come back Thursday
[19:12]	<xHans>	PLUG planning mtg tonight at 20:00
[19:12]	<xHans>	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2288
[19:12]	<xHans>	east side Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday at 19:00
[19:12]	<xHans>	NEW LOCATION: east side Free Software Stammtisch now at Iguana Macks in Chandler
[19:12]	<xHans>	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2670
[19:12]	<xHans>	lots of parking at the new location
[19:13]	<scott_ev>	good
[19:13]	<xHans>	it's also a private meeting room, so shouldn't be a problem with external noise
[19:13]	<scott_ev>	cool
[19:13]	<xHans>	PLUG west side this Wednesday
[19:13]	<xHans>	also a new location
[19:13]	<xHans>	Room 315 at DeVry University / Keller Graduate School of Management, 6751 N Sunset Blvd, Glendale, AZ - Westgate City Center
[19:13]	<xHans>	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/339
[19:14]	<Doorman352>	no wifi last month.... :(
[19:14]	<xHans>	doubt we'll get wifi at DeVry
[19:15]	<xHans>	instructor station usually has open wired network, so maybe someone can take a switch and a few cables
[19:15]	<xHans>	talk to Lyle about what we might be allowed to do
[19:15]	<xHans>	Doorman352: or just let everyone use your android tether ;-)
[19:16]	<xHans>	PLUG/AZLoCo Installfest is this Saturday, still at UAT
[19:16]	<xHans>	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/195
[19:16]	<xHans>	oh, I forgot to mention that the west side meeting is now really west side
[19:16]	<xHans>	those in Surprise and Arrowhead should now be happy with the location
[19:17]	<scott_ev>	yup, now it's definitely too far for me
[19:17]	<scott_ev>	well, maybe
[19:18]	* Doorman352	liked the old location better
[19:18]	<xHans>	scott_ev: we can visit it on the way to SCaLE :)
[19:18]	<scott_ev>	ayup
[19:18]	<xHans>	ABLEconf planning meeting next Sunday at 20:00
[19:18]	<xHans>	the meeting will take place
[19:18]	<xHans>	LAMP/Ruby devel gig in Chandler is on the PLUG site
[19:18]	<xHans>	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2749
[19:19]	<xHans>	ok, that's it from me
[19:19]	<xHans>	thanks again to those who went to Local Motors for SFD
[19:19]	<scott_ev>	great, thanks Hans
[19:19]	<xHans>	bitte
[19:20]	<scott_ev>	I want to point out that for those in the PHX Valley there are several opportunities to get together with other Ubuntu users at PLUG events
[19:20]	<scott_ev>	I have a lot of sun at meetings and stammtische
[19:20]	<scott_ev>	xHans:
[19:21]	<scott_ev>	the security mneetings. do they conflict with east side meetings?
[19:21]	<scott_ev>	hmmm
[19:21]	<scott_ev>	ran away I guess
[19:21]	<xHans>	scott_ev: I believe not
[19:21]	<scott_ev>	excellent
[19:21]	<scott_ev>	I have to start making it to those
[19:22]	<scott_ev>	is anyone here interested in trying to put together a 10.10 release party here in PHX?
[19:22]	<xHans>	hmm, looks like a Hackfest event got in the calendar incorrectly again
[19:22]	<scott_ev>	ahh
[19:22]	<xHans>	description says it's the first Saturday of the month, so not this coming Saturday
[19:23]	<scott_ev>	I meant to fix that and forgot
[19:23]	<xHans>	only the Installfest this coming Saturday
[19:23]	<xHans>	scott_ev: do you know what date it might be?
[19:23]	<scott_ev>	plus I forgot to add stuff to our site
[19:23]	<Doorman352>	xHans: Lisa is using other means to comunicate as the website is really misbehaving....
[19:23]	<scott_ev>	good
[19:23]	<scott_ev>	no idea yet
[19:23]	<scott_ev>	I'm going to try to figure that out this week
[19:23]	<xHans>	Doorman352: the web site works well for several people :)
[19:24]	<xHans>	scott_ev: maybe just schedule it at the Free Software Stammtisch following the release
[19:24]	<scott_ev>	great idea
[19:24]	<scott_ev>	that'll do. I'll just put out a call for demonstrations
[19:24]	<xHans>	seperate events keep not working out, so let's push to get people to show up to an existing event until we build up enough people used to showing up every 6 months :)
[19:25]	<xHans>	scott_ev: new location has a screen :)
[19:25]	<scott_ev>	we'll need 2
[19:25]	<scott_ev>	sweet
[19:25]	<xHans>	I want to put Free Software games up on it every month
[19:25]	<scott_ev>	then I'll put something together and put it up on our site
[19:25]	<scott_ev>	]nice idea
[19:26]	<xHans>	cool
[19:26]	<scott_ev>	I'm going to re contact the asulug pres and invite them to start showing up
[19:26]	<xHans>	it would be great if they did
[19:26]	<scott_ev>	demo'ing games might draw them
[19:26]	<xHans>	that would also increase the likelihood of us being able to get games going :)
[19:27]	<scott_ev>	exactly
[19:27]	<scott_ev>	who here right now lives in phx or close?
[19:27]	<Doorman352>	so would strippers
[19:27]	<scott_ev>	Doorman352:
[19:27]	<scott_ev>	whgo else
[19:28]	<xHans>	Doorman352: they have natural wood walls, nothing to strip
[19:28]	<scott_ev>	I vote for midget strippers
[19:28]	<scott_ev>	OK, does anyone else have any input?
[19:28]	<scott_ev>	or did everyo9ne leave already?
[19:29]	<scott_ev>	OK then. we can close the meeting now due to lack of participation
[19:30]	<scott_ev>	I hope to see all of you next week. I'll have more prepared
[19:30]	<Doorman352>	ok, nite all!
[19:30]	<scott_ev>	take care and thanks for being here
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
