{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #114 for the week January 18, January 24, 2010.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Fourteenth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 27, 2010
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday January 31, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the January 24, 2010 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10January24

scott_ev began the meeting by reminding everyone that he is only filling in temporarily until johnc4510 can get back.

scott_ev then gave some announcements:

* Dustin Kirkland: 35,000-Core Ubuntu Farm Renders Avatar - Here's a couple of articles on Weta Digital's data center and their work on Avatar:  http://www.information-management.com/newsletters/avatar_data_processing-10016774-1.html , http://www.itworld.com/hardware/93127/data-center-plays-supporting-role-avatar .  See http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2010/01/39000-core-ubuntu-cluster-renders.html

* Analysis: Will Ubuntu Take Windows 7 In Speed War?  http://www.crn.com/software/222301154;jsessionid=SFZTST5CSBMQFQE1GHPCKHWATMY32JVN?cid=CRNFeed

* Canonical to bundle Code``Weavers Cross``Over?  http://www.wine-reviews.net/wine-reviews/news/canonical-to-bundle-CodeWeavers-CrossOver.html

* Linux Mint 8 vs Ubuntu 9.10 - http://linuxbsdos.com/2010/01/16/linux-mint-8-vs-ubuntu-9-10/

* Introducing Ubuntu Electronics Remix 9.10 - http://news.softpedia.com/news/Introducing-Ubuntu-Electronics-Remix-9-10-132890.shtml

* Ubuntu Bug Day:
** Date: Thursday 28 January 2010
** Place: #ubuntu-bugs on freenode IRC
** Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100128

* Ubuntu Brainstorm Top 5 this week
** Touchpad Speed, separate from Anything else speed - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23363/
** It's not easy enough to install a desktop cube in Ubuntu - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23424/
** display the size of files in software center - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23428/
** Consider Brainstorm contributions in Launchpad Karma - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23365/
** Better``Print-preview - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23415/

Ubuntu Brainstorm is a community site geared toward letting you add your ideas for Ubuntu. You can submit your own idea, or vote for or against another idea. http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/

* There will be a 10.04 Lucid Lynx release party at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe (http://www.bouldersonbroadway.net/) on the 24th of April. Boulders on Broadway has a room upstairs that we will have all to ourselves.  We'll have wifi access too.  It's going to be a good chance to eat some good grub, have a few drinks or brewski's and meet some of the other Ubu``Geeks that you have only met online.  We need volunteers for a couple of things:  we'll need a few extension cords and power strips.  Who's planning on attending that can help out with that?  It's a long way off, but I already have bitflip doing a presentation and Flakeparadigm is going to do a video presentation that we'll have top run for him.  He won't be able to come to the party.  Someone can pick out new features in 10.04 and present them or concentrate on one for example.  Anything to do with Ubuntu will be OK.  Things like how to navigate Launchpad and report bugs...  Actually, if you have a favorite piece of software that you use you can present that even if it's not in Ubuntu's repos.  Please be thinking about this.  It will only make the Release Party more of a success.  Here is a link to the Lucid Lynx planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/LucidLynx  Feel free to add to the ideas section or fill in anything that might be missing.  We will be heading there from the monthly installfest at UAT. http://tinyurl.com/yemru26 If you've never been to an installfest at UAT, you may want to consider checking it out.  Our Lo``Co co-sponsors it with PLUG but we are poorly represented.  There's a proposed flier posted at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1388113 please give us your feedback in the form of a vote with comments if needed.  http://azloco.com/node/120

* I finally made contact with a friend in Tucson that has the contacts we need for planning future Installfests at the University.  He will be getting me in contact with the people on campus in the CS department that we coordinated with last time.  So, it's time to start thinking about how we want to organize this event.  I'll need feedback from those of you that attended last time.  And I'm open to input.  We'll need to do a lot of planning so we can put on a good show for all attendees.  Remember that the University called it a Windows Removal Event.  That's because the CS dept has migrated to Ubuntu Linux!  Id imagine they are wondering where we've been since they wanted us to schedule regular installfests.  This would be a great opportunity to promote Ubuntu Linux to students and the general public in Tucson.  We'll need fliers, etc. etc. We'll need volunteers for a variety of duties so please please spread the word in channel and via email that we are calling for help.  I'll be setting a date pretty soon since I have made contact with the people down there.  Also, I need someone to compose an email and mass mail everyone in our mailing list an announcement about this and the upcoming Release Party.  Anyone that's willing to do this this week?

* This weekend hutchnate brought up the point that we need to set some guidelines about hardware requirements for different types of installs at an installfest.  There are regular installs, dual boot installs, Virtual Machine installs, and Wubi installs.  Apparently there was some issue with low powered machines and VM installs.  We really should avoid trying to run into this at the next installfest.

* I'm proud to announce an Ubucon at SCaLE8X on Friday, February 19th, 2010. An Ubucon is an organized event for Ubuntu users that's halfway between an unconference and a convention. The main focus is for Ubuntu users to get together and meet others, share ideas, and improve their skills.  You might consider going to SCaLE8X since we live within driving distance.  hutchnate and I have already registered and reserved a room for Friday and Saturday night.  Oh, if you don't know what SCaLE is, it's the Southern California Linux Exposition.  And Ubucon is part of it.  The Expo is held at the Westin LAX. map: http://tinyurl.com/yacqsst .  I need a volunteer to moderate the meeting on that Sunday night (February 21, 2010) as I won't be home in time to prepare for or attend the meeting.
** Keynote speakers: http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/speakers

http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/

* A lot of the info I gave you came from the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter that johnc4510 and tyche work on.  You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed.  Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Current . Or subscribe: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-news

scott_ev then asked xHans for any PLUG and class announcements:

* Community college classes started last week. Classes for GNU/Linux, javascript and C/C++ are among the classes this semester.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes

* West Side meeting Wednesday night, two presentations.
1. Examples of how a company, Infusionsoft, uses Free Software
2. Overview of new features in KDE SC 4.4

http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/347

* Monthly PLUG/Lo``Co Installfest  Saturday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/158

* PLUG devel a week from Thursday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/553

* PLUG has started new IRC meetings, they are the first and third Sundays of the month just before the AZLoCo meetings.  Next meeting is two weeks from tonight.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2273

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:37 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
