{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 18 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:10 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-12-18-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/github-top-programming-languages-of-2023/   (stephenm, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/tips-and-tricks-for-vlc/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/edatecs-industrial-pc-builds-on-raspberry-pi-5/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/new-extensions-youll-love-now-available-on-firefox-for-android/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-lunarvim/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/text-editors-linux/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/calamares-3-3-released-as-the-next-generation-graphical-installer-for-linux   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/gopeed-modern-download-manager/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/how-to-install-libreoffice-on-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.libreofficehelp.com/paste-skip-blanks-libreoffice/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://debugpointnews.com/libreoffice-vulnerabilities-dec-2023/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/understanding-the-tail-command-in-linux-with-examples/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/12/14/vivaldi_unveils_session_panels_to/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/open-networking-foundation-merges-open-source-networking-portfolio-into-linux-foundation/2023/12/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-change-user-password-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-wordpress-with-lamp-on-debian-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2023/12/released-today-whats-new-in-nextcloud-hub-7/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/introducing-solo-ai-website-builder/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-system-log-management-using-logrotate   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/rise-linux-ai-assistants   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/dd-command/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/how-kubernetes-1-29-improves-open-source-cloud-native-production-readiness/2023/12/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/12/14/linux_kernel_of_the_beast/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/svecc-events/   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/   (MajB, 04:09)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (58)
* stephenm (52)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:06 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:00 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:00 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:00 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:01 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:01 <stephenm> News is again random but take what you like

 04:01 <stephenm> Python Dominates: GitHub’s Top Programming Languages of 2023

 04:01 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/github-top-programming-languages-of-2023/

 04:02 <stephenm> Master VLC with These 10+ Expert Tips and Tricks

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/tips-and-tricks-for-vlc/

 04:02 <stephenm> EDATEC’s industrial PC builds on Raspberry Pi 5

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/edatecs-industrial-pc-builds-on-raspberry-pi-5/

 04:02 <stephenm> New extensions you’ll love now available on Firefox for Android

 04:02 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/new-extensions-youll-love-now-available-on-firefox-for-android/

 04:02 <stephenm> How to Install and Use LunarVim on Linux (Complete Guide)

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-lunarvim/

 04:02 <stephenm> 25 Best Text Editors for Ubuntu and Other Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/text-editors-linux/

 04:02 <stephenm> Calamares 3.3 Released as the Next Generation Graphical Installer for Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/calamares-3-3-released-as-the-next-generation-graphical-installer-for-linux

 04:02 <stephenm> gopeed – modern download manager

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/gopeed-modern-download-manager/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Install LibreOffice on Ubuntu

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxstans.com/how-to-install-libreoffice-on-ubuntu/

 04:03 <stephenm> Skip Blanks While Paste in LibreOffice Calc

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.libreofficehelp.com/paste-skip-blanks-libreoffice/

 04:03 <stephenm> LibreOffice Alert: Update Now to Fix Two Critical Vulnerabilities

 04:03 <stephenm> https://debugpointnews.com/libreoffice-vulnerabilities-dec-2023/

 04:03 <stephenm> Tail Command in Linux with Examples

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcapable.com/understanding-the-tail-command-in-linux-with-examples/

 04:03 <stephenm> Suffering from tab overload? Vivaldi unveils Session Panels

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/12/14/vivaldi_unveils_session_panels_to/

 04:03 <stephenm> Open Networking Foundation merges open source networking portfolio into Linux Foundation

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/open-networking-foundation-merges-open-source-networking-portfolio-into-linux-foundation/2023/12/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Change User Password in Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-change-user-password-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install WordPress with LAMP on Debian 12, 11 or 10

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-wordpress-with-lamp-on-debian-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Released Today: What’s New in Nextcloud Hub 7

 04:04 <stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2023/12/released-today-whats-new-in-nextcloud-hub-7/

 04:04 <stephenm> Introducing Solo, an AI website builder for solopreneurs

 04:04 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/introducing-solo-ai-website-builder/

 04:04 <stephenm> Understanding System Log Management Using Logrotate

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-system-log-management-using-logrotate

 04:04 <stephenm> Overclocking AMD Blows a Fuse

 04:04 <stephenm> .linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-system-log-management-using-logrotate

 04:04 <stephenm> The Rise of Linux AI Assistants

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/rise-linux-ai-assistants

 04:05 <stephenm> Learn Linux dd Command with 17 Examples

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/dd-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> How Kubernetes 1.29 improves open source cloud native production readiness

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/how-kubernetes-1-29-improves-open-source-cloud-native-production-readiness/2023/12/

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Kernel of the Beast 6.6.6 exorcised by angelic 6.6.7 update

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/12/14/linux_kernel_of_the_beast/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:05 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:05 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:06 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:06 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:06 <MajB> There are 221 open canonical Jobs today

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:06 <MajB> There are 59 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:06 <MajB> There are 15 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:07 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:07 <MajB> 28 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:07 <MajB> 04 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:07 <MajB> 06 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:07 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:07 <MajB> 07 January, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:07 <MajB> 11 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:07 <MajB> 11 January, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:07 <MajB> 20 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:07 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 21 January, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 25 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:08 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:08 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:08 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group

 04:08 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org

 04:08 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:08 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 19 December, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:08 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 11 January, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:08 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:08 <MajB> https://svecc.com/svecc-events/

 04:08 <MajB> Monthly meeting 10 January 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month),

 04:08 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:09 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group

 04:09 <MajB> https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:09 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 26 December 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:09 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:09 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:09 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:10 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
