{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 04 August - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole.
* 4 attendees.
* Discussed VPN's websites Linux Pandorea receivers and install-fest.
* Discussed Linux on Apple G5 computers.
* 06 August - Linux install-fest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 16 attendees.
* 7 installations; Ubuntu, Mint LXDE (1), and Fedora (1).
* Worked on 2 Proxmox servers
* Repaired SSH and log-in on one server
* Worked on computer with wireless Internet problem 
* Worked on BIOS password to clear it.
* Did a hardware supervisor password reset on a Thinkpad x61s Lenovo laptop.
* 07 August – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 11 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2007%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 14 August - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 9 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2014%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 20 August - Linux install-fest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 15 attendees
* Worked on the new team server and resynced files from old server to new server.
* Worked on the new install-fest server and resynced files from old server to new server.
* 3 installs: Mint, Virtual Box, Untangled.
* Session where resynced was studied.
* Zone minder repair.
* We discussed attending the Phoenix Mobile IOT Festival on September 24th at Grand Canyon University in Phoenix.
* We did a cellular phone repair.
* 21 August - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 9 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2021%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 25 August – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees.
* Discussed plans for upcoming Installation Festival to be held in January co-sponsored with the Cochise Linux User Group.
* Discussed Gparted and its uses.
* Discussed attendance at other AZLOCO and LUG events around the state.
* 25 August – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 9 attendees.  One new person.
* We worked on rsync commands for team servers, ssh testing to a server, and openvpn testing.
* Discussed android sim.
* 28 August - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 9 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2028%2C%202016%20Meeting
