{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 22 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-10-22-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/the-top-linux-and-open-source-conferences-in-2019-1810.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/2018/10/take-our-cloud-providers-survey-and-enter-win-maker-kit 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/10/think-global-communication-challenges 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/10/android-integration-extension-for-gnome.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.darkreading.com/vulnerabilities---threats/new-security-woes-for-popular-iot-protocols/d/d-id/1333069 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/use-git-version-control-system-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/raspbian-linux-distribution-updated-but-with-one-unexpected-omission/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/intro-to-linux/2018/10/linux-links-part-1 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/disable-root-login-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.osradar.com/customize-folders-with-folder-color-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-browse-and-read-entire-arch-wiki-as-linux-man-pages/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-start-a-vnc-server-for-the-actual-display-scraping-with-tigervnc/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2018/10/18/on-the-low-adoption-of-automated-testing-in-foss/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-remove-docker-images-containers-volumes-and-networks/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.theverge.com/2018/10/16/17985168/deep-learning-revolution-terrence-sejnowski-artificial-intelligence-technology 
''LINK:'' https://searchdatacenter.techtarget.com/tip/A-look-at-fundamental-Linux-sed-commands 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-and-use-docker-compose-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/ 
''LINK:'' https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2018/schedule 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://my.fsf.org/node/20/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (64)
* stephenm (38)
* xHans (18)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (3)
* wmack (2)
* ircstats (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 22 04:00:43 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <toddc> 1+

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> Alright I'm going to make this quick because I'm still tired from this morning. Or late last night which ever you choose.

 04:03 <MajB> Or both

 04:04 <stephenm> The Top 13 Linux and Open Source Conferences in 2019

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/the-top-linux-and-open-source-conferences-in-2019-1810.html

 04:04 <stephenm> can't be both it's either Saturday night or Sunday morning.  Since clocks says 12am is Sunday morning it's morning not night

 04:04 <toddc> wmack: do we have a link to IRC stats

 04:04 <stephenm> Take Our Cloud Providers Survey and Enter to Win a Maker Kit

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/2018/10/take-our-cloud-providers-survey-and-enter-win-maker-kit

 04:05 <stephenm> Think Global: How to Overcome Cultural Communication Challenges

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/10/think-global-communication-challenges

 04:05 <stephenm> Android Integration Extension For Gnome GSConnect v13 Stable Released

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/10/android-integration-extension-for-gnome.html

 04:05 <wmack> toddc - it is not yet quite working

 04:05 <stephenm> New Security Woes for Popular IoT Protocols

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.darkreading.com/vulnerabilities---threats/new-security-woes-for-popular-iot-protocols/d/d-id/1333069

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Use Git Version Control System in Linux [Comprehensive Guide]

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/use-git-version-control-system-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Raspbian Linux Distribution Updated, But with One Unexpected Omission

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/raspbian-linux-distribution-updated-but-with-one-unexpected-omission/

 04:05 <toddc> wmack: ok I just thought I would check logging

 04:05 <stephenm> Understanding Linux Links: Part 1

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/intro-to-linux/2018/10/linux-links-part-1

 04:06 <stephenm> 4 Ways to Disable Root Account in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/disable-root-login-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Customize Folders with Folder Color on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.osradar.com/customize-folders-with-folder-color-on-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Browse And Read Entire Arch Wiki As Linux Man Pages

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-browse-and-read-entire-arch-wiki-as-linux-man-pages/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to start a vnc server for the actual display (scraping) with TigerVNC

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-start-a-vnc-server-for-the-actual-display-scraping-with-tigervnc/

 04:06 <stephenm> On the low adoption of automated testing in FOSS

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2018/10/18/on-the-low-adoption-of-automated-testing-in-foss/

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Remove Docker Containers, Images, Volumes, and Networks

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-remove-docker-images-containers-volumes-and-networks/

 04:07 <stephenm> A Pioneering Scientist Explains Deep Learning

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.theverge.com/2018/10/16/17985168/deep-learning-revolution-terrence-sejnowski-artificial-intelligence-technology

 04:07 <stephenm> A Look at Fundamental Linux sed Commands

 04:07 <stephenm> https://searchdatacenter.techtarget.com/tip/A-look-at-fundamental-Linux-sed-commands

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Install and Use Docker Compose on CentOS 7

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-and-use-docker-compose-on-centos-7/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight. Back to MajB I think

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO/PLUG installfest 03 November (All campus event at UAT – No room is available)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 54 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are a total of 150 Linux administrator jobs, 64 of which are new listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <ircstats> ///log

 04:10 <MajB> There are 36 new jobs and a total of 84 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:11 <MajB> 25 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 25 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 01 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 03 November, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop Room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network con

 04:12 <MajB> nectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:12 <MajB> 15 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 17 November,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:12 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 29 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <xHans> si, gracias

 04:13 <xHans> We had a great turnout for the jobs networking event last week

 04:13 <xHans> The next jobs event is a resume review night in January

 04:13 <xHans> Regular Stammtisch next month

 04:14 <xHans> DevOpsDays Phoenix is Tuesday at Galvanize in Phoenix

 04:14 <xHans> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2018-phoenix/welcome/

 04:14 <xHans> use discount code PLUG2018 to get 10% off

 04:14 <xHans> Next month's east side topic is: Technically private

 04:14 <xHans> it's a tech savvy guide to online privacy

 04:14 <xHans> SeaGL is Friday and Saturday November 9th and 10th in Seattle

 04:14 <xHans> that's Veteran's Day weekend, the schedule is up

 04:14 <xHans> https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2018/schedule

 04:14 <xHans> No AZLoCo mtg that weekend, so got to SeaGL :)

 04:15 <xHans> CfP is open for SCaLE in LA, CfP closes Halloween

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x/cfp

 04:15 <xHans> CfP is open for LibrePlanet in Boston, CfP closes on the 26th in the morning

 04:15 <xHans> https://my.fsf.org/node/20/

 04:15 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:15 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:16 <MajB> Other LUG activities

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:16 <MajB> Meetting on 28 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 02 November 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 14 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 27 October 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> 03 November, CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop Room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network con

 04:17 <MajB> nectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 14 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:18 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:18 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:19 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
