{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 03 May at 04:02 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-05-03-04.02.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-starters-guide-introduction/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/04/fedora-34-features/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/change-hostname-in-debian-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/5/unusual-tech-career-paths   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/3-best-free-nas-software-solutions-for-network-storage/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/how-to-check-linux-os-versions/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/04/oh-my-git-is-open-source-game-for.html   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/04/install-deb-files/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/ftp-vs-sftp   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/linux-file-system-types-explained-which-one-should-you-use/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/4/quarkus-tutorial   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/20-add-on-provides-real-time-clock-for-the-raspberry-pi/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-run-command-in-background-on-linux   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/foreground-and-background-process-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.faqforge.com/linux/optimize-mysql-performance-with-mysqltuner/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/backup-ubuntu-systems-using-timeshift/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/virtualbox-vm-snapshots/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/linux-software-raid-1-setup   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (51)
* stephenm (42)
* meetingology (2)
* Eleison23 (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:02 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:02 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:02:41 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:02 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:03 <Eleison23> +1

 04:03 <stephenm> +1

 04:03 <MajB> +1

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:03 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:03 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:03 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:04 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:04 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:05 <stephenm> OK new is scattered so take your pick

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux for Starters: Your Guide to Linux – Introduction

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-starters-guide-introduction/

 04:05 <stephenm> Top 10 Features of Fedora 34 Workstation

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/04/fedora-34-features/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Set or Change Hostname in Debian Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/change-hostname-in-debian-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> 15 unusual paths to tech

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/5/unusual-tech-career-paths

 04:05 <stephenm> Three Best Free NAS Software Solutions for Network Storage

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/3-best-free-nas-software-solutions-for-network-storage/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Check Linux OS Version: 5 Simple Ways

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/how-to-check-linux-os-versions/

 04:06 <stephenm> Oh My Git!: An Open Source Game For Learning Git

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/04/oh-my-git-is-open-source-game-for.html

 04:06 <stephenm> 4 Ways to Install deb Files in Ubuntu [Beginner’s Guide]

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/04/install-deb-files/

 04:06 <stephenm> File transfer protocols: FTP vs SFTP

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/ftp-vs-sftp

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux File System Types Explained: Which One Should You Use?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/linux-file-system-types-explained-which-one-should-you-use/

 04:06 <stephenm> Zellij Is a New Terminal Multiplexer Written in Rust

 04:06 <stephenm> linuxuprising.com/2021/04/zellij-is-new-terminal-multiplexer.html

 04:07 <stephenm> How to create your first Quarkus application

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/4/quarkus-tutorial

 04:07 <stephenm> $20 add-on provides Real-Time Clock for the Raspberry Pi

 04:07 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/20-add-on-provides-real-time-clock-for-the-raspberry-pi/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Run Commands in the Background on Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-run-command-in-background-on-linux

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Work with Foreground and Background Process in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/foreground-and-background-process-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> Optimize MySQL Performance with mysqltuner

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.faqforge.com/linux/optimize-mysql-performance-with-mysqltuner/

 04:07 <stephenm> Ultimate Guide to Backing Up Your Ubuntu Systems Using Timeshift

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/backup-ubuntu-systems-using-timeshift/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Create and Restore VM Snapshots in VirtualBox

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/virtualbox-vm-snapshots/

 04:08 <stephenm> Linux Software Raid 1 Setup

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/linux-software-raid-1-setup

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 140 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 156 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 23 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:11 <MajB> 06 May, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 13 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour - 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 13 May, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour – https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000, Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 15 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects,

 04:11 <MajB> help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 16 May, AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az, 2100-2130.

 04:11 <MajB> 27May, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:12 <MajB> Most events are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 https://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly meeting 12 May, Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 22 May 1300-1500,  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:15 <MajB> Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
