{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 03 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-12-03-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/11/cregit-token-level-blame-information-linux-kernel 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/intro-to-linux/2018/11/5-minimal-web-browsers-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2018/11/28/linux-for-beginners-understanding-the-many-versions-of-ubuntu/#34ce86e45ac3 
''LINK:'' https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/11/mass-router-hack-exposes-millions-of-devices-to-potent-nsa-exploit/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.channelfutures.com/open-source/linux-foundation-offers-open-source-certification-exams-anywhere 
''LINK:'' https://m.subbu.org/taming-the-rate-of-change-439e3dccbb5d 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3322504/linux/selectively-deploying-your-superpowers-on-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://hackaday.com/2018/11/28/linux-fu-controlling-the-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-fail2ban-on-ubuntu-server-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/the-alias-and-unalias-commands-explained-with-examples/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/schedule-one-time-commands-unix-tool 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/11/kubernetes-production-4-myths-debunked?sc_cid=7016000000127eyAAA 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/11/three-ssh-guis-linux 
''LINK:'' https://developer.ibm.com/articles/why-should-we-use-microservices-and-containers/?social_post=1893368182&fst=Learn 
''LINK:'' https://jvns.ca/blog/2018/11/18/c---destructors---really-useful/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/11/ebbr-aims-standardize-embedded-boot-process 
''LINK:'' https://medium.com/intrinsic/compromised-npm-package-event-stream-d47d08605502 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/393/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/448/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (43)
* stephenm (39)
* RexB (30)
* toddc (13)
* meetingology (3)
* Stu (2)
* MajB (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <RexB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec  3 04:00:08 2018 UTC.  The chair is RexB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <RexB> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1 and mee too

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date 96521.52

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <Ron_A> 

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <stephenm> News starts out small techie stuff to more advance level.

 04:02 <stephenm> cregit: Token-Level Blame Information for the Linux Kernel

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/11/cregit-token-level-blame-information-linux-kernel

 04:02 <stephenm> 5 Minimal Web Browsers for Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/intro-to-linux/2018/11/5-minimal-web-browsers-linux

 04:02 <stephenm> Linux For Beginners: Understanding The Many Versions Of Ubuntu

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2018/11/28/linux-for-beginners-understanding-the-many-versions-of-ubuntu/#34ce86e45ac3

 04:02 <stephenm> Mass Router Hack Exposes Millions of Devices to Potent NSA Exploit

 04:02 <stephenm> https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/11/mass-router-hack-exposes-millions-of-devices-to-potent-nsa-exploit/

 04:02 <stephenm> Linux Foundation Offers Open Source Certification Exams from Anywhere

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.channelfutures.com/open-source/linux-foundation-offers-open-source-certification-exams-anywhere

 04:02 <stephenm> Taming the Rate of Change

 04:02 <stephenm> https://m.subbu.org/taming-the-rate-of-change-439e3dccbb5d

 04:03 <stephenm> Selectively Deploying your Superpowers on Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3322504/linux/selectively-deploying-your-superpowers-on-linux.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux Fu: Controlling the Terminal

 04:03 <stephenm> https://hackaday.com/2018/11/28/linux-fu-controlling-the-terminal/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Install fail2ban on Ubuntu Server 18.04

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-fail2ban-on-ubuntu-server-18-04/

 04:03 <stephenm> The alias And unalias Commands Explained With Examples

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/the-alias-and-unalias-commands-explained-with-examples/

 04:03 <stephenm> Schedule One-Time Commands with the Unix at Tool

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/schedule-one-time-commands-unix-tool

 04:04 <stephenm> Kubernetes in Production vs. Kubernetes in Development: 4 Myths

 04:04 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/11/kubernetes-production-4-myths-debunked?sc_cid=7016000000127eyAAA

 04:04 <stephenm> Three SSH GUI Tools for Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/11/three-ssh-guis-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Why Should You Use Microservices and Containers?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://developer.ibm.com/articles/why-should-we-use-microservices-and-containers/?social_post=1893368182&fst=Learn

 04:04 <stephenm> An Example of How C++ Destructors Are Useful in Envoy

 04:04 <stephenm> https://jvns.ca/blog/2018/11/18/c---destructors---really-useful/

 04:04 <stephenm> EBBR Aims to Standardize Embedded Boot Process

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/11/ebbr-aims-standardize-embedded-boot-process

 04:05 <stephenm> Compromised npm Package: event-stream

 04:05 <stephenm> https://medium.com/intrinsic/compromised-npm-package-event-stream-d47d08605502

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight. Back to you Ron_A

 04:05 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:05 <RexB> Thank you stephenm

 04:05 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:05 <Ron_A> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <RexB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <RexB> 05 January Installfest/Linux Workshop (Campus wide event – no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:06 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:06 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:06 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:06 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:06 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:06 <toddc> how did Ralph break the Internet?

 04:06 <Ron_A> I tried to say, "I'm a functional adult," but my phone changed it to "fictional adult," and I feel like that's more accurate.

 04:07 <Ron_A> The guy who invented auto-correct for smart phones passed away today.

 04:07 <Ron_A> Restaurant in peace.

 04:07 <Ron_A> 52 current canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:07 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:08 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:08 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:08 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by RexB tonight!

 04:08 <RexB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:08 <RexB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:08 <RexB> 06 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <RexB> 15 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:09 <RexB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <RexB> 27 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <RexB> 27 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:10 <toddc> December's East Side meeting is our annual end of year pot luck

 04:10 <toddc> A week from Thursday on December 13th

 04:10 <toddc> https://gettogether.community/events/393/east-valley-meeting/

 04:11 <toddc> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:11 <toddc> Stammtisch is on the 18th

 04:11 <toddc> https://gettogether.community/events/448/floss-stammtisch/

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:12 <toddc> There is no December security meeting, sec mtgs will restart in January

 04:12 <toddc> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:12 <toddc> ciao,

 04:12 <RexB> Rah

 04:12 <RexB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:12 <RexB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:13 <RexB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 23 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:13 <RexB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 07 December 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:13 <RexB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 12 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:13 <RexB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 12 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 22 December 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:13 <Ron_A> Thank you RexB and toddc !

 04:13 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:13 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:14 <Stu> almost made it this time... lol

 04:14 <toddc> yea almosst

 04:14 <Ron_A> Better late than never

 04:14 <RexB> CONFERENCES:

 04:14 <RexB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:14 <RexB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:14 <RexB> Pasadena, CA

 04:15 <RexB> Those of you that go to this one put it on your calendar

 04:15 <Ron_A> That is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:15 <Ron_A> Great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:15 <Stu> ha ha indeed... at least it was something pertinent... working on a little iso seedbox

 04:15 <RexB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
