{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 12 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-12-12-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/create-fully-automated-light-and-music-show-holidays-part-1 
''LINK:'' https://www.pcper.com/news/General-Tech/DOOM-Removes-Denuvo-DRM 
''LINK:'' https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/node/157578 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/3147937/linux/linux-foundation-adds-an-open-source-networking-specialist-to-the-team.html 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/play-retro-games-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.hostinger.com/tutorials/how-to-install-git-on-ubuntu 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-makes-it-easy-to-port-native-ios-and-android-apps-to-ubuntu-mobile-os-507147.shtml#ixzz4HLIDDB1d 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/analysis/new-role-assurance-virtualized-networks/2016/12/ 
''LINK:'' http://my-netdata.io/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/3147793/internet-of-things/ubuntu-core-has-the-keys-to-iot-security.html 
''LINK:'' http://motherboard.vice.com/read/why-future-microprocessors-may-ditch-silicon-for-carbon 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/how-cord-project-will-change-economics-broadband%20 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/ask-john-willis-your-devops-questions-free-webinar-series 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/3147706/technology-business/ibm-building-blockchain-ecosystem.html 
''LINK:'' http://thenewstack.io/long-last-linux-gets-dynamic-tracing/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-4-4-17-lts-has-updated-drivers-ecryptfs-x86-and-ext4-improvements-507210.shtml#ixzz4HL70ojQ3 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.lever.co/cruise 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.nextstepsystems.com/j_southwest.htm 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' http://www.streetsign.org.uk/ 
''LINK:'' https://unmark.it/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.calligra.org/karbon/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJEluaRQX8E 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (67)
* stephenm (44)
* MajB (30)
* wmack (5)
* mark91 (4)
* RioOfTheWind (3)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* seanw (1)
* pavlos (1)
* Deoxizn (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 12 04:00:18 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Deoxizn> +1

 04:00 <RioOfTheWind> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 94548.86

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <seanw> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> Hi Ron_A

 04:01 <stephenm> Ron_A is here

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> Late  but he is here

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <Ron_A> Hi All

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <MajB> Hey mark91

 04:02 <mark91> +1

 04:02 <stephenm> evening mark91

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <mark91> Hi MajB

 04:02 <mark91> Hi Stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> Like always news is world readable, tech readable, then insane readable

 04:02 <MajB> hey wmack

 04:03 <wmack> +1

 04:03 <stephenm> Create a Fully Automated Light and Music Show for the Holidays: Part 1

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/create-fully-automated-light-and-music-show-holidays-part-1

 04:03 <stephenm> There are 3 parts to if I didn't feel like adding the other 2.

 04:03 <stephenm> DOOM Removes Denuvo DRM

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.pcper.com/news/General-Tech/DOOM-Removes-Denuvo-DRM

 04:03 <stephenm> I haven't played Doom in a couple years so I don't know the effect this will have.

 04:03 <stephenm> Bulgaria, France, UK, US support OGP free software policy

 04:03 <stephenm> https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/node/157578

 04:04 <stephenm> no only if our own government was into Opensource also.

 04:04 <stephenm> That is not an invitation to start a political fight ya'll

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux Foundation adds an open source networking specialist to the team

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.networkworld.com/article/3147937/linux/linux-foundation-adds-an-open-source-networking-specialist-to-the-team.html

 04:04 <stephenm> 17 MEMORABLE RETRO GAMES THAT YOU CAN PLAY ON LINUX TODAY

 04:05 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/play-retro-games-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Install Git On Ubuntu 14.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.hostinger.com/tutorials/how-to-install-git-on-ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> Canonical Makes It Easy to Port Native iOS and Android Apps to Ubuntu Mobile OS

 04:05 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-makes-it-easy-to-port-native-ios-and-android-apps-to-ubuntu-mobile-os-507147.shtml#ixzz4HLIDDB1d

 04:05 <stephenm> The New Role of Assurance for Virtualized Networks

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/analysis/new-role-assurance-virtualized-networks/2016/12/

 04:05 <stephenm> Get control of your Linux servers

 04:05 <stephenm> http://my-netdata.io/

 04:05 <stephenm> Ubuntu Core has the keys to IoT security

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3147793/internet-of-things/ubuntu-core-has-the-keys-to-iot-security.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Why Future Microprocessors May Ditch Silicon for Carbon

 04:05 <stephenm> http://motherboard.vice.com/read/why-future-microprocessors-may-ditch-silicon-for-carbon

 04:05 <stephenm> How the CORD Project Will Change the Economics of Broadband

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/how-cord-project-will-change-economics-broadband%20

 04:06 <stephenm> Ask John Willis Your DevOps Questions in this Free Webinar Series

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/ask-john-willis-your-devops-questions-free-webinar-series

 04:06 <stephenm> IBM building blockchain ecosystem

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3147706/technology-business/ibm-building-blockchain-ecosystem.html

 04:06 <stephenm> At Long Last, Linux Gets Dynamic Tracing

 04:06 <stephenm> http://thenewstack.io/long-last-linux-gets-dynamic-tracing/

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Kernel 4.4.17 LTS Has Updated Drivers, eCryptfs, x86 and EXT4 Improvements

 04:06 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-4-4-17-lts-has-updated-drivers-ecryptfs-x86-and-ext4-improvements-507210.shtml#ixzz4HL70ojQ3

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight everyone, now to turn it back to who ever is the boss tonight

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <toddc> MEEEE!

 04:07 <MajB> Good job stephenm

 04:07 <Ron_A> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:07 <mark91> Thank you Stephenm.

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> are we ready?

 04:08 <stephenm> no

 04:09 <toddc> Q: Why didn't the fly go near the computer?

 04:09 <stephenm> WIndows was open

 04:09 <toddc> A: Because he was afraid he would get caught on the Web.

 04:09 <MajB> There was an active web

 04:09 <toddc> What's the first symptom a computer is getting old?

 04:09 <toddc> Memory problems.

 04:10 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> several scottsdale based IT working with self driving car testing

 04:10 <toddc> https://jobs.lever.co/cruise

 04:10 <toddc> 27 current canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <toddc> break/fix server engineer Tempe

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.nextstepsystems.com/j_southwest.htm

 04:10 <toddc> Software Developer Tempe

 04:11 <toddc> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:11 <toddc> thank you to the linux action show for the following links

 04:11 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:11 <toddc> StreetSign

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.streetsign.org.uk/

 04:11 <toddc> Desktop Picks

 04:11 <toddc> Unmark – The to do app for bookmarks. Online book Mark manager

 04:12 <toddc> https://unmark.it/

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Karbon is a vector drawing application with an user interface that is easy to use

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.calligra.org/karbon/

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:13 <MajB> 17 December, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwar

 04:13 <MajB> 22 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 22 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.           Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> THE WEEKLY AZLOCO ON LINE MEETINGS FOR 25 DECEMBER AND 01 JANUARY HAVE BEEN CANCELLED BECAUSE OF THE HOLIDAYS

 04:14 <MajB> 05 January, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.           Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 07 January, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software

 04:14 <MajB> That is all that I have for now

 04:14 <toddc> ubuntu on air

 04:15 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar

 04:15 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:15 <toddc> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:15 <toddc> When Tue, December 13 8-9am

 04:15 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:15 <toddc> also be advised they are moving to you-tube soon

 04:15 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <RioOfTheWind> Top 10 Most Awesome & Obscure Open Source Linux Games

 04:17 <RioOfTheWind> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJEluaRQX8E

 04:18 <toddc> cool thanks RioOfTheWind

 04:19 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:19 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:19 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 13 December 6:30-9:30 pm.  The Hungry Monk, 218 W. Goodwin Street, Prescott, AZ.  https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, Learning Resource Center, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinux.com

 04:19 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 18 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.  This is a change of dates because of the holiday.

 04:20 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 December 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   http://phxlinux.org/

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 December is CANCELLED  because of the Christmas holiday.  http://cochiselinux.com

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 January 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 January 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:20 <MajB> That is all that i have this evening

 04:21 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:21 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:21 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:21 <wmack> thank you MajB

 04:21 <MajB> AZLOCO and CLUG will be co-sponsoring an Installation Festival in Sierra Vista AZ on 28 January 2017, 10-4 pm. University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, Resource Learning Center commons area, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:21 <MajB> SCaLE 15x will be held 2-5 March 2017 at the Pasadena Convention Center, Pasadena CA.  Plan to attend if you can.  More information will be distributed as it becomes available.  https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/

 04:21 <wmack> Looking forward to that one!

 04:22 <wmack> (the install fest in sv that is)

 04:22 <MajB> Thank you wmack

 04:22 <toddc> I still and planning to carpool to that

 04:22 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:23 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:23 <wmack> thanks toddc!

 04:23 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:23 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
