{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 03 Oct at 03:59 &mdash; 04:19 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-10-03-03.59.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://academy.techrepublic.com/sales/the-2022-complete-raspberry-pi-arduino-developer-bundle   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/best-free-self-hosted-music-streaming-software/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/figma-alternatives/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/plasma-mobile-gear-22-09-is-out-for-your-phone-and-tablet-with-a-new-default-homescreen   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-photo-booth/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-has-a-new-release-to-improve-detection-of-bluetooth-hid-devices   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/shotcut-22-09-video-editor-adds-initial-support-for-webp-animations-new-video-filters   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/system76s-oryx-pro-linux-laptop-gets-a-4k-oled-display-and-ddr5-ram   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/star-labs-shares-more-details-on-its-upcoming-starfighter-4k-linux-laptop   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/filelight-visualize-disk-usage-on-your-linux-system/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-setup-linux-media-server-using-jellyfin/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/manage-chroot-environments-linux-atoms/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-configure-mouse-support-for-linux-virtual-consoles/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/subfinder-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxbuzz.com/how-to-install-docker-on-almalinux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://lowell.edu/about/career-opportunities/   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://neurtex.org/home/job-posting-consulting-unix-systems-administrator/   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techradar.com/best/linux-pc   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsubuntu.com/list-of-best-useful-linux-applications/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:18)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (63)
* stephenm (36)
* MajB (33)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started at 03:59:31 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 03:59 <toddc> hi stephenm

 03:59 <stephenm> hi toddc

 03:59 <MajB> hi stephenm

 04:00 <stephenm> evening MajB

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> *1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Stardate 100351.8

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL NAME YOUR CAR DAY | OCTOBER 2

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> OK the news is a little short so sorry about that

 04:03 <stephenm> The 2022 Complete Raspberry Pi & Arduino Developer Bundle

 04:03 <stephenm> https://academy.techrepublic.com/sales/the-2022-complete-raspberry-pi-arduino-developer-bundle

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 Best Free Self-Hosted Music Streaming Software

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/best-free-self-hosted-music-streaming-software/

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 Free and Open-Source Figma Alternatives

 04:03 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/figma-alternatives/

 04:03 <stephenm> Plasma Mobile Gear 22.09 Is Out for Your Phone and Tablet

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/plasma-mobile-gear-22-09-is-out-for-your-phone-and-tablet-with-a-new-default-homescreen

 04:04 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Photo Booth

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-photo-booth/

 04:04 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi OS New Release Improves Detection of Bluetooth HID

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-has-a-new-release-to-improve-detection-of-bluetooth-hid-devices

 04:04 <stephenm> Shotcut 22.09 Video Editor Adds Initial Support for WebP Animations, New Video Filters

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/shotcut-22-09-video-editor-adds-initial-support-for-webp-animations-new-video-filters

 04:04 <stephenm> System76’s Oryx Pro Linux Laptop Gets a 4K OLED Display, DDR5 RAM

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/system76s-oryx-pro-linux-laptop-gets-a-4k-oled-display-and-ddr5-ram

 04:04 <stephenm> Star Labs Shares Details on Upcoming StarFighter 4K Linux Laptop

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/star-labs-shares-more-details-on-its-upcoming-starfighter-4k-linux-laptop

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Visualize Disk Usage With Filelight In Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/filelight-visualize-disk-usage-on-your-linux-system/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Setup Streaming Media Server Using Jellyfin In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-setup-linux-media-server-using-jellyfin/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Easily Manage Chroot Environments in Linux with Atoms

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/manage-chroot-environments-linux-atoms/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Configure Mouse Support for Linux Virtual Consoles with GPM

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-configure-mouse-support-for-linux-virtual-consoles/

 04:05 <stephenm> Subfinder: Fast Passive Subdomain Enumeration Tool in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/subfinder-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Docker on AlmaLinux 9 Step-by-Step

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxbuzz.com/how-to-install-docker-on-almalinux/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <MajB> 24 November, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour (Conflict with Thanksgiving)

 04:07 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:07 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> Dont' drink and root!!!!

 04:09 <toddc> Windows - The best $199 solitaire game you can buy!

 04:09 <toddc> Programmer.

 04:09 <toddc> A person who fixed a problem that you don't know you have, in a way you don't understand.

 04:09 <toddc> A system administrator has 2 problems:

 04:10 <toddc> - dumb users - smart users

 04:10 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:10 <toddc> IT TIER 1 SUPPORT TECHNICIAN

 04:10 <toddc> https://lowell.edu/about/career-opportunities/

 04:11 <toddc> Ubuntu cluster admin Tempe and remote

 04:11 <toddc> https://neurtex.org/home/job-posting-consulting-unix-systems-administrator/

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical has 208 open positions

 04:11 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:11 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 93 open jobs

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&

 04:12 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:12 <toddc> Best Linux PC of 2022: desktop PCs with Linux pre-installed

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.techradar.com/best/linux-pc

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> List Of Best Useful Linux Applications For 2022

 04:12 <toddc> https://itsubuntu.com/list-of-best-useful-linux-applications/

 04:13 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:14 <MajB> 06 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 13 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 13 October, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 15 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:14 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 16 October,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:14 <MajB> 27 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 03 November,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 05 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:14 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 06 November,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:15 <MajB> Many events are being held on line.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:16 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 13 October, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 18 October, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly meeting 12 October, 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 22 October, 1300-1500 (fourth Saturday of each month),  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:16 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:17 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:17 <toddc> we need some???   0????

 04:18 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:18 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:18 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022

 04:18 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:18 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:18 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:19 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:19 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
