{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 04 Jul at 03:59 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-07-04-03.59.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/rhel-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/debian-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-june-2022-updates/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-autodesk-3ds-max/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/handbrake/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/star-labs-teases-the-starfighter-linux-laptop-with-4k-display-amd-or-intel-processors   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/unity-7-6-desktop-environment-released/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.esecurityplanet.com/applications/kubernetes-exposed-on-internet/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/fetch-mac-address-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/install-vivaldi-browser-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-generate-a-strong-pre-shared-key-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.esecurityplanet.com/threats/sophisticated-malware-attacks-home-office-routers/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/linux-php-hardening-security-tips/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/ripgrep-all/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://osnote.com/how-to-install-lemp-stack-on-almalinux-8-and-rocky-linux-8/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-xfce-desktop-on-centos-9-stream/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/find-exact-installation-date-time-linux-os/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/check-inodes-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.esecurityplanet.com/trends/hacking-linux-is-easy-with-pwnkit/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.itbusinessedge.com/development/python-for-machine-learning-tutorial/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://bullhorn.personified.com/main/candidateFlow?execution=e1s1#   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=RISC-V-Dev-Laptop   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB1, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB1, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (52)
* stephenm (49)
* MajB1 (32)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started at 03:59:37 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> I'm here

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 100102.83

 04:00 <toddc> cool

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB1> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> almost missed it again

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL EAT YOUR BEANS DAY

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News goes from small things to more specific

 04:03 <stephenm> The History of RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux) Distribution

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/rhel-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> The History of Debian Linux Distribution

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/debian-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Software – June 2022 Updates

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-june-2022-updates/

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Autodesk 3ds Max

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-autodesk-3ds-max/

 04:03 <stephenm> HandBrake: Free, Open Source App for Converting Videos

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/handbrake/

 04:03 <stephenm> very useful tool

 04:04 <stephenm> Star Labs Teases the StarFighter Linux Laptop with 4K Display, AMD or Intel Processors

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/star-labs-teases-the-starfighter-linux-laptop-with-4k-display-amd-or-intel-processors

 04:04 <stephenm> 12-Year-Old Developer Brings Ubuntu’s Unity Desktop Back to Life

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/unity-7-6-desktop-environment-released/

 04:04 <toddc> I lioke handbrake

 04:04 <stephenm> Nearly a Million Kubernetes Instances Exposed on Internet

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.esecurityplanet.com/applications/kubernetes-exposed-on-internet/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Get the MAC Address of a Network Interface Card

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/fetch-mac-address-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install Vivaldi Browser on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/install-vivaldi-browser-on-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Generate a Strong Pre-shared Key on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-generate-a-strong-pre-shared-key-on-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Highly Sophisticated Malware Attacks Home and Small Office Routers

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.esecurityplanet.com/threats/sophisticated-malware-attacks-home-office-routers/

 04:05 <stephenm> I doubt this article would do much for us, since most of us are techs and change settings in routers anyways, unless we wanted to create honeypots

 04:05 <stephenm> Top PHP Hardening Security Tips for Linux Servers

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/linux-php-hardening-security-tips/

 04:05 <stephenm> ripgrep-all Command in Linux: One grep to Rule Them All

 04:05 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/ripgrep-all/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Nginx, MariaDB, and PHP (LEMP Stack) on AlmaLinux 8 and Rocky Linux 8

 04:06 <stephenm> https://osnote.com/how-to-install-lemp-stack-on-almalinux-8-and-rocky-linux-8/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Xfce Desktop Environment on CentOS 9 Stream

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-xfce-desktop-on-centos-9-stream/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Find Exact Installation Date And Time Of Your Linux OS

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/find-exact-installation-date-time-linux-os/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Get Total Inodes of Root Partition

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/check-inodes-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Hacking Linux is Easy with PwnKit

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.esecurityplanet.com/trends/hacking-linux-is-easy-with-pwnkit/

 04:06 <stephenm> I don't know how much of a concern this is since I have it on my Linux box

 04:07 <toddc> lots of custome router software outthee that gets patched on a regular basis and easy to install

 04:07 <stephenm> Python for Machine Learning: A Tutorial

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.itbusinessedge.com/development/python-for-machine-learning-tutorial/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:07 <MajB1> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:07 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:08 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> Why are linux geeks very introvertish ?

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> Because they never get out of their shell

 04:09 <toddc> Most appliances use a Linux based OS

 04:09 <toddc> But washing machines have windows

 04:09 <MajB1> Not all

 04:09 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:10 <toddc> Software Engineer Needed  Mesa

 04:10 <toddc> dave@davids.org

 04:10 <toddc> IT Network Operations Center Technician

 04:10 <toddc> http://bullhorn.personified.com/main/candidateFlow?execution=e1s1#

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical has 188 open positions

 04:10 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:11 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 143 open jobs

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&country%5B%5D=USA&state%5B%5D=Arizona&business_category%5B%5D=amazon-web-services&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=&base_query=&city=&country=&region=&county=&query_options=&

 04:11 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:11 <toddc> The First RISC-V Laptop Announced With Quad-Core CPU, 16GB RAM, Linux Support

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=RISC-V-Dev-Laptop

 04:12 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:12 <MajB1> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:12 <MajB1> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:12 <MajB1> 07 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB1> 14 July Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB1> 14 July, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB1> 16 July,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:13 <MajB1> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB1> 17 July,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:13 <MajB1> 28 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB1> 04 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB1> 06 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:13 <MajB1> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB1> 07 August,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:13 <MajB1> Back to you toddc

 04:13 <toddc> LuftHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:14 <MajB1> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:14 <MajB1> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:14 <MajB1> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:14 <MajB1> Most events are being held on line.

 04:14 <MajB1> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB1> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:14 <MajB1> Monthly Meeting 14 July, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB1> Free Software Stammtisch 19 July, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB1> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:14 <MajB1> Monthly meeting 13 July 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:15 <MajB1> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:15 <MajB1> Monthly Meeting 23 July, 1300-1500 (fourth Saturday of each month),  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:15 <MajB1> CONFERENCES:

 04:15 <MajB1> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022

 04:15 <MajB1> https://seagl.org/

 04:15 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:16 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
