{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #85 for the week March 9, March 15.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Eighty Fifth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-March 18, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday March 22, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the March 15, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09March15

Johnc4510 began the meeting with some announcements:

* Jaunty Jackalope Alpha 6 released...link location with links to the iso's here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-March/000551.html

* Ubuntu Testing Day: Notify-OSD - Ubuntu Testing Day will be March 16th. Ubuntu Testing day is a special day where the Ubuntu Community comes together with a shared goal of testing a specific set of ISO images (Alpha, Beta, RC, Gold or Point releases), a specific feature, or bugs needing verification. Taking the idea from the Ubuntu Bug Day, Ubuntu Testing Day will apply the same concepts to ISO testing. http://blog.qa.ubuntu.com/node/37

* Hug Day: March 19th - Target: cups - Planning Page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20090319

* Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team has taken a step forward, with guidance from Bodhi Zazen, and collaboration with Ubuntu Classroom. They are offering IRC events and courses, held in #ubuntu-classroom. The first two events will be on Security (March 19th and March 26th and cover security. More info here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom

johnc4510 then asked Adler_ to introduce himself:

"I've been running Linux for 7 - 8 years. Started with SuSE, went to the early versions of Ubuntu, ran SLED. Eventually ended up doing Jommla! sites, SMF Forums, and run Wordpress."  The Team welcomed Adler_.

duanedesign also introduced himself:

"I feel like a bit of a voyuer so I want to introduce myself. I am the coordinator of the Oklahoma Loco. ShaneLofgren recently came to a meeting and johnc4510 has been nice enought o help me with some questions. I am goig to try and come by for your meetings just to get a feel for how a more active Loco functions."  duanedesign was encouraged to join in any time he wanted to, and to ask lots of questions.

Info on the ASU Installfest next saturday: http://paste.ubuntu.com/131814/ .  All the info is there.  Looks big, and like a lot of fun.  There will be other groups there.  [Ed. note: see also http://www.azloco.com/node/73 ]

johnc4510 then talked about the Jaunty Jackalpe events planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/JauntyEvents .  He promised to make the wiki page for jaunty planning, and he did, but no one has put anything on it.  He needs you folks to start putting some ideas on it.  xHans asked if the Jaunty release party was going to coincide with PLUG's April install fest.  It was pointed out that the install fest was only a couple of days after the actual release (April 23, which will be a Thursday).  johnc4510 replied that a lot would depend on whether or not we had received a shipment of CDs by that time.  xHans then said, "if you want to wait for the CDs we could do a party of sorts then and then do the release install fest at the end of May."  This is a possible alternative, if it looks like the CDs won't arrive on time.

ABLEcon...cory has agreed to help on the local committee (http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/23), and we've exchanged phone numbers.

johnc4510 then asked for PLUG announcements from xHans.

* 2nd quarter classes are starting in a week at a couple of community colleges.  It's spring break this week, so contact them early in the week if you want more info.  The security class at MCC is wide open, but needs 10 students before Tuesday afternoon, but it should be running at EMCC.  http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5656 .  Talk to me if you need an override for GNU/Linux system administration, CIS238DL.  Thanks to Dennis who's been selling out our intro class every quarter and has also been selling out our sysadmin class!

* EMCC has several classes as well.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/757 .  They probably need a few more to run shell scripting and a half dozen for GNU/Linux system administration.

* Both Free Software Stammtische are this week, http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch .  The Tempe Stammtisch will probably be a bit short as it's on St. Patrick's Day.  The Free Software Stammtisch is a social environment for GNU, Linux, *BSD and Free Software enthusiasts. We start about 19:00 and run until we leave or 22:00, whichever is later.

* There was an OpenStreetMap party today (Sunday), they're scheduled back in May.  We have a presentation scheduled at PLUG's May east side meeting and then a two day mapping party on the weekend.  That'll be presentation on May 7th with mapping party on the 9th (same day as security hackfest) and 10th.

johnc4510 then said, "We want to thank xHans once again for keeping us up to date on the state events and happenings".

scott_ev then reminded johnc4510 that he was supposed to talk about bug triaging.

"Lately we have mentioned getting the team involved in bur triaging, etc., so, johnc4510 asked me to put together a blog outlining the procedures.  It can be found at http://azloco.com/node/64 .  The thing is that QA is or can be as important to the longevity and well-being of an OS as just about anything.  To get involved you don't need to be a power user or a developer.  There are things that anyone with any skill set can do.  Remember too, for those of you that may want to pursue Ubuntu membership, that launchpad karma is as important as team stuff.  The blog article is at http://azloco.com/node/64 .  I eventually would like to get the team working on bugs for hug day to be on the team bug reporting stats.  If you start with the link to bug triaging, it will take you everywhere else you need to go.  There are bugs that are easy like duplicates and old untouched bugs and difficult bugs.  We could find space and time and devote a Saturday to the team getting together for bug training, etc."

The meeting was adjourned at 9:50 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
