{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo, 02 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-10-02-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://hothardware.com/reviews/intel-core-i9-7980xe-and-core-i9-7960x-review-and-benchmarks 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/audience/attorneys/dont-miss-free-guides-running-successful-open-source-program/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-kliqqi-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/9/floss-desktops-kids 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/9/jazz-lm-sensors-graphics-and-notifications-0 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/resources/python/web-scraper-crawler 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/9/modular-documentation 
''LINK:'' https://kerneltalks.com/virtualization/how-to-reset-iptables-to-default-settings/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/9/librem-5-leads-new-wave-open-source-mobile-linux-contenders 
''LINK:'' https://www.infoworld.com/article/3228154/sql/whats-new-in-mysql-80.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/opnfv/2017/9/network-functions-virtualization-all-roads-lead-opnfv 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/suse-introduces-new-container-management-service-for-iaas-and-paas-clouds/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.embedded-computing.com/dev-tools-and-os/identifying-secure-firmware-update-mechanisms-for-embedded-linux-devices-and-open-source-options# 
''LINK:'' https://bash-prompt.net/guides/create-system-load/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-a-vpn-killswitch-using-iptables-on-linux 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2017/9/what-clarence-birdseye-can-teach-us-about-container-security 
''LINK:'' https://blog.codeship.com/documenting-microservices/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://seagl.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (51)
* MajB (42)
* Stephenl_ (38)
* xHans (11)
* toddc (5)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* wmack (1)
* az_fox (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct  2 04:00:27 2017 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date   95353.13

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <Stephenl_> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:02 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <Stephenl_> News starts with simple Linux stuff to more complex.

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <Stephenl_> Intel Core i9-7980XE And Core i9-7960X Review: Intel Attacks AMD Threadripper

 04:02 <Stephenl_> https://hothardware.com/reviews/intel-core-i9-7980xe-and-core-i9-7960x-review-and-benchmarks

 04:02 <Stephenl_> Don’t Miss These Free Guides to Running a Successful Open Source Program

 04:02 <Stephenl_> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/audience/attorneys/dont-miss-free-guides-running-successful-open-source-program/

 04:03 <Stephenl_> How to Install and Use Kliqqi on Ubuntu to Create Your Own Social Community

 04:03 <Stephenl_> https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-kliqqi-ubuntu/

 04:03 <Stephenl_> Kids can't code without computers

 04:03 <Stephenl_> https://opensource.com/article/17/9/floss-desktops-kids

 04:03 <Stephenl_> Jazz Up lm-sensors with Graphics and Notifications

 04:03 <Stephenl_> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/9/jazz-lm-sensors-graphics-and-notifications-0

 04:04 <Stephenl_> 3 Python web scrapers and crawlers

 04:04 <Stephenl_> https://opensource.com/resources/python/web-scraper-crawler

 04:04 <Stephenl_> Modular documentation: How to make both writers and users happy

 04:04 <Stephenl_> https://opensource.com/article/17/9/modular-documentation

 04:04 <Stephenl_> How to reset iptables to default settings

 04:04 <Stephenl_> https://kerneltalks.com/virtualization/how-to-reset-iptables-to-default-settings/

 04:05 <Stephenl_> Librem 5 Leads New Wave of Open Source Mobile Linux Contenders

 04:05 <Stephenl_> Librem 5 Leads New Wave of Open Source Mobile Linux Contenders

 04:05 <Stephenl_> https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/9/librem-5-leads-new-wave-open-source-mobile-linux-contenders

 04:05 <Stephenl_> What’s new in MySQL 8.0

 04:05 <Stephenl_> https://www.infoworld.com/article/3228154/sql/whats-new-in-mysql-80.html

 04:05 <Stephenl_> Network Functions Virtualization: All Roads Lead to OPNFV

 04:05 <Stephenl_> https://www.linux.com/blog/opnfv/2017/9/network-functions-virtualization-all-roads-lead-opnfv

 04:05 <Stephenl_> SUSE introduces new container management service for IaaS and PaaS clouds

 04:05 <Stephenl_> http://www.zdnet.com/article/suse-introduces-new-container-management-service-for-iaas-and-paas-clouds/

 04:06 <Stephenl_> Identifying secure firmware update mechanisms and open source options for embedded Linux devices

 04:06 <Stephenl_> http://www.embedded-computing.com/dev-tools-and-os/identifying-secure-firmware-update-mechanisms-for-embedded-linux-devices-and-open-source-options#

 04:06 <Stephenl_> Simulate System Loads

 04:06 <Stephenl_> https://bash-prompt.net/guides/create-system-load/

 04:06 <Stephenl_> How To Create A VPN Killswitch Using Iptables on Linux

 04:06 <Stephenl_> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-a-vpn-killswitch-using-iptables-on-linux

 04:07 <Stephenl_> What Clarence Birdseye can teach us about container security

 04:07 <Stephenl_> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2017/9/what-clarence-birdseye-can-teach-us-about-container-security

 04:07 <Stephenl_> Tools and Practices for Documenting Microservices

 04:07 <Stephenl_> https://blog.codeship.com/documenting-microservices/

 04:07 <Stephenl_> That's all I have for tonight, back to you Ron_A.  Only going to stay for a few minutes maybe

 04:07 <Ron_A> Great job stephenl!

 04:07 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephenl

 04:08 <toddc> cool Stephenl_

 04:08 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <Ron_A> Eleison23 is now in charge of the AZLOCO humor

 04:08 <Ron_A> Your up Eleison23

 04:09 <Ron_A> In our world, software has to be small, has to be debugged,

 04:09 <Ron_A> has to ship as part of a major initiative, has to avoid

 04:09 <Ron_A> compatibility problems, has to avoid end user calls.

 04:09 <Ron_A> -- Bill Gates

 04:09 <az_fox> +1

 04:09 <Ron_A> I suggested holding a "Python Object Oriented Programming Seminar",

 04:09 <Ron_A> but the acronym was unpopular.

 04:09 <Ron_A> -- Joseph Strout

 04:10 <Ron_A> 30 current canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:10 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:10 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:10 <MajB> 05 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:11 <MajB> 21 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:11 <MajB> 26 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:12 <Ron_A> New Members this week

 04:12 <Ron_A> nomenunknown

 04:12 <Ron_A> Eleison23

 04:12 <Ron_A> bainter8326

 04:12 <Ron_A> cuatrocinco

 04:12 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:13 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:13 <xHans> PLUG east side next month has topics on C++ and immutable builds

 04:13 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/

 04:13 <xHans> DevOpsDays is Tuesday, October 24th

 04:13 <xHans> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/

 04:13 <xHans> DevOpsDays Phoenix is still looking for more sponsors as well

 04:13 <xHans> The SCaLE cfp is open

 04:13 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:14 <xHans> SCaLE will be Thur - Sun, March 8th to 11th next year in Pasadena

 04:14 <xHans> Today's CryptoParty went well, the plan for the group is to have two a year

 04:14 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:14 <Ron_A> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:15 <Ron_A> And now Majb with OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 October 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 October 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:15 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:15 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 15 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Linux Meet-up meeting on 17 October 7-8 pm. Location TBA, Tucson.

 04:16 <MajB> https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/

 04:16 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 October 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conve

 04:16 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 28 October 10-4 pm.  Learning Resource Center University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Back to you Ron_A

 04:17 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:17 <Ron_A> Toddc do you have anything to add?

 04:17 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:17 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:18 <MajB> 06-07 October 2017, Seattle GNU/Linux Conference

 04:18 <MajB> Seattle Central College, Seattle WA

 04:18 <MajB> http://seagl.org/

 04:18 <MajB> 24 October 2017, DevOpsDays Phoenix

 04:18 <MajB> 515 E Grant St,

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix, AZ 85004

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/

 04:18 <MajB> 09 November 2017, 3rd Annual Cyber Southwest (CSW) symposium

 04:18 <MajB> Radisson Suites Hotel - Catalina Ballroom

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson, AZ

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/

 04:18 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:18 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:18 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:18 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:19 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
