{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 06 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-11-06-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/software/firefox-implements-another-privacy-preserving-feature-taken-from-the-tor-browser/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.space.com/38660-laika-space-dog-launch-60th-anniversary.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.theverge.com/2017/11/3/16603616/bmw-daimler-ford-vw-electric-charging-europe 
''LINK:'' https://qz.com/1117836/bitcoin-mining-heats-homes-for-free-in-siberia/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/11/how-create-hydrogen-drumkit-fun-and-profit 
''LINK:'' https://www.datamation.com/open-source/ubuntu-desktops-compared.html 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/zorin-os-interview/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/analyzing-song-lyrics 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/11/openstack-mentoring 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/the-ten-best-ways-to-secure-your-android-phone/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/rasparch-os-that-lets-you-run-arch-linux-on-your-raspberry-pi-3-gets-an-update-518354.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/install-nagios-4-3-on-debian-9/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/17/11/transparency-dataverse-project 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/17/11/transparency-dataverse-project 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (50)
* MajB (44)
* toddc (43)
* Ser_ (4)
* meetingology (3)
* collie (2)
* markthomas (1)
* Eleison23 (1)
* az_fox (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov  6 04:00:19 2017 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Join us on http://bbb.azloco.net if using firefox please ask for help to add flash support to your system

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Ser_> +

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ser_> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date   95449.01

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> toddc will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <Ron_A> The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:01 <toddc> Firefox Implements Another Privacy-Preserving Feature Taken From the Tor Browser

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/software/firefox-implements-another-privacy-preserving-feature-taken-from-the-tor-browser/

 04:01 <toddc> RIP, Laika: Pioneering Space Dog Launched 60 Years Ago Today

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.space.com/38660-laika-space-dog-launch-60th-anniversary.html

 04:02 <toddc> Four automakers team up to create an electric car charging network across Europe

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.theverge.com/2017/11/3/16603616/bmw-daimler-ford-vw-electric-charging-europe

 04:02 <toddc> A cottage that???s heated for free with bitcoin mining

 04:02 <toddc> https://qz.com/1117836/bitcoin-mining-heats-homes-for-free-in-siberia/

 04:02 <toddc> How to create a Hydrogen drumkit for fun and profit

 04:02 <toddc> https://opensource.com/article/17/11/how-create-hydrogen-drumkit-fun-and-profit

 04:02 <MajB> Ubuntu Desktops Compared

 04:02 <MajB> https://www.datamation.com/open-source/ubuntu-desktops-compared.html

 04:02 <toddc> Zorin OS: From the Hobby Project of Two Teenagers to a Growing Startup

 04:02 <toddc> https://itsfoss.com/zorin-os-interview/

 04:02 <toddc> Analyzing Song Lyrics

 04:02 <toddc> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/analyzing-song-lyrics

 04:03 <toddc> Why aren't you an OpenStack mentor yet?

 04:03 <toddc> https://opensource.com/article/17/11/openstack-mentoring

 04:03 <toddc> The 10 best ways to secure your Android phone

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/article/the-ten-best-ways-to-secure-your-android-phone/

 04:03 <toddc> RaspArch OS That Lets You Run Arch Linux on Your Raspberry Pi 3 Gets an Update

 04:03 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/rasparch-os-that-lets-you-run-arch-linux-on-your-raspberry-pi-3-gets-an-update-518354.shtml

 04:03 <toddc> How to Install Nagios 4.3.x Monitoring Tool on Debian 9

 04:03 <toddc> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/install-nagios-4-3-on-debian-9/

 04:04 <toddc> Making transparency work for Harvard's Dataverse Project

 04:04 <toddc> https://opensource.com/open-organization/17/11/transparency-dataverse-project

 04:04 <toddc> Making transparency work for Harvard's Dataverse Project

 04:04 <toddc> https://opensource.com/open-organization/17/11/transparency-dataverse-project

 04:04 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:04 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:05 <az_fox> +1

 04:05 <Eleison23> +1

 04:05 <MajB> 16 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:05 <MajB> 16 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:05 <MajB> 18 November,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:05 <MajB> 02 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, Mesa Center for Higher Education, 245 W. 2nd Street, Mesa .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:06 <MajB> 07 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:06 <Ron_A> Great job toddc and MajB!!

 04:06 <Ron_A> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <Ron_A> Christmas and New Years

 04:06 <Ron_A> 

 04:06 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <toddc> Computer Programmers Drinking Song

 04:06 <toddc> Sing out loud to the tune of "99 Bottles of Beer on the Wall." 100 little bugs in the code,

 04:06 <toddc> 100 bugs in the code,

 04:06 <toddc> Fix one bug, compile it again,

 04:06 <toddc> 101 little bugs in the code.

 04:06 <toddc> 101 little bugs in the code.....

 04:07 <toddc> "There is no reason anyone would want a computer in their home."

 04:07 <toddc> -- Ken Olson, president, chairman/founder of Digital Equipment Corp.,1977

 04:07 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:07 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <Ron_A> "Your voice is always heard"

 04:07 <Ron_A> --

 04:07 <toddc> Things Technical Support Told Me

 04:07 <Ron_A> NSA

 04:08 <toddc> Do you have a sledgehammer or a brick handy?

 04:08 <Ron_A> "It is not UNIX's job to stop you from shooting your foot. If you so

 04:08 <Ron_A> choose to do so, then it is UNIX's job to deliver Mr. Bullet to Mr Foot

 04:08 <Ron_A> in the most efficient way it knows." -- Terry Lambert

 04:08 <collie> +1

 04:08 <Ron_A> Treat your password like your toothbrush.  Don't let anybody else use it,

 04:08 <Ron_A> and get a new one every six months.  ~Clifford Stoll

 04:08 <MajB> Yo collie

 04:08 <toddc> That's right, not even McGyver could fix it."

 04:08 <collie> you!

 04:08 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:08 <Ron_A> 29 current canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:09 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:09 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:09 <toddc> We can fix this, but you're gonna need a butter knife, a roll of duct tape, and a car battery.

 04:10 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:10 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 08 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:10 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:11 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 08 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 09 November 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:11 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:11 <Ron_A> Thanks for jumping into the breach MajB

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 14 November 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:11 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.

 04:11 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:11 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 19 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:11 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:11 <Ron_A> Toddc do you have anything to add?

 04:11 <toddc> ? always

 04:11 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 21 November 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conv

 04:11 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 01 December 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:12 <MajB> Now my man, that is all

 04:12 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:12 <Ser_> Thanks for the info MajB

 04:12 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:13 <MajB> 09 November 2017, 3rd Annual Cyber Southwest (CSW) symposium

 04:13 <MajB> Radisson Suites Hotel - Catalina Ballroom

 04:13 <MajB> Tucson, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/

 04:13 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:13 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:13 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:13 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:13 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:13 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:13 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:13 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:13 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:13 <Ron_A> Thanks MajB

 04:13 <toddc> Pentiums melt in your PC, not in your hand.

 04:14 <MajB> I love it

 04:14 <toddc> C program run. C program crash. C programmer quit.

 04:14 <Ser_> The UNIX philosophy basically involves giving you enough rope to hang yourself. And then a couple of feet more, just to be sure. --Unknown

 04:14 <toddc> correct

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
