{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 04 May at 04:00 &mdash; 04:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-05-04-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-the-open-source-data-visualization-server-metabase/ 
''LINK:'' https://containerjournal.com/topics/container-security/open-source-tern-locks-dockerfile-to-container-image/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/4/webp-image-compression 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/5/pycon-covid-19 
''LINK:'' https://fosspost.org/alternative-software/end-users/open-source-prototyping-tools 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/5/usb-port-raspberry-pi-python 
''LINK:'' https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/retropie-for-raspberry-pi-4-video-game-emulation-on-our-fastest-ever-device/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-change-the-folder-color-and-emblem-instantly-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/unix-vs-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/linux-home-directory-management-is-about-to-undergo-major-change/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/4/voice-chat-mumble 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/debian-10-hostname/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2020/04/6-reasons-future-of-software-is-open.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.tfir.io/making-linux-the-most-secure-os-for-remote-working/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/partitions-parted 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/red-hat-enterprise-linux-8-2-released-with-enhanced-security-and-compliance 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/articles/linux-and-kubernetes-serving-the-common-goals-of-enterprises/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-visual-studio-code-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/install-free-ssl-using-lets-encrypt-with-apache-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-install-nginx-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://linoxide.com/linux-how-to/get-cpu-temperature-on-ubuntu-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.gouldintelligent.com/job_openings.php 
''LINK:'' https://cxtsoftware.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.volt.com/en-US/job/data-center-technician-ii/J3W2GJ77LRVN4YFDCFC?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic 
''LINK:'' https://betanews.com/2020/03/18/purism-librem-mini-linux-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' https://releases.ubuntu.com/20.04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/. Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (70)
* stephenm (49)
* MajB (30)
* xHans (7)
* programmer317 (3)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* Eleison23 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon May  4 04:00:10 2020 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <programmer317> No, but I picked up a desktop from him today.   Shouldn’t need them.   Thank you for looking.

 04:00 <programmer317> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 97938.65

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <MajB> They are available if you ever need them

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> I think he really wants to get rid of ddr2?

 04:01 <programmer317> Thank you MajB .

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY

 04:01 <MajB> I do have a pile of them

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> anything we can do better?

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> 

 04:02 <Eleison23> +1

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> 6 people nice turnout

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> news is general and then gets into Linux based stuff.

 04:03 <stephenm> How to install the open source data visualization server Metabase

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-the-open-source-data-visualization-server-metabase/

 04:04 <stephenm> Open Source Tern Locks Dockerfile to Container Image

 04:04 <stephenm> https://containerjournal.com/topics/container-security/open-source-tern-locks-dockerfile-to-container-image/

 04:04 <stephenm> Drop PNG and JPG for your online images: Use WebP

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/4/webp-image-compression

 04:04 <stephenm> The real impact of canceling PyCon due to COVID-19

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/5/pycon-covid-19

 04:04 <stephenm> At least Dallas is open

 04:04 <stephenm> Here are the 3 Open Source Prototyping Tools

 04:04 <stephenm> https://fosspost.org/alternative-software/end-users/open-source-prototyping-tools

 04:04 <stephenm> How to connect a Raspberry Pi to a serial USB port with Python from the terminal

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/5/usb-port-raspberry-pi-python

 04:05 <stephenm> RetroPie for Raspberry Pi 4: video game emulation on our fastest-ever device

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/retropie-for-raspberry-pi-4-video-game-emulation-on-our-fastest-ever-device/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Change The Folder Color And Emblem Instantly In Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-change-the-folder-color-and-emblem-instantly-in-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Unix Vs Linux: What is Difference Between UNIX and Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/unix-vs-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux home directory management is about to undergo major change

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/linux-home-directory-management-is-about-to-undergo-major-change/

 04:05 <stephenm> Simplify remote meetings with open source voice chat

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/4/voice-chat-mumble

 04:06 <stephenm> How to change the Hostname in Debian 10

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/debian-10-hostname/

 04:06 <stephenm> 6 Reasons the Future of Software Is Open Source

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2020/04/6-reasons-future-of-software-is-open.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Making Linux The ‘Most Secure’ OS For Remote Working

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tfir.io/making-linux-the-most-secure-os-for-remote-working/

 04:06 <stephenm> Creating and managing partitions in Linux with parted

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/partitions-parted

 04:06 <stephenm> Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.2 Released with Enhanced Security and Performance

 04:06 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/red-hat-enterprise-linux-8-2-released-with-enhanced-security-and-compliance

 04:07 <stephenm> Linux and Kubernetes: Serving The Common Goals of Enterprises

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/articles/linux-and-kubernetes-serving-the-common-goals-of-enterprises/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install Visual Studio Code on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-visual-studio-code-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:07 <stephenm> Install FREE SSL using Let’s Encrypt with Apache on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/install-free-ssl-using-lets-encrypt-with-apache-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install Nginx on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-install-nginx-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install MySQL on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Get CPU Temperature on Ubuntu Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linoxide.com/linux-how-to/get-cpu-temperature-on-ubuntu-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to you toddc

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> Tempe Ubuntu Hour 07 May

 04:09 <MajB> Tempe Ubuntu Hour 28 May

 04:09 <toddc> programmer317   has setup a new cafepress store at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:09 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:09 <toddc> are there any questions please ask?  Any other item requests?

 04:10 <toddc> Please thank programmer 317 for her hard  work

 04:10 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:10 <MajB> Rah!!

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> GNU/Linux can't run Photoshop..

 04:11 <toddc> unless you offer it WINE.

 04:11 <toddc> Else you will remain stuck with a GIMPed system.

 04:11 <toddc> What were the favorite Linux text editors of 8 randomly selected Monty Python fans?

 04:11 <toddc> vim, vim, vim, vim, vim, vim, emacs, and vim.

 04:12 <toddc> What happened to the single IT technician when he tried to flirt with a barista at a cafe?

 04:12 <toddc> He was unable to make a connection to the server

 04:12 <toddc> Reddit servers went down today, so I went downstairs and spoke with my family.

 04:12 <toddc> They seem like nice people.

 04:13 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:13 <toddc> Canonical has 75 open positions

 04:13 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <toddc> Linux System Administrator

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.gouldintelligent.com/job_openings.php

 04:13 <toddc> Devops

 04:13 <toddc> https://cxtsoftware.com/careers/

 04:14 <toddc> Data Center Technician II in Mesa, AZ at Volt  also entry and software dev

 04:14 <toddc> https://jobs.volt.com/en-US/job/data-center-technician-ii/J3W2GJ77LRVN4YFDCFC?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic

 04:14 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:14 <toddc> Purism Librem Mini is a tiny Linux desktop

 04:14 <toddc> https://betanews.com/2020/03/18/purism-librem-mini-linux-desktop/

 04:15 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> ubuntu 20.04 is out  and availible

 04:15 <toddc> https://releases.ubuntu.com/20.04/

 04:15 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> 07 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour – CANCELED

 04:16 <MajB> 14 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 3900 E. Fry Blvd, Sierra Vista, 1800-1900,  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.  May be conducted on line at https://bbb.azloco.net/ de

 04:16 <MajB> pending upon the Covid-19 situation.

 04:16 <MajB> 14 May, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, https://bbb.azloco.net Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:17 <MajB> 16 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects,

 04:17 <MajB> help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <MajB> 28 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour - CANCELED

 04:17 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:17 <toddc> 0????

 04:18 <MajB> None

 04:18 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:18 <xHans> a week from Thursday is our next general meeting

 04:18 <xHans> the tentatively scheduled topics are pfsense and big blue button

 04:19 <xHans> it will be a virtual meeting using .... big blue button :)

 04:19 <xHans> two weeks from Tuesday is the Free Software Stammtisch

 04:20 <xHans> this week SeaGL decided that we will be a virtual-only conference in November, further information forthcoming including the cfp next month

 04:20 <xHans> thanks again for all the cross-group cooperation!

 04:21 <toddc> thank you xHans

 04:21 <toddc> Plug has some great events please check them out

 04:21 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:21 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:22 <MajB> Meeting on 24 May 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:22 <MajB> Meeting on 05 June 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave and Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:22 <MajB> Meeting on 13 May 6-7:30 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:23 <MajB> Meeting on 23 May 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:23 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:23 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:23 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:24 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:24 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
