{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 12 Feb at 03:59 &mdash; 04:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-02-12-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://techcrunch.com/2018/02/09/hacker-group-manages-to-run-linux-on-a-nintendo-switch/ 
''LINK:'' https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2018/02/budget-deal-has-tax-credit-extensions-for-nuclear-fuel-cells-carbon-capture/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.theverge.com/circuitbreaker/2018/2/9/16994318/samsung-galaxy-s9-headphone-jack-dex-pad-photo-leak 
''LINK:'' http://www.bbc.com/news/health-42976858 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3252222/linux/the-linux-ranger.html 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/2/8-it-automation-mistakes-avoid 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/2/delegation-team-of-rivals 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2018/02/09/eclipse_foundation_java_oracle/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/2/career-changing-magic-writing 
''LINK:'' https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3185224 
''LINK:'' http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/Proxmox-virtualization-manager 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/diff-u-adding-encryption-printk 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/toughened-up-atom-based-box-pc-supports-ethercat/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Open-Up-the-Source-Code-to-Lock-Down-Your-Data-85120.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/WiFi-Routers-Riddled-With-Holes-Report-85115.html 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://www.virtra.com/careers 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.taicenn.com/products-2/embedded-box-pc/tbox-4000/ 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/cf904bltahra1pkluodvdcp919k 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/cvr270mpiuqljcalfbt60riv0tc 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (67)
* stephenm (49)
* MajB (25)
* xHans (16)
* dennisk (8)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* Ron_A (1)
* wmack (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 12 03:59:31 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95717.13

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <dennisk> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> *1

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <stephenm> burgers that you eat MajB

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> javalina burgers are great

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <stephenm> haven't seen those yet

 04:02 <Ron_A> +1

 04:02 <stephenm> yes news time

 04:02 <MajB> Just kiddin you stephenm.  I had baffalo in S. Dakota

 04:02 <toddc> you have to shoot the the javalina //wild pig

 04:03 <stephenm> Ok off of the exotic meats now to Linux news.  Starts from beginning to end.

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight! All the way from TX

 04:03 <wmack> +1

 04:03 <stephenm> Hacker group manages to run Linux on a Nintendo Switch

 04:03 <stephenm> https://techcrunch.com/2018/02/09/hacker-group-manages-to-run-linux-on-a-nintendo-switch/

 04:03 <stephenm> This actually sounds like a cool project just need to wait for a table to setup in my small apartment.

 04:04 <stephenm> Budget deal has tax credit extensions for nuclear, fuel cells, carbon capture

 04:04 <stephenm> https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2018/02/budget-deal-has-tax-credit-extensions-for-nuclear-fuel-cells-carbon-capture/

 04:04 <toddc> and a nintendo switch?

 04:04 <stephenm> Still not trying to be political

 04:04 <stephenm> yes it's a creation of Nintendo that plays mean of the great games from NES and SNES

 04:05 <stephenm> I think they stopped making it though :(

 04:05 <stephenm> Samsung’s Galaxy S9 looks set to retain the headphone jack

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theverge.com/circuitbreaker/2018/2/9/16994318/samsung-galaxy-s9-headphone-jack-dex-pad-photo-leak

 04:05 <stephenm> I can now tease my co-workers that are pro-Iphones about this one

 04:05 <stephenm> First human eggs grown in laboratory

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.bbc.com/news/health-42976858

 04:06 <stephenm> Don't know if I'm intrigued by this or distribed

 04:06 <stephenm> The Linux ranger: What is it and how do you use it?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3252222/linux/the-linux-ranger.html

 04:06 <stephenm> 8 IT automation mistakes to avoid

 04:06 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/2/8-it-automation-mistakes-avoid

 04:07 <stephenm> Libraries make  libraries

 04:07 <stephenm> Learn how to delegate with presidential charisma

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/2/delegation-team-of-rivals

 04:07 <stephenm> Due to Oracle being Oracle, Eclipse holds poll to rename Java EE (No, it won't be Java McJava Face)

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2018/02/09/eclipse_foundation_java_oracle/

 04:08 <stephenm> We'll wait an see but then again I don't think Oracle really renames anything just kills the open-source still.  Except for Java but they can kill Java for all I care.

 04:08 <stephenm> How writing can change your career for the better, even if you don't identify as a writer

 04:08 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/2/career-changing-magic-writing

 04:08 <stephenm> Containers Will Not Fix Your Broken Culture (and Other Hard Truths)

 04:08 <stephenm> https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3185224

 04:08 <stephenm> Proxmox virtualization manager

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/Proxmox-virtualization-manager

 04:09 <stephenm> project for myself later down the road could be a useful skill for an employer

 04:09 <stephenm> diff -u: Adding Encryption To printk()

 04:09 <stephenm> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/diff-u-adding-encryption-printk

 04:09 <stephenm> Tough, Atom-based box PC supports EtherCAT

 04:09 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/toughened-up-atom-based-box-pc-supports-ethercat/

 04:09 <stephenm> Open Up the Source Code to Lock Down Your Data

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Open-Up-the-Source-Code-to-Lock-Down-Your-Data-85120.html

 04:09 <stephenm> WiFi Routers Riddled With Holes: Report

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/WiFi-Routers-Riddled-With-Holes-Report-85115.html

 04:10 <stephenm> Not in the lease bit surprised

 04:10 <stephenm> Anyways that's all the news that I have for tonight. Now back to the person running this show.

 04:10 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:11 <stephenm> welcome

 04:11 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:11 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:11 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:12 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:12 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:12 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:12 <toddc> Canceled meetings and events. In the near future?

 04:12 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 01 April 			(Easter)

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:13 <toddc> dennisk has some info to discuss

 04:13 <dennisk> MCC will be opening a business center in Mesa to host your start up named Green Flag. Look for an open house announce soon.

 04:13 <toddc> cool

 04:14 <dennisk> In partnership with Mesa Chamber of Commerce

 04:14 <stephenm> Any chance that someone out of state can participate?

 04:14 <dennisk> Also big announcement coming this week re new micro cert

 04:15 <dennisk> Think disruptive tech in the news lately. Can't say more now.

 04:16 <dennisk> That's all hard to type on the train

 04:16 <toddc> thanks dennisk

 04:16 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:16 <MajB> Thanks dennisk

 04:16 <toddc> PE Teacher: "Why did you kick that ball straight at the school computer?"

 04:16 <toddc> Pupil: "You told me to put it on the Net."

 04:17 <toddc> Q: 0 is false and 1 is true, right?

 04:17 <toddc> A: 1.

 04:17 <toddc> While my brother-in-law was tapping away on his home computer, his ten-year-old daughter sneaked up behind him.

 04:17 <dennisk> I could tell you a UDP joke but you might not get it.

 04:17 <stephenm> thanks dennisk

 04:18 <toddc> Then she turned and ran into the kitchen, squealing to the rest of the family: "I know Daddy's password! I know Daddy's password!

 04:18 <toddc> "What is it?" her sisters asked eagerly. Proudly she replied: "Asterisk, asterisk, asterisk, asterisk!"

 04:18 <MajB> Must have been a Windows box

 04:18 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:19 <toddc> PYTHON WEB DEVELOPER  (Tempe)

 04:19 <toddc> https://www.virtra.com/careers

 04:19 <dennisk> Yah not on the command ?ine

 04:19 <toddc> Threshold Communications   Consulting Network Engineer / Tier 2 IP NOC

 04:19 <toddc> Phone: (206) 812.6200 Toll Free: (844) 844.1382 Email: info@thresholdcommunications.com

 04:19 <toddc> still on web pages you get a ****

 04:19 <toddc> Linux admin at Wellsfargo

 04:19 <toddc> The recruiter is Bryce Johnson (480) 258-4823

 04:20 <toddc> Canonical has 37 open positions

 04:20 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:20 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:20 <toddc> Tough, Atom-based box PC supports EtherCAT

 04:20 <toddc> https://www.taicenn.com/products-2/embedded-box-pc/tbox-4000/

 04:20 <toddc> mini server for outside use

 04:20 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:21 <toddc> While Microsoft has long been viewed as an enemy of the Linux community -- and it still is by some -- the company has actually transformed into an open source champion

 04:21 <toddc> One of Microsoft's biggest Linux contributions, however, is Skype -- the wildly popular communication software. By offering that program to desktop Linux users

 04:21 <toddc> Microsoft enables them to easily communicate with friends and family that aren't on Linux, thanks to its cross-platform support. Today, Microsoft further embraces Linux by releasing Skype as a Snap

 04:21 <toddc> This comes after two other very popular apps became available in Snap form -- Spotify and Slack.

 04:22 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:22 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:22 <xHans> PLUG's next security meeting is this Thursday on the 15th

 04:22 <xHans> Last month it from from a Tuesday to the 3rd Thursday in the month

 04:22 <xHans> The security meeting is still at the Desert Breeze Substation at 19:00

 04:22 <xHans> February Topic: Freenet

 04:22 <xHans> Desert Breeze Substation

 04:22 <xHans> 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226

 04:23 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/cf904bltahra1pkluodvdcp919k

 04:23 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday

 04:23 <xHans> Boulders on Southern

 04:23 <xHans> 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ 85204

 04:23 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/cvr270mpiuqljcalfbt60riv0tc

 04:23 <xHans> SCaLE is coming up at the beginning of March, registration is open

 04:23 <xHans> the hotel block is filling up

 04:23 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:23 <toddc> thanks xHans

 04:23 <xHans> bitte

 04:24 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:24 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:24 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:24 <MajB> 17 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:24 <MajB> 22 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:25 <MajB> 22 February, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:25 <MajB> 01 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:25 <MajB> 03 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:25 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:26 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:26 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:26 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 February 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:26 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:26 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 February, 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:26 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 February 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:26 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 March 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:27 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:27 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:27 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:28 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:28 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
