{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

02 September - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Discussed Halloween scary movie project
* Successfully updated the Team’s Next Cloud server
* Successfully restored a Debian system for an individual that did not back up his data
* Discussed how to have remote access to a computer in a secure fashion.
03 September – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2003%2C%202023%20Meeting
07 September – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
14 September – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees
* Discussed where to buy computers and computer parts and accessories since the store in Sierra Vista has closed.
* An attendee wanted to move an icon to the Dash in Ubuntu.  This can be done with a simple right click on the program in the menu and select add to favorites.
* Discussed the Kiosk Project that we were asked to assist the Warrior Healing Center in developing
14 September – Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Discussed Linux news of the week
* Discussed how to set up a VPN
16 September – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Customized/configured an attendee’s web browser
* Verified that attendee’s VPN was working and then showed him how to use it.
17 September – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2017%2C%202023%20Meeting
28 September – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed future events and the procedures required to once again activate and possible dates when we will be able to return to physical events in the Phoenix metropolitan area.
* Discussed Team support for 32 bit computers at our installfests because only Debian, Mint, MX Linux, and AntiX still have a  32 bit versions.  There a few others but they are the main ones.  The question is will new users have a good experience using those operating systems.  That is probably to be decided on a case by case basis.
