{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

01 September – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2001%2C%202024%20Meeting
05 September - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
07 September - Virtual Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Repaired computer boot issue
* Tested some routers
* Discussed IP block lists
12 September - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees (3 new people)
* Discussed a problem that arose with Bit Locker that can occur with FOSS encryption programs.  If you use them make sure that you save the unlock code in a cloud, on your machine , on a flash drive.  If it is forgotten your data may be lost forever.
* Discussed moving to Linux from Microsoft Windows.
* Discussed using Docker.
12 September - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Conducted an install on one computer
* Discussed ASU Hacking course description
15 September – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/September%2015%2C%202024%20Meeting
26 September – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed Rust Desk as a remote alternative
* Discussed other Linux topics
