{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 18 May at 04:00 &mdash; 04:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-05-18-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-apache-couchdb-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-home-reduce-prevent-repetitive-strain-injury/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/locking-down-access 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2020/05/14/relational_dbs_strike_back_with/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-apache-couchdb-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-home-reduce-prevent-repetitive-strain-injury/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/locking-down-access 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2020/05/14/relational_dbs_strike_back_with/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/centos-desktop-rdp-xrdp/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.datacenterknowledge.com/open-source/fork-available-red-hat-ends-life-coreos-container-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/amazon-red-hat-openshift-announced-for-public-cloud-kubernetes-users/#ftag=RSSbaffb68 
''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2020/05/14/request-for-comment-how-to-collaboratively-make-trustworthy-ai-a-reality/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2020/05/supporting-linux-continues-to-be-worthwhile-for-rings-of-saturn 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/5/pandoc-cheat-sheet 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/what-are-the-key-advantages-of-managed-hosting-for-small-businesses/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2020/05/14/the_end_really_is_nigh/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/multipass-launch-ubuntu-virtual-machine/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/5/adoptoposs 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-transfer-files-with-rsync-over-ssh-google-cloud/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/securing-linuxs-master-sysadmin-command-sudo/#ftag=RSSbaffb68 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/network-interfaces-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/find-linux-system-hardware-information-with-hwinfo/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-check-open-ports-on-linux-system/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/dissecting-free-command 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-0-now-available-for-public-testing-final-release-coming-in-early-august 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/linux-mint-20-ulyana-is-coming-in-june-with-cinnamon-4-6-based-on-ubuntu-20-04-lts 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/ubuntu-mate-20-04-review/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/turn-raspberry-pi-into-personal-web-server/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-zoom-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/5235/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://gitlab.com/floxadvocate/floss_conference_covid_changes 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (65)
* MajB (61)
* xHans (17)
* toddc (4)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* programmer317 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon May 18 04:00:11 2020 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> MTS IMTS+1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/

 04:01 <MajB> if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your user name and log in.  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <stephenm> give me a minute was playing around in blender

 04:02 <MajB> Hi stephenm.  Glad you could make it

 04:02 <MajB> Linux news will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm: was in a blender?

 04:03 <toddc> I bet that hurt

 04:03 <stephenm> 3D modeling tool

 04:03 <MajB> That might have been painful

 04:03 <toddc> :)

 04:03 <stephenm> new is out of order because I'm running late on it

 04:03 <stephenm> How To Install Apache CouchDB NoSQL Database on CentOS 8

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-apache-couchdb-on-centos-8/

 04:03 <MajB> No problem

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux at Home: Reduce and prevent repetitive strain injury

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-home-reduce-prevent-repetitive-strain-injury/

 04:04 <stephenm> Sysadmin security: 8 Linux lockdown controls

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/locking-down-access

 04:04 <stephenm> Let's slip into something a bit more relational: SQL database crowd strikes back with brace of cloudy releases

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2020/05/14/relational_dbs_strike_back_with/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to connect to CentOS 8 Desktop from Windows using RDP protocol

 04:04 <stephenm> Stephen Melheim

 04:04 <stephenm> 

 04:04 <stephenm> May 15, 2020, 12:11 PM (2 days ago)

 04:04 <stephenm> 

 04:04 <stephenm> to me

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Install Apache CouchDB NoSQL Database on CentOS 8

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-apache-couchdb-on-centos-8/

 04:04 <stephenm> 

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux at Home: Reduce and prevent repetitive strain injury

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-home-reduce-prevent-repetitive-strain-injury/

 04:04 <stephenm> 

 04:04 <stephenm> Sysadmin security: 8 Linux lockdown controls

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/locking-down-access

 04:04 <stephenm> 

 04:05 <stephenm> Let's slip into something a bit more relational: SQL database crowd strikes back with brace of cloudy releases

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2020/05/14/relational_dbs_strike_back_with/

 04:05 <stephenm> 

 04:05 <stephenm> How to connect to CentOS 8 Desktop from Windows using RDP protocol

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/centos-desktop-rdp-xrdp/

 04:05 <stephenm> +1, forgot

 04:05 <stephenm> Fork Available as Red Hat Ends Life of CoreOS Container Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.datacenterknowledge.com/open-source/fork-available-red-hat-ends-life-coreos-container-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> Amazon Red Hat OpenShift announced for public cloud Kubernetes users

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/amazon-red-hat-openshift-announced-for-public-cloud-kubernetes-users/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:05 <stephenm> Request for comment: how to collaboratively make trustworthy AI a reality

 04:05 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2020/05/14/request-for-comment-how-to-collaboratively-make-trustworthy-ai-a-reality/

 04:05 <stephenm> Supporting Linux continues to be worthwhile for ΔV: Rings of Saturn

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2020/05/supporting-linux-continues-to-be-worthwhile-for-rings-of-saturn

 04:06 <stephenm> Convert documents with Pandoc like a pro

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/5/pandoc-cheat-sheet

 04:06 <stephenm> What are the Key Advantages of Managed Hosting for Small Businesses?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/what-are-the-key-advantages-of-managed-hosting-for-small-businesses/

 04:06 <stephenm> The end really is nigh – for 32-bit Windows 10 on new PCs

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2020/05/14/the_end_really_is_nigh/

 04:06 <stephenm> wasn't even aware M$ went through the trouble with Wins 10

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Quickly Launch Ubuntu Virtual Machine with Multipass

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/multipass-launch-ubuntu-virtual-machine/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to find new maintainers for your open source project

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/5/adoptoposs

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Transfer Files with Rsync over SSH – Google Cloud

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-transfer-files-with-rsync-over-ssh-google-cloud/

 04:07 <stephenm> Securing Linux's master sysadmin command: Sudo

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/securing-linuxs-master-sysadmin-command-sudo/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:08 <stephenm> The name game: Naming network interfaces in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/network-interfaces-linux

 04:08 <stephenm> Find Linux System Hardware Information With Hwinfo

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/find-linux-system-hardware-information-with-hwinfo/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Check Open Ports on Linux System

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/how-to-check-open-ports-on-linux-system/

 04:08 <stephenm> Dissecting the free command: What the Linux sysadmin needs to know

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/dissecting-free-command

 04:08 <stephenm> Alright that is all the news I have for this week.

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <MajB> LibreOffice 7.0 Now Available for Public Testing, Final Release Coming in Early August

 04:09 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-7-0-now-available-for-public-testing-final-release-coming-in-early-august

 04:09 <MajB> Linux Mint 20 Ulyana Is Coming in June with Cinnamon 4.6, Based on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS

 04:09 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/linux-mint-20-ulyana-is-coming-in-june-with-cinnamon-4-6-based-on-ubuntu-20-04-lts

 04:10 <MajB> Ubuntu MATE 20.04 LTS Review: Better Than Ever

 04:10 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/ubuntu-mate-20-04-review/

 04:10 <programmer317> +1

 04:10 <MajB> How to Turn Your Raspberry Pi into a Personal Web Server

 04:10 <MajB> https://www.maketecheasier.com/turn-raspberry-pi-into-personal-web-server/

 04:10 <MajB> How to Install Zoom on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:10 <MajB> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-zoom-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:10 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:10 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:11 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on https://azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:11 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:11 <MajB> 28 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, Canceled

 04:11 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:11 <MajB> There are 31 open canonical Jobs today

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <MajB> There are 94 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:12 <MajB> There are 16 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:12 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Many or all of these events may be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:13 <MajB> 04 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 06 June,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:13 <MajB> al projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 11 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 11 June, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 20 June,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your perso

 04:14 <MajB> nal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> 25 June,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:15 <MajB> This is the latest information that we have.  Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site for the latest up to date information on their activities since many of them have canceled events or moved them on line because of the Covid-19 virus situation.

 04:16 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:16 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is this Tuesday at 19:00

 04:16 <xHans> Stammtisch will remain a virtual event for at least a couple more months

 04:16 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/5235/floss-stammtisch/

 04:16 <xHans> Big Blue Button meeting details will be listed on the GetTogether page momentarily

 04:16 <xHans> The PLUG security meetings are on hiatis for now

 04:16 <xHans> We will have security content for the general meeting

 04:17 <xHans> For instance, next month we have a presentation on pfsense

 04:17 <xHans> We will also have a presentation on using a mail server as a customer management system from a PLUGger who has moved out of Arizona

 04:17 <xHans> looking forward to having him participate again

 04:18 <xHans> SeaGL in November will be online only

 04:18 <xHans> the cfp will be going out in June

 04:19 <xHans> I have a small running list of conferences that have made changes due to the shutin

 04:19 <xHans> https://gitlab.com/floxadvocate/floss_conference_covid_changes

 04:19 <xHans> feel free to let me know about other conferences to add

 04:19 <xHans> or submit an issue or pull request :)

 04:20 <xHans> Thanks to AZLoCo for the cross-group cooperation

 04:20 <xHans> Thanks especially for the help with Big Blue Button!

 04:20 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 24 May is canceled.

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:21 <MajB> Meeting on 05 June 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave & Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> Meeting on 23 May 1-3:45 pm. Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:22 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:24 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
