{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 08 Sep at 03:58 &mdash; 04:27 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2014/ubuntu-us-az.2014-09-08-03.58.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/open-source/434594/how-linux-system-administrator-evolves-beginner-advanced-professional 
''LINK:'' http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2014/09/10-answers-to-most-frequently-asked.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/5-beginner-linux-setup-ideas-cron-jobs-shell-scripts/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/cloud/firefox-32-debuts-with-improved-ssl-security.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxtoday.com/it_management/fedoras-new-project-leader-plots-whats-next-video.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.net-security.org/secworld.php?id=17322 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxtechi.com/mount-google-drive-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2014/09/03/is-systemd-as-bad-as-boycott-systemd-is-trying-to-make-it/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Canonical-Wants-to-Be-the-Best-Development-Platform-for-Android-Apps-457418.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Desktop-Fragmentation-Is-a-Feature-Not-a-Bug-457596.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://xmodulo.com/2014/09/linux-tcpip-networking-net-tools-iproute2.html 
''LINK:'' http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2014/debconf14/webm/QA_with_Linus_Torvalds.webm 
''LINK:'' http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2014/09/10-answers-to-most-frequently-asked.html 
''LINK:'' https://mhttps://mega.co.nz/#blog_2 
''LINK:'' http://www.maketecheasier.com/share-terminal-session-with-friends/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/news/tech-comics-how-to-use-wearables-1.html 
''LINK:'' http://integrate.com/company/careers 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Used-by-NBC-and-Today-Show-to-Illustrate-Hacking-into-Celebrities-Accounts-457755.shtml# 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/slap-editor/slap 
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/u/0/106398898073454924098/posts/gvkZqNM452u 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/u/0/106398898073454924098/posts/gvkZqNM452u 
''LINK:'' http://www.meetup.com/PhoenixRedHatSoftwareUserGroup/events/202336622/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (118)
* xHans (26)
* wmack2 (5)
* Ron_A (5)
* Rich__ (3)
* pavlos (3)
* MajB (3)
* TuxMann (3)
* meetingology (3)
* adrenaline (2)
* stephenm (2)
* chamuco (1)
* catswold (1)

=== Full Log ===

  04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <Rich__> +1

 04:01 <adrenaline> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> 1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <chamuco> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 92297.02

 04:02 <toddc> Some of us are in HTTP://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <toddc> Some of us are in HTTP://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership HTTP://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> HTTP://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal HTTP://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> HTTP://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:03 <wmack2> +1

 04:03 <toddc> Team events portal HTTP://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <toddc> HTTP://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news!!

 04:03 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:03 <toddc> Thanks to turbidtux for the news.

 04:03 <toddc> How a Linux system administrator evolves from beginner to advanced professional

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/434594/how-linux-system-administrator-evolves-beginner-advanced-professional

 04:04 <toddc> 10 Answers To The Most Frequently Asked Linux Questions On Google

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2014/09/10-answers-to-most-frequently-asked.html

 04:04 <toddc> 5 Beginner Linux Setup Ideas For Cron Jobs & Shell Scripts

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/5-beginner-linux-setup-ideas-cron-jobs-shell-scripts/

 04:04 <toddc> Firefox 32 Debuts With Improved SSL Security

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.eweek.com/cloud/firefox-32-debuts-with-improved-ssl-security.html

 04:04 <toddc> Fedora's New Project Leader Plots What's Next [VIDEO]

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.linuxtoday.com/it_management/fedoras-new-project-leader-plots-whats-next-video.html

 04:05 <pavlos> +1

 04:05 <toddc> Linux systems infiltrated and controlled in a DDoS botnet

 04:05 <wmack2> Hello Pavlos

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.net-security.org/secworld.php?id=17322

 04:05 <pavlos> hi

 04:05 <toddc> hi pavlos

 04:05 <pavlos> hi all

 04:05 <toddc> Mount Google drive in Ubuntu 14.04 LTS

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.linuxtechi.com/mount-google-drive-in-ubuntu/

 04:05 <Ron_A> Hi pavlos

 04:05 <toddc> Is systemd as bad as boycott systemd is trying to make it?

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2014/09/03/is-systemd-as-bad-as-boycott-systemd-is-trying-to-make-it/

 04:06 <toddc> Ubuntu Wants to Be the Best Development Platform for Android Apps

 04:06 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Canonical-Wants-to-Be-the-Best-Development-Platform-for-Android-Apps-457418.shtml

 04:06 <TuxMann> +1

 04:06 <toddc> hi TuxMann

 04:06 <TuxMann> hi toddc

 04:06 <wmack2> Hello Tuxman!

 04:06 <Ron_A> Hi Tuxman

 04:06 <toddc> Linux Desktop Fragmentation Is  a Feature, Not  a  Bug

 04:06 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Desktop-Fragmentation-Is-a-Feature-Not-a-Bug-457596.shtml

 04:06 <TuxMann> hi wmack2  Ron_A

 04:06 <toddc> Linux TCP/IP networking: net-tools vs. iproute2

 04:06 <toddc> http://xmodulo.com/2014/09/linux-tcpip-networking-net-tools-iproute2.html

 04:07 <toddc> Linus being Linus great talk by Linus at Debconf 14

 04:07 <toddc> http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2014/debconf14/webm/QA_with_Linus_Torvalds.webm

 04:07 <toddc> 10 Answers To The Most Frequently Asked Linux Questions On Google

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2014/09/10-answers-to-most-frequently-asked.html

 04:07 <toddc> MEGASync Desktop Client Available For Linux

 04:07 <toddc> https://mhttps://mega.co.nz/#blog_2

 04:07 <toddc> How to Share a Terminal Session with Friends

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.maketecheasier.com/share-terminal-session-with-friends/

 04:08 <toddc> Tech Comics: How to Use Wearables

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.datamation.com/news/tech-comics-how-to-use-wearables-1.html

 04:08 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:09 <toddc> Pearson Publishing has donated a free Official Ubuntu Book to the Loco Team use. We have two copys if anyone would like to borrow them Thanks to Pearson publishing.

 04:09 <toddc> We would like to update and link face book pages and g+ if someone has the time to set up and maintain those see toddc for more info.

 04:09 <toddc> Ubuntu 14.04 DVD's are In stock and ready to pass out carry some with you!!

 04:10 <toddc> we now have access to community project money

 04:10 <toddc> HTTP://fridge.ubuntu.com/2014/05/29/community-donations-funding-report/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ubuntu-fridge+%28The+Fridge+-+News+for+Human+Beings%29

 04:10 <toddc> We are getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others HTTP://loco.ubuntu.com/events/know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> JOB list

 04:11 <toddc> DevOps Engineer

 04:11 <toddc> http://integrate.com/company/careers

 04:11 <toddc> 45 current canonical Jobs this week  and they are adding more each day

 04:11 <toddc> HTTP://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <toddc> IT Security Administrator

 04:11 <toddc> HTTP://careers-leslies.icims.com/jobs/14509/bi-data-analyst-report-developer/job

 04:11 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> Hackers Run Linux, Acording to NBC

 04:12 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Used-by-NBC-and-Today-Show-to-Illustrate-Hacking-into-Celebrities-Accounts-457755.shtml#

 04:13 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:13 <toddc> slap is a Sublime-like terminal-based text editor that strives to make editing

 04:13 <toddc> from the terminal easier

 04:13 <toddc> https://github.com/slap-editor/slap

 04:14 <toddc> Reminder if you want a Owncloud accout contact wmack or toddc

 04:14 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:15 <toddc> Installfest

 04:15 <toddc> will be Saturday September 20 at Gangplank 260 S Arizona Ave, Chandler, AZ, from 10 am to 4 pm

 04:15 <toddc> Park across the street in the chandler parking garage.

 04:15 <toddc> This open ot all for chat and linux projects like router and Raspberry PI and almost any linux project For more information see calender at HTTP://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:15 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:15 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  Thu, September 25, 5:30pm – 6:30pm

 04:15 <toddc> Sierra Vista Public Library (foyer) 2600 East Tacoma St. Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:15 <toddc> see HTTP://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:15 <toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:16 <toddc> Thursday September 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame in Tempe southern and McClintock

 04:16 <toddc> HTTP://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and

 04:16 <toddc> open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or HTTP://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:16 <toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:16 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be October 01 7pm – 9pmStarbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA HTTP://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:17 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:17 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:17 <toddc> There were 4 people at the last event

 04:17 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:17 <toddc> Harmony (lilly-belle-11) is a new member say hi if you see her?

 04:17 <toddc> LINUX TRAINING

 04:17 <toddc> Linux Intro Course Available Online for Free from edX and The Linux Foundation Starts Aug 1 2014

 04:17 <toddc> HTTP://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free more classes have been added and more dates

 04:18 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/

 04:18 <toddc> LFD320 Linux Kernel Internals and Debugging

 04:18 <toddc> 15 Sep » 19 Sep - Virtual

 04:18 <toddc> LFS220 Linux System Administration

 04:18 <toddc> 22 Sep » 25 Sep - Virtual

 04:18 <toddc> ubuntu on-air

 04:18 <toddc> HTTP://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:18 <toddc> HTTP://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:18 <toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net

 04:18 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:19 <toddc> When Tue, September 9, 8am – 9pm AZ local time

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:19 <toddc> hi catswold

 04:20 <catswold> evening toddc and all

 04:20 <wmack2> hi catswold

 04:20 <toddc> xHans: would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:20 <xHans> toddc: yes, danke

 04:20 <Ron_A> Good evening

 04:20 <xHans> first off, thanks to toddc for quickly finding an alternate location for Saturday's Installfest!

 04:21 <toddc> np:)

 04:21 <xHans> I really appreciate toddc's efforts and reliability!

 04:21 <adrenaline> +1

 04:21 <xHans> thanks for everything you do for the community

 04:21 <wmack2> ditto!!

 04:21 <xHans> the PLUG east side meeting is this Thursday at 19:00

 04:21 <stephenm> agreed

 04:21 <xHans> the primary topic will be a panel on *BSD

 04:21 <xHans> there will also be a desktop security short topic

 04:21 <xHans> we have room for another presentation if you have something you'd like to do

 04:22 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/106398898073454924098/posts/gvkZqNM452u

 04:22 <xHans> the Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday

 04:22 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/106398898073454924098/posts/gvkZqNM452u

 04:22 <xHans> Next month's east side meeting will have a topic on Sensu monitoring framework

 04:22 <xHans> November's east side meeting will have a topic on Privoxy, a non-caching web proxy with advanced filtering capabilities for enhancing privacy

 04:22 <xHans> December's east side meeting will be our annual end of year party

 04:23 <xHans> Upcoming PLUG presentations ( still need to lock in dates )

 04:23 <xHans> Soon: Chromakey with Free Software graphics and video tools

 04:23 <xHans> Soon: dealing with cruft

 04:23 <xHans> Soon: FreeBSD

 04:23 <xHans> Soon: ZFS

 04:24 <xHans> thanks to everyone who showed up at the alternate location on Saturday!

 04:25 <xHans> a week from Wednesday is another Red Hat Users Group meeting

 04:25 <xHans> All about Open Source with The Fedora Project's Robyn Bergeron

 04:25 <xHans> Robyn was recently the Fedora project leader and has been involved in Free Software at many levels

 04:26 <xHans> looking forward to the talk

 04:26 <xHans> http://www.meetup.com/PhoenixRedHatSoftwareUserGroup/events/202336622/

 04:26 <xHans> and that's it from me

 04:26 <toddc> thank you xHans for all the events and extras you do also

 04:26 <toddc> I will add those to the calendars

 04:26 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:27 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:27 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
