{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 03 November - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 5 attendees, one new person
* Distributed information on Ubuntu and upcoming events to the new attendee. 
* Discussed proxmox environment on a Virtual Box, wiping data using bleachbit, and HIPAA compliance. 
* Discussed the need to sync AZLOCO and PLUG calendars.
* As a side note there was some political humor also discussed.
* 05 November - Linux installation-festival/Linux workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 12 attendees
* Installed Libre ELEC on a member's laptop.
* Dual boot install and bios upgrade.
* Worked on Installfest server.
* Worked on Zentel server.
* Worked on Team server.
* 06 November - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 9 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2006%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 13 November – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2013%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 17 November - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour
* 11 attendees, 3 new people
* Distributed Ubuntu information to the new attendees
* Discussed attendance at other AZLOCO and LUG events around the state and upcoming CLUG events.
* Discussed the different official “flavors” that Ubuntu has to offer to include the newest one Ubuntu Budgie.
* Did a successful Ubuntu install on an HP Laptop for one of the attendees.
* 17 November – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees, 1 new person.
* Conducted a training class on Parted.
* Discussed creating a Meet-Up account through the LoCo Council.
* 19 November -  Linux installation-festival/Linux workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 20 attendees
* There was some terminal training conducted.
* 5 installs (EFI Ubuntu, Mint, Arch, Mint-dual boot, Ubuntu in a Virtual Machine)
* Conducted three server repairs
* Installed “No Machine” on 2 separate computers
* Installed additional programs on computers for several attendees
* 20 November – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2020%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 27 November - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2027%2C%202016%20Meeting
