{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 21 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-03-21-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/nala-apt-command-frontend/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/oss-news-learn-more-linux-more-zen-for-ml-desktop-linux-new-and-old-87370.html   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/oss-news-enterprise-linux-microsoft-replacements-fuzzy-linux-solutions-87339.html   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.makeuseof.com/best-linux-distros-for-chromebooks/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/ubuntu-revamp-its-logo-after-12-years/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/3/open-source-academia   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-libre-distributions/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/asahi-linux-alpha/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/grep-command/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/easy-way-to-fix-sudo-unable-to-resolve-host-name-or-service-not-known/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxopsys.com/topics/lsof-command-in-linux   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-passbolt-password-manager-on-rocky-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/ansible-lab-setup-with-vagrant-and-virtualbox-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/how-to-install-and-configure-master-slave-dns-in-centos-rhel-7-6/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-lamp-debian-11/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtogeek.com/782514/how-to-use-set-and-pipefail-in-bash-scripts-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-use-linux-screen-command/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/how-to-fix-vmware-modconfig-can-not-continue/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/4-cli-based-linux-performance-monitoring-tools-top-htop-ps-and-vmstat/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/sftp-command/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2022/03/18/bcachefs/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:13)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (59)
* stephenm (45)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:04 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <toddc> I will

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki pagxe is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:03 <stephenm> News is all over the place

 04:03 <stephenm> Nala: A Prettier Frontend for the APT Command

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/nala-apt-command-frontend/

 04:03 <stephenm> OSS News: Learn More Linux, More Zen for ML, Desktop Linux New and Old

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/oss-news-learn-more-linux-more-zen-for-ml-desktop-linux-new-and-old-87370.html

 04:03 <stephenm> OSS News: Enterprise Linux, Microsoft Replacements, Fuzzy Linux Solutions

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/oss-news-enterprise-linux-microsoft-replacements-fuzzy-linux-solutions-87339.html

 04:03 <stephenm> The 8 Best Linux Distros for Chromebooks

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.makeuseof.com/best-linux-distros-for-chromebooks/

 04:04 <stephenm> Ubuntu revamp its logo after 12 years

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/ubuntu-revamp-its-logo-after-12-years/

 04:04 <stephenm> Why academia chooses open source

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/3/open-source-academia

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Best Linux-Libre Distributions for Better Security

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-libre-distributions/

 04:04 <stephenm> Asahi Linux Reaches Alpha Milestone, Brings Linux to M1 Macs

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/asahi-linux-alpha/

 04:04 <stephenm> Grep Command with Examples

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/grep-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> Easy way to fix: sudo unable to resolve host name or service not known

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/easy-way-to-fix-sudo-unable-to-resolve-host-name-or-service-not-known/

 04:05 <stephenm> Lsof Command in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxopsys.com/topics/lsof-command-in-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Passbolt Password Manager on Rocky Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-passbolt-password-manager-on-rocky-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Automated Ansible Lab Setup With Vagrant And Virtualbox In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/ansible-lab-setup-with-vagrant-and-virtualbox-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Configure DNS Server in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxteck.com/how-to-install-and-configure-master-slave-dns-in-centos-rhel-7-6/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Configure LAMP on Debian 11 (Bullseye)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-lamp-debian-11/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Use set and pipefail in Bash Scripts on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtogeek.com/782514/how-to-use-set-and-pipefail-in-bash-scripts-on-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Use Linux Screen Command

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-use-linux-screen-command/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to fix VMware Modconfig can not continue

 04:06 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/how-to-fix-vmware-modconfig-can-not-continue/

 04:06 <stephenm> 4 CLI based Linux Performance Monitoring Tools: top, htop, ps and vmstat

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/4-cli-based-linux-performance-monitoring-tools-top-htop-ps-and-vmstat/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Use SFTP Command to Transfer Files

 04:06 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/sftp-command/

 04:06 <stephenm> Devs of bcachefs try to get filesystem into Linux again

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2022/03/18/bcachefs/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all for tonight, back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:08 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 145 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are 127 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 25 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 24 March, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 02 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:09 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 April, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> 07 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 14 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 14 April, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 16 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:10 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 17 April,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 28 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:12 <MajB> 14 April PLUG East Meeting

 04:12 <MajB> 19 April Free Software Stammtisch

 04:12 <MajB> 21 April Linux Security

 04:12 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:12 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting on the second Wednesday of each month 1800-1930 at the Sunland Village East computer lab.

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 26 March 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:13 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:13 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022 (virtual)

 04:13 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:13 <MajB> If you would like to help send an email to participate@seagl.org or go to #SeaGl , their IRC channel on Liberia.chat and you will receive an invitation to join their organization meetings conducted every other Tuesday at 1800 PST (UTC -7).

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:14 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
