{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<adrenaline_> +1
<TuxMann> +1
<wmack> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Star Date 91465.39
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<adrenaline_> ncc-1701
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> NCC-1704D get it correct!!
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your-self
<Dazed_75> NCC-1701D
<toddc> Hi I am NCC-1704D?
<adrenaline_> I am only on episode 3
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<Dazed_75> LOL
<toddc> I have watched them all
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/computing/170842-cybercrime-evolved-cryptolocker-virus-gets-user-friendly-with-brilliantly-twisted-update so preach BACKUP - BACKUP - BACKUP
<Dazed_75> not Linux per se, but you all deal with Windows folks
<Dazed_75> http://thewirecutter.com/reviews/the-best-standing-desks/
<gnewbie> +1
<Dazed_75> http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/elements/2013/11/the-daunting-challenge-of-secure-e-mail.html
<toddc> welcome gnewbie
<Dazed_75> http://www.techhive.com/article/2055502/why-your-internet-service-provider-wants-to-nix-all-you-can-eat-data-buffets.html
<rudgan> I can see you guys can you see me
<Dazed_75> http://www.technologyreview.com/video/413186/how-tor-works/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/175526/hashing-algorithms-and-security/
<Dazed_75> http://blog.backblaze.com/2013/11/12/how-long-do-disk-drives-last/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/11/12/linux-format-employees-jump-ship-to-form-new-magazine/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/11/12/google-updates-gmail-with-google-drive-support-for-attachments/
<Dazed_75> http://ask.xmodulo.com/install-minimal-ubuntu-desktop.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/fight-good-fight-smokeping
<Dazed_75> http://www.techdirt.com/articles/20131106/01250225144/taiwanese-animators-take-patent-trolls-new-video.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/everything-need-know-ssd-caching/
<TuxMann> rudgan: We can't see you currently in BBB
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/go-programming-on-ubuntu/
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/11/cinnamon-20-no-longer-breaks-unity-in.html
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/xdu-display-the-output-of-du-command-in-an-x-window/
<Dazed_75> http://www.osnews.com/story/27416/The_second_operating_system_hiding_in_every_mobile_phone
<Dazed_75> http://www.theverge.com/2013/11/12/5082666/the-edge-of-the-abyss-exposing-the-nsas-all-seeing-machine
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/11/13/google-chromebook-11-no-longer-on-sale-after-charger-overheating-problems/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/open-stack-adoption-fun-facts-surprises
<Dazed_75> http://stevenrosenberg.net/blog/linux/ubuntu/2013_1113_aaron_toponce_says_goodbye_ubuntu
<Dazed_75> AMD wants Mantle on Linux, OS X, Mobile Devices
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTUxMzY
<Dazed_75> Centrych 12.04.02 is Ubuntu LTS based but with newer versions of applications
<Dazed_75>     http://distrowatch.com/?newsid=08151
<Dazed_75>     http://www.centrych.org/
<Dazed_75> http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/sshfs/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/11/how-to-configure-keyboard-layouts-in-xfce-cinnamon-mate.html
<rudgan> Hey Mike are you on this ?
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/using-wireshark-ubuntu/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/11/ubuntu-tablet-will-key-focus-ubuntu-14-04-lts-cycle
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/11/possible-changes-in-ubuntu-1404-lts.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/PCLinuxOS-Makes-Desktop-Linux-Look-Good-79418.html
<Dazed_75> http://news.cnet.com/8301-11386_3-57612525-76/vlc-steps-into-next-gen-video-wars-with-vp9-hevc-support/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/11/14/dvdstyler-extends-slideshow-support/
<Dazed_75> http://www.dvdstyler.org/en/downloads    Linux Users Check if in your repositories already
<Dazed_75> http://www.straight.com/blogra/530646/space-no-one-can-hear-you-scream-windows-xp-anymore
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/382809/best-linux-distro-privacy-protection
<Dazed_75> http://www.techradar.com/us/news/software/operating-systems/which-linux-distro-is-best-for-protecting-your-privacy--1192771
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/11/create-desktop-shortcut-launcher-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/14/technology/personaltech/homemade-wireless-networks-keep-the-snoops-away.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/175641/how-to-boot-and-install-linux-on-a-uefi-pc-with-secure-boot/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/175649/what-you-need-to-know-about-using-uefi-instead-of-the-bios/
<Dazed_75> http://bleachbit.sourceforge.net/news/bleachbit-10
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/11/15/sourceforge_responds_to_gimp_grump_with_crowdsourcing_caper/
<Dazed_75> http://www.itwire.com/business-it-news/open-source/62297-developers-deny-gnome-dependent-on-systemd
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/software/383015/install-tweak-tools-ubuntu-1310
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/software/383017/install-synaptic-ubuntu-1310
<Dazed_75> Mint 16 Release Candidate available for download
<Dazed_75>     http://blog.linuxmint.com/?p=2477
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxmint.com/rel_petra_mate_whatsnew.php
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxmint.com/rel_petra_cinnamon_whatsnew.php
<TuxMann> rudgan: Can you hear us in BBB?
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/11/draw-flowchart-diagram-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/fix-flash-player-crashes-issue-in-chrome/
<rudgan> nope
<Dazed_75> That's it from AJ - I hope everyone saw SOMETHING useful to them
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 lots of good information in there!
<toddc> Project: Community Computers
<toddc> http://www.projectcc.org/
<toddc> Rikomagic MK802 IV LE with Ubuntu now shipping
<toddc> http://liliputing.com/2013/10/rikomagic-mk802-iv-le-ubuntu-now-shipping-80.html
<gnewbie> Thanks for the news Dazed_75!!
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<Dazed_75> You are welcome :)
<toddc> We have canceled the following meetings and events due to holidays or ??
<toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour Nov 28 canceled due to Thanksgiving
<toddc> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI
<toddc> December Tempe Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas and I may be still sleeping off the 25th.
<toddc> JOB list
<toddc> Splunk Consultant traveling up to 80% IT operations and
<toddc> Vmware background.
<toddc> send resumes to lori.eddlemon@effect-tech.com
<toddc> LimeLight in Tempe is looking for a MySQL DBA remote is OK
<toddc> Contact xHans for more info
<toddc> Logos Operations Developer Logos Bible Software
<toddc> devjobs@logos.com
<toddc> jobs.schwab.com, search for Unix, choose associate - Unix system administrator, here in Phoenix.
<toddc> HIRING System Sage (Level IV Tech) (Las Vegas)
<toddc> http://www.ondemandassessment.com/verify/apply/BDyRyvR/nwPTwPa
<toddc> Level III Field Engineer / Systems Engineer (Tempe)
<toddc> http://www.greenloopsolutions.com/contact/
<toddc> Runs LINUX
<toddc> Live From SUSECon: Brazilian Credit Union Saves Millions With Linux on System z
<toddc> http://www.linux.com/news/hardware/servers/748502-live-from-susecon-sicoob-saves-millions-with-linux-on-system-z/
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> smokeping
<toddc> http://oss.oetiker.ch/smokeping/
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST
<toddc> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday December 7 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<TuxMann> We're in the process of reserving the room for Dec. 7th at PVCC. We'll have more information later this week.
<toddc> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> Paradise Valley Community College 18401 North 32nd Street, Phoenix, AZ 85032, USA
<toddc> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> the November Ubuntu hour is canceled due to thanksgiving the next Tempe Ubuntu hour is
<toddc> Thursday December 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Wednesday December 4th  7pm – 9pm
<toddc> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
<toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<toddc> There were 8-9 people at November's event this has started out as a great event.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> Weekly Ubuntu Webcast Tuesday  with Jono Bacon 11:00 AM
<toddc> Jono Bacon Q&A every Wednesday 12:00 Noon
<toddc> Juju Charm School: Chef/Puppet Integration Wednesday 9-11 AM
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> xhans are you here? and would you like to do the Plug news?
<xHans> certainly, danke
<xHans> Thursday's SaltStack presentation for PLUG was moved back, probably February
<xHans> December will be the annual end of year party
<xHans> January will be MongoDB and a desktop security presentation
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch this Tuesday @ 19:00
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> Iguana Macks 1371 N. Alma School Rd Chandler, AZ 85224
<xHans> the dev group is going to start meeting again as well, I believe there is a meeting scheduled for December, but didn't write down the details
<xHans> and that's it for now
<adrenaline_> Keep us posted on the Dev group. I am interested if it happens
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<xHans> adrenaline: will do
<Dazed_75> Dev Group meeting is 12/5 at 7PM at UAT.  They will be going over the Cheese code
<adrenaline_> Thank you
<rudgan> Thanks
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
* [R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<xHans> Dazed_75: danke
<Dazed_75> xHans: bitte
<rudgan> I just installed camorama...
<toddc> linux book for kids http://lunduke.com/linux-for-hank/
<adrenaline_> Hey toddc we talked about this the other day but read the article that Dazed_75 put up tonight
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
