{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:00:36] <tyche>	Who's here for the meeting?
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:00:37] <tyche>	+1
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:00:44] <paul928-laptop>	I would attend that meeting also, but I'm not ABLE
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:00:44] <azteech1>	+1
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:00:49] <paul928-laptop>	=1
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:01:01] <kennymc0_laptop>	+1
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:01:20] <Paula62>	Paula62+1
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:01:33] <tyche>	'Bout time.  Hee hee
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:01:36] <FernHans>	Paula63?
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:01:57] <Paula62>	Look, I just washed my computer and can't do a thing with it.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:02:02] <tyche>	Cute, FernHans, except that I've met you and know that you aren't
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:02:14] <azteech1>	evening Paula62
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:02:23] <Paula62>	evening
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:02:37] <FernHans>	tyche: my wife thinks I'm cute, but she's getting new glasses...
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:02:38] <tyche>	OK.  For those of you who don't know, johnc4510 can't be with us tonight.  His mother's brother died today.  He's on his way to Dallas.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:03:15] <tyche>	So that leaves me with the responsibility of being totally unprepared, as I have NO idea what he was going to cover tonight.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:04:12] <tyche>	I can say that my attempts to create the AZ Team Logo were unsuccessful.  I just don't know enough about SVG to manage to re-create it, and the conversion programs left it looking like something a 5 year old would do.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:04:14] <FernHans>	tyche: he was going to cover getting everyone going on ABLEconf ;-)
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:04:59] <FernHans>	tyche: hopefully we'll have an Inkscape presentation or 3 at the conf
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:05:17] <tyche>	We do have a number of things that need to be covered with ABLEconf, and I'll let FernHans report on the meeting they just had, and what needs to be done.  We need volunteers . . .
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:05:26] <tyche>	FernHans: Would you like to take over?
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:05:38] <FernHans>	tyche: for ABLEconf and PLUG, sure
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:05:56] <FernHans>	http://www.ABLEconf.com/
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:06:00] <tyche>	That's what's important,
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:06:33] <FernHans>	johnc4510 was going to fill in the organizers page for us, http://www.ABLEconf.com/organizers, so now we need someone else to fill in
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:07:22] <FernHans>	I will work to create the appropriate list of orgs, but need someone to create links and hopefully add logos
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:08:15] <FernHans>	we now have a call for papers, that and the announcement need to go out
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:08:17] <FernHans>	http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2008Phx/Promotion
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:08:34] <FernHans>	please add groups and media outlets that are missing from that page
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:09:05] <FernHans>	if you can be the person responsible for contacting the group/media please put yourself as the contact
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:09:26] <FernHans>	alternatively, if you know someone who can be the contact, please contact them and ask them to sign up
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:10:23] <FernHans>	contact persons need to please sign up for the promo-announce mailing list
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:10:25] <FernHans>	http://lists.ableconf.com/listinfo.cgi/promo-announce-ableconf.com
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:12:05] <FernHans>	getting the word out and getting presentation proposals are our top priorities
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:12:19] <FernHans>	we will also be posting sponsorship information
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:13:01] <FernHans>	any questions about ABLEconf?
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:14:44] <tyche>	OK, thanks FernHans.  As for the strictly AZ side of this, I need someone with SVG experience to work on the team Logo.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:15:15] <tyche>	princess| hasn't gotten back to me about the status of the banner, and I hope to hear from him soon.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:16:05] <tyche>	And finally, my wife and I both feel very strongly about what has happened with johnc4510's family, and offer our condolences.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:16:22] <tyche>	I'm sure the rest of the team feels the same way.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:16:27] <kennymc0_laptop>	absolutely
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:16:40] <azteech1>	most assuredly ...
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:16:48] <FernHans>	tyche: condolensces from me and PLUG as well
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:16:56] <tyche>	Thanks, FernHans
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:17:01] <FernHans>	bitte
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:17:18] <FernHans>	this week PLUG has two events
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:17:27] <FernHans>	devel mtg is Thursday
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:17:44] <tyche>	Where is that held?
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:17:51] <FernHans>	the InstallFest was moved back from yesterday and will now be this coming Saturday, 10:00 to 16:00
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:18:28] <FernHans>	devel is at Adtron, which is about Broadway and 48th St
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:18:41] <tyche>	OK, thanks
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:18:43] <FernHans>	links and maps on the PLUG site, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:19:16] <FernHans>	there is also an InstallFest the weekend after ABLEconf
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:19:34] <FernHans>	we'll need extra support that weekend just in case we pull people in from ABLEconf
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:19:58] <tyche>	Which we can mention at ABLEconf, for those who come to the conference and get disks, but don't want to try to install themselves.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:20:14] <FernHans>	johnc4510 had brought up the LoCo cosponsoring some of our InstallFests, we'll plot on that once he's had some time for family
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:20:25] <FernHans>	tyche: most definitely
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:20:40] <FernHans>	we need to have InstallFest flyers and a poster at ABLEconf
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:22:23] <tyche>	OK, something to remember is that FernHans and PLUG have helped us out with our first (and successful) installfest.  It's only appropriate that we support him.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:22:48] <tyche>	Is there anything else?  Or does anyone have something they want to bring up?
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:23:28] <FernHans>	tyche: to me we're all the same community
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:23:42] <tyche>	If not, then I ask you all to think about how you can support the ABLEconf effort, and volunteer what you can do.
[Sun Aug 31 2008] [21:23:54] <tyche>	And I'll call the meeting adjourned.
 </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
