{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<pjdamws> +1
<wmack> +1
<erroric> +1
<toddc> anyone want to build a ARK?
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<tuxmann> +1
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<erroric> maybe a paper sailboat to float in my mini pond in the back yard :p
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<nhasian> +1
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<scott_ev> +1
* scott_ev pokes Dazed_75 - wake up, old man
<toddc> Dazed_75 post are not showing up
<toddc> http://mentalfloss.com/article/51674/history-ctrl-alt-delete (LOVE the punch line)
<toddc> 5D "Superman Memory" crystal could lead to unlimited lifetime data storage
<toddc> http://www.southampton.ac.uk/mediacentre/news/2013/jul/13_131.shtml
<toddc> http://betanews.com/2013/07/15/how-the-ubisoft-hack-shows-that-the-password-model-is-weak-and-why-device-based-authentication-is-the-answer/
<toddc> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/wayland-1-2-the-xserver-alternative-out-now
<toddc> http://www.linux.org/threads/trees-b-trees-b-trees-and-h-trees.4278/
* larry_ (~larry@173-20-82-52.client.mchsi.com) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/07/how-to-write-scripts-tip-internal-vs.html
* TRG__ (~TRG____@ip68-96-59-16.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<larry_> http://l3net.wordpress.com/2013/07/12/fedora-19-lxde-spin-cleanup/
<larry_> Most common Linux server's hardening tips and checklist
<larry_>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/magazines/nseditions/2013/June13_Edition/linux.php
<larry_> http://mybroadband.co.za/news/software/81713-5-pillars-of-ubuntu-touch-success.html
* smccarthy2 (~smccarthy@ip72-223-35-164.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/sync-multiple-devices-with-bittorrent-sync/2013/07/15
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/pop-out-videos-in-firefox/2013/07/14
* wmack1 (~wmack@ip98-165-94-49.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/167783/htg-explains-the-difference-between-wep-wpa-and-wpa2-wireless-encryption-and-why-it-matters/
<larry_> http://torrentfreak.com/prism-for-pirates-att-invents-the-ultimate-anti-piracy-system-130713/
<toddc> scott_ev: should talk!!! :)
<larry_> http://www.extremetech.com/computing/161447-99-arm-based-utilite-gives-the-raspberry-pi-some-competition
<larry_> http://betanews.com/2013/07/16/childish-names-are-becoming-a-real-problem-for-linux/
<larry_> http://betanews.com/2013/07/16/clink-brings-bashs-powerful-command-line-editing-to-windows/
<larry_> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/07/16/torvalds_potty_mouty_fight_back/
* nhasian_ (~nhasian@ubuntu/member/nhasian) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<larry_> http://opensource.com/education/13/7/introduce-yourself-open-source-project
<Yorokobi> +1
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/access-skydrive-from-ubuntu-desktop/2013/07/16
<larry_> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/how-to-create-bootable-windows-pe-iso.html
<larry_> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/puddletag-linux-audio-tag-editor-102.html
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/167674/how-to-enable-and-tweak-ubuntus-flashy-graphical-effects/
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/113330/how-to-master-ubuntus-unity-desktop-8-things-you-need-to-know/
<larry_> http://www.mylinuxrig.com/post/55601792951/keepassx-treating-your-passwords-like-theyre
<larry_> http://www.drdobbs.com/open-source/gnu-awk-this-is-not-your-fathers-awk/240158351
<larry_> http://mylinuxbook.com/hash-tables-using-hash-command-and-available-implementations/
<larry_> http://mylinuxbook.com/hash-tables-using-hash-command-and-available-implementations/
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/persistent-live-usb-vs-full-install-usb/2013/07/17
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/168184/the-new-google-maps-preview-is-now-available-to-all-users/
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/167425/how-to-setup-wi-fi-on-your-raspberry-pi-via-the-command-line/
<larry_> http://betanews.com/2013/07/17/google-glass-successfully-hacked-right-in-front-of-your-eyes/
* dwayneyzx (~dwaynex@wsip-24-249-177-197.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<larry_> http://www.thepowerbase.com/2013/07/kde-4-11-gets-impromptu-memory-use-decrease-across-kde-pim-others/
<larry_> Top 10 PHP tips and tricks for developers
<larry_>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/magazines/nseditions/2013/June13_Edition/php.php
<larry_> http://www.unixmen.com/synchronize-files-with-unison-on-ubuntu/
* dwaynexyz has quit (*.net *.split)
* TRG_ has quit (*.net *.split)
* smccarthy has quit (*.net *.split)
* nhasian has quit (*.net *.split)
<larry_> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/07/17/best-ides-for-octave-python-and-r/
<larry_> http://www.unixmen.com/how-to-find-best-and-fast-dns-servers-to-optimize-your-internet-speed/
<larry_> http://www.itworld.com/software/365577/free-bittorrent-sync-app-linux
<larry_> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/BitTorrent-Sync-Could-Keep-Data-Under-Wraps-78513.html
<TRG__> http://www.businessinsider.com/36-year-old-seth-vidal-tragically-killed-2013-7
<larry_> Mesa 9.2 can boost Intel Haswell graphics 30-40% on Linux
<larry_>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel_mesa92_haswell&num=1
<larry_> http://linuxaria.com/article/benchmark-x-org-vs-mir?lang=en but read to the end as Mir is not done
<larry_> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/theres-browser-my-ssh
<larry_> http://linuxgizmos.com/mini-itx-carrier-board-for-raspberry-pi/
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/access-skydrive-from-ubuntu-desktop/2013/07/16
<larry_> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/final-update-to-libreoffice-3-6-series-now-available-for-download
<larry_> ... and what to expect in LibreOffice 4.1 in the future
<larry_>     http://www.libreoffice.org/download/4-1-new-features-and-fixes/
<toddc> TRG__ good add-in
<larry_> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/fuzzy-window-switcher-for-ubuntu.html
<larry_> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/popular-task-management-app-wunderlist.html now for Chrome
<larry_> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/JOE-Old-School-Text-Editor-Teaches-New-Lessons-78494.html
<larry_> http://mylinuxbook.com/cal-ncal-linux-commands-to-display-calendar-information/
<larry_> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/ubuntu-vs.-debian.html  VERY good read
<larry_> http://www.infoworld.com/d/open-source-software/the-future-of-linux-evolving-everywhere-222544
<larry_> http://arstechnica.com/business/2013/07/microsoft-takes-900-million-hit-for-unsold-surface-rts-in-4q13-earnings/
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/165585/experience-the-future-of-computers-today-turn-your-galaxy-s4-into-a-pc-with-a-smart-dock/
<larry_> http://www.ubuntugeek.com/conky-manager-simple-gui-for-managing-conky-config-files.html
<larry_> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/reviews/raspberry-pi-camera-module review
<larry_> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/07/how-to-video-record-your-desktop.html
<larry_> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/wine-16-released-with-10000-changes.html
<larry_> http://linuxgizmos.com/linaro-optimizes-linux-support-for-arm-big-little/
<larry_> http://fossforce.com/2013/07/debian-tops-our-community-distro-poll/
<larry_> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/07/why-i-left-ubuntu.html
<larry_> http://www.linux.org/threads/configuring-system-sounds.4275/
* Dazed_75 has quit (*.net *.split)
* wmack has quit (*.net *.split)
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/168472/remove-utm_source-tracking-from-urls-with-the-au-revoir-utm-extension-for-firefox/
<larry_> http://linuxgizmos.com/new-tcl-smart-tvs-run-linux-based-opera-tv/
<larry_> http://www.citeworld.com/consumerization/22149/google-glass-misconceptions
<larry_> Intel Linux [OpenGL video] driver still slower than Win7 and Intel plans for next Linux kernel version
<larry_>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel_ivbmesa92_win7&num=1
<larry_>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQxNDg
<larry_> http://www.howtoforge.com/installing-and-using-openvz-on-ubuntu-13.04-amd64
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/why-are-solid-state-drives-so-expensive/2013/07/19
<larry_> ... and thats all from Apache Junction.  I hope everyone found SOME piece of news useful
<toddc> Dazed_75 great news as always thanks!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> Linux is a cancer?
<toddc> http://www.businessweek.com/videos/2013-07-18/is-most-of-modern-society-run-by-linux
<toddc> South Korea begins nationwide free WiFi rollout
<toddc> http://www.totaltele.com/view.aspx?ID=482319
<toddc> Ubuntu Forum has been hacked, Unfortunately the attackers have gotten every user's local username, password, and email address from the Ubuntu Forums database.The passwords are not stored in plain text, they are stored as salted hashes
<toddc> http://ubuntuforums.org/announce.html
<toddc> http://blog.canonical.com/2013/07/21/notice-of-security-breach-on-ubuntu-forums-site/
<toddc> Ubuntu One, Launchpad and other Ubuntu/Canonical services are NOT affected by the breach.
<toddc> HoneyDrive a virtual machine to monitor your network security
<toddc> http://bruteforce.gr/honeydrive
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> Thanks for all the help Saturday Everyone and nice to see you TRG_
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Data Center Provisioning Technician Tempe  AZ
<toddc> Jr. Network Engineer Tempe AZ
<toddc> http://www.jobscore.com/jobs/codero/data-center-provisioning-technician/cZiG8oYmqr4RutiGakhP3Q?Board=CraigsList&PID=1302975
<toddc> NOC Administrator
<toddc> http://www.liveops.com/company/open-positions?gnk=apply&gni=8a42a12b3febebb2013ff3f652962b5f&gns=Craigslist
<toddc> Network Engineer
<toddc> http://www.greenloopsolutions.com
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Runs Linux
<toddc> Lernstift
<toddc> http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/lernstift/lernstift-the-first-pen-that-vibrates-when-u-make
<toddc> Android App Pick of the week
<tuxmann> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.zxing.client.android&hl=en
<tuxmann> Scan barcodes on products then look up prices and reviews. You can also scan Data Matrix and QR Codes containing URLs, contact info, etc.
<toddc> BitTorrent Sync
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.bittorrent.sync
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<tuxmann> KeePassX is an application for people with extremly high demands on secure personal data management. It has a light interface, is cross platform and published under the terms of the GNU General Public License.
<tuxmann> http://www.keepassx.org/
<tuxmann> I recommend creating your new passwords inside of the program first, then saving the file & make a copy of the files & then use the new passwords to replace your old passwords for websites. I had the bad experience earlier of my system crashing in the process of changing my passwords and I didn't save the file before modifying the password.
<toddc> File Syncing and Collaboration for Teams
<toddc> http://seafile.com/en/home/
* toifoiky (~ian@71-36-189-253.phnx.qwest.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<toddc> Thursday July 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> TUCSON Ubuntu Hour
<toddc> Tucson ubuntu is on hold for the time being unless we find someone else there with time to run it.
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday August 3 and Saturday August 17 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more info see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thank adrenaline for updating azloco.org to the latest version of drupal last Saturday night
<toddc> slofgren has arranged for a donation to the team of two Dell 2950 servers that are fully loaded
<toddc> but we still need new home for them if anyone has ideas?
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> ubuntu development hang out Tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
<toddc> Jono Bacon O&A Wednesday 7-8 pm GMT
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> we are in the planning stages for a fall installfest at the park or a GEEKNICK at Tempe town lake
<toddc> we are looking at wifi power and locations and dates xHans is checking wifi coverage and I will try to reserve a date after that. Think potluck BBQ installfest + kid and Family's  in the park around September or October
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> FernHans are you here?
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday August 8  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
* pjdamws has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday August 20 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> wayland
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
