{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxmann> +1
<Rich__> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<pjdamws> +1
<toddc> +1
<Xorrito> +1
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<nhasian> +1
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
* akrhodey (18edc7ab@gateway/web/freenode/ip.24.237.199.171) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<wmack> +1
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<akrhodey> +1
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> As noted by Lisa on the PLUG Discussion List
<Dazed_75> Building my own pwnpad Community for fun and less that $300
<Dazed_75>     http://www.toolswatch.org/2013/05/installing-my-own-pwnpad-community-for-fun-and-for-less-than-300/
<Dazed_75> 5 Comic book viewers for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/recensioni/comic-book-viewers-for-linux?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Debian 7.0 "Wheezy" released
<Dazed_75>     http://www.debian.org/News/2013/20130504
<Dazed_75> Debian 7.0 Reviews
<Dazed_75>     http://www.unixmen.com/debian-7-0-wheezy-review/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/05/08/debian_seven_review/
<Dazed_75> Chromebook: To hell with the Linux Desktop -- Pre-installation is Key
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxadvocates.com/2013/05/chromebook-to-hell-with-linux-desktop.html#ref=Wibiya_bar2
<Dazed_75> Yum command - RPM based package manager with practical examples
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/yum/
<Dazed_75> Some tricks with htop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/05/some-tricks-with-htop.html
<Dazed_75> I am vi, the great and powerful
<Dazed_75>     http://marcelgagne.com/content/i-am-vi-great-and-powerful
<Dazed_75> KVM virtualization gets new features in Linux 3.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM2NDk
<Dazed_75> WPS Office: a Microsoft Office clone for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/wps-office-a-free-cross-platform-alternative-to-microsoft-office/2013/05/06
<Dazed_75> 4 time waster games for Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/wps-office-a-free-cross-platform-alternative-to-microsoft-office/2013/05/06
<Dazed_75> Spotify pushes out bug fix update on Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/spotify-for-linux-updates
<ArchFan89> oops dazed_75 you posted the same link twice
<Dazed_75> An error in my sources.  I don't have the correct link. for the time wasters
<Dazed_75> New Linux Documentary Project hits Kickstarter
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/new-kickstarter-project-for-a-documentary-on-linux
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 13.10 Release Schedule
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/ubuntu-13-10-release-schedule
<Dazed_75> How to Dual Boot AND virtualize the same partition on your computer
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/troubleshoot-pc-problems-with-reliability-monitor-in-windows-8/2013/05/06
<Dazed_75> How to use multiple disks intelligently: An introduction to RAID
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/162676/how-to-use-multiple-disks-intelligently-an-introduction-to-raid/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu vs Android Tablets, Smartphones: Canonical's Secret Weapon
<Dazed_75>     http://thevarguy.com/mobile-device-management-software-solutions/ubuntu-vs-android-tablets-smartphones-canonicals-secret-
<Dazed_75> Build your own cloud - tutorial
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/tutorials/build-your-own-cloud
<Dazed_75> How to improve Ubuntu laptop power management
<Dazed_75>     http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-improve-ubuntu-laptop-power-management.html
<Dazed_75> Why use Xen for virtualization?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux.com/news/enterprise/systems-management/717553-why-use-xen
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Touch for phones to be usable by end of May
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/ubuntu-touch-for-phones-to-be-usable-by-end-of-may
<Dazed_75> Liven up your Ubuntu desktop with ZonColor themes
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/zoncolor-themes-for-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu might get a new [additional] simplified packaging format / app installer
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/ubuntu-might-get-new-simplified.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/ubuntu-working-on-new-linux-application-installer-7000015174/
<Dazed_75> Elementary OS Luna Beta 2 available for download
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/elementary-os-luna-beta-2-available-for.html
<Dazed_75> Cinnamon 1.8 gets its own control center and screensaver, easier Spices installation
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/cinnamon-18-gets-its-own-control-center.html
<Dazed_75> Time to upgrade: Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Server, 10.04 LTS Desktop, and 11.10 Desktop support ends today
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/162942/time-to-upgrade-ubuntu-8.04-lts-server-10.04-lts-desktop-and-11.10-desktop-support-ends-today/
<Dazed_75> Should you use Ubuntu LTS or upgrade to the latest release?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/162768/should-you-use-ubuntu-lts-or-upgrade-to-the-latest-release/
<Dazed_75> If I buy a computer with Windows 8 and Secure Boot can I still install Linux?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/149254/if-i-buy-a-computer-with-windows-8-and-secure-boot-can-i-still-install-linux/
<Dazed_75> How to PXE boot an Ubuntu image from Windows Server 2008
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/162809/how-to-pxe-boot-an-ubuntu-image-from-windows-server-2008/
<Dazed_75> Change your GRUB options with grub-customizer
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/article/change-your-grub-options-with-grub-customizer?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Generating secure passwords for your Linux server
<Dazed_75>     http://thehayden.org/generating-secure-passwords-for-your-linux-server
<Dazed_75> Using NX to run GUI applications from a Linux server
<Dazed_75>     http://www.tech-faq.com/using-nx-to-run-gui-applications-from-a-linux-server.html
<Dazed_75> cgroups: a BIG win for Systemd
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxadvocates.com/2013/05/cgroups-big-win-for-systemd.html
<Dazed_75> Fedora and Ubuntu kernel config comparison
<Dazed_75>     http://jwboyer.livejournal.com/47022.html
<Dazed_75> This is the Open Source Hardware site Josef mentioned at the East Side PLUG meeting
<Dazed_75>     http://www.opencompute.org/
<Dazed_75> Special permissions in Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/unix-command/linux-permissions/
<Dazed_75> Which Linux distribution would you save? The poll results
<Dazed_75>     http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/05/which-linux-distribution-would-you-save.html
<Dazed_75> The Samsung U1000 Ubuntu phone isn't real
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/05/the-samsung-u1000-ubuntu-phone-isnt-real
<Dazed_75> How to get the systray whitelist back in Ubuntu 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/how-to-get-systray-whitelist-back-in.html
<Dazed_75> Half-Life 2 games available for Linux (Steam)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/05/half-life-2-games-available-for-linux.html
<Dazed_75> Would you pay for Linux?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.tuxradar.com/content/open-ballot-would-you-pay-linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Linux-Freedom-and-Cold-Cash-77992.html
<Dazed_75> ... and thats it from AJ toniht
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> International Space Station making laptop migration from Windows XP to Debian 6 due to a personal usb drive a astronaut brought on board
<toddc> http://phys.org/news/2013-05-international-space-station-laptop-migration.html
<toddc> Debian and Ubuntu Packages for BitTorrent Sync Available ( real cool way to synce computers)
<toddc> http://forum.bittorrent.com/topic/18974-debian-and-ubuntu-packages-for-bittorrent-sync-available/
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> over to xorrito for a report on the Tucson Ubuntu hour
<Xorrito> First Tucson Ubuntu Coffee hour was a success. We where accompanied by pjdamws and we introduces Ubuntu to an interested mind. The next meeting's location will be announced as soon as it's settled.
<Xorrito> Thats all from Tucson
<toddc> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-arizona/2411-ubuntu-hour-tucson-az/
* Rich__ has quit (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<toddc> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Senior Systems Engineer
<toddc> http://www.telesphere.com/jobs2/job/54/senior-systems-engineer-at-telesphere/
<toddc> Unix/Linux Admin
<toddc> joel@ricertrue.com
<toddc> IT Administrator Needed
<toddc> http://topclassactions.theresumator.com/apply/LPsSjt/IT-Administrator.html
<toddc> Linux Systems Engineer
* Rich__ (6cafa4a6@gateway/web/freenode/ip.108.175.164.166) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> http://employment.cwie.net/?page_id=24
<toddc> Android App Pick of the week
<xHans> GoDaddy is looking for senior sysadmins, especially for those who know databases, also looking for junir sysadms
<toddc> I will add that to the list xHans
<toddc> Schemes - Scheduled Networking via sms facebook and twitter and gmail all at once
<xHans> pl
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.oxapps.schemes
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> Iotop is a Python program with a top like UI used to show of behalf of which process is the I/O going on
<toddc> http://guichaz.free.fr/iotop/
<ArchFan89> oh, i use iotop too
<toddc> I just found it
<ArchFan89> well if you like iotop everyone needs to switch from top to htop they showed it at the centos dojo
<toddc> New members!!
<ArchFan89> i was using htop all the time anyways
<toddc> John Gross
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday May 18 and Saturday June 1 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc>  calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<toddc> Thursday May 23 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on air
<toddc> ubuntu development hang out Tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
<toddc> Jono Bacon O&A Wednesday 7-8 pm GMT
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> Ubuntu offers free online training several time a year
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
<xHans> as already mentioned, the CentOS Dojo was Friday
<xHans> it was a good event
<xHans> KB would like to come back again about the same time of year next year
<xHans> and that's it from me
<toddc> xHans Thanks for keeping us up to date on phoenix linux user group events/training events
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<xHans> BTW, a couple of the Dojo speakers said they'd gladly give their talks at PLUG or other area events
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<xHans> the performance tuning guy said he'd gladly give a more detailed technical talk on sub-categories of his talk
<wmack> Thanks, dazed and toddc for putting this meeting on!
<akrhodey> good job guys. Real cold up here in Alaska. I will have some great pictures to show when I get back. Talk to you soon toddc . Thats all for now.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
