{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 16 May at 04:00 &mdash; 04:12 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-05-16-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-22-10-kinetic-kudu-daily-build-isos-are-now-available-for-download   (MajB, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/new-ubuntu-linux-kernel-security-updates-patch-17-vulnerabilities   (MajB, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:11)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (66)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:08 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +4

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki pagxe is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> Ubuntu 22.10 (Kinetic Kudu) Daily Build ISOs Are Available for Download

 04:02 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-22-10-kinetic-kudu-daily-build-isos-are-now-available-for-download

 04:02 <MajB> New Ubuntu Linux Kernel Security Updates Patch 17 Vulnerabilities

 04:02 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/new-ubuntu-linux-kernel-security-updates-patch-17-vulnerabilities

 04:03 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:03 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:03 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:04 <MajB> Those of you that are using or have @azloco.com email address may soon loose access to them because Google is requiring us to update our free subscription to a paid one.  We are are studying the options that we have to retain these addresses and it is not looking good so make plans to migrate any email that you may want to save.  No additional information is available from Google at this time.

 04:04 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:04 <MajB> There are 171 open canonical Jobs today

 04:04 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:05 <MajB> There are 97 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:05 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:05 <MajB> There are 28 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:05 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:05 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:05 <MajB> 21 May, AZLOC)/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ, We will install a Linux operating system on your computer. One on one chats with a member will also be available to learn about Linux.  If you have a problem with your Linux operating system, bring it in and we will attempt to solve it.

 04:06 <MajB> 21 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your

 04:06 <MajB> personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:06 <MajB> 26 May,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:06 <MajB> 02 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:06 <MajB> 04 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:06 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:07 <MajB> 05 June, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:07 <MajB> 09 June Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:07 <MajB> 09 June, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:07 <MajB> 18 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:07 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:07 <MajB> 19 June, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 23 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:08 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:08 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:08 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  LuftHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:09 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:09 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:09 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 17 May 1900-2200 (third Wednesday of each month)

 04:09 <MajB> 

 04:09 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 09 June 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:10 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:10 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:10 <MajB> Monthly meeting 08 June 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:10 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop 21 May 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ, We will install a Linux operating system on your computer. One on one chats with a member will also be available to learn about Linux.  If you have a problem with your Linux operating system, bring it in and we will attempt to solve it.

 04:10 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 28 May 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:11 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:11 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022 (virtual)

 04:11 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:11 <MajB> If you would like to help send an email to participate@seagl.org or go to #SeaGl , their IRC channel on Liberia.chat and you will receive an invitation to join their organization meetings conducted every other Tuesday at 1800 PST (UTC -7).

 04:11 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:12 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:12 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
