{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 21 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:25 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-11-21-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/check-linux-timezone/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/unix-linux-check-if-port-is-in-use-command/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/almost-all-the-worlds-fastest-supercomputers-run-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/kids-day-out-curiosity-creativity 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/open-source-summit-2017-combines-linuxcon-and-three-other-events 
''LINK:'' http://betanews.com/2016/11/17/system76-4k-display-ubuntu-linux-oryx-pro/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/major-linux-security-hole-gapes-open/ 
''LINK:'' https://blog.flameeyes.eu/2016/11/the-overengineering-of-alsa-userland/ 
''LINK:'' http://containerjournal.com/2016/11/18/five-common-myths-containers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-fix-the-cryptsetup-vulnerability-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.slightfuture.com/how-to/periodic-clamav-scan 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=GNOME-Mutter-Mainline-EGLStream 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/check-apache-modules-enabled/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/go-beyond-local-secure-shell 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/wireshark-2-2-2-network-protocol-analyzer-brings-over-30-security-and-bug-fixes-510311.shtml#ixzz4QVIndewV 
''LINK:'' https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxmint/comments/5dqc6f/installing_the_latest_nvidia_drivers_on_mint_17/ 
''LINK:'' https://samy.pl/poisontap/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Btrfs-RAID5-RAID6-Fixed 
''LINK:'' https://news.bitcoin.com/glimpse-blockchain-based-router-nodio/ 
''LINK:'' https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZr 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue485#In_This_Issue 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (70)
* stephenm (47)
* toddc (6)
* RioOfTheWind (4)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* pavlos (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov 21 04:00:13 2016 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at http://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Star Date 94491.41

 04:01 <mark91> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:04 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:04 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:04 <RioOfTheWind> +1

 04:04 <MajB> First the the news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:04 <stephenm> my line

 04:05 <stephenm> OK all this news starts from beginner/plain news to more technical

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Check Timezone in Linux.

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/check-linux-timezone/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to check if port is in use on Linux or Unix

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/unix-linux-check-if-port-is-in-use-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> Almost all the world's fastest supercomputers run Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/almost-all-the-worlds-fastest-supercomputers-run-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> true fact

 04:06 <stephenm> Kids Day Out: From Curiosity to Creativity

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/kids-day-out-curiosity-creativity

 04:06 <stephenm> Open Source Summit 2017 Combines LinuxCon and Three Other Events

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/open-source-summit-2017-combines-linuxcon-and-three-other-events

 04:06 <stephenm> System76 adds 4K display to Ubuntu Linux-powered MacBook Pro competitor Oryx Pro

 04:06 <stephenm> http://betanews.com/2016/11/17/system76-4k-display-ubuntu-linux-oryx-pro/

 04:06 <stephenm> this might have already been posted last week but it's still interesting

 04:06 <stephenm> Major Linux security hole gapes open

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/major-linux-security-hole-gapes-open/

 04:06 <stephenm> The overengineering of ALSA userland

 04:06 <stephenm> https://blog.flameeyes.eu/2016/11/the-overengineering-of-alsa-userland/

 04:07 <stephenm> 5 Common Myths about Containers

 04:07 <stephenm> http://containerjournal.com/2016/11/18/five-common-myths-containers/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to fix the Cryptsetup vulnerability in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-fix-the-cryptsetup-vulnerability-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to set up ClamAV to periodically scan for badware on Fedora Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.slightfuture.com/how-to/periodic-clamav-scan

 04:07 <stephenm> GNOME Lands Mainline NVIDIA Wayland Support Using EGLStreams

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=GNOME-Mutter-Mainline-EGLStream

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Check Which Apache Modules are Enabled/Loaded in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/check-apache-modules-enabled/

 04:07 <stephenm> Go Beyond Local with Secure Shell

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/go-beyond-local-secure-shell

 04:08 <stephenm> Wireshark 2.2.2 Network Protocol Analyzer Brings over 30 Security and Bug Fixes

 04:08 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/wireshark-2-2-2-network-protocol-analyzer-brings-over-30-security-and-bug-fixes-510311.shtml#ixzz4QVIndewV

 04:08 <stephenm> Installing the latest Nvidia Drivers on Mint 17 (for GTX 1050 support)

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxmint/comments/5dqc6f/installing_the_latest_nvidia_drivers_on_mint_17/

 04:08 <stephenm> PoisonTap - siphons cookies, exposes internal router & installs web backdoor on locked computers

 04:08 <stephenm> https://samy.pl/poisontap/

 04:08 <stephenm> Btrfs RAID5/RAID6 Support Finally Get Fixed

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Btrfs-RAID5-RAID6-Fixed

 04:08 <stephenm> A Glimpse at Nodio, the Blockchain-Based Router

 04:08 <stephenm> https://news.bitcoin.com/glimpse-blockchain-based-router-nodio/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news that I have for tonight Linux ppl

 04:09 <MajB> Good job stephenm

 04:09 <RioOfTheWind> thanks

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <toddc> thank you stephenm

 04:09 <Ron_A> thanks stephenm

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:10 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:10 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX QUOTES AND JOKES:

 04:11 <MajB> “A printer consists of three main parts: the case, the jammed paper tray and the blinking red light”

 04:11 <MajB> "I would love to change the world, but they won't give me the source code"

 04:11 <MajB> What is  the difference between a virus and Microsoft Windows?

 04:12 <stephenm> one is supported by their creators

 04:12 <RioOfTheWind> hahaha

 04:12 <MajB> Viruses rarely fail.

 04:12 <toddc> the virus does something

 04:12 <stephenm> that also

 04:12 <MajB> JOB LIST:

 04:12 <RioOfTheWind> viruses use less resources

 04:12 <toddc> +1

 04:12 <MajB> Excellent

 04:13 <toddc> virus = job security

 04:13 <MajB> Software Engineer - Platform

 04:13 <MajB> DevOps Engineer

 04:13 <MajB> https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68

 04:13 <MajB> 26 current canonical Jobs today

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <MajB> 104 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:14 <MajB> Plus 38 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:14 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZr

 04:14 <MajB> TEAM SERVER NEWS:

 04:14 <MajB> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:15 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:15 <MajB> 01 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 03 December, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:16 <MajB> 17 December, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:17 <MajB> 22 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:17 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue485#In_This_Issue

 04:17 <MajB> 22 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.           Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> LINUX TRAINING:

 04:18 <MajB> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:18 <MajB> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:18 <MajB> PLUGAZ NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:19 <MajB> FernHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:20 <MajB> OTHER AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 26 November 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 27 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 December 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org/

 04:22 <MajB> Raspberry Pi LED Holiday Party on 3 December 10-5 pm. McClelland Hall 214, UA Campus, Tucson.  Join us Saturday, December 3, 2016, as the Forensics/Infosec, Python, and Linux Meetup groups join forces with the (ISC)2 Tucson Chapter and the UA MIS department to host a holiday LED workshop.  Learn how to assemble an LED light show from a Raspberry Pi and LED light strand – that will make your neighbors jealous. In this workshop, you wi

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 04 December 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 08 December 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:23 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 13 December 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD (See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest update on location), Prescott, AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:23 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 18 December 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:23 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 December 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   http://phxlinux.org/

 04:23 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:

 04:24 <MajB> AZLOCO and CLUG will be co-sponsoring an Installation Festival in Sierra Vista AZ on 28 January 2017, 10-4 pm. University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, Resource Learning Center commons area, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:24 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:24 <MajB> That is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:25 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:25 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB

 04:25 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
