{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Some of us are in   http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/     tonight if you want to talk or see us!
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> We did have two new members join this week
<hobbet1> i have been here before a couple years ago
<toddc> I remember welcome back
<toddc> hobbet1:  can you tell us a bit about yourself ? for the other users?
<hobbet1> well like i said i used to come in a couple of years ago, i am now i am disable and i us ubuntu as my main system
<Dazed_75> What release are you using?
<hobbet1> 12.04
<Dazed_75> Cool
<toddc> cool we have grown a bit and have a lot going on so welcome back
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<irssiadrenaline> +1
<hobbet1> i thought i wasnt going to like it because it seems more towards a tablet
<Dazed_75> Do you lic=ve in the Phoenix area?
<hobbet1> yes on the westside, 43rd ave and mcdowell area
<Dazed_75> Yea, I thought that too but am kind of changing my opinion
<toddc> unity had some growing pains but most of them are fixed as of 12.04
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<hobbet1> i was without a computer for about a year so i missed the growing pains of unity lol
<Dazed_75> Heh another voice for the West side.  PLUG needs people over there
<toddc> a good time to missout then :)
<Dazed_75> 8 New Features in 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/112409/8-new-features-in-ubuntu-12.04-precise-pangolin
<Dazed_75> More Things to do After Installing 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/04/add-enable-screensavers-in-ubuntu-12-04-precise-pangolin/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/04/disable-screensaver-lock-in-ubuntu-12-04-precise-pangolin/
<Dazed_75>     http://a1.blogspot.com/2012/04/ubuntu-1204-explained-setting-up.html
<Dazed_75> How to Customize Ubuntu with Ubuntu Tweak
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/112974/how-to-customize-ubuntu-with-ubuntu-tweak
<Dazed_75> The Best Free Text Editors for Windows and Linux (be sure to look at the last one in the article)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/112385/the-best-free-text-editors-for-windows-and-linux
<Dazed_75> Unity Dash Lenses & Scopes
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/112510/supercharge-ubuntus-unity-dash-with-lenses-scopes-5-lenses-to-install
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/how-to-add-a-wikipedia-lens-to-unity-for-faster-fact-finding/
<Dazed_75> Create Shortcuts to Run Programs as Root (11.04, 11.10, and probably 12.04)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/112700/create-shortcuts-on-the-desktop-to-run-programs-as-root-in-ubuntu-11.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/106470/create-desktop-shortcuts-in-ubuntu-11.04-and-11.10/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Tablets & Smartphones Coming in 2013
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnetasia.com/ubuntu-tablets-smartphones-coming-in-2013-62304640.htm
<Dazed_75> Raspberry Pi Gets a Prototyping Kit
<Dazed_75>     http://www.geek.com/articles/chips/raspberry-pi-gets-an-electronics-prototyping-plate-kit-20120427/
<Dazed_75> Revert to Dark Menus for Ambiance Theme in 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/how-to-revert-to-dark-menus-for-ambiance-theme-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<Dazed_75> Do You Need Those Very Expensive Cables at the Big Box Stores?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/112636/htg-explains-do-you-really-need-expensive-cables
<Dazed_75>     http://monoprice.com/
<Dazed_75> GIMP Magazine Coming
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/?p=56091
<Dazed_75> How to Find Files and Folders Using the Command Line
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/112674/how-to-find-files-and-folders-in-linux-using-the-command-line
<Dazed_75> What is a Solid State Drive and What Would I Need to Know
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/45359/htg-explains-whats-a-solid-state-drive-and-what-do-i-need-to-know/
<Dazed_75> Three Ways to Access Your Linux Files from Windows
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/112888/3-ways-to-access-your-linux-partitions-from-windows
<Dazed_75> Make Gnome Shell Your Own
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/113204/make-gnome-shell-your-own-10-gnome-shell-extensions-to-install
<Dazed_75> and that's it from my side
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc> I have a couple more to add!
<hobbet1> cool i love omgubuntu
<toddc> Try 'Precise Tweak' to Customize Ubuntu Linux 12.04
<toddc> http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/254700/try_precise_tweak_to_customize_ubuntu_linux_1204.html
<toddc> Skype replaces P2P supernodes with Linux boxes hosted by Microsoft (updated)
<toddc> http://arstechnica.com/business/news/2012/05/skype-replaces-p2p-supernodes-with-linux-boxes-hosted-by-microsoft.ars
<toddc> GIMP 2.8 Released
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/gimp-2-8-released/
<toddc> Microsoft buy's Barnes and Noble's Nook
<toddc> http://money.cnn.com/2012/04/30/technology/microsoft-nook/index.htm
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> 12.04  cd's  have been ordered and should be here  around may 8th see Dazed_75 or myself to get some and get them passed out in the wild
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Security Analyst Team Lead tempe
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=1454371&t=1
<toddc> NOC Engineer III
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=1333951&t=1
<toddc> Infrastructure Engineer III
<toddc> http://www.svb.com/careers/search/?fuseaction=mExternal.showJob&rid=1164
<toddc> System Engineer
<toddc> michaelmoore0091@gmail.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<xHans> Senior Systems Engineer at Limeilght in Tempe, http://ur1.ca/90yl4
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<xHans> as toddc said, several openings at Limelight, but I know that one's gettting action :)
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so we are also thinking about a room change in the future. The last several events were at or near standing room only.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on May 12 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> Server Installfest will be Saturday May 19 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> With any luck we might have a Raspberry Pi to test
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> the Test server test.azloco.com has been fixed and upgraded to 12.04 thanks to adrenaline and hope to be adding another server in the future. We are installing drupal  on it to upgrade the web page
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> We have confirmed the date for the Ubuntu hour it will be May 17 at 7:00 pm at Extreme Bean in Tempe. We will need some flyers made any other Ideas?
<toddc> ttps://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com/loc.php
<toddc> I got the first one started now we need one out west or north Tucson Flaggstaff?
* oda (46be0396@gateway/web/freenode/ip.70.190.3.150) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> we moved the trip to Prescott back one month so  slofgren could join us at the meeting
<toddc> We are planning to attend the LUGY meeting in Prescott on June 11 at 7pm
<toddc> I am planning on a carpool for those interested leaving at Az Mills Mall at 4PM
<toddc> I am allowing a bit of extra time to get there but if if you want to go we could
<toddc> leave a bit later if needed
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<hobbet1> sounds like you all have a lot of projects going on
<toddc> yes sir and we like it that way! :)
<xHans> PLUG east side this Thursday
<xHans> Dazed_75 will be covering Ubuntu 12.04
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> and that's it for this week
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
<toddc> Some of us are in   http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/     tonight if you want to talk or see us!
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
