{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> +1
<Rich_> +1
<corburn> +1
<toddc> +2
<Dazed_75> +1
<dennisk> @Spinage: Sweet! Would love to see it
<dennisk> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Linux; because a 486 is a terrible thing to waste.
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> How to Enlarge a Virtual Machine's Disk in VirtualBox or VMware
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/124622/how-to-enlarge-a-virtual-machines-disk-in-virtualbox-or-vmware
<Dazed_75> How to make Nvidia's Optimus Work on Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/124685/how-to-make-nvidias-optimus-work-on-linux
<Dazed_75> Electronic Door Lock Uses QR Codes As Keys
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/124769/electronic-door-lock-uses-qr-codes-as-keys
<Dazed_75>     http://www.jeremyblum.com/portfolio/libetech/
<Dazed_75> LastPass Now Monitors Your Accounts for Security Breaches
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/124762/lastpass-now-monitors-your-accounts-for-security-breaches
<Dazed_75> Speed Up Your Virtual Machines
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/124796/the-htg-guide-to-speeding-up-your-virtual-machines
<Dazed_75> What Does My BIOS Do After Booting
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/124711/what-does-my-bios-do-after-booting
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Open Week 10/24-26 Schedules First Session as Mark Shuttleworth Q&A
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Open-Week-2012-24th-26th-October-293202.shtml
<Dazed_75> Intel's New Clover Trail Chip Will Support Android & Linux After All
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/intels-new-clover-trail-chip-will-support-android-and-linux-7000004451/
<Dazed_75> Humble Indie Bundle 6 Comes to Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Humble-Indie-Bundle-6-Comes-to-Linux-293201.shtml
<Dazed_75> ENCODE DNA Data Project Inspired and Built by Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linux.com/news/featured-blogs/200-libby-clark/636766-encode-dna-data-project-inspired-and-built-by-linux/
<Dazed_75> Choosing Linux-Compatible Hardware
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/choosing-linux-compatible-hardware/2012/09/19
<Dazed_75> Two Ways to Access Your Android Device with Linux File Managers
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/access-android-device-with-linux-file-managers/2012/09/18
<Dazed_75> New Shotwell Release Adds Tumblr Support, Privacy Options
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/09/new-shotwell-release-adds-tumblr-support-privacy-options
<Dazed_75> Linux Game 'Nikki and the Robots' :aunches with 'Pay What You Want' Model
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/09/linux-game-nikki-and-the-robots-launches-with-pay-what-you-want-offer
<Dazed_75> Cinnamon 1.6 Adds 2D Session, New Applets and More Colorization Options
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/09/new-cinnamon-16-release-adds-2d-session.html
<Dazed_75> CoverArt Browser RhythmBox Plugin Ported to GTK3
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/09/coverart-browser-rhythmbox-plugin.html
<Dazed_75> How to Set Up Nomachine NX Between Two Linux Systems
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/set-up-nomachine-nx-between-two-linux-systems/2012/09/22
<Dazed_75> How to Remote Control Your Home Computer from Anywhere with VNC
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/124849/how-to-remote-control-your-home-computer-from-anywhere-with-vnc
<Dazed_75> Why You Shouldn't Log Into Your Linux System as Root
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/124950/htg-explains-why-you-shouldnt-log-into-your-linux-system-as-root
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.10 Stuff
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/ubuntu-12-10-quantal-quetzal-beta-1-review/2012/09/17
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/09/amazon-ubuntu-one-web-app-to-be-pre-installed-in-ubuntu-12-10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/09/messaging-menu-update-adds-remove-option-new-status-icons
<Dazed_75>  http://www.webupd8.org/2012/09/unity-660-released-in-ubuntu-1210.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/09/wunderlist-installation-script-updated.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/09/ubuntu-to-use-signed-grub2-bootloader-for-secure-boot
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/09/unity-update-introduces-animated-dash-price-ribbons-visual-tweaks
<Dazed_75> ... and that's it from AJ
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> Every election in Brazil, more than 130 million people use Linux!
<toddc> http://slexy.org/view/s20Sou4Tw9
<toddc> ubuntu
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.04 (Natty Narwhal) reaches end-of-life on October 28, 2012
<toddc> 20 Must Have Ubuntu Apps for Productivity
<toddc> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/20-must-have-ubuntu-apps-for-productivity-1.html
<toddc> Ubuntu Linux changes its plans for Windows 8 Secure Boot
<toddc> http://www.pcadvisor.co.uk/opinion/software/3399910/ubuntu-linux-changes-its-plans-for-windows-8-secure-boot/#ixzz27KnNvl9J
<toddc> Ubuntu: The Free Windows Alternative
<toddc> http://osu.uloop.com/news/view.php/35423/ubuntu-the-free-windows-alternative
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Systems and Network Administrator Linux and windows
<toddc> http://d8030050.lyjob9.com/3c2ba022
<toddc> Senior Systems Engineer SecureNet Payment Systems
<toddc> Apply Now: http://1da8803b.lyjob9.com/6abc0d98
<toddc> Linux Administrator
<toddc> http://www.theinstantmedia.com/contact.php
<toddc> VMAX Engineer
<toddc> http://mediariders.com/jobDetails.php?jobOrdrNo=194&companyuser=mri&akken_jpage=jobDetails.php&akken_cpage=jobLogin.php&akken_cppage=applicantProfile.php&akken_url=http://mediariders.com&akken_source=&akken_jloc=&akken_jtype=
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday September 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this is a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is October 6  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc> We had a great installfest last month and helped install or fix 7-8 new users Thanks for all the extra help from those that showed up to help. Don, Tammy, Dennis, Eric, Jason and Paul and every-one else
<toddc> UAT is unable to host our Nov 3 installfest and  we are looking for a alternate location for that date
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on October 13 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday October 20 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thanks to Dewayne and Justin Haught the proxmox server now has a four core 8 gb ram
<toddc> mother board and proc and ram that  we installed Friday afternoon. So we should be able to continue
<toddc> the configuration on Oct 13 Tagcose event and run all services. We will be still looking to build and
<toddc> a main proxmox server in a the  near future.
<toddc> the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info and should be able to issue VM real soon in the new server
<toddc> Linux Security HackFest
<toddc> 2nd Saturday of each month 11PM to 2PM.  Devry 2149 West Dunlap Avenue
<toddc> Phoenix, AZ
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> We will do a 12.10 Release party  October 18 on the 20th at the server installfest!!!!
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<xHans> no news this week
<toddc> or dennisk any news
<dennisk> Linux system admin classes coming up in a few weeks at MCC both daytime and evening classes.
<toddc> thanks xHans
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> bitte :)
<dennisk> Slackware 14 should be out this week. no ads:-D
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<xHans> we could mention that there will be a job networking event at next month's Stammtisch since you posted a link :)
<toddc> cool if you are ready to announce it
<dennisk> I have a for sale item. Can I mention it?
<corburn> Following up on Linus public remarks against Nvidia, NVIDIA to offer up documentation for Tegra graphics core to prove its commitment to open-source (video)
<corburn> http://www.engadget.com/2012/09/23/nvidia-to-offer-up-documentation-for-tegra-graphics-core/
<toddc> dennisk: yes
<toddc> corburn: thanks
<dennisk> ThinkPad X120e 12.5 screen *GiB Ram - $150USD
<dennisk> 8GiB
<dennisk> or trade Spinage for his Gazelle.:)
<toddc> can I get in on that too
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<dennisk> Which?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
