{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 16 Jun at 04:04 &mdash; 04:35 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2014/ubuntu-us-az.2014-06-16-04.04.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=amd_apitest_nvidia&num=1 
''LINK:'' http://thelinuxrain.com/articles/is-ubuntu-unity-really-all-that-bad-nowadayshttp://design.ubuntu.com/brand/ubuntu-logo 
''LINK:'' http://ostatic.com/blog/hp-launches-global-open-network-focused-on-openstack 
''LINK:'' http://www.techdrivein.com/2014/06/meizu-mx3-ubuntu-phone-to-be-showcased-mobile-asia-expo-2014.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+techdrivein+%28Tech+Drive-in%29 
''LINK:'' http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/061014/canonical-considering-mate-remix-ubuntu-linux 
''LINK:'' http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/061214/owncloud-private-cloud-platform-wins-education-market 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTcxODY 
''LINK:'' http://it-beta.slashdot.org/story/14/06/08/0648206/millions-of-smart-tvs-vulnerable-to-red-button-attack 
''LINK:'' http://www.offensive-security.com/kali-linux/kali-linux-evil-wireless-access-plnwoint/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/776643-how-to-rescue-a-non-booting-grub-2-on-linux 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/2361465/cloud-computing/docker-101-what-it-is-and-why-it-s-important.html 
''LINK:'' http://java.dzone.com/articles/what-got-you-involved-open 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/sicker-sickbeard 
''LINK:'' http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2014/05/29/community-donations-funding-report/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ubuntu-fridge+%28The+Fridge+-+News+for+Human+Beings%29 
''LINK:'' http://community.ubuntu.com/help-information/funding/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://apply.hrmdirect.com/resumedirect/ApplyOnline/Apply.aspx?req_id=enc-15.540135124685401&source=172528-CS-1983 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-mini-drones-jump-flip-climb-and-fly/ 
''LINK:'' http://snapraid.sourceforge.net/design.html 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/linux-courses/find-linux-training-courses?pi_ad_id=28105463074&gclid=CLGF-uSA8r0CFQWTfgodXIcA7A 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Go-vJwPVeEU 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (91)
* toddcnb (23)
* FernHans (17)
* wmack (5)
* MajB (3)
* meetingology (3)
* gnewbie (1)
* pavlos (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:04 <toddcnb> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:04 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun 16 04:04:36 2014 UTC.  The chair is toddcnb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:04 <meetingology> 

 04:04 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:04 <toddcnb> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:04 <toddcnb> +1

 04:04 <pavlos> +1

 04:04 <gnewbie> +1

 04:04 <wmack> +1

 04:04 <MajB> +1

 04:04 <toddcnb> Star Date 92058.99 check it at http://www.stoacademy.com/tools/stardate.php

 04:05 <toddcnb> Team wiki site  is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:05 <toddcnb> Team Website is http://azloco.org/ IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:05 <toddcnb> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:05 <toddcnb> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:05 <toddcnb> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:05 <toddcnb> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:06 <toddcnb> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:06 <toddcnb> some of us are in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:06 <toddc> lets start with the news!!

 04:06 <toddc> thanks to turbixtux  for the news articles

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:07 <toddc> NVIDIA Slaughters AMD Catalyst On Linux In OpenGL 4.x Micro-Benchmarks

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=amd_apitest_nvidia&num=1

 04:07 <toddc> Is Ubuntu's Unity Really All That Bad Nowadays? Or was it ever?

 04:07 <toddc> http://thelinuxrain.com/articles/is-ubuntu-unity-really-all-that-bad-nowadayshttp://design.ubuntu.com/brand/ubuntu-logo

 04:07 <toddc> HP Launches Global, Open Network Focused on OpenStack

 04:07 <toddc> http://ostatic.com/blog/hp-launches-global-open-network-focused-on-openstack

 04:07 <toddcnb> Meizu MX3 Ubuntu phone to be unveiled at Mobile Asia Expo 2014

 04:08 <toddcnb> http://www.techdrivein.com/2014/06/meizu-mx3-ubuntu-phone-to-be-showcased-mobile-asia-expo-2014.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+techdrivein+%28Tech+Drive-in%29

 04:08 <toddcnb> Is Canonical Considering a MATE Remix of Ubuntu Linux?

 04:08 <toddcnb> http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/061014/canonical-considering-mate-remix-ubuntu-linux

 04:08 <toddc> ownCloud Private Cloud Platform Wins in Education Market

 04:08 <toddc> http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/061214/owncloud-private-cloud-platform-wins-education-market

 04:08 <toddc> Booting Ubuntu With Systemd Went Surprisingly Well

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTcxODY

 04:09 <toddc> Millions of Smart TVs Vulnerable To 'Red Button' Attack

 04:09 <toddc> http://it-beta.slashdot.org/story/14/06/08/0648206/millions-of-smart-tvs-vulnerable-to-red-button-attack

 04:09 <toddc> Evil wireless access point, I think this would be a fun project

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.offensive-security.com/kali-linux/kali-linux-evil-wireless-access-plnwoint/

 04:10 <toddc> How to Rescue a Non-booting GRUB 2 on Linux

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/776643-how-to-rescue-a-non-booting-grub-2-on-linux

 04:10 <toddc> Docker 101: What it is and why it’s important

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.networkworld.com/article/2361465/cloud-computing/docker-101-what-it-is-and-why-it-s-important.html

 04:10 <toddc> What Got You Involved in Open Source?

 04:10 <toddc> http://java.dzone.com/articles/what-got-you-involved-open

 04:10 <toddc> lnw

 04:10 <toddc> Sicker Than Sickbeard?

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/sicker-sickbeard

 04:11 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:11 <toddc> We are getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles. If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:12 <toddc> canceled events due to holidays

 04:12 <toddc> Saturday 6/21 installfest due to school unavailable

 04:12 <toddc> Saturday 7/5   installfest (4th July weekend)

 04:12 <toddc> Sunday 7/6  weekly meeting (4th July weekend)

 04:12 <toddc> Sunday 8/31 weekly meeting (Labor day weekend)

 04:13 <toddc> did 5 repairs and two installs at the last installfest

 04:13 <toddc> Ubuntu 14.04 DVD's are In and ready to passout

 04:13 <wmack> how does a dvd passout?

 04:13 <toddc> MajB: I boxed some for you and will send them tomorrow

 04:14 <MajB> Roger.

 04:14 <toddc> wmack they drank the case

 04:14 <toddc> ??

 04:14 <MajB> Nooooo.

 04:14 <toddc> Ubuntu 14.04 DVD's are In and ready to passout to and display

 04:15 <toddc> :)

 04:15 <toddc> Archfan has built another Big Blue Button server#2 on the team proxmox server but we need some routing issues fixed if someone has a few minutes

 04:15 <toddc> I did play with it this week and think it ready to go the banditti server

 04:16 <toddc> MajB is working on a 'Ubuntu Hour in Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <wmack> does it support html5?

 04:16 <toddc> yea!!!!

 04:17 <toddc> wmack no but it does a much better flash and windows 7-8 support and many other areas that are just better but no html or recording

 04:18 <toddc> there are good instructions for adding the matterhorn server to record sessions

 04:18 <toddc> I will attempt to contact lugy in Prescott and may run up there Tuesday night July 8 for their meeting-- Todd

 04:18 <toddc> we now have access to community project money

 04:18 <toddc> http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2014/05/29/community-donations-funding-report/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ubuntu-fridge+%28The+Fridge+-+News+for+Human+Beings%29

 04:19 <toddc> http://community.ubuntu.com/help-information/funding/

 04:19 <toddc> so we need ideas for projects

 04:19 <toddc> JOB list

 04:19 <toddc> 44 current canonilnwcal Jobs this week  and they are adding more each day

 04:19 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:19 <toddc> SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER ViaWest, Inc., a super-regional provider of colocation and cloud solutions

 04:20 <toddc> https://apply.hrmdirect.com/resumedirect/ApplyOnline/Apply.aspx?req_id=enc-15.540135124685401&source=172528-CS-1983

 04:20 <toddc> and a lot on craigslist also

 04:20 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:20 <toddc> Linux mini-drones jump, flip, climb, and fly

 04:20 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-mini-drones-jump-flip-climb-and-fly/

 04:20 <toddc> Linux App of the week

 04:21 <toddc> snapshot raid systems

 04:21 <toddc> http://snapraid.sourceforge.net/design.html

 04:21 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:21 <toddc> we still need to locate a data center to host team projects

 04:21 <toddc> we have started adding users to the Owncloud server talk to wmack or toddc for accounts

 04:21 <toddc> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST

 04:22 <toddc> installfest is canceled due to the school needing the rooms to house students for a new student orientation. I am checking into a few locations and will post it to the IRC and caledars as soon as I find

 04:22 <toddc> the best option. If all else fails we can meet at etream bean

 04:22 <toddc> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:22 <toddc> Thursday June 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame in Tempe southern and McClintock

 04:22 <toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and

 04:23 <toddc> open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:23 <toddc> NORTH INSTALLFEST has been canceled for the summer

 04:23 <toddc> LINUX TRAININGhttps://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/SubPageHeader

 04:23 <toddc> Linux Intro Course Available Online for Free from edX and The Linux Foundation Starts Aug 1 2014

 04:23 <toddc> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free

 04:23 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/linux-courses/find-linux-training-courses?pi_ad_id=28105463074&gclid=CLGF-uSA8r0CFQWTfgodXIcA7A

 04:24 <toddc> ubuntu on-air

 04:24 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:24 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:24 <toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net

 04:24 <toddc> Commuity Q&A  June 17th 8am local

 04:24 <toddc> Charm school June 20th noon local time

 04:24 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:24 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:25 <toddc> FernHans: are you here tonight

 04:25 <FernHans> moin moin

 04:25 <FernHans> I have a few things this week

 04:25 <FernHans> Free Software Stammtisch this Tuesday at 19:00

 04:25 <FernHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

 04:25 <FernHans> There will be a job fair at the July Stammtisch

 04:26 <FernHans> If your group is hiring or you are looking for a job, please attend

 04:26 <FernHans> video of Thursday's mixed content presentation from PLUG east side meeting

 04:26 <FernHans> Brian is re-rendering it, so this version might be replaced tomorrow

 04:26 <FernHans> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Go-vJwPVeEU

 04:27 <FernHans> The OpenStack time-shifted stream didn't work out. We had an excellent presentation on using chromascreen with Free Software tools. I hope to have the chromascreen presentation again when we can advertise it. I have asked Red Hat if Dave can give his OpenStack presentation at a future PLUG meeting.

 04:27 <FernHans> Upcoming PLUG presentations ( some still waiting on final confirmation )

 04:27 <FernHans> July: WebID

 04:27 <FernHans> August: Blender, CLI packet forensics

 04:27 <FernHans> September: Improving (and measuring!) your home network experience

 04:28 <FernHans> Oktober: Monitoring applications and systems with Sensu

 04:28 <FernHans> and that's it, thanks again for doing a great job in encouraging cross-group co-operation!

 04:28 <toddc> FernHans thank you for the plug events  nice lists I will add those to the calendar

 04:29 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be hear here for a while if you have any questions

 04:29 <toddc> #endmeeting

 04:29 <wmack> toddc - you mentioned routing issues for the new bbb server. Can you elaborate?

 04:31 <toddcnb> we had trouble finding port to get it out from the team server but I just vpm in and use it locally

 04:31 <toddcnb> finding ports

 04:32 <wmack> That shouldn't be a problem when you go to banditti, right?

 04:32 <toddcnb> correct no issues there

 04:32 <FernHans> toddc: couldn't find which port it's listening on?

 04:32 <toddcnb> should be the sane ports

 04:33 <toddcnb> I shifted port 80 to 8082 and 1935 and 1994 just did a port forward

 04:34 <toddcnb> I am running just enough servers here to start making it difficult

 04:35 <toddcnb> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeamDescribe ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June 15, 2014 Meeting here.
