{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc>  Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting - Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Please note that I am in Page AZ tonight, 68 deg but very intermittent wifi so please bear with the drops
<toddc> huddled in the bath room using neighbors wifi (with permission) to get less drops and not have to use the repeater
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc> I will also try to be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me during the meeting
<dennisk> +1
<toddc> Happy Father's Day everyone!
<toddc> Here is new news from ubuntu:
<Dazed_75> saying it back to an actual father :)
<toddc> ubuntu classroom Friday 430-530
<toddc> Q and A with Penelope Stowe and Charlie Kravetz of the Ubuntu Accessibility Team
<toddc> The Linux Action Show Sunday at 10.am and 8pm pacific time
<toddc> http://www.jupiterbroadcasting.com/8211/bryan-smash-google-las-s16e09/
<toddc> ME LOTS OF STEP BUT NO REAL BUT JUST THE SAME
<toddc> ubuntu on the fence about chrome browser by default per Mark Shuttlesworth comments last week
<toddc> top 9 Painting programs for ubuntu
<toddc>  http://www.tuxarena.com/?p=1057
<Dazed_75> I thought they had definitely decided against that
<toddc> ssh and WiKID TWO FACTOR auth
<toddc> http://www.howtoforge.com/securing-ssh-on-ubuntu-with-wikid-two-factor-authentication
<toddc> chrome talk comming back around
<toddc>     JOB LIST
<toddc> local motors is looking for a PHP programmer
<toddc> <http://internaljobs.schwab.com/startsubmission.html?erjob=205727>
<Dazed_75> too bad they won't stay on a target
* [R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> <http://internaljobs.schwab.com/startsubmission.html?erjob=205727>
<toddc> Job ID:  0610-4409
<toddc> Description:
<toddc> Application Deadline: 6/30/2011
<toddc> SR linux/unix admin
<Dazed_75> a bit of stability would be appreciated by many users
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> both web browers are good in several areas so i do see the thought
<toddc> test.azloco.com server has been updated to 10.04 so if anyone would like to test with it see
<toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server and let us know or help with your project.
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST NEWS
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is next weekend 6/25 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
* Siph0n (~Siph0n@ip98-177-157-174.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> hi Siph0n
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> ubuntu news
<Dazed_75> PXE server will be running at the installfest Saturday
<Siph0n> hey toddc
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> cool I hope
<toddc> I can be there to try it
<toddc> Q and A with Steve George on developers and software strategy
<toddc> WhenFri, June 24, 4:30pm – 5:30pm
<toddc> Where#ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<Dazed_75> 4:30-5:30 in what time zone?  MST?
<toddc> I was thinking about a 11.10 release party/meet and greet Oct 11 but need idea's as to where?
<toddc> Some thoughts are UAT or a bar/coffee shop or I hear there is wifi at Tempe Town lake maybe a BBQ?
<toddc> az moutain time zone I think I converted for that
<toddc> Team status must be renewed by July 19
<toddc> I also want to thank Dazed_75 for helping with the log's and wiki updates
<toddc> I am also please to announce that ravite has stepped up and will be helping us get current and move forward
<toddc> he was supposed to be here tonight
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest   12-3 Sat AT Gangplank see azloco.com calender or plugaz for more info
<toddc> plug installfest is this weekend 6/25 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc> East side free software Stammtisch Tuesday at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma #School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> West side free software Stammtisch Thursday at Buffalo Wings and Rings, 2935 Dysart Rd. Avondale, AZ 85323
<toddc> PLUG West Meeting Room 315 at DeVry University / Keller Graduate School of Management, 6751 N Sunset Blvd, Glendale, AZ - Westgate City Center 7-9Pm
<toddc> azloco.com calender  plugaz for more info
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> dennisk do have anythink?
<Dazed_75> Eric is not here so I will say the server installfest yesterday went well and he may also be at the event next week (new job permitting)
<toddc> cool
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<dennisk> Summer II @ MCC starts in two weeks. Linux class is full :-) Fall classes start in August. I'll have both morning and evening sections on Tues, Thrus. Still room in those.
<toddc> we may need to think about adding local classes to the ubuntu wiki
<toddc> you may want make a post on your classes at azloco.com also
<dennisk> I can handle that page on the wiki if you like.
<dennisk> I'll post as well.
<toddc> that would be great  Idea get with me and I will help if you need it
<toddc> we also need to see about a link from http://ubuntu-news.org/calendars/classroom/ link from here to ours
<xHans> after the Stammtisch is the next ABLEconf meeting
<xHans> ABLEconf meeting is in same place as the Stammtisch, but starts at 21:00
<toddc> welcome
<toddc> also we should edit server page to reflect 10.04 on test.azloco.com I may try later to night
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<xHans> that's all from me 
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
