{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 December 2019 - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2001%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 05 December – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Configured Return Receipt on Thunderbird
* Discussion on satellite networks
* Conducted a demo of NixOS, build images/generations and switch
* 07 December - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 15 attendees
* 3 installs (3 Linux Mint)
* Worked on an IP Fire modifications
* Repaired a start up problem on a Lenovo laptop
* Modified Prox Mox caching
* Repaired Ubuntu network manager
* 12 December - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees
* Discussed some of the upcoming free lectures at the University of Arizona South that may be of interest to some of the membership, self-driving car security and drone mapping.
* Discussed “Other Net” and it was generally agreed that it should be a topic for a future presentation.
* Discussed the Tesla Cyber Truck.
* Discussed the possibility of gaining some additional community recognition by volunteering as bell ringers for the Salvation Army red kettle drive.
* Pat reported that none of the wifi adapters that he was given worked on his desktop PC but that he was happy with the wired internet access that he had which was faster anyway.
* Myles reported that this would be his last meeting as he would be leaving for Phoenix to attend the Grand Canyon University.  He was given a POC in Phoenix should he desire to stay active with the Team.
* Rex reiterated that the scheduling process at the public library has changed to a 90 day limit rather than a lottery for the whole year.  So far we have not had any problems with the new system but a back-up location, the Warrior Healing Center, is already in place should one develop.
* 12 December - Phoenix Ubuntu hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Conducted a Prox Mox install.
* 15 December 2019 - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2015%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 21 December - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 18 attendees
* Installed Jpilot
* Built two IP Fire servers
* Repaired a Prox Mox server
* 3 installations (2 Lubuntu, 1 Ubuntu)
* Installed a new hard drive in a laptop
* Configured two access points for IP Fire
* Configured a Century Link modem for IP Fire
* Created a VPN
* Discussed the Raspberry Pi
* 26 December - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* Repaired a 19.10 VM install (access host folders)
* Discussed Intel Management Engine to access servers remotely.
