{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<TuxMann> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Rich-_> +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<TuxMann> +1
<TuxMann> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<gnewbie> +1
<Dazed_75> We seem to be a bit short on attendees tonight
<TuxMann> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<TuxMann> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<TuxMann> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<TuxMann> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<TuxMann> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<TuxMann> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<TuxMann> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<pjdamws> +1
<TuxMann> lets start with the news!!
<TuxMann> UBUNTU NEWS
<TuxMann> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> It has been suggested I go a bit slower so will try that tonight
<Dazed_75> http://www.moserware.com/2009/09/stick-figure-guide-to-advanced.html (AES in cartoon form)
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2013/08/anti-patent-troll-ads-launch-on-radio-and-print-in-15-states/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxaria.com/howto/how-to-really-secure-your-linux-vps-ssh-service?lang=en
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/install-kde-connect-on-ubuntu-get-call-notifications
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Meld-1-7-5-Diff-and-Merge-Tool-is-Available-for-Download-379761.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/09/avidemux-video-editor-reaches-version.html
* ron__ (~ron@ip98-165-79-186.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/09/mount-google-drive-in-linux-with-google.html
<ron__> on now I was on a vm
<toddc> say hi welcome back ron__
<Dazed_75> http://www.eweek.com/developer/open-source-python-code-sets-new-standard-for-quality-study.html
<ron__> hi all
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/201308310559083/Clocks.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/08/4-favourite-cs-in-ubuntu-setup.html
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Commercial-Support-Is-Now-Available-for-Kubuntu-379925.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/05/what-is-good-photo-editing-software-for-linux.html
<Dazed_75> NOTE: New users should read the "Force fsck ... during bootup" section first
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/check-repair-filesystem-fsck-linux/2013/09/02
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/09/gimp-icon-flat-theme
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/advanced-copy-cp-command/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/171565/how-to-install-microsoft-office-on-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://motherboard.vice.com/blog/tor-is-less-anonymous-than-you-think
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/169540/what-exactly-is-a-mac-address-used-for/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/171628/forget-the-gimmicks-heres-the-best-way-to-organize-your-gmail-inbox/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/04/ubuntu-linux-finally-defaults-to-64-bit/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/08/my-favourite-is-kde.html
<Dazed_75> http://opensource.com/education/13/9/back-to-school-with-open-source
<Dazed_75> http://www.eweek.com/cloud/open-source-apache-traffic-server-4-accelerates-the-web.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.org/threads/tor-part-1-is-it-for-me.4532/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/09/live-stream-video-webcam-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/open-source-libreoffice-gets-commercial-support.html
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/ranger-command-line-file-manager/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/05/ubuntu-linux-flavors-hit-major-13-10-beta-1-milestone/
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/371699/beta-downloads-released-ubuntu-gnome-1310-lubuntu-1310-xubuntu-1310-and-kubuntu-1
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/09/05/google-celebrates-chromes-5th-birthday-with-chrome-apps-for-the-desktop/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/05/how-to-create-and-start-virtualbox-vm-without-gui.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.mylinuxrig.com/post/60359268974/manjaro-past-present-and-future-a-virtual-roundtable
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/09/korora-little-blue-penguin-shows-off.html
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Lubuntu-13-10-Beta-1-Replaces-Chromium-with-Firefox-380661.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/xbmc-13-alpha-7-released-with-major-new-features
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Rhythmbox-3-0-Has-Been-Officially-Released-380596.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/create-a-multiboot-linux-usb-drive-with-yumi/2013/09/05 (Windows)
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/bleachbit-free-disk-space-shred-files-wipe-freed-disk-space-and-much-more/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/dell-laptops-with-ubuntukylin-preinstalled-available-in-over-1000-chinese-markets/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/171935/ubuntu-13.10-beta-1-releases-are-now-available-for-download/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/171788/how-to-free-up-storage-space-on-your-google-account-the-ultimate-guide/
<Dazed_75> ... and thats all from Apache Junction.  I hope everyone found SOME piece of news useful
<Dazed_75>  as I skipped all of last weeks stuff
<ron__> lost track of time doing vms
<TuxMann> Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<ron__> not at all
<TuxMann> I have a few more to add!!
<gnewbie> If I checked that all, it would keep me busy until next week.
<toddc> thank you Dazed-75
<TuxMann> Monday, Sept, 9th there is a meeting being held by the SWSPF (SouthWest Security Professionals Forum) at UAT from 6-9pm
<toddc> pick the best
<TuxMann> SUSE Linux Days 2013 Road Tour: Phoenix, October 10, 2013
<TuxMann> Hyatt Regency Phoenix
<toddc> or alittle for everyone
<TuxMann> 122 North 2nd Strett
<TuxMann> Phoenix, Arizona 85004
<TuxMann> United States
<TuxMann> https://www.regonline.com/builder/site/Default.aspx?EventId=1270663
<TuxMann> TEAM NEWS
<TuxMann> We have just had a invitation to attend Lugy (Prescott Linux user group) Tuesday night 7-9 PM and see slofgren and he has several new servers to donate to the team. Anyone interested in going please contact me and plan to leave azmills at el polloloco at 4pm
<TuxMann> There were 9 people at the west side Ubuntu hour last week
<xHans> awesome
<TuxMann> Saturday's Installfest was wall to wall again and we are hoping to move to a bigger Room for the next event and we will be working to get more UAT students involved thru the schools internal media sources.
<TuxMann> We have canceled the following meetings due to holidays
<TuxMann> Meetings
* [R] has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<TuxMann> October 13 due to Columbus Day and
<TuxMann>  
<TuxMann> November 10 meeting due to veterans day weekend holiday?
<TuxMann> Ubuntu Hour
<TuxMann> November 28 Ubuntu hour due to Thanksgiving
<TuxMann> December Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas
<TuxMann> Team renewal is coming up and we will need help to get ready
<TuxMann> if you would like to help check with tuxmann Dazed-75 or myself
<TuxMann> we will helping other's to become full Ubuntu members and getting the team ready for renewal.
<TuxMann> We have called a last minute meeting to work on team renewal. We will be be meeting at Dazed_75 in AJ Saturday 1-4PM
<TuxMann> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/ApprovalApplicationrenewal
<TuxMann> This is to be determined.
<TuxMann> We had a great meeting Saturday to work on personal  wiki's and PGP
<TuxMann> keys. It started slow but by the end of the day we had 95% worked out
<TuxMann> I had a lot of fun and it was much easier in a group event
<TuxMann> Dazed-75 has made a great start see
<TuxMann> https://docs.google.com/a/azloco.com/file/d/0B5GupdVHIIh_Slh5eUJCTWo4MWM/edit?usp=sharing
<TuxMann> JOB LIST
<TuxMann> Operations Developer
<TuxMann> devjobs@logos.com
<TuxMann> Operating systems Engineer 4 Wellsfargo
<TuxMann> https://employment.wellsfargo.com/psp/PSEA/APPLICANT_NW/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM.HRS_CE.GBL
<TuxMann> Impact Tech has several local openings
<TuxMann> http://www.go-impact.com/IT/join_our_team.html
<TuxMann> Entry Level PC Techs
<TuxMann> Call Jason 949-230-1192 for a Interview
<TuxMann> RUNS LINUX
<TuxMann> cool new ARM PC 45-199.00
<xHans> Limelight has a new opening for a MySQL DBA, working remotely OK
<TuxMann> https://imx.solid-run.com/
<xHans> contact me if you're interested
<toddc> kk
<TuxMann> Android App Pick of the week
<TuxMann> Thanks xHans! :)
<TuxMann> Evomail is modern mobile email!
<TuxMann> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.evomail.android
<TuxMann> Linux App of the week
<TuxMann> BSD Games is a collection of the classic text based games distributed with some BSDs
<TuxMann> http://wiki.linuxquestions.org/wiki/BSD_games
<TuxMann> NEW MEMBERS
<TuxMann> karen-5
<TuxMann> Nobody-MCC
<TuxMann> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<TuxMann> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday September 21  and Saturday October 5 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<TuxMann> For more infoumation see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<TuxMann> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<TuxMann> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<TuxMann> November 2 installfest is canceled due to the school using the classroom
<TuxMann> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<TuxMann> Thursday September 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<TuxMann> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<TuxMann> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<TuxMann> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<TuxMann> Wednesday October 2, 7pm – 9pm
<TuxMann> Barnes and Noble 13719 West Bell Road Surprise AZ 85374 623-544-4435
<TuxMann> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other uses and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<TuxMann> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<TuxMann> slofgren has arranged for a donation to the team of two Dell 2950 servers that are fully loaded
<TuxMann> but we still need new home for them if anyone has ideas?
<TuxMann> UBUNTU TRAINING
<TuxMann> http://phoenix.craigslist.org/tch/
<TuxMann> ubuntu on-air
<TuxMann> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<TuxMann> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<TuxMann> Weekly Ubuntu Webcast Tuesday  with Jono Bacon 10 AM
<TuxMann> FUTURE EVENTS
<TuxMann> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<TuxMann> OTHER EVENTS
<TuxMann> xhans are you here? and would you like to do the Plug news?
<xHans> sure, danke
<xHans> PLUG east side meeting is this Thursday
<xHans> scalable log storage and analysis from Kibana creator Rashid Khan
<xHans> http://phxlinux.org/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/123-plug-topic-for-9-12.html
<xHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/b/118370136707822714534/events/cq089psnra2kfpmgf78hechgv5o
<xHans> Tech Resume workshop @ Stammtisch a week from Tuesday
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> The resume workshop will start at 18:00 and run one or two hours.
<xHans> this is the first announcement for the resume workshop
<xHans> Please help me promote both events
<xHans> I really want to fill the room for Rashid's talk.
<xHans> The tech resume workshop is meant to help people, so we want them to know there's help out there
<xHans> that's it from me
<TuxMann> Thanks xHans!
<xHans> bitte
<TuxMann> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<TuxMann> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<gnewbie> the open source for back to school article is something I wish school boards / principles would read.
<TuxMann> yeah, that would be a great thing for them to read.
<TuxMann> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fridge/LoCoCalendar
* xHans reads it
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
