{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #71 for the week November 2, November 9.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Seventieth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-November 12, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday November 16, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the November 9, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08November9

johnc4510 began the meeting with the introduction of new members.  Mauricio Martinez is from Chihuahua, Mexico, and has been in Phoenix for about 4 months.  He is an IT professional, and has been using Ubuntu for about 6 months.  urugTON has had his degree in CS from 1970.  He has worked on mainframes, PCs, servers, networks - currently he manages a Disaster Recovery site.  mauricio and urugTON were welcomed into the team.

johnc4510 then made some announcements:

* Even though Ubuntu just release Intrepid, Jaunty jack the next version is now open for development.  So a new cycle starts.
* There is a new app out there called "Ultamatix".  It's the successor to "Automatix".  It's dangerous to use and it should be avoided.  The script uses a lot of root commands and FORCE flags, and can leave your system dead or vulnerable.  So please avoid this app.
* Last wk we discussed my problems installing Intrepid.  I'm happy to report that I have installed it on both boxes now.  I finally got the alt cd to work on the desktop box.  For the laptop I had to do a net upgrade, but it was flawless.
* This week I received our ShipIt order of bulk cds from Ubuntu.  This time instead of 400, we got 350.  The difference was we didn't get any 64bit desktop cds.

johnc4510 then asked xHans to make his announcements:

* PLUG east side this Thursday.  It looks like I will be covering Intrepid for our meeting this Thursday.  If someone else wants to volunteer, please let me know.  In any case, please point people at the meeting where we'll go over Intrepid.  http://plug.phoenix.az.us/
* The Hackfest was moved to this Saturday at Estrella Mountain Community College.  Still noon to 15:00ish, but a week late and on the other side of town.
* The OpenOffice.org class is running again in January.  It's an online class and I'm pretty certain it's the same price for Pima county residents.  We need to make sure the OOo class gets filled again.  Our Free Software classes at MCC are doing really well, but we need to keep filling them, especially new classes like OOo and especially non-OS classes like OOo, so let's fill it.
* Now that the election is over, we will soon be opening work on the next ABLEconf.  Please join the discuss list if you want to participate:  http://lists.ableconf.com/listinfo.cgi/discuss-ableconf.com.  Ideally we'll run in late March.  See also http://www.ABLEconf.com.
* The Stammtische are in a week and a half:  http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

johnc4510 then moved on to the Install Fest.  He has emailed his contacts, but gotten no response.  He re-emailed them and hope to have an answer Monday or Tuesday.  He is suggesting December 7 from 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm.  He promised to get the information to tyche as soon as it comes in.  tyche responded that as soon as he gets it he will make the changes to the flier and post it on the Forum.  He is interested in having a game server running, and is working with azteech on getting a demo going.  tyche brought up the question of getting the ShipIt CDs up to the Phoenix area.  johnc4510 suggested mailing them, and tyche offered to split the cost of the mailing.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:40 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
