{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


02 July - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Talked about installing ubuntu on laptops to gain experience
* Fixed weather station weewx on pi configuration

04 July - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* NO DATA AVAILABLE

05 July - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2005%2C%202020%20Meeting

09 July - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees. (one new person)
* We have created a put and take bin where a member can place unwanted fully functional computer related items and parts and take out the any parts or computer related items that he or she has need of.
* We have updated all of the Linux Mint install media to version 20 and are awaiting the first point release for Ubuntu 2020-04 which is due our later this month to do the same.  Since Linux Mint and all flavors of Ubuntu no longer have 32 bit releases we will continue to use Linux Mint 19.3  as the go to 32 bit install at our installfests.
* Discussed the EOL of Ubuntu 19.10 on 17 July.  See https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-19-10-eoan-ermine-will-reach-end-of-life-on-july-17th-2020
* Discussed the release of Ubuntu Ed 20.04 which is sort of a revival of the old Ed Ubuntu. See https://9to5linux.com/meet-ubuntued-20-04-an-educational-ubuntu-flavor-for-kids-schools-and-universities
* Discussed the release of Linux Mint and its refusal to enable Snapd applications by default. See https://www.zdnet.com/article/mint-20-jpglinux-mint-20-still-the-best-linux-desktop-despite-one-quirk/	
* Discussed the Ubuntu flavors.  See https://www.maketecheasier.com/which-ubuntu-flavor-should-you-choose/
* A question was raised by a guest.  He is dual booting Ubuntu 18.04 and Ubuntu 20.04. However, his relatively new HP printer will not print in 20.04.  He was advised to use HPLIP and when the installer asks if he wants to uninstall the old version of HPLIP, answer yes.
* A question was raised about where the activities are recorded.  (/var/log)

09 July - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Discussed the merits of IRC vs Discourse
* Discussed Linux current events.

18 July - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees (One new person)
* Attempted to configure a printer in a Virtual machine
* Discussed Raspberry Pi configuration
* Discussed the installation of access points on the ceiling of a room
* Discussed single board computers and Linux security.

19 July - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2019%2C%202020%20Meeting

23 July - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed how to use snaps in Ubuntu
* Discussed projects that reconfigure surplus computers for students
