{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 13 Mar at 03:59 &mdash; 04:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-03-13-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/dell-doubles-down-on-high-end-ubuntu-linux-laptops/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/3/introduction-gnu-screen 
''LINK:'' http://nintendotoday.com/nintendo-switch-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/3/risks-open-source-project-management 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/cast-android-screen-linux-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/hide-files-folders-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/84356.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/3/embedded-linux-iot-ecosystem 
''LINK:'' http://linkis.com/com/0x7Bc 
''LINK:'' http://www.cio.com/article/3178621/open-source-tools/how-to-make-money-from-open-source-software.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.nextplatform.com/2017/03/01/bouncing-back-private-clouds-openstack/ 
''LINK:'' https://ownyourbits.com/2017/03/09/dnsmasq-as-dns-cache-server-for-nextcloudpi-and-raspbian/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/3/monitor-sata-and-ssd-health-smart 
''LINK:'' http://changelog.complete.org/archives/9769-silent-data-corruption-is-real 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/linux-foundation-member/2017/3/companies-support-linux-and-open-source-hart 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/event/nodejs/2017/3/growing-node-lessons-successful-platform-migration 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security/162-announcing-plug-security-first-meeting-on-3-14.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddcnb (53)
* stephenm (40)
* MajB (26)
* xHans (6)
* JayCarpenter (5)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* pavlos (1)
* DasGregor (1)
* wmack (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddcnb> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar 13 03:59:51 2017 UTC.  The chair is toddcnb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddcnb> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <DasGregor> +1

 04:00 <toddcnb> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <toddcnb> Star Date 94797.72

 04:00 <toddcnb> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddcnb> Team Website is http://azloco.org/  IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <JayCarpenter> Hello.  I'm Jay Carpenter and I'm interested in learning more about Ubuntu and Linux.  Scripting is an area that I would like to learn.  My primary overall focus is in Blockchain and Decentralized Web development.

 04:01 <toddcnb> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> Hi Jay and welcome

 04:01 <toddcnb> welcome Jay

 04:02 <MajB> Hello JayCarpenter

 04:02 <toddcnb> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddcnb> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddcnb> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddcnb> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddcnb> we need to get Jay to a event!

 04:03 <toddcnb> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <MajB> Comments by all and input by all is welcome at any time

 04:04 <toddcnb> lets start with the news

 04:04 <wmack> +1

 04:04 <toddcnb> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <JayCarpenter> Thanks for your invite to a live event.  I will plan to be at one in the near future. Jay

 04:04 <stephenm> Good evening all, the news goes from global to more specific

 04:04 <stephenm> Dell doubles down on high-end Ubuntu Linux laptops

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/dell-doubles-down-on-high-end-ubuntu-linux-laptops/

 04:04 <stephenm> Dells at it again

 04:05 <stephenm> An introduction to GNU Screen

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/3/introduction-gnu-screen

 04:05 <stephenm> Nintendo Switch runs on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> http://nintendotoday.com/nintendo-switch-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> This is pretty cool for everyone that remembers Nintendo

 04:05 <stephenm> Open source project management can be risky business

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/3/risks-open-source-project-management

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Cast Your Android Screen onto Your Linux Desktop

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/cast-android-screen-linux-desktop/

 04:05 <MajB> JayCarpenter your best bet is to attend an installfest on the 1st and 3rd Saturdays of each month.  More on that later.

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Easily Hide Files and Folders in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/hide-files-folders-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> HOW TO: The Terminal Is Where Linux Begins - and Where You Should, Too

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/84356.html

 04:06 <stephenm> How embedded Linux accelerates IoT development

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/3/embedded-linux-iot-ecosystem

 04:06 <stephenm> How Linux Conquered the Data Center

 04:06 <stephenm> http://linkis.com/com/0x7Bc

 04:06 <stephenm> How to make money from open source software

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.cio.com/article/3178621/open-source-tools/how-to-make-money-from-open-source-software.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Bouncing Back To Private Clouds With OpenStack

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.nextplatform.com/2017/03/01/bouncing-back-private-clouds-openstack/

 04:06 <stephenm> dnsmasq as DNS cache server for NextCloudPi and Raspbian

 04:07 <stephenm> https://ownyourbits.com/2017/03/09/dnsmasq-as-dns-cache-server-for-nextcloudpi-and-raspbian/

 04:07 <stephenm> Monitor SATA and SSD Health with SMART

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/3/monitor-sata-and-ssd-health-smart

 04:07 <stephenm> Silent Data Corruption Is Real

 04:07 <stephenm> http://changelog.complete.org/archives/9769-silent-data-corruption-is-real

 04:07 <stephenm> The Companies That Support Linux and Open Source: Hart

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/linux-foundation-member/2017/3/companies-support-linux-and-open-source-hart

 04:08 <stephenm> This is really interesting if you want to learn about how the Health industry and open-source are being brought together.

 04:08 <stephenm> Growing Up Node: Lessons for Successful Platform Migration

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/event/nodejs/2017/3/growing-node-lessons-successful-platform-migration

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to you toddcnb

 04:08 <toddcnb> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddcnb> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <MajB> Excellent stephenm

 04:09 <Ron_A> looks like some good stuff stephenm

 04:09 <toddcnb> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <toddcnb> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddcnb> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddcnb> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddcnb> Well the last time I Tweeted, I was disqualified because Twitter said it was a chirp!

 04:10 <stephenm> welcome

 04:10 <toddcnb> What is a hard drive?

 04:10 <toddcnb> ???

 04:10 <toddcnb> A hard drive is driving across country with my wife, three kids and a dog.

 04:11 <toddcnb> Local linux Jobs

 04:11 <JayCarpenter> Anyone have experience loading Bitcoin Core on a Raspberry Pi?  I've loaded it successfully on a Pi 3 and I'm currently slooooowly syncing with the blockchain.  Instructions at: http://raspnode.com/diyBitcoin.html

 04:11 <toddcnb> several scottsdale based IT working with self driving car testing https://jobs.lever.co/cruise/16a42ced-e3f4-49d2-a9b9-7c3b6c8282e5

 04:12 <toddcnb> 31 current canonical Jobs today http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <toddcnb> Site Reliability Engineer+ https://www.datadoghq.com/careers/detail/?gh_jid=88569

 04:12 <toddcnb> Sr. Systems Administrator and MySQL Database Administrator https://www.phone.com/careers/sr-systems-administrator/

 04:12 <toddcnb> Software Developer Tempe https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:12 <toddcnb> System Administrator or Software Developer careers@axosoft.com

 04:13 <toddcnb> Runs LINUX

 04:13 <toddcnb> Meet the Ubuntu Powered Augmented Reality Helmet http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/02/ubuntu-augmented-reality-helmet-hololens

 04:13 <toddcnb> Desktop Picks

 04:13 <toddcnb> standardnotes A proof of concept collaborative text editor with end-to-end encryption https://standardnotes.org/extensions/collaborative-editor

 04:14 <toddcnb> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddcnb> Valve launches SteamVR support for Linux https://www.engadget.com/2017/02/22/valve-launches-steamvr-support-for-linux/

 04:14 <toddcnb> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 18 March, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:15 <MajB> 23 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 23 March, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 01 April, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, Gangplank 260 S Arizona Ave

 04:15 <MajB> Chandler.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some tim

 04:15 <JayCarpenter> Regarding healthcare, anyone familiar with IPFS.io?  I'm also running IPFS.io on Raspberry Pi 2 and 3s.  Here is an article about IPFS.io and healthcare: http://www.cio.com/article/3171132/innovation/an-ipfs-addressable-storage-model-for-healthcare-with-blockchain.html

 04:15 <toddcnb> JayCarpenter: yes we have one member doing his own crypto coins but I have not heard of anyone making them on a Pi other than proff of concept

 04:16 <MajB> 06 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> That is all that I have for tonight

 04:16 <toddcnb> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:17 <xHans> SCaLE15x was great, SCaLE16x planning already underway, let me know if you would like to get involved

 04:17 <xHans> PLUG is starting a new security class this Tuesday, the second Tuesday of the month

 04:17 <xHans> http://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security/162-announcing-plug-security-first-meeting-on-3-14.html

 04:18 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday

 04:18 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:18 <JayCarpenter> <toddcnb> I'd be interested in connecting with the member that is doing his own crypto coin.  Will you please introduce me? JayCarpenter@DesertBlockchain.com

 04:18 <toddcnb> good news on the extra events

 04:18 <toddcnb> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events and news

 04:19 <toddcnb> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:19 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:19 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:19 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 14 March 6:30-9:30 pm. Location TBS See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest information on Location.

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 March, Sierra Vista public library conference room

 04:19 <MajB> 1:00-3:45 pm, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 26 March 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 07 April 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 12 April 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:20 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 12 April 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:20 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:21 <toddcnb> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:21 <toddcnb> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:21 <MajB> AZLOCO  and the Cochise Linux User Group (CLUG) will be co-sponsoring an information booth at the 12th annual West End Fair on Fry Blvd between Garden and 7th Street in Sierra Vista on 6 May 2017 from 10-5 pm.

 04:21 <MajB> The will be a Splunk conference in Scottsdale 25 May 2017.  More information will follow as it becomes available.

 04:21 <toddcnb> ROAD TRIP!!!!!!

 04:21 <toddcnb> CARPOOL

 04:22 <toddcnb> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:23 <toddcnb> comments?

 04:23 <toddcnb> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:23 <toddcnb> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
