{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<tuxmann> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxmann> +1
<pjdamws> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
* Rich__ (42375dc2@gateway/web/freenode/ip.66.55.93.194) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<tuxmann> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<tuxmann> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<tuxmann> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<tuxmann> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<_erroric> +1
<tuxmann> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
* akrhodey (~akrhodey@ip72-208-241-204.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Rich__> +1
<tuxmann> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<akrhodey> +1
<tuxmann> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<tuxmann> lets start with the news!!
<Yorokobi> +1
<tuxmann> UBUNTU NEWS
<tuxmann> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> No surprise here for much of anyone
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/05/31/game-of-thrones-ubuntu-fails-to-dethrone-microsoft/
<Dazed_75> I considered not posting this link, but ...
<Dazed_75>     http://techrights.org/2013/06/01/canonical-acts-like-linspire/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Arch-Linux-2013-06-01-Is-Now-Available-for-Download-357657.shtml
<Dazed_75> The first experience of Linux on Intel Haswell
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel_haswell_linux&num=1
<Dazed_75> Three commands to check Linux uptime
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/unix-command/uptime/
<Dazed_75> Fix Catalyst driver in Ubuntu 13.04
<Dazed_75>     http://xpressrazor.wordpress.com/2013/05/31/fix-catalyst-driver-in-ubuntu-13-04/
<Dazed_75>   --- People with ATI graphics may want to make a note on that last one
<Dazed_75> Google's h.264 righteous flameout (How MPEG LA tamed a giant - and will again)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/05/31/mpeg_la_h264_grenade_for_google/
<Dazed_75> Linux Mint 15 MATE review
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/linux-mint-15-olivia-mate-review.html
<Dazed_75> Put multiple distros on one install/live DVD
<Dazed_75>     http://multicd.tuxfamily.org/
<Dazed_75> Read this article before updating your Arch Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Read-This-Article-Before-Updating-Your-Arch-Linux-358104.shtml
<Dazed_75> Canonical launches Ubuntu Community website
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Canonical-Launches-Ubuntu-Community-Website-357835.shtml
<Dazed_75>     http://community.ubuntu.com/
<Dazed_75> Cinnamon 2.0 in Linux Mint 16, no GNOME back-end
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/cinnamon-2-0-in-linux-mint-16-no-gnome-back-end
<Dazed_75> Neat ---> Raspberry Pi driven artificial knee
<Dazed_75>     http://www.elliottjrouse.com/postdoctoral-research/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Tweak 0.8.5 fixes Ubuntu 13.04 issues
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Tweak-0-8-5-Fixes-Ubuntu-13-04-Issues-358954.shtml
<Dazed_75> Installing and using OpenVZ on Debian Wheezy (AMD64)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/installing-and-using-openvz-on-debian-wheezy-amd64
<Dazed_75> SystemRescueCD 3.7.0 includes Linux kernel 3.9.4
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/SystemRescueCd-3-7-0-Includes-Linux-Kernel-3-9-4-358933.shtml
<Dazed_75> Recording a terminal session in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/record-terminal-session-in-ubuntu/2013/06/06
<Dazed_75> Dreamhost now uses Ubuntu instead of Debian Wheezy
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/dreamhost-now-uses-ubuntu-instead-of.html
<Dazed_75> PRISM -- It's the end of the Internet as we know it
<Dazed_75>     http://betanews.com/2013/06/07/prism-its-the-end-of-the-internet-as-we-know-it/
<Dazed_75> Tell people you use Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/06/tell-people-you-use-linux.html
<Dazed_75> How to automount partitions in Ubuntu 13.04 and Linux Mint 15
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/automount-ubuntu-1304-linux-mint-15.html
<Dazed_75> Intel Haswell HD graphics 4600 performance on Ubuntu Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel_hd4600_linux&num=1
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 13.10 readies arrival of smarter Unity Dash
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/ubuntu-13-10-readies-arrival-of-smarter-unity-dash
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/unity-smart-scopes-feature-lands-in.html
<Dazed_75> How's Ubuntu Touch for phones shaping up?  Pretty well judging by this video ...
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/progress-on-ubuntu-touch-for-phones-demoed
<Dazed_75> XFCE Theme Manager: A single GUI to change and XFCE theme (with previews)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/xfce-theme-manager-single-gui-to-change.html
<Dazed_75> Better font rendering in Linux with Ininality
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/better-font-rendering-in-linux-with.html
<Dazed_75> Install OpenJDK patched with font fixes [Ubuntu PPA]
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/install-openjdk-patched-with-font-fixes.html
<Dazed_75> How to automatically mute music when receiving VOIP calls [pulseaudio]
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/how-to-automatically-mute-music-when.html
<Dazed_75> Y PPA Manager 0.9.9 released with support for Linux Mint 15 and Ubuntu 13.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/y-ppa-manager-099-released-with-support.html
<Dazed_75> VLC: How to download subtitles using VLSub
<Dazed_75>     http://www.unixmen.com/vlc-how-to-download-subtitles-using-vlsub/
<Dazed_75> 3 methods to view tail -f output of multiple log files in one terminal
<Dazed_75>     http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2009/09/multitail-to-view-tail-f-output-of-multiple-log-files-in-one-terminal/
<Dazed_75>     http://www.vanheusden.com/multitail/
<Dazed_75> Introducing Ubuntu Touch Manager
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/Introducing-Ubuntu-Touch-Manager-359267.shtml
<Dazed_75> How to make XFCE like Unity
<Dazed_75>     http://dasublogbyprashanth.blogspot.com/2013/06/how-to-make-xfce-like-unity.html
<Dazed_75> Petition for a Linux client to Google Drive?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/google-drive-for-linux-petition
<tuxmann> I still have to sign that petition.
* nhasian (~nhasian@ubuntu/member/nhasian) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<tuxmann> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<Dazed_75> and a new Chinese supercomputer
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/06/chinese-supercomputer-destroys-speed-record-and-will-get-much-faster/
<Dazed_75> :) You are welcome - I snuck an extra story in 
<tuxmann> That's cool. I look forward to reading that one too!
<tuxmann> TEAM NEWS
<tuxmann> Since Ubuntu/Canonical will no longer make cd/dvd for other than LTS to teams, Tuxmann (myself) will be providing DVDs of the latest version of Ubuntu & Linux Mint as needed at the installfest
<tuxmann> JOB LIST
<tuxmann> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<tuxmann> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<tuxmann> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<tuxmann> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<tuxmann> Android App Pick of the week:
<tuxmann> Check out SuperBeam | WiFi Direct Share on Google Play!
<tuxmann> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.majedev.superbeam
<tuxmann> Basically bringing the ability to share large files between devices using wifi instead of NFC or bluetooth
<tuxmann> Linux App of the week:
<tuxmann> Gpodder, a great podcast aggregator for Linux.
<tuxmann> http://gpodder.org/ or find it in your distro's software repository.
<tuxmann> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<tuxmann> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday June 15 and Saturday July 6 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<tuxmann> For more info see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<tuxmann> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<tuxmann> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<tuxmann> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<tuxmann> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<tuxmann> Thursday June 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<tuxmann> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<tuxmann> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!
<tuxmann> PLUG EVENTS
<tuxmann> Plug East side meeting Thursday June 13  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<tuxmann> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday June 18 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<tuxmann> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<tuxmann> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas? Dazed_75: if I missed anything, please fill in the gaps.
<Dazed_75> Nope, thats about it unless xHans is here and has something to add
<xHans> moin moin
<Dazed_75> ... or anyone else?  Xorrito?
<xHans> tuxmann covered the PLUG meeting and Stammtisch. Danke!
<tuxmann> Ok great. Thanks for letting me help with the meeting. I haven't seen Xorrito recently.
<xHans> I have a topic for PLUG to add
<xHans> Good Password Verification
<xHans> "A customer's perspective on password verification. Just because the cloud claims
<xHans>  your data is encrypted and password protected doesn't mean it really is."
<tuxmann> No problem xHans!
<xHans> Brian also has a presentation, but I don't yet know what it is
<xHans> his description was ready much earlier, but I didn't get my description to him in time for him to get the announcements out before this mtg
<xHans> also, there will be a PLUG planning meeting at 18:00 on Thursday before the PLUG east side meeting
<xHans> and that's it from me
<xHans> Dazed_75: when is the next Ubuntu hour in Tucson?
* xHans doesn't see it in the backscroll
<tuxmann> Have a good night everyone. I'm signing off now & going back to vacation.
* pjdamws has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<tuxmann> xHans, my notes said it was supposed to be yesterday but I don't know if it happened or not.
<Dazed_75> Should be July 13 but I have no confirmation from Xorrito
<Dazed_75> for the Tucson Ubuntu Hour at bookmans that is.  So there is lots of time to get it confirmed
<Dazed_75> Thats it for me as well.  Off to update the logs.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
