{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 16 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-11-16-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2020/11/eight-years-ago-today-steam-for-linux-went-into-beta 
''LINK:'' https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/raspberry-pi-400-the-70-desktop-pc/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.theverge.com/21550815/windows-microsoft-linux-mint-laptop-how-to-switch 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/32-bit-linux-distributions/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/new-intel-vulnerabilities-now-patched-in-all-supported-ubuntu-releases 
''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/a-bash-function-to-extract-file-archives-of-various-types/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2020/11/display-clock-ram-and-cpu-usage-as.html 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/kde-plasma-5-21-desktop-environment-to-ship-with-a-new-system-monitor-app 
''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/11/customize-xfce-modern-look-2020-edition/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-mint-introduces-its-own-take-on-the-chromium-web-browser/ 
''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/install-nerd-fonts-to-add-glyphs-in-your-code-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-notepadqq-on-centos-8-0/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/quick-guide-to-linux-partition-schemes/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/dnf-apt-users 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/10-more-commands-terminal 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/undo-last-git-commit/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/wordpress-container 
''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/features/features/wireguard-vpn 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/remmina-remote-desktop-sharing-and-ssh-client/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/secure-ftp-server-using-ssl-tls-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-local-dns-server-using-dnsmasq-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/. Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (53)
* MajB (51)
* toddc (5)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov 16 04:00:04 2020 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +2

 04:00 <toddc> +3

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +4

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.  There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> news is all over the place so take what you'd like.

 04:02 <stephenm> Eight years ago, Steam for Linux went into Beta - a quick look back

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2020/11/eight-years-ago-today-steam-for-linux-went-into-beta

 04:02 <stephenm> Steam is OK, haven't used it but it's come a long way

 04:02 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi 400: the $70 desktop PC

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/raspberry-pi-400-the-70-desktop-pc/

 04:02 <stephenm> Just a fancy keyboard

 04:03 <stephenm> How to switch an old Windows laptop to Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theverge.com/21550815/windows-microsoft-linux-mint-laptop-how-to-switch

 04:03 <stephenm> 11 Linux Distributions You Can Rely on for Your Ancient 32-bit Computer

 04:03 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/32-bit-linux-distributions/

 04:03 <stephenm> New Intel Vulnerabilities Now Patched in All Supported Ubuntu Releases

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/new-intel-vulnerabilities-now-patched-in-all-supported-ubuntu-releases

 04:03 <stephenm> All is well with Ubuntu

 04:03 <stephenm> A Bash Function To Extract File Archives Of Various Types

 04:03 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/a-bash-function-to-extract-file-archives-of-various-types/

 04:03 <stephenm> Display The Clock, RAM And CPU Usage As Circle Widgets On Your GNOME Shell Desktop

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2020/11/display-clock-ram-and-cpu-usage-as.html

 04:04 <stephenm> KDE Plasma 5.21 Desktop Environment to Ship with a New System Monitor App

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/kde-plasma-5-21-desktop-environment-to-ship-with-a-new-system-monitor-app

 04:04 <stephenm> Customize Xfce Desktop for Modern Look and Productivity

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/11/customize-xfce-modern-look-2020-edition/

 04:04 <stephenm> something for MajB

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux Mint introduces its own take on the Chromium web browser

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-mint-introduces-its-own-take-on-the-chromium-web-browser/

 04:04 <MajB> Rah

 04:04 <stephenm> Install Nerd Fonts To Add Glyphs In Your Code On Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/install-nerd-fonts-to-add-glyphs-in-your-code-on-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to install Notepadqq (Linux Notepad++ Clone) on CentOS 8

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-notepadqq-on-centos-8-0/

 04:05 <stephenm> Might try this because I like Notepad++

 04:05 <stephenm> A Quick Guide to Linux Partition Schemes

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/quick-guide-to-linux-partition-schemes/

 04:05 <stephenm> DNF for APT users

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/dnf-apt-users

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux for beginners: 10 more commands for manipulating files

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/10-more-commands-terminal

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Undo Last Git Commit

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/undo-last-git-commit/

 04:05 <stephenm> comes in handy

 04:06 <stephenm> How to move WordPress into a Linux container

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/wordpress-container

 04:06 <stephenm> WireGuard Brings Speed and Simplicity to VPN Technology

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/features/features/wireguard-vpn

 04:06 <stephenm> Remmina - A Feature Rich Remote Desktop Sharing Tool for Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/remmina-remote-desktop-sharing-and-ssh-client/

 04:06 <stephenm> Tried TightVNC didn't like it as much

 04:06 <stephenm> Setting Up a Secure FTP Server using SSL/TLS on Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/secure-ftp-server-using-ssl-tls-on-ubuntu/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Setup Local DNS Resolver using Dnsmasq on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-local-dns-server-using-dnsmasq-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight. back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:08 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 77 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 93 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 40 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:10 <MajB> 21 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:10 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 03 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 05 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:11 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 10 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 10 December, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 19 December, Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:12 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> 26 November, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000.  Conflict with Thanksgiving.

 04:12 <MajB> 24 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000.  Conflict with Christmas Eve.

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:14 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> meeting on 28 November 1300-1545, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:16 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
