{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

01 December - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2001%2C%202024%20Meeting
05 December - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed general Linux subjects
07 December AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* 1 Ubuntu install
* Discussed virtualization platforms
* Assisted an attendee in setting up an OS in a VM
12 December - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed which Apple computers you can install a Linux system.
* Discussed the availability of fiber internet from Cox and Allo.
* Consumed the delicious cookies made by the wife of one of our members.
12 December - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed general Linux subjects
15 December - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2015%2C%202024%20Meeting
21 December – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* Data Not Available
26 December – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour 
* 3 attendees
* Talked about various Ubuntu and Linux subjects
