{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<pjdamws> +1
<gnewbie> +1
<toddc> Star Date 91407.82
<tuxmann> +1
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
* nhasian (~nhasian@ubuntu/member/nhasian) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> tuxmann: just left!!
<nhasian> +1
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<nhasian> i made it
<Dazed_75> good to see you here
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!  cool glad to see you nhasian
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/168619-3d-magnetic-storage-breakthrough-enables-100tb-hard-drives
<toddc> I want
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/10/15/breaking-moores-law/
<Dazed_75> http://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9242922/Preloaded_Linux_systems_Weighing_the_options
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/hackable-dvr-dual-boots-android-and-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://opensource.com/life/13/10/interview-jessica-mckellar open source diversity advocate
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/10/15/oracle_says_open_source_has_no_place_in_military_apps/
<Dazed_75> http://www.infoq.com/news/2013/10/Linux-Backdoor
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/10/13/cairo-dock-3-3-released-install-it-on-linux-mint-15-cinnamon/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.com/news/enterprise/systems-management/742835-migrating-to-mariadb-from-mysql
<Dazed_75> http://www.infoworld.com/d/open-source-software/greed-good-9-open-source-secrets-making-money-228428
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/make-better-use-of-gmail-filters/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/customize-google-app-launcher/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/delete-url-from-chrome-omnibox/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/system76-touchscreen-ubuntu-laptop-available-pre-order
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/manage-passwords-securely-keepassx
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/virtualbox-43-released-with-multi-touch.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-virtualbox-4-3-on-ubuntu-linux-mint-pear-os-elementary-os-debian-fedora-centos-and-opensuse/
<Dazed_75> http://ostatic.com/blog/virtualbox-4-3-lets-you-run-many-cutting-edge-platforms-at-once
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/virtualbox-4-3-released/
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/clementine-12-released-amarok-14.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/install-rhythmbox-30-in-ubuntu-1310-or.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/cinnamon-20-released-becomes-entire.html
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/di-a-disk-information-utility/
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/google-drive-ocamlfuse-a-fuse-filesystem-over-google-drive-lets-you-mount-your-google-drive-under-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://www.wired.com/insights/2013/10/google-hummingbird-where-no-search-has-gone-before/
<Dazed_75> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Smartmontools
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/samba-4-1-brings-linux-desktop-and-mac-files-from-windows-8-server-2012-7000021945/
<Dazed_75> http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/ubuntu-reviews/ubuntu-13-10/
<Dazed_75> http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/canonicals-ubuntu-linux-1310-brings-few-changes-desktop
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/ubuntu-13-10-review-available-for-download
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/see-whats-new-in-1310-release-of.html kubuntu, Xubuntu, Lubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Download-Ubuntu-13-10-Manual-Ahead-of-Official-Release-391884.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/top-things-installing-ubuntu-13-10/
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/8-things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/ubuntu-touch-ready-prime-time
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/4-reasons-why-you-shouldnt-install-ubuntu-touch-1-0
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/canonicals-one-step-closer-to-the-desktopmobile-convergence-with-the-release-of-ubuntu-13-10-and-ubuntu-touch/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/tiny-sbc-runs-linux-on-ti-omap5432/
<Dazed_75> http://www.tecmint.com/nomachine-an-advanced-remote-desktop-access-tool/
<Dazed_75> http://www.tecmint.com/35-practical-examples-of-linux-find-command/
<Dazed_75> http://www.medicaportal.com/forum/pg/topicview/misc/general-chat/best-open-source-medical-and-healthcare-software/
<Dazed_75> http://marcelgagne.com/content/shell-scripting-vs-programming-part-2-parameters-and-variables
<Dazed_75> http://www.examiner.com/article/introducing-savannah-the-free-software-repository
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/linux-graphics-news-0
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/10/create-custom-business-cards-labels-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/ubuntu-14-04-lts-named-trusty-tahr
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/will-canonical-use-mir-as-the-default-display-server-on-ubuntu-14-04-lts/
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/gcp-advanced-command-line-file-copier-inspired-by-cp/
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/10/the-navys-newest-warship-is-powered-by-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/173921/secure-your-wireless-router-8-things-you-can-do-right-now/
<Dazed_75> http://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/ubuntu-13-10-improves-linux-server-deployment.html
<Dazed_75> http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/kubuntu-reviews/kubuntu-13-10/
<Dazed_75> http://connecteddigitalworld.com/2013/10/17/installing-configuring-centos/
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/whats-coming-in-ubuntu-14-04-trusty-tahr-7000022132/
<Dazed_75> and that's it from AJ - hope everyone saw something useful
<toddc> Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> French police move from Windows to Ubuntu Linux
<toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/french-police-move-from-windows-to-ubuntu-linux-7000021479/
<toddc> Google’s iron grip on Android: Controlling open source by any means necessary
<toddc> http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2013/10/googles-iron-grip-on-android-controlling-open-source-by-any-means-necessary/
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> Installfest was full again at the last installfest at UAT. Thanks to xHans and Tuxmann we will be adding a third event at Paradise Valley Community College. We are still in talks and working out plans
<toddc>  but hope to announce in the next week with time and location information. Thanks to Tuxxmann and all his hard work because he will be running it!!
<toddc> We have canceled the following meetings due to holidays
<toddc> Meetings
* tuxxmann (~tuxxxmann@ip68-110-85-252.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> he is back right after I talked about him so he will have to check the logs
<toddc> November 10 meeting due to veterans day holiday
<toddc> Ubuntu Hour changes are
<toddc> November 28 Ubuntu hour due to Thanksgiving
<tuxxmann> toddc, hopefully you said nice things :D
<toddc> December Ubuntu hour falls on December 26 the day after Christmas
<toddc> mee never!!
* tuxmann has quit (Ping timeout: 256 seconds)
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> LimeLight in Tempe is looking for a MySQL DBA remote is OK
<toddc> Contact xHans for more info
<toddc> Logos Operations Developer Logos Bible Software
<toddc> devjobs@logos.com
<toddc> Runs LINUX
<toddc> The Navy’s newest warship is powered by Linux
<toddc> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/10/the-navys-newest-warship-is-powered-by-linux/
<toddc> Newest $3.5 billion navy ship -- actually commanded by Captain Kirk -- is floating data center with guns
<toddc> http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/2013/10/newest-35-billion-navy-ship----actually
<toddc> commanded-by-captain-kirk----is-floating-data-center-with-gu.html
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> Clementine
<toddc> http://www.clementine-player.org/#news
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> there is no installfest  November 2 due to Uat needing the classoroom that week end
<toddc> The next Azloco/plug installfests are Saturday November 16  and Saturday December 7 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> This Thursday October 24 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
* tuxxmann has quit (Ping timeout: 256 seconds)
<toddc> now I can talk about Tuxxmann again
<toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> west side has moved
<toddc> Wednesday November 6 7pm – 9pm
<toddc> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
<toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> Weekly Ubuntu Webcast Tuesday  with Jono Bacon 10 AM
<toddc> Jono Bacon Q&A every Wednesday 7-8pm
<toddc> Juju Charm School: Chef/Puppet Integration every other Friday 5-6 pm
<toddc> Nov 12 I will try to go to prescott LUGY meeting again
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> xHans are you here?
<xHans> yup
<toddc> would you like to do the Plug news?
<xHans> glad to hear the PVCC Installfest is moving along
<toddc> thank you
<xHans> November PLUG topic is Salt Stack, http://www.SaltStack.org/, scalable infrastructure management, 2013Nov14
<xHans> Dembember PLUG meeting is our annual end of year party, 2013Dec12
<xHans> January PLUG topic is MongoDB, http://www.mongodb.org/, scalable NoSQL database, 2014Jan09
* [R] has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<xHans> really looking forward to those talks
<xHans> also, a reminder that SCaLE call for proposals is open, https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp/
<xHans> that's it from the monkey house tonight
<toddc> thanks xHans
<xHans> bitte
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
