{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #61 for the week August 17, August 24, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Sixty First Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-August 27, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday August 31, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the August 24, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 8:58 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08August24

johnc4510 began the meeting by asking xHans to help him get up to speed on the ABLEconf status.  xHans gave johnc4510 information on the founding sponsors by providing a link (http://www.ableconf.com/organizers) to a list of organizations.  The list may not be complete, yet, and links to web pages need to be added.  In addition, xHans reminded johnc4510 that last week he volunteered to head coordinating volunteers and the sponsoring organizations.  This week he volunteered to help with promotion.  huertanix is the head of promotion.  azteech has volunteered to man a booth/table, as well as seeing what he can do to get an ad ready for craigslist.  tyche has volunteered to make a presentation.

The volunteer team needs to contact all the state user groups asking them to join in.  Each of the sponsoring groups should assign coordinators to work with us and post info to the groups as well as give us feedback.  There is no mailing list yet.  For now they need to contact johnc4510 at the volunteering mail alias.  We do need to create a couple more email lists, which is what xHans's next email to the group is about.  We need a list of all the user groups in the state.  Some of those include:  DeLUG, ASULUG, EMCCLUG, TFUG, and AzPHP.  Also LUNA in Flagstaff and one in Sierra Vista and one in Green Valley.  kennymc mentioned that he had been a member of DeLUG, but had only gone to one meeting.  xHans suggested that he contact huertanix, who had been a past president of DeLUG.  xHans would like *every* Free Software group in AZ to be a sponsor of the event.

A discussion was held concerning fliers, logo and a banner for the AZ Team booth/table.  huertanix and tunys will be working on a logo.  xHans felt that the fliers weren't as important, at this point, as promotion and getting talks first.  princess| said the one thing about the banner is that it can be done for $80 at most but he can get it cheaper, he's sure, but he needs someone to make the graphic into an svg.  johnc4510 asked tyche if he would convert it, and tyche replied that he would look into it, but that he'd never worked with svg.

xHans then made some announcements:

1. There's a Free Software conference coming up Saturday, Sept 20th, www.ABLEconf.com
2. The PLUG west side meeting is this week.  It's the beginning of the school year, so we don't have access to the school. As a result everyone will be going straight to Poliertos.  http://local.botw.org/Phoenix/Polibertos/158612867.html
3. The InstallFest is this Saturday.
4. We started having ABLEconf meetings every Sunday at 20:00, so just before the AZ Team meeting.
5. Finally, thanks to everyone for helping us promote all the Free Software classes at the community colleges.  The OpenOffice.org class has more than double what the class capacity is supposed to be.  xHans's shell scripting class starts tomorrow.  The intro class is full this quarter and already mostly full next quarter.  Other community colleges are doing well as well.  http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5604

The meeting was adjourned at 9:48 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
