{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 24 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-12-24-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/12/state-purpose-single-sentence 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/12/meet-new-linux-desktop-champion-system76-thelio 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/linux-toy-espeak 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/some-thoughts-on-linux-gaming-in-2018-an-end-of-year-review.13209 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-add-remove-usb-and-other-mounted-volumes-to-from-ubuntu-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/create-first-nodejs-app-in-linux/# 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/analysis/dpdk-one-api-to-rule-them-all/2018/12/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Linux-4.20-Biggest-Features 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/powertop-monitors-laptop-battery-usage-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-riak-kv-nosql-database-cluster-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-and-use-tilda-a-drop-down-console-for-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ctrl.blog/entry/systemd-resolved 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-openldap-server-for-centralized-authentication/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/datacenter/istio-1.0-brings-service-mesh-to-cloud-native-applications.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/rsync-best-tool-to-sync-files-between-devices-mainly-servers 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.seclore.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-hat-serves-up-robotics-control-smorgasbord/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/intel-cherry-trail-based-hacker-board-launches-for-34/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (55)
* stephenm (35)
* RexB (30)
* xHans (5)
* meetingology (3)
* MajB (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 24 04:00:01 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <RexB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 96578.97

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> over to stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> News is from everyday tech to specif Linux stuff

 04:02 <MajB> +1

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Craft a One-Sentence Description of Your Organization's Purpose

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/12/state-purpose-single-sentence

 04:03 <stephenm> Meet the New Linux Desktop Champion: System76 Thelio

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/12/meet-new-linux-desktop-champion-system76-thelio

 04:03 <stephenm> This looks like something Don might like

 04:03 <stephenm> Let your Linux terminal speak its mind

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/linux-toy-espeak

 04:03 <stephenm> Some thoughts on Linux gaming in 2018, an end of year review

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/some-thoughts-on-linux-gaming-in-2018-an-end-of-year-review.13209

 04:04 <stephenm> How to add/remove USB and other mounted volumes to/from Ubuntu desktop

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-add-remove-usb-and-other-mounted-volumes-to-from-ubuntu-desktop/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Write Your First Node.js App in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/create-first-nodejs-app-in-linux/#

 04:04 <stephenm> DPDK — One API to Rule Them All?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/analysis/dpdk-one-api-to-rule-them-all/2018/12/

 04:04 <stephenm> The Most Notable New Features Of The Linux 4.20 Kernel

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Linux-4.20-Biggest-Features

 04:04 <stephenm> PowerTOP - Monitors Power Usage and Improve Laptop Battery Life in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/powertop-monitors-laptop-battery-usage-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Setup Riak KV NoSQL Database Cluster on CentOS 7

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-riak-kv-nosql-database-cluster-on-centos-7/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Use Tilda - a drop-down console for Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-and-use-tilda-a-drop-down-console-for-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to tell if systemd-resolved is being useful on your system?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ctrl.blog/entry/systemd-resolved

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Install OpenLDAP Server for Centralized Authentication

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-openldap-server-for-centralized-authentication/

 04:05 <stephenm> Istio 1.0 Brings Service Mesh to Cloud Native Applications

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/datacenter/istio-1.0-brings-service-mesh-to-cloud-native-applications.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Rsync - Tool To Sync Files Between Devices (Mainly Servers)

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/rsync-best-tool-to-sync-files-between-devices-mainly-servers

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to you toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <RexB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <RexB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <RexB> 05 January Installfest/Linux Workshop (Campus wide event – no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <toddc> If you love someone, set him free.

 04:07 <toddc> If he comes back, I think we can charge him for re-installation fees, but tell him that he's getting an upgrade.

 04:08 <toddc> A bachelor asked the computer to find him the perfect mate: ???I want a companion who is small and cute, loves water sports, and enjoys group activities.???

 04:08 <toddc> Back came the answer: ???Marry a penguin.???

 04:08 <toddc> Computers can never replace humans. They may become capable of artificial intelligence, but they will never master real stupidity.

 04:09 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:09 <toddc> Canonical has 53 open positions

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <toddc> Onsite Technical Consultant

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.seclore.com/careers/

 04:09 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:10 <toddc> Raspberry Pi HAT serves up robotics control smorgasbord

 04:10 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-hat-serves-up-robotics-control-smorgasbord/

 04:10 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:10 <toddc> Intel Cherry Trail based hacker board launches for $34

 04:10 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/intel-cherry-trail-based-hacker-board-launches-for-34/

 04:10 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:11 <RexB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <RexB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:11 <RexB> 27 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <RexB> 27 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <RexB> 03 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <RexB> 05 January, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest canceled

 04:12 <RexB> 10 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <RexB> 19 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:12 <RexB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <RexB> back to you toddc

 04:12 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:13 <toddc> we need some???

 04:13 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:13 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:13 <RexB> Got one dangling down here

 04:13 <xHans> PLUG meetings are done for the year. Enjoy the holidays and see you next year!

 04:13 <xHans> The next east side meeting is two weeks from Thursday on January 10th

 04:13 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:14 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:14 <xHans> bitte

 04:14 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:14 <RexB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:14 <RexB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:14 <RexB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 27 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:14 <RexB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 04 January 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:14 <RexB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 09 January 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:14 <RexB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <RexB> Meeting on 26 January 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:15 <RexB> That is all I have

 04:15 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:15 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:15 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ??? ideas

 04:15 <RexB> CONFERENCES:

 04:15 <RexB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:15 <RexB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:15 <RexB> Pasadena, CA

 04:15 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <toddc> if I can end the meeting

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
