{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 06 Aug at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-08-06-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/opera-is-available-in-a-snap-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/08/new-open-source-effort-legal-code-to-make-reporting-security-bugs-safer/ 
''LINK:'' https://techcrunch.com/2018/08/01/nasas-open-source-rover-lets-you-build-your-own-planetary-exploration-platform/ 
''LINK:'' https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2018/08/01/staff-dust-off-their-typewriters-after-malware-attack/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/dxvk-the-vulkan-based-layer-for-direct3d-11-with-wine-has-another-fresh-release.12283?module=articles_full&title=dxvk-the-vulkan-based-layer-for-direct3d-11-with-wine-has-another-fresh-release&aid=12283 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/a-new-steamos-beta-is-out-with-gpu-driver-updates-and-a-fresh-linux-kerne.12285?module=articles_full&title=a-new-steamos-beta-is-out-with-gpu-driver-updates-and-a-fresh-linux-kerne&aid=12285 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/08/s-tui-cpu-monitoring-and-stress-testing.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/ngrep-network-packet-analyzer-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/tech-heavyweights-create-open-source-project-to-transfer-data/2018/07/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/8/5-essential-tools-linux-development 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/walkthrough-on-how-to-use-gnome-boxes 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/8/getting-started-mu-python-editor-beginners 
''LINK:'' https://blog.google/products/google-cloud/bringing-intelligence-to-the-edge-with-cloud-iot/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/ctop-monitor-docker-containers/ 
''LINK:'' https://hackernoon.com/how-to-lead-a-disaster-recovery-exercise-for-your-on-call-team-37b29f5f77c0 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://phoenix.craigslist.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.papercall.io/devopsday-phoenix-2018 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (53)
* stephenm (39)
* MajB (33)
* xHans (9)
* dennisk (4)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (3)
* wmack (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug  6 04:00:07 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date   96195.82

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team events portal

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <Ron_A> 

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <stephenm> The news is from basic to more expert level

 04:01 <stephenm> Opera is available in a Snap on Linux

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/opera-is-available-in-a-snap-on-linux/

 04:02 <stephenm> So you can listen to the annoying voice to read to you, just like Cortana

 04:02 <stephenm> New open source effort: Legal code to make reporting security bugs safer

 04:02 <stephenm> https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/08/new-open-source-effort-legal-code-to-make-reporting-security-bugs-safer/

 04:02 <stephenm> Think this is actually a good idea but having gotten into it yet

 04:03 <stephenm> Nasas Open Source Rover lets you build your own Planetary Exploration Platform

 04:03 <stephenm> https://techcrunch.com/2018/08/01/nasas-open-source-rover-lets-you-build-your-own-planetary-exploration-platform/

 04:03 <stephenm> Staff dust off their typewriters after malware attack

 04:03 <stephenm> https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2018/08/01/staff-dust-off-their-typewriters-after-malware-attack/

 04:03 <stephenm> DXVK, the Vulkan-based layer for Direct3D 11 with Wine has another fresh release

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/dxvk-the-vulkan-based-layer-for-direct3d-11-with-wine-has-another-fresh-release.12283?module=articles_full&title=dxvk-the-vulkan-based-layer-for-direct3d-11-with-wine-has-another-fresh-release&aid=12283

 04:03 <stephenm> A new SteamOS beta is out with GPU driver updates and a fresh Linux kernel

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/a-new-steamos-beta-is-out-with-gpu-driver-updates-and-a-fresh-linux-kerne.12285?module=articles_full&title=a-new-steamos-beta-is-out-with-gpu-driver-updates-and-a-fresh-linux-kerne&aid=12285

 04:03 <stephenm> s-tui: CPU Monitoring And Stress Testing Console UI Tool

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/08/s-tui-cpu-monitoring-and-stress-testing.html

 04:04 <stephenm> ngrep – A Network Packet Analyzer for Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/ngrep-network-packet-analyzer-for-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Tech Heavyweights Create Open Source Project to Transfer Data

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/tech-heavyweights-create-open-source-project-to-transfer-data/2018/07/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Essential Tools for Linux Development

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/8/5-essential-tools-linux-development

 04:04 <stephenm> Walkthrough On How To Use GNOME Boxes

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/walkthrough-on-how-to-use-gnome-boxes

 04:04 <stephenm> Getting started with Mu, a Python editor for beginners

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/8/getting-started-mu-python-editor-beginners

 04:05 <stephenm> Bringing intelligence to the edge with Cloud IoT

 04:05 <stephenm> https://blog.google/products/google-cloud/bringing-intelligence-to-the-edge-with-cloud-iot/

 04:05 <stephenm> ctop – Top-like Interface for Monitoring Docker Containers

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/ctop-monitor-docker-containers/

 04:05 <stephenm> need to work on using dockers but later date

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Lead a Disaster Recovery Exercise For Your On-Call Team

 04:05 <stephenm> https://hackernoon.com/how-to-lead-a-disaster-recovery-exercise-for-your-on-call-team-37b29f5f77c0

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you Ron_A

 04:05 <Ron_A> Hi wmack

 04:06 <MajB> Hello wmack

 04:06 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <wmack> +1

 04:06 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:06 <wmack> Hello all

 04:06 <stephenm> qwlxomw

 04:06 <dennisk> +1

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <toddc> hi wmack

 04:06 <stephenm> evening wmack

 04:06 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest 01 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:07 <Ron_A> 

 04:07 <Ron_A> Would you like to speak up dennisk ?

 04:07 <dennisk> Classes start in 2 weeks on the 18th.

 04:08 <dennisk> Just returned from the Decentralized Web Summit in San Francisco.

 04:08 <dennisk> Awesome group of people. Got to meet some of my heros

 04:10 <Ron_A> Thanks dennisk

 04:10 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:11 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:11 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:11 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:11 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:11 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <Ron_A> That's what I love about GUIs:

 04:11 <Ron_A> They make simple tasks easier, and complex tasks impossible.

 04:11 <Ron_A> -- John William Chambless

 04:12 <Ron_A> Air Conditioned Environment - Do not open Windows.

 04:12 <Ron_A> Be very glad that your PC is insecure---it means that after you buy it, you

 04:12 <Ron_A> can break into it and install whatever software you want. What YOU want, not

 04:12 <Ron_A> what [content providers] want.  -- John Gilmore of the EFF

 04:12 <Ron_A> 50 current canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:12 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:13 <Ron_A> Craigslist has 50 IT jobs

 04:13 <Ron_A> https://phoenix.craigslist.org/

 04:13 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:13 <MajB> 18 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:13 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 23 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 01 September,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source S

 04:14 <MajB> oftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 06 September,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <Ron_A> xHans:  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> That is all

 04:15 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:15 <xHans> PLUG's next east valley meeting this Thursday

 04:15 <xHans> Ed will cover Technical Debts and Digital Assets

 04:15 <xHans> Hans will cover Introduction to /etc/alterntives

 04:15 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:15 <xHans> DevOpsDays Phoenix is Tuesday, 2018Oct23

 04:15 <xHans> cfp closes a week from Wednesday

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.papercall.io/devopsday-phoenix-2018

 04:15 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:16 <Ron_A> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 08 August 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 08 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 26 August 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 August 1-3:30 p.m. Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St, Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 07 September 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:17 <MajB> Back to you Ron_A

 04:17 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:18 <Ron_A> El Jefe do you have anything to add?

 04:18 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:18 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:18 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:18 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:18 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:18 <MajB> CactusCon

 04:18 <MajB> 28-29 September

 04:18 <MajB> Mesa Convention Center

 04:18 <MajB> 263 N. Center St

 04:18 <MajB> Mesa, AZ 85201

 04:18 <MajB> https:/www.cactuscon.com/

 04:19 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
