{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
This will be posted after the meeting.
<pre>
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:00:31] <scott_ev>	OK, meeting time ya'all!!!  Who's here?  Please give us a +1 to signify your attendance
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:00:50] <scott_ev>	SlickMcRunFast: ?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:00:57] <scott_ev>	slofgren: ?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:01:04] 	 * slofgren waves
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:01:08] <scott_ev>	tyche: ?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:01:11] <slofgren>	+1
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:01:12] <scott_ev>	excellent
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:01:54] <scott_ev>	well, this might not take too long.  I have a few things in mind to get through
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:02:04] <slofgren>	lol...do it
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:02:09] <scott_ev>	Welcome everyone.  Thank you for attending tonight's meeting.  I haven't been around all that much on sunday nights.  I do know that our leader johnc4510 has been very very busy in other areas of his life and has had to step back from us a little.  This LoCo is important to me and I hope it is to you also and I feel that we can keep things rolling in john's absence.  I doubt this is a permanent thing, but, for now we just need to di
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:02:53] <scott_ev>	does anyone know if john quit being our team leader oficially?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:03:02] <slofgren>	I do not know
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:03:34] <xHans>	"we just need to d", then it was cutoff
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:03:35] <scott_ev>	I'll get in tough with him this week if I can to ask some questions
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:03:49] <scott_ev>	I think the most important thing for us to do as a LoCo is get back in the habit of having meetings.  It's in the meetings that everything gets organized.  We plan all the fun things in the meetings.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:04:01] <scott_ev>	Does anyone know if there is a document describing the duties of team leader?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:04:08] <xHans>	scott_ev++ for stepping forward to get the meetings back on track!
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:04:14] <slofgren>	agree
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:04:43] <scott_ev>	thx.  I have time to do it and should be able to get better at as time moves forward
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:04:52] <slofgren>	tyche and kennymc0 are the only Ubuntu members on our team. they need to be involved if possible
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:04:59] <scott_ev>	Does anyone know if there is a document describing the duties of team leader?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:05:09] <slofgren>	I am sure there are
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:05:20] <scott_ev>	kenny's work schedule right now doesn't permit him to attend meetings
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:05:25] <scott_ev>	it's a shame
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:05:38] <scott_ev>	I think it would be a good idea to get a jump on organizing a release party for 10.04 whatever it's gonna be called Limping Lynx or something like that.  Maybe we could do it right after the installfest at UWN in April.  I know we may not have the CDs by then, but installing it isn't the main point of a release party.  We could go over to Boulders on Broadway from the installfest.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:05:56] <xHans>	give him a committeeship and let him host mtgs when he can make it :)
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:06:10] <scott_ev>	ah, great idea
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:06:32] <xHans>	10.04 will be an LTS?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:06:32] <scott_ev>	a commitee can run the group I suspect
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:06:44] <slofgren>	xHans: yes
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:06:51] <scott_ev>	xHans: I believe all *.04 are LTS
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:06:53] <slofgren>	scott_ev: agree
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:07:04] <xHans>	I agree that we should throw a big release party for that
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:07:04] <slofgren>	scott_ev: LTS is every two years
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:07:09] <scott_ev>	ah
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:07:15] <slofgren>	yeah 10.4 is a big deal
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:07:24] <slofgren>	I might even come down for that
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:07:29] <xHans>	I do think we should make sure to have CDs in hand for the release party
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:07:31] <scott_ev>	too bad it won'd have gnome 3 included
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:07:43] <scott_ev>	that's being put back till 10.10
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:08:11] <scott_ev>	It's past time to get back in touch with the people we organized the last installfest in Tucson with.  I'll get in touch of Lenards this week.  Please be thinking about what we can do to make the next one as good or better than the last one.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:08:39] <slofgren>	have the correct address on the flier for one
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:08:49] <scott_ev>	that's all I have guys.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:08:50] <scott_ev>	haha
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:08:53] <scott_ev>	no doubt
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:09:14] <scott_ev>	does anyone have anything before I turn it over to xHans
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:09:20] <slofgren>	so a release party in Tucson or phx
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:09:32] <xHans>	s/or/and/ :)
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:09:43] <tyche>	Just a minor thing.  Ubuntu membership does not confer leadership ability.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:09:51] <slofgren>	nothing for LUGY this week
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:09:59] <tyche>	Nor does it necessarily recognize organizational skills.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:06] <slofgren>	tyche: interesting note
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:10] <slofgren>	good to know
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:11] <tyche>	Those are the things necessary for a leader.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:12] <xHans>	slofgren: Stammtisch next week?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:19] <scott_ev>	understood, thanks for that tyche
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:20] <tyche>	Which lets me out on 2 counts.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:27] <scott_ev>	ah
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:35] <slofgren>	xHans: social on the 8th for lugy - http://lugy.net/
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:50] <slofgren>	xHans: no germans up here ;)
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:10:53] <scott_ev>	what do you9 think we aught to do?  will john be back?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:11:01] <scott_ev>	tyche: ?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:11:30] <xHans>	slofgren: isn't there a german restaurant up there?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:11:42] <tyche>	scott_ev: I have no answer for that.  You'd have to ask him.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:11:50] <scott_ev>	will do
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:12:04] <scott_ev>	xHans: it's called der Weinerschnitxel
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:12:04] <slofgren>	xHans: not sure
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:12:08] <slofgren>	lol
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:12:20] <xHans>	scott_ev: nah, that's in Flag :)
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:12:25] <scott_ev>	ah
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:12:29] <slofgren>	I think we should carry on with the meetings
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:12:51] <scott_ev>	I'll take time every week to get things together for meetings
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:12:53] <slofgren>	if and or when he returns we can see if you want or need him to jump back in as team lead
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:13:03] <slofgren>	scott_ev: thanks for organizing
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:13:18] <scott_ev>	please everyone promote meetings in channel and bring any anno9uncements you feel are important for us
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:13:32] <slofgren>	I am down with the meetings
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:13:56] <scott_ev>	I agree, the meetings are where everhthing important to keep this LoCo running happen
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:14:14] <scott_ev>	I can organize and am willing to help out as much as I can
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:14:15] <slofgren>	I can promote the lugy events for no reason or benifit
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:14:31] <slofgren>	way to go scott_ev
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:14:35] <scott_ev>	fine, do that, you never know who might be here lurking
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:14:48] <slofgren>	agree. that is why I do it
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:15:00] <scott_ev>	xHans: when are the upcomming PLUG events?
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:15:27] <xHans>	PLUG Hackfest security lab this Tuesday in Phoenix
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:15:33] <xHans>	Topic: Metasploit
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:15:39] <xHans>	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2115
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:15:42] <scott_ev>	sweet
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:15:45] <xHans>	PLUG devel meeting this Thursday in Tempe
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:15:52] <xHans>	Topic: debugging from local Sun sales engineer
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:15:57] <xHans>	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/555
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:16:03] <xHans>	PLUG and AZLoCo end of year Installfest this Saturday in Tempe
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:16:08] <xHans>	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/1400
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:16:18] <xHans>	PLUG annual end of year party next Thursday in Mesa
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:16:25] <xHans>	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/154
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:16:35] <xHans>	Other than the Installfest all PLUG Dezember meetings should happen at the correct date and time.
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:16:43] <xHans>	and that's all I have
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:17:08] <scott_ev>	that's alot, as usual.  thanks for keeping us up to date
[Sunday 29 November 2009] [21:17:26] <scott_ev>	I guess if no one has anything else, we'll adjourn
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
