{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[File:ArizonaTeam/BannerAZ_b.png]]</nowiki>

Ubuntu-Arizona LoCo Team - The Hottest LoCo on Earth

=== Newsletter ===
Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #3 for the week May 09 - May 15, 2007.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Third Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-May 09, 2007

    Arizona Loco Forum Link: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

Next meeting: Sunday May 13, 2007  6:00PM  
Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

I am happy to announce that the Ubuntu-Arizona Team has official chosen it's logo. If you receive your mail in html, you can see it at the top of this page. If you don't receive mail in this format, you can see your new logo here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   I want to thank everyone who submitted logos, and let them know that all of them were great. After looking at most of the other loco teams wiki pages, I do believe we have the best logo so far. I might be a little prejudiced about it though!! We will be looking into having items such as bumper stickers, decals, etc. made up as funds become available in the future. I would encourage all teams and members to use our logo and to link to our wiki page anytime it is possible.

Summary of Last Meeting
May 6th, 2007

Introductions of new attendees was made, and attendance was, 14 down from 17 the previous week. I believe this is a result of school winding up and finals being prepared for. We had two new people at the meeting although both had been visiting with us over the past week on irc. Chuck and Paul both are from Chandler. While Tucson is still ahead in members, Phoenix is catching up. On a side note, ToddB will be heading home to Northern California at the end of this week, but has declared his intentions to participate in our loco as much as he can. We all wish you a safe trip Paul, and look forward to talking with you on the irc channel.

As I stated above, this last week has been a busy one for all our school people, so most of the established teams didn't have much progress to report. Ian asked that everyone be sure they are on the members list at the wiki, and I also want everyone to be sure and add themselves to the mailing list here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az  We need to start using this list for team communications and the sending of the newsletter. Being able to show that this mailing list is active is part of the requirements for getting our team approved. So please register there as soon as possible, because soon I will only be sending the newsletter through this mailing list. 

The Wine/VMWare Team headed by br24 has Wine up and running on their computers and are in the process of selecting new apps. to use. We also talked about trying to give back some of our knowledge to the forum community by writing a new HOWTO for posting. It was decided that we would first incorporated the HOWTO to our wiki and make sure it was properly tweaked before posting it to the forums. 

The Server/It Administration Team headed by DX00 was to meet with the DeLUG team on Monday, May 7th, 2007 to learn more about the equipment and specifications of the joint project we are about to enter into. We all look froward to DX00's report at our next meeting.

Sloggerkhan reported that the proposed Computer Recycle/Localization Team has spoken with and notified some people of the Reservations as to our proposals and asking for their level of interest and what their requirements would be. As with most governmental organizations, the wheels turn slow.

It was put before the loco to do away with the Thread Team in favor of assigning another person to the Newsletter Team. This person would then visit the different loco team wiki's, and submit reports to be included in the Newsletter. This seemed to be a far more productive way of doing this project, and was accepted by all. br24 volunteered to undertake this job and was promptly assigned to it.

I asked the members to consider, on a voluntary basis, changing their forum signatures. I still contend that this is a good way of promoting not only our loco, but the all loco's. 

It was also suggested that our meetings were starting to get a bit out of hand, and that as we grew, it would get even worse. br24 and azteech stated that there was a way for the channel op to moderate the meeting. I am looking into this with their help and we will be implementing this in the near future. I want to say that everyone will still have a chance to say their peace about all things, but what this should do, is help stop the overriding conversations that are beginning to pop up.

Agenda for the May, 13th Meeting:

 Introductions 
# Team Reports
##### Membership
         2. Newsletter
         3. Web Design
         4. WINE/VM
         5. Server
 2. Computer Recycling/Localization Rehash
 3. Forum Sticky Thread (azteech)
 4. Moderated Channel Re-vote
 5. Agenda for next week
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
