{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre> 
21:00  * johnc4510 who is here for meeting?
21:00 < johnc4510> +1
21:00 < tyche> +1/2
21:00 < Jeff_Martin> +1
21:00 < Jazzy_Jeff> +1
21:00 < kennymc0> +1
21:01 < johnc4510> k
21:01 < johnc4510> let's get going
21:01 < johnc4510> we have a new member here tonight: Jazzy_Jeff
21:02 < johnc4510> Jazzy_Jeff: we usually ask new folks to introduce themselves
21:02 < johnc4510> just a line of tow
21:02 < johnc4510> two
21:02 < johnc4510> if you would please
21:02 < Jazzy_Jeff> hello, I am Jeff and I live in Phoenix
21:02 < johnc4510> telling about yourself
21:02 < Jazzy_Jeff> I have been using Ubuntu for 2 years now
21:02 < johnc4510> :)
21:02 < Jazzy_Jeff> I am 43
21:03 < johnc4510> welcome Jazzy_Jeff, we're glad to have you here
21:03 < kennymc0> welcome Jazzy_Jeff
21:03 < tyche> Welcome, Jazzy_Jeff (YOUNG Jazzy_Jeff)
21:03 < Jazzy_Jeff> thank you
21:03 < Jeff_Martin> welcome Jazzy_Jeff
21:03 < johnc4510> ok on to announcements then
21:03 < Jazzy_Jeff> glad to be here
21:03 < johnc4510> .
21:04 < johnc4510> Don't forget Ubuntu Open Week starting monday and running thru friday...the schedule of sessions is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek Mark Shuttleworth's Q&A session is thursday. It's always a highlight of open week.
21:04 < johnc4510> .
21:04 < johnc4510> open week starts at the beginning of each new release cycle
21:04 < johnc4510> to help new folks learn about the community
21:04 < johnc4510> .
21:05 < johnc4510> Every release the Canonical store offers a limited edition t-shirt. Unfortunately it isn't offered at the US store. If you areinterested it's here: http://shop.canonical.com/product_info.php?products_id=490&osCsid=43b936cf29386524cf187123f511ef89
21:05 < johnc4510> .
21:05 < johnc4510> us shop is here: https://usshop.ubuntu.com/ but no limited edition shirts there
21:06 < johnc4510> cheaper shipping though
21:06 < johnc4510> .
21:06 < johnc4510> There is now an Ubuntu Gaming Team in Launchpad. Goals are to improve FOSS gaming and development. They are hoping to eliminate the argument against switching to Ubuntu because it doesn't run most popular games. Launchpad Gaming team: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-gaming Ubuntu Gaming team wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GamingTeam/
21:06 < johnc4510> .
21:07 < johnc4510> i'm not a big gamer, but that could help sway folks to make the switch
21:07 < johnc4510> .
21:07 < xHans> johnc4510: have them look at spreadshirt
21:07 < johnc4510> k
21:07 < johnc4510> Ubuntu Podcast #25 is available: http://ubuntupodcast.net/2009/04/23/ubuntu-podcast-episode-25-dustin-kirkland/
21:07 < xHans> one interface, deliveries to two continents
21:08 < johnc4510> xHans: cool
21:08 < xHans> not the same, but there is a limited edition for jaunty, https://usshop.ubuntu.com/product.php?code=09 93120BN&catid=1
21:08 < johnc4510> .
21:08 < johnc4510> Full Circle Magazine #24 is available: http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-24
21:08 < xHans> I bet Mark could talk them into also hitting Afrika :)
21:08 < johnc4510> maybe
21:08 < johnc4510> he carries a _lot_ of clout   lol
21:09 < xHans> considerably more than spreadshirt and cafepress together I bet :)
21:09 < johnc4510> :)
21:09 < johnc4510> ok that's it for announcements
21:10 < johnc4510> .
21:10 < johnc4510> let's see
21:10 < johnc4510> ah, release parties
21:10 < johnc4510> :)
21:10 < johnc4510> ok, we had 2 people at the phoenix party
21:10 < johnc4510> i know we had some sickness and folks out of town but>>>
21:11 < johnc4510> and tucson wasn't much better
21:11 < johnc4510> we had 3 and myself
21:11 < kennymc0> i dont think we advertised nearly enough
21:11 < johnc4510> so, we need to reboot and find a better way
21:11 < johnc4510> kennymc0: could be
21:11 < xHans> and we have one year to plan big parties for the next LTS
21:11 < kennymc0> i think we should have something set more than 2 weeks in advance IMHO
21:11 < johnc4510> i've also been looking at some of the other release parties
21:12 < johnc4510> most of the bigger ones offer a talk or two and demos
21:12 < johnc4510> which might draw some of the other geeks maybe
21:12 < johnc4510> ??
21:13 < johnc4510> ??
21:13 < johnc4510> ??
21:13 < johnc4510> ??
21:13 < johnc4510> lol
21:13 < johnc4510> tucson definitely needs a better place too
21:14 < xHans> the LTS place, etc. should be set before SCaLE in February
21:14 < johnc4510> silver mine subs is ok but..
21:14 < johnc4510> nods
21:14 < kennymc0> well that was a last minute thing that i helped you find last time
21:14 < johnc4510> right
21:14 < kennymc0> because you couldnt get ahold of anyone if i remember right
21:14 < johnc4510> nods
21:15 < xHans> Cory could get you space at the CC
21:15 < johnc4510> ok, well, all i'm saying is we need to make a better effort....and that includes me too
21:15 < johnc4510> that's an idea
21:15 < johnc4510> pima cc
21:16 < johnc4510> we also had a guy from U of A at the party yesterday and he had some ideas for better student interaction
21:16 < johnc4510> a place he thought would be in the main stream of traffic for the univ.
21:17 < johnc4510> tyche put together a new flyer that's more attractive i think
21:17 < johnc4510> tyche: is that on the forums?
21:17 < tyche> http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/3441797261/
21:18 < tyche> Mind you, that's just a rough template.
21:18 < johnc4510> thx
21:18 < johnc4510> hmmm, my connection is slow tonight
21:19 < Jazzy_Jeff> mine also
21:19 < tyche> You're connection is as old as you are?
21:19 < johnc4510> lol
21:19 < kennymc0> i'm not going to say anything
21:19 < johnc4510> well, the idea as i remember was that we could join with system 76 and they would print the flyers for free
21:20 < johnc4510> kennymc0: good thinking hee hee
21:20 < tyche> Yep
21:20 < johnc4510> k
21:20 < johnc4510> so, i think if we can get it done we should go for that for the installfest
21:20 < johnc4510> ?
21:20 < kennymc0> i think so
21:21 < johnc4510> i don't know how much lead time we need, but we can find out
21:21 < kennymc0> unfortunately with my new job i'm most likely not going to be able to go to anything during the weekends so i'm not going to volunteer people
21:21 < johnc4510> i would think we could only get one set done....like for phoenix
21:22 < kennymc0> well someone could ask
21:22 < johnc4510> kennymc0: np we understand...we can volunteer you during the wk for other things  rofl
21:22 < johnc4510> thanks for volunteeringt
21:22 < kennymc0> oh.....joy
21:22 < johnc4510> :)
21:22 < johnc4510> hee hee
21:22 < johnc4510> he stepped into that one
21:22 < johnc4510> :)
21:23 < johnc4510> ok, so tyche and i will check into this and try to get something going
21:23 < kennymc0> we probably need to have at least a month of lead time to get anything done
21:23 < johnc4510> maybe, but we'll see
21:23 < tyche> PLUS time to get them out.
21:23 < kennymc0> yep
21:23 < johnc4510> nods
21:24 < kennymc0> we should pick the place and date and all that stuff now so that we have enough time to get in touch with system 76 get the fliers and get them handed out or at least have a date and place my next meeting and find out what we need to from system 76
21:24 < johnc4510> ok, so we have to start on the installfest...xhans when is the next one at UAT. last sat. of month?
21:24 < johnc4510> kennymc0: yes
21:25 < johnc4510> hans said he might not be around for whole meeting
21:25 < johnc4510> tyche: kennymc0 uat is the last sat. of every month right?
21:25 < kennymc0> they have monthly install fests at uat on the last sat of the month
21:25 < tyche> Yep
21:25 < johnc4510> k
21:25 < johnc4510> should we try for that? that would give us the extra time
21:25 < xHans> still here, but still no announcements for this week
21:26 < johnc4510> k
21:26 < tyche> That would be May 30
21:26 < kennymc0> so if we want to be ready for the may one we need to find out what system 76's requirements and time frames are and get the ball rolling
21:26 < johnc4510> xHans: you still interested in a joint installfest at the end of may?
21:26 < johnc4510> nods
21:27 < xHans> johnc4510: joint installfest every month :)
21:27 < johnc4510> k thx
21:27 < johnc4510> i know we'll have the new cds by then
21:27 < johnc4510> brb
21:28 < johnc4510> back
21:28 < johnc4510> ok
21:28 < kennymc0> front
21:28 < tyche> Side
21:28 < kennymc0> :)
21:28 < kennymc0> top
21:28 < johnc4510> i just check my calendar and i get back on the 29th
21:29 < kennymc0> just in time
21:29 < johnc4510> and i'll find some way to come to phoenix for the event
21:29 < kennymc0> it's like you were planning it that way
21:29 < kennymc0> :D
21:29 < johnc4510> even if i have to sell mom
21:29 < johnc4510> :)
21:29 < johnc4510> jk
21:29 < johnc4510> and we'll try to get a carpool up from here
21:30 < kennymc0> nah we would just have to attempt to sell pictures of tyche and they would pay you plenty of money to stop
21:30 < johnc4510> how's that
21:30 < johnc4510> :)
21:30 < kennymc0> sounds like a plan
21:30 < kennymc0> i wont be able to attend though :'(
21:30 < johnc4510> we know
21:31 < johnc4510> ok, so we'll plan a tucson event for a wk or two after that
21:31 < Jazzy_Jeff> I probably won't either. I am disabled and not transportation
21:31 < johnc4510> we can't do it while i'm gone or when i'm in phoenix
21:31 < johnc4510> Jazzy_Jeff: understood
21:31 < kennymc0> yep
21:31 < johnc4510> you can chat via irc and keep up
21:31 < johnc4510> :)
21:31 < Jazzy_Jeff> cool
21:31 < kennymc0> and that would give more time to get the tucson one planned since the phoenix one in essence is most of the way planned already
21:31 < johnc4510> we'll all be online from the event
21:32 < johnc4510> k
21:32 < tyche> Do we include the ASULUG on the flier?
21:32 < johnc4510> ok, we've got an outline then if everyone approves
21:32 < soldats> sounds good
21:32 < johnc4510> tyche: we'll have to get in contact with zach and see
21:33 < tyche> OK
21:33 < johnc4510> soldats: you'd ride up to phoenix with me again wouldn't you?
21:33 < johnc4510> :)
21:33 < soldats> most likely johnc4510 yes
21:33 < johnc4510> cool
21:33 < johnc4510> it's good to have you back btw
21:33 < soldats> thanks
21:34 < johnc4510> ok, i like the start so far...let's follow through
21:34 < tyche> OK.  Soon as I have the information, I'll put the flier up on the forum.
21:35 < johnc4510> tyche: ok, i've got to finish up my open week session tomorrow but tuesday i can get going on this
21:35 < tyche> OK.
21:35 < johnc4510> ok, that's all i've got...anyone else?
21:35 < Jazzy_Jeff> what program do you use to make the fliers
21:36 < tyche> That was made with GIMP
21:36 < Jazzy_Jeff> ok
21:36 < soldats> w00t im not flyer guy anymore
21:36 < johnc4510> but we may have to have it in odt for system 76?????
21:36 < tyche> It's all layers, so things can be added or deleted as necessary
21:36 < tyche> I believe they'll accept PDF and GIMP native.
21:37 < johnc4510> k
21:37 < xHans> mmmm, lasagne
21:37 < johnc4510> cool
21:37 < johnc4510> lol
21:37 < johnc4510> ok, if there's nothing else we're adjourned
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
