{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #52 for the week June 16, June 22, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Fifty Second Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-June 25, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday June 29, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

It is a big week so far, we got our bulk shipment of CDs in. 400 assorted CDs for our team to use to further promote Ubuntu. We are also starting to get the open source conference geared up and rolling, which has been a blast. Lots of things to think about and to do. So, as you can see, we are still a busy group, and need all the participation we can get from the members. Drop by on Sunday at 9:00 PM in #ubuntu-us-az on irc.freenode.net and help us out. You'll be glad you did!!

==== Summary of the June 22, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

The agenda for the meeting was at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08June22.

The Gutsy Geek radio show (http://www.GutsyGeeks.com/) may be recording a section on the Arizona Team's Approval and what it means to the team.  The program will presumably be aired next Sunday, and will be provided in ogg and proprietary format from their website.  johnc4510 will send an email to the mailing list if the event takes place.

The Open Source Conference has a new tool for its development.  Luft``Hans reported that a mailing list as been set up for the use of the organizing committee.  In addition, Luft``Hans has invited some people who would be useful in organizing the conference, several of whom represent different groups.  He has also been making personal notes on some tracks ideas and some speakers and other random stuff.  Luft``Hans then brought up Software Freedom Day, http://softwarefreedomday.org/.  This would be on September 20, 2008.  He suggested the possibility that Software Freedom Day and the Open Source Conference might be combined.  azteech suggested making some workshops, as part of the event.

johnc4510 and tyche have been further learning about Drupal, in preparation for setting up a site on the Ubuntu servers.  Currently, they've discovered a theme that they like called Aurora (see http://tinyurl.com/5zdzxm and http://tinyurl.com/5oq4hg for examples).  Comments from the Team concerning this theme would be welcome.

The meeting was adjourned at 10:08 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* JohnCrawford
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

