{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 04 February – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis.
* 6 attendees
* Discussed wi-fi AP setup at Superbowl 50; eliminate 'rogue' points.
* Shared the website to see the BQ Acquaris tablet with 16.04.
* Tried to recover Stephen's portable drive ... success.
* Nicholas discussed Web Server debugging issues.
* Talked to wxl online about web hosting.
* Dwayne argued the orange Ubuntu ballpoint pen rotates to the left to honor copyleft.  A rather technical discussion ensued on the mechanics of ballpoint pen design.
* 06 February – Linux installfest co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 16 attendees, 5 new people.
* 5 installs 3 success and 2 incomplete because of hardware problems.
* 07 February – AZLOCO weekly meeting hosted by Todd Cole
* 11 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2007%2C%202016%20Meeting.
* 14 February - Linux presentation to Kingman Computer User Club by Rex Bouwense.
* 11 attendees, only one of which had ever used a Linux OS.
* A slide show presentation on Introduction to Linux was given to the Kingman Computer User Club.
* The presentation was well received as were the Ubuntu 14.04 install disks, the links to the AZLOCO IRC channel, web site and wiki page, and a list of Microsoft/Linux equivalents all of which were handed out to all attendees.  When Microsoft Windows users realize that they do not have to throw away their Microsoft XP computer that has been gathering dust in the hall closet and it can be given a second life, their eyes really do light up.  Although Tux was not physically present, he was there in spirit.
* 14 February – AZLOCO weekly meeting hosted by Todd Cole.
* 7 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2014%2C%202016%20Meeting.
* 20 February – Linux installfest co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 20 attendees.
* 6 installs.
* Several projects worked on (to include the Installfest server which did not survive the last move and set up, and three virtual box installations which also served as training for members present, and the development of a web application to track install/projects so we will have a online install database to track problems/issues.)
* 21 February - AZLOCO weekly meeting hosted by Todd Cole.
* 8 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2021%2C%202016%20Meeting.
* 25 February - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense.
* 6 attendees.
* Discussed Cyber Security and the recent lectures at the UA South concerning Cyber Security and elections and technology  and once again the feasibility of installing Ubuntu to a flash drive.
* Discussed the Release Party for Xenial Xerus Ubuntu 16.04 LTS tentatively scheduled for Saturday, 14 May 2016 in Chandler.  For those that want to go we will once again be car pooling up there.  The start time is tentatively scheduled for 1500.  There will be WiFi available so you will be able to install 16.04 to your laptop or if you already have it installed bring it along to show it off.
* 25 February - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Release party details (wmack's home)
* No installfests in March (conflict with UAT)
* Discussed ownCloud details and functionality
* Justin demoed vala using gtk-3.0
* Researched cable modems, bonding channels, and best use
* 28 February - AZLOCO weekly meeting hosted by Todd Cole. 
* 6 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2028%2C%202016%20Meeting.
