{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #33 for the week January 14 - January 20.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Thirty-Third Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 32, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday January 27, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

==== Summary of the January 20, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

There were no new members to introduce.

johnc4510 began the meeting by welcoming rsthree back to the meetings.

johnc4510 then made some announcements from the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter:

1. Announcing a mockup contest for kubuntu.org  The aim is to find a new layout for the official Kubuntu website: http://www.kubuntu.org More information for the contest can be found on https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/WebsiteMockups.  If you want to enter, making up a new web page for Kubuntu

2. Oakland University Replaces UNIX with Ubuntu - The School of Engineering and Computer Science (SECS) now uses Linux for CAD/CAM/CAE applications. http://www.ubuntu.com/products/casestudies/oakland-university

3. Ubuntu supports technology-enabled teaching at The Johns Hopkins University - John Hopkins uses Ubuntu as the OS platform for its BigBoard support system. http://www.ubuntu.com/products/casestudies/johns-hopkins

4. The tutorial of this week is "HOWTO: RT2500, etc. wireless cards [Gutsy Gibbon]," by wieman01. While the thread is specific to a particular range of hardware, it stands out as a tutorial that's well written, concise, clearly documented and constantly maintained. If you have a Ralink-based wireless adapter, you'll want to look it over; if you don't, it's still worth reading as an excellent example of a how-to. http://tinyurl.com/2g

Then, johnc4510 listed information on our Team Server:

1. Our Server is at http://ubuntuaz.selfip.com/

2. Team Stats are at http://ubuntuaz.selfip.com/~ianmcorvidae/

3. gtetrinet server address: http://ubuntuaz.selfip.com/  Install the game from the repos, launch, hit the connect button and type in the address. Up to 6 can play. fast paced and fun for all. The more playing the better the game.

In addition, the computer club jsonders belongs to in Green Valley does Linux introductory support every 4th Wed of the month. To view their support page: http://members.cox.net/jsonder/linuxintro.html. johnc4510 offered, on behalf of the team, to help jsounder however we could.

Last week we discussed having a barcamp and a couple of install fests, barcamp being an open source conference and incorporating a state wide meet up at the same time.  The idea is to promote open source in AZ and support for the LUG in the state and maybe get some of the inactive members to show up for the conference.  Some of them have never attended a meeting. This will be on the calendar for the last half of the year.

Install fests.  We decided on 2 during the year, about 6 wks after the release of the two yearly ubuntu versions.  24 April is release date on web for the 8.04 release.  So first week in june might be good then for the first install fest. This week, johnc4510 is going to make a wiki page for the install fests.  He'll post it in the topic so everyone can see the address.  He'll put in the basics and leave a section at the bottom for comments and ideas.  Any member can go in and edit the wiki page and add constructive ideas.  Please add comments so he can get an idea of what everyone thinks.  He'll also try to set up a wiki page for the barcamp idea.  If he do, he'll post it's addy in the topic too.  tyche suggested that we might want to put out special announcements on the mailing list, too, for those who aren't in channel.  johnc4510 agreed. So, as soon as we have the pages up, we'll get an email together and post it to the team mail list.

johnc4510 wondered if Google in Phoenix would be interested in sponsoring the barcamp and also to donate space for it. johnc4510 then added that he would have to Google around to see who to contact.  Probably their marketing representative in Phoenix, though.   Phoenix is pretty central in the state, too.  We need to contact some of the other loco's who have done a barcamp, and ask some questions about how they went about organizing and getting people for talks.  We want some good folks for talks and of course we should do a talk on Ubuntu.  johnc4510 volunteered to contact the other LoCos about the barcamp.

johnc4510 then asked if anyone had a projector to hook up to a laptop, for giving a presentation.  Soldats replied that he had one, and would be willing to lend it to the Team.  jsounder responded that we'd need to check compatiblility of connectors and drivers.  kennymc0 suggested that if we have it before he graduates he could ask school and see if he can get a room for this.

johnc4510 then was wondering what subjects would interest everyone for the conference.  Various ideas for presentations were suggested, including linux security, wireless, video driver installation, Wine and VirtualBox or VMWare, and system administration.  soldats suggested that if there are move novice people there should be some sort of visual demonstration on basic commands to use in everyday computing.  rsthree suggested overcoming terminal phobias.  Other suggestions were graphics programs like inkscape, gimp, etc., troubleshooting, command line, and basic messaging.  Also suggested were peripherals, such as joysticks, cameras, video cameras, and scanners.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:48 PM

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
