{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<Siph0n> +1
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Let's start with the news till everyone gets here and we have a lot of news tonight!!!!
<toddc> Thanks to xHans, Azloco now has a 50% discount for Scale registration!!!!! Yea!! Thanks
<toddc> Tweak Your Ubuntu Unity Desktop With MyUnity
<toddc> http://maketecheasier.com/tweak-ubuntu-unity-desktop-with-myunity/2011/12/22
<toddc> Ubuntu AppStore Goes Online
<toddc> http://www.muktware.com/articles/3154/ubuntu-appstore-goes-online
<toddc> install apps from a web browser
<toddc> Ubuntu AppStore Goes Online
<toddc> http://www.muktware.com/articles/3154/ubuntu-appstore-goes-online
<toddc> OLPC XO 3.0 tablet
<toddc> http://www.theverge.com/2012/1/6/2688604/olpc-xo-3-0-tablet-a-8-inch-tablet-with-android-and-sugar-options-for
* SlickMcRunFast has quit (Quit: Leaving.)
<toddc> Raspberry Pi Gets Ready to Launch in January (hopefully)
<toddc> http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-16316439
<toddc> The X.org Stack for Ubuntu 12.04 To Enter Staging (or maybe has by now)
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTAzMzc
<toddc> CTL Announces a Range of Ubuntu Laptops, PCs
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/12/ctl-announce-range-of-ubuntu-laptops-pcs/
<toddc> Change the Background Image for LightDM Login Screen in Ubuntu 11.10
<toddc> http://www.squidoo.com/changing-the-lightdm-login-background-in-ubuntu-11-10
<toddc> Munich Government to Linux and Open Source Exceeds Expectations
<toddc> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/limux-munich-linux-migration-project-reports-success
<toddc> LinuxMint's Cinnamon hits 1.1.3 available for Ubuntu, Fedora, open SUSE
<toddc> and Arch Linux
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Mint-s-Cinnamon-hits-1-1-3-1402913.html
<toddc> Canonical Seeking Designer to Produce a Human Interface Guide to be used
<toddc> for Core Apps
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/canonical-job-posting-seeks-designer-for-core-apps-hig/
<toddc> LG Optimus 2X Can Now Boot Ubuntu
<toddc> http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=1213670
<toddc> still waiting for my Nexes S to go on ubuntu
<toddc> NEW PRODUCT – Beagle Bone v1.0
<toddc> http://www.adafruit.com/blog/2011/10/31/new-product-beagle-bone-v1-0/
<toddc> less than 100.00 arm 8 unit
<toddc> Ubuntu tablet on the way? CES buzz for 'concept design'
<toddc> http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/opensource/ubuntu-tablet-on-the-way-ces-buzz-for-concept-design/3325
<toddc> other places say it might be a tv controller
<toddc> Thank Dazed-75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
<toddc> if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know?
<toddc> We now have 11.10 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Linux/CentOS/Bacula Support (Phoenix)
<toddc> job-teyth-2783037644@craigslist.org
<toddc> Technical Support Engineer (Phoenix)
<toddc> goprintsystems@gmail.com
<toddc> Systems Administrator (East Phoenix)
<toddc> job-dbatg-2785560296@craigslist.org
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> the test server is finally running Drupal 7.9 the next step is to figure out how to copy the azloco site
<toddc> to it or copy what still works to the test site so If anyone has Ideas please let me know
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlueButton ver 08-beta-3 to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page now that Drupal is updated.  So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
<toddc> http://test.azloco.com
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> No classes this week
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<xHans> moin moin, a couple of things
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<xHans> SCaLE in two weeks
<xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale10x
<xHans> we need to start talking ride-sharing
<xHans> SCaLE BoF sign up is open
<xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/blog/announcing-bof-open-registration-scale-10x
<xHans> I'm working on the schedule tonight for those that have already come in
<xHans> PLUG east side this Thursday
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2012/01/12/18/-/plug-east-meeting.html?Itemid=1
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch a week from Tuesday
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> community college classes are starting in the next couple of weeks
<xHans> and that's it from me this week
<xHans> you already covered the discount code for SCaLE
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and ABLEconf.org
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<Dazed_75> Presentation Thursday is on OpenShot
<toddc> I plan on being there :)
<toddc> who is presenting?
<Dazed_75> Me :)
<toddc> cool see you there!
<Dazed_75> Nothing else from here
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
