{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
 
<pre> 
[21:00]	scott_ev	+1
[21:00]	Rich_	+1
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:01]	akrhodey	+1
[21:01]	spinrage	+1
[21:01]	toddc	+1
[21:01]	turbidtux	+1
[21:01]	toddc	Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[21:01]	toddc	Team Website is http://azloco.org/
[21:01]	toddc	Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=44598
[21:01]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	pjdamws	+1
[21:01]	toddc	some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
[21:01]	toddc	Anybody here that is new tonight?
[21:02]	toddc	lets start with the news
[21:02]	toddc	UBUNTU NEWS
[21:02]	toddc	over to scott_ev for the news tonight
[21:02]	scott_ev	OK
[21:02]	toddc	yes you!11
[21:02]	scott_ev	if any of this is a repeat, please bear with me
[21:03]	toddc	np
[21:03]	ArchFan89	you're not in bbb
[21:03]	scott_ev	Ubuntu Membership Board call for nominations:
[21:03]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/a3poomb
[21:03]	scott_ev	Catch up with the Community Council
[21:03]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/b8xarxv
[21:03]	scott_ev	Changes in Ubuntu releases decided by the Ubuntu Technical Board
[21:03]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/akoxklo
[21:03]	scott_ev	Ubuntu Linux developer squabbles go public
[21:03]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/ab9bazz
[21:04]	scott_ev	is this pretty much the format Larry uses except for the tinyurl?
[21:04]	scott_ev	Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter Issue 307
[21:04]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/d3d7wns
[21:04]	toddc	yes
[21:04]	scott_ev	Mark Shuttleworth on Ubuntu releases: “the sky is not falling”
[21:04]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/b6kasws
[21:04]	scott_ev	Ubuntu chief isn’t interested in ‘leet’ users, wants to bring Linux to the masses
[21:04]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/bzkbspm
[21:04]	scott_ev	Mir and Android FAQ
[21:04]	scott_ev	http://kdubois.net/?p=1815
[21:05]	scott_ev	Ubuntu de-bricked my Android Jelly Bean Touchpad
[21:05]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/c895s3m
[21:05]	scott_ev	HP launches a cheap Pavilion all-in-one PC running Ubuntu
[21:05]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/cnuv2w5
[21:05]	scott_ev	Ubuntu 13.04 beta touts search privacy – before it hooks in eBay, IMDb etc
[21:05]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/c5tfwqw
[21:05]	scott_ev	The emerging smartphone OS battle: Firefox vs. Tizen vs. Ubuntu
[21:05]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/a7glzfg
[21:05]	scott_ev	Dispelling FUD About Ubuntu
[21:05]	scott_ev	http://www.datamation.com/open-source/dispelling-fud-about-ubuntu-1.html
[21:05]	scott_ev	Ubuntu Mobile OS: Carriers Don’t Want to Recreate Fragmentation of Android
[21:05]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/ct6ou8a
[21:06]	scott_ev	Ubuntu for the GK802 mini PC: Now with hardware-accelerated graphics
[21:06]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/bs7r9gl
[21:06]	scott_ev	5 handy tips with GIMP everybody should know
[21:06]	scott_ev	http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/03/5-handy-tips-with-gimp-everybody-should.html
[21:06]	scott_ev	Mark Shuttleworth: Serious people are saying Ubuntu is better than Windows 8 on tablets
[21:06]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/d6whgdq
[21:06]	scott_ev	Benchmarking Ubuntu Linux On The Google Nexus 10
[21:06]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/bxclmw5
[21:06]	scott_ev	Easy Steps to Install Ubuntu on Samsung Galaxy S3
[21:06]	scott_ev	http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/442706/20130306/easy-steps-install-ubuntu-samsung-galaxy-s3.htm#.UUYvQlG1UsF
[21:06]	scott_ev	Ubuntu phone coming with new ecosystem
[21:06]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/bpqusuh
[21:07]	scott_ev	Ubuntu chief says converged platforms are the future
[21:07]	scott_ev	http://preview.tUbuntu Mobile OS: Carriers Don’t Want to Recreate Fragmentation of Android
[21:07]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/ct6ou8ainyurl.com/cozo8t4
[21:07]	scott_ev	Ubuntu Touch beats Firefox OS to win best of MWC from CNET
[21:07]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/ckqaqtw
[21:07]	scott_ev	Easily Backup IMAP Email Accounts Using nopriv.py
[21:07]	scott_ev	http://www.webupd8.org/2013/03/easily-backup-imap-email-accounts-using.html
[21:07]	scott_ev	How to run Ubuntu, Android, other operating systems on the Chromebook Pixel
[21:07]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/d8u6ar9
[21:07]	scott_ev	Ubuntu To Become The Official OS Of China
[21:07]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/cnsa3sv
[21:07]	scott_ev	Multi-Account Support Added to Linux E-Mail App ‘Geary’
[21:07]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/cyf8tt9
[21:07]	scott_ev	Ubuntu 13.04 Adds Legal Notice to System Settings
[21:07]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/crnxwub
[21:07]	scott_ev	The Growing Desktop
[21:07]	scott_ev	http://preview.tinyurl.com/b8s5n75
[21:07]	scott_ev	and that'
[21:07]	scott_ev	s all tonight kids
[21:07]	toddc	Thanks scott_ev for the news tonight!! great job and nice to see you back here in the meeting!!
[21:08]	scott_ev	it's been much too long
[21:08]	toddc	I have a few more to add!!
[21:08]	toddc	Remote Linux Wiper Found in South Korean Cyber Attack
[21:08]	toddc	http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/remote-linux-wiper-found-south-korean-cyber-attack
[21:08]	scott_ev	ewrrrr...way too long
[21:09]	toddc	they attacked a linux box from a infected windows box DUH!!
[21:09]	toddc	Linux Mint Debian 201303 released!
[21:09]	lubotu1`	Debian bug 201303 in gdm "gdm: A cosmetic border to gdmDebianLogo.xpm" [Wishlist,Fixed] http://bugs.debian.org/201303
[21:09]	toddc	Reducing the length of support for our regular (non-LTS) releases- 9 monthes for non lts
[21:09]	toddc	http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2013/03/19/changes-in-ubuntu-releases-decided-by-the-ubuntu-technical-board/
[21:10]	toddc	this means that 13.04 will only have 9 months of support
[21:10]	toddc	I just installed it today
[21:10]	toddc	Have you ever noticed that at trade shows Microsoft is always the one giving away stress balls?
[21:10]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:10]	ArchFan89	that means you got 3 months to upgrade to the next release if you're not LTS
[21:11]	toddc	yes I usually a while to upgrade but not a major big deal
[21:11]	toddc	Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
[21:11]	toddc	https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
[21:11]	toddc	Several openings at Limelight Networks
[21:11]	toddc	http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
[21:11]	toddc	IBM Hiring Event in Phoenix, AZ
[21:11]	toddc	http://www.ibmexpo.com/
[21:12]	toddc	Virtualization Engineer
[21:12]	toddc	recruitingtechies@gmail.com
[21:12]	toddc	NEW MEMBERS
[21:12]	toddc	rubemend please say hi if you see him around
[21:12]	toddc	Android app Pick
[21:12]	toddc	MightyText SMS from your computer synced with android phone and number
[21:12]	toddc	http://mightytext.net/
[21:13]	toddc	UBUNTU HOUR
[21:13]	toddc	Thursday March 28 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
[21:13]	toddc	http://xtremebeancoffee.com
[21:13]	toddc	this thursday see you there!!
[21:13]	toddc	this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
[21:13]	scott_ev	any idea if a bus runs down southern?
[21:14]	scott_ev	nm, I casn check on my own
[21:14]	toddc	yes scott_ev
[21:14]	toddc	east and west run tempe and mesa full lenght
[21:14]	toddc	Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is April 6 at UAT 10am to 4 PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
[21:14]	scott_ev	ah
[21:15]	toddc	If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:15]	toddc	TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
[21:15]	toddc	Please note that that we have had to cancel the April 13th Tagose event since UAT will be need all of there rooms that day.
[21:16]	toddc	We have also had to cancel the April 20 installfest for the same reason
[21:16]	toddc	May we will be back on the normal two installfests and tagcose event
[21:16]	toddc	For more info see
[21:17]	toddc	AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
[21:17]	toddc	UBUNTU TRAINING this week
[21:17]	toddc	ubuntu on air
[21:17]	toddc	http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ ubuntu deveopment hang out tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
[21:18]	toddc	Jono Bacon O&A wedsday 7-8 pm GMT
[21:18]	toddc	I found it very cool to be able to talk directly with him
[21:18]	toddc	Secure Credentials Storage on the Phone 3:30-4:30 GMT
[21:18]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:19]	toddc	Release Party for 13.04??? April 25 any interest in one
[21:19]	scott_ev	only if I can get there
[21:19]	toddc	we do have the ubuntu hour on the 28th but it would be hard to installthere or have a real party
[21:20]	scott_ev	yeah, do you have any location ideas?
[21:20]	scott_ev	your back yard?
[21:20]	toddc	let me know if anyone is interested or has a idea for it---
[21:21]	toddc	we could do it at uat or tempe
[21:21]	scott_ev	k
[21:21]	toddc	Any thoughts on other events or projects???
[21:22]	toddc	xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:22]	scott_ev	toddc: did you make it to the informal thing we did at hutchnate's house?
[21:22]	toddc	no I missed that one
[21:22]	xHans	toddc: not much tonight
[21:22]	xHans	PLUG east side is moving to a new location next month
[21:22]	scott_ev	I only bring it up because people can get together spontaniously too
[21:22]	xHans	Desert Breeze Substation in Chandler
[21:22]	xHans	251 N Desert Breeze Blvd W, Chandler, AZ 85226-6913
[21:23]	xHans	Not sure why there's a extra W, but Google thinks there should be one
[21:23]	xHans	the presentation will be about graphing with gnuplot from Walter
[21:23]	toddc	google knows better than we do!!
[21:24]	xHans	CactusCon was Friday. It was well attended with about 260 people. The keynote was really interesting. They had an awesome live band after the conference
[21:24]	xHans	ok, the live band was for the mall rather than the conference, but they were awesome
[21:24]	scott_ev	dangit
[21:25]	xHans	and that's it for tonight
[21:25]	toddc	I hear the devloper meeting is on
[21:25]	toddc	Developer Meeting Thursday April 4 7-9pm
[21:25]	toddc	University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
[21:25]	toddc	The developer group is adding bar code reading features to cheese
[21:25]	xHans	ah, yes, I heard about it, but didn't follow up to get info
[21:26]	toddc	I saw a email to discuss from ed
[21:26]	toddc	xHans Thanks for keeping us up to date on plug
[21:26]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:27]	toddc	Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
[21:27]	pjdamws	xHans: What was the Keynote at CactusCon about?
[21:27]	scott_ev	toddc: would you do a /whois on me and Pm me the output, please?
[21:28]	toddc	27 minutes 3 short of my goal
[21:28]	scott_ev	it was xHans talking about schnitzel
[21:28]	toddc	yes
[21:28]	xHans	pjdamws: hacking your career
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
