{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

04 December – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* Discussed phones and tablets that can have a Linux system installed on them.
* Discussed crypto-currency.
* Discussed some of the problems when introducing new IT in businesses without sufficient support or understanding of the ramifications by the management.
* Conducted an edit of the AZLOCO website to make the Big Blue Button URL easier to find for casual visitors.
05 December – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2005%2C%202021%20Meeting
09 December - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* Discussed the progress made on repairing a member’s computer which has a very long boot time.
* Discussed the procedures for repairing grub when the grub rescue appears on the computer.
* A member announced that he has two working computers to donate to needy individuals.
* Discussed activities at the Warrior Healing Center (Donated one additional desktop computer to a veteran.  Conducted one additional install on a Warrior Healing Center laptop.  Changed a lost sudo password on a Warrior Healing Center laptop.)
09 December – Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
18 December - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 4 attendees
19 December – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2019%2C%202
