{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #53 for the week June 23, June 29, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Fifty Third Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-July 2, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday July 6, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

Sorry I couldn't be at the meeting Sunday. As you'll read further down, I had a family problem to take care of. My being absent brings up another point though, we have had poor membership attendance at meetings for the last couple of weeks. I know it's summer, and weekends are everyones chance to get out, but with our meetings being at 9:00PM, you should be able to attend most of the time. We are just asking that you make the effort to attend when you can. Thanks!

==== Summary of the June 29, 2008 meeting ====

tyche called the meeting to order at 9:03 PM

johnc4510's mother isn't feeling well, tonight.  johnc4510 thinks it may be something she ate.  So johnc4510 is spending tonight taking care of her.

The Gutsy Geek interview with johnc4510 has been taped, and should be on next Sunday afternoon, July 6.  The show airs live on Sunday at 4pm on 1310 KXAM in Phoenix and you can hear it live here: http://www.kxam.com/ or catch the recorded version here: http://www.gutsygeeks.com/ after they post it to the site.

We have a lot to get done for the Open Source Conference ahead of us.  Some of it can be done by just about anyone, and it would be nice if some of you could volunteer to see to it.  If you see something that needs to be done, don't hesitate to see what you can do about it to help us all out.

Some things that are needed are sponsors and speakers.  We know that whatever LUGS show up will probably speak about what they do.  But higher level speakers would be nice, too, to talk about Linux on the desktop and in the commercial sector.

Advertising is a must for an event like this.  If any of you have contacts within Television, Radio or Newspapers and would explore with them the possibility of advertising this, it would be appreciated.

I'm sure there are other things, but I was caught a little unprepared, tonight.

Luft``Hans then made the PLUG announcements.

1.  PLUG's developer's meeting Thursday, July 3, at 7:00 PM, and the topic is subversion 1.5
    Adtron Corporation, 4415 E. Cotton Center Blvd., Phoenix, AZ 82040
    See http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/72

2.  Debian 15 year anniversary is coming up August 16.  I propose we do something to celebrate that milestone

3.  Software Freedom Day is coming up September 20.  That's tentatively also the date we've chosen for the Free Software conference.

4.  A week from Thursday is the next PLUG east side meeting.  We will be continuing with the Ubuntu desktop class.

5.  Finally, I'm really trying to promote the Avondale Stammtisch this month.  I know the Lo``Co has a few people on the west side of the Valley, July would be a good month to show up :)

The meeting was adjourned at 9:14 PM.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* JohnCrawford
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

