{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 11 Feb at 03:59 &mdash; 04:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-02-11-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/purism-wants-to-teach-you-how-to-create-games-for-its-librem-5-linux-smartphone-524838.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.eweek.com/development/what-frameworks-and-languages-are-developers-using-in-2019 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/2/pine64-launch-open-source-phone-laptop-tablet-and-camera 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/2/getting-started-vim-visual-mode 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/find-out-when-file-was-accessed-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/2/and-ampersand-and-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3337516/linux/the-linux-command-line-cheat-sheet.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/2/contributing-gitlab 
''LINK:'' https://www.eweek.com/security/google-set-to-advance-confidential-computing-with-asylo-project 
''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/containers/rancher-now-allows-containerized-apps-run-multiple-clusters 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-foreman-on-ubuntu-server-1804-lts/ 
''LINK:'' https://likegeeks.com/python-web-crawler-scrapy/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-patches-linux-kernel-regression-in-ubuntu-18-04-lts-update-now-524816.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/7-methods-to-generate-a-strong-password-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/introductory-go-programming-tutorial 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/writing-secure-shell-scripts 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/02/prevent-eye-strain-while-working-on.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/2/steps-agile-developer 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/debian-administrators-handbook/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/run-bleeding-edge-software-debian-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtoday.com/security/getting-started-with-acme.sh-lets-encrypt-ssl-client-190205080525.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/2/git-terminology 
''LINK:'' https://hackaday.com/2019/01/31/linux-fu-easier-file-watching/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhandbook.com/linux-list-users/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacanciesY 
''LINK:'' https://hire.withgoogle.com/public/jobs/hiringsolvedcom/view/P_AAAAAAFAABIDOcdMSyMtqF 
''LINK:'' https://www.seclore.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/sof/d/phoenix-hiring-intern-programmer-asap/6794653412.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.zotac.com/page/zbox-pro 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/642/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (66)
* stephenm (61)
* MajB (34)
* xHans (19)
* Ron_A (4)
* meetingology (3)
* pirateP (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 11 03:59:22 2019 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <stephenm> +1

 03:59 <MajB> Hello stephenm

 03:59 <stephenm> howdy MajB

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <pirateP> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 96713.04

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> News is longer than normal this week.

 04:02 <stephenm> Purism Wants to Teach You How to Create Games for Its Librem 5 Linux Smartphone

 04:02 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/purism-wants-to-teach-you-how-to-create-games-for-its-librem-5-linux-smartphone-524838.shtml

 04:02 <stephenm> What Frameworks and Languages Are Developers Using in 2019?

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.eweek.com/development/what-frameworks-and-languages-are-developers-using-in-2019

 04:03 <stephenm> I was not expecting GO to be on this list but then again I'm not much of a programmer.

 04:03 <stephenm> Pine64 to Launch Open Source Phone, Laptop, Tablet, and Camera

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/2/pine64-launch-open-source-phone-laptop-tablet-and-camera

 04:03 <stephenm> They're not as expensive as the name escapes me for Ubuntu

 04:04 <stephenm> Getting started with Vim visual mode

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/2/getting-started-vim-visual-mode

 04:04 <toddc> raspberry pi

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Find Out When a File Was Accessed in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/find-out-when-file-was-accessed-linux/

 04:04 <MajB> System76

 04:04 <stephenm> No not pi

 04:04 <stephenm> yes System76 thanks MajB

 04:04 <stephenm> And, Ampersand, and & in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/2/and-ampersand-and-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> The Linux command-line cheat sheet

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3337516/linux/the-linux-command-line-cheat-sheet.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Getting started as a GitLab contributor

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/2/contributing-gitlab

 04:05 <stephenm> What Is Confidential Computing?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.eweek.com/security/google-set-to-advance-confidential-computing-with-asylo-project

 04:05 <stephenm> Rancher Now Allows Containerized Apps to Run on Multiple Clusters

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/containers/rancher-now-allows-containerized-apps-run-multiple-clusters

 04:05 <stephenm> Kinda an interesting read but confusing unless you work with containers and clusters

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Foreman Server Management Tool on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-foreman-on-ubuntu-server-1804-lts/

 04:06 <stephenm> Python web crawling using Scrapy

 04:06 <stephenm> https://likegeeks.com/python-web-crawler-scrapy/

 04:06 <stephenm> Canonical Patches Linux Kernel Regression in Ubuntu 18.04 LTS, Update Now

 04:06 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-patches-linux-kernel-regression-in-ubuntu-18-04-lts-update-now-524816.shtml

 04:06 <stephenm> 7 Methods to Generate a Strong Password in Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/7-methods-to-generate-a-strong-password-in-ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> Introductory Go Programming Tutorial

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/introductory-go-programming-tutorial

 04:06 <stephenm> Very short but gives a couple of examples

 04:07 <stephenm> Writing Secure Shell Scripts

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/writing-secure-shell-scripts

 04:07 <stephenm> Prevent Eye Strain While Working On Your Linux Desktop With Safe Eyes

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/02/prevent-eye-strain-while-working-on.html

 04:07 <stephenm> Todd might need this :p

 04:07 <stephenm> 4 steps to becoming an awesome agile developer

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/2/steps-agile-developer

 04:07 <stephenm> Review of Debian System Administrator’s Handbook

 04:07 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/debian-administrators-handbook/

 04:07 <stephenm> Safer Way to Run Bleeding Edge Software on Debian and Ubuntu

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/run-bleeding-edge-software-debian-ubuntu/

 04:08 <stephenm> Getting started with acme.sh Let's Encrypt SSL clien

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtoday.com/security/getting-started-with-acme.sh-lets-encrypt-ssl-client-190205080525.html

 04:08 <stephenm> Getting Started with Git: Terminology 101

 04:08 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/2/git-terminology

 04:08 <stephenm> Linux Fu: Easier File Watching

 04:08 <stephenm> https://hackaday.com/2019/01/31/linux-fu-easier-file-watching/

 04:08 <stephenm> 3 Ways to List Users in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxhandbook.com/linux-list-users/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight.  Back to the admin for tonight.

 04:09 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:09 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> thank you

 04:09 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <Ron_A> good work stephenm

 04:09 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:10 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> 16 February Installfest/Linux Workshop (Campus wide event – no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:10 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> INUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> The 12-Step Program for Internet Addicts

 04:11 <toddc> 1) I will have a cup of coffee in the morning and read my newspaper like I use to.

 04:11 <toddc> 2) I will eat breakfast with a knife and fork and not with one hand typing.

 04:12 <toddc> 3) I will get dressed before noon.

 04:12 <toddc> 4) I will make an attempt to clean the house, wash the dog, get the kids off to school, all before even thinking of the Internet.

 04:12 <toddc> 5) I will sit down and write a letter to those unfortunate few friends and family that are Internet-deprived.

 04:12 <toddc> 6) I will call someone on the phone who I cannot contact via the Internet.

 04:12 <toddc> 7) I will read a book...if I still remember how.

 04:13 <toddc> 8) I will listen to those around me and their needs and stop telling them to turn the TV down so I can hear what is happening on the Web.

 04:13 <toddc> 9) I will not be tempted during TV commercials to check for email.

 04:13 <toddc> 10) I will try and get out of the house at least once a week, if it is necessary or not.

 04:13 <toddc> 11) I will remember that my bank is not forgiving if I forget to balance my checkbook because I was too busy on my computer.

 04:14 <toddc> 12) Last, but not least, I will remember that I must go to bed some time....and the Internet will always be there tomorrow!

 04:14 <toddc> it might be there but always one last youtube vieo to watch before bed

 04:14 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:15 <toddc> Canonical has 51 open positions

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacanciesY

 04:15 <toddc> Full-stack Software Engineer

 04:15 <toddc> https://hire.withgoogle.com/public/jobs/hiringsolvedcom/view/P_AAAAAAFAABIDOcdMSyMtqF

 04:15 <toddc> Onsite Technical Consultant

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.seclore.com/careers/

 04:15 <toddc> Hiring Intern Programmer

 04:15 <toddc> https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/sof/d/phoenix-hiring-intern-programmer-asap/6794653412.html

 04:16 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:16 <toddc> Zotac launches its first five embedded mini-PCs ??? with Ubuntu

 04:16 <toddc> https://www.zotac.com/page/zbox-pro

 04:16 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:16 <toddc> LibreOffice 6.2 released

 04:16 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:17 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:17 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:17 <MajB> 14 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:18 <MajB> 16 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, CANCELED

 04:18 <MajB> 28 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> 02 March, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:18 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:18 <MajB> 07 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:19 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:19 <xHans> si, gracias

 04:20 <xHans> PLUG East side meeting is a week from Thursday on the 14th

 04:20 <xHans> Brian's talk is "An introduction to the Hugin Panorama Stitcher"

 04:20 <xHans> Phil's talk is "Krita basics, drawing assistants and G'Mic"

 04:20 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/642/east-valley-meeting/

 04:20 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:21 <xHans> er, that's this Thursday

 04:21 * xHans can't calendar ...

 04:21 <xHans> Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday on the 19th

 04:21 <xHans> Stammtisch starts at 19:00

 04:21 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/

 04:21 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:21 <xHans> Security is a week from Thursday

 04:21 <xHans> Aaron will cover "Introduction To Assembly Language - Reverse Engineering Software"

 04:21 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/

 04:22 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:22 <xHans> SCaLE is a month from this weekend, the room block is filling up, so get your reservation if you haven't already

 04:22 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:22 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:22 <MajB> Thanks xHans

 04:22 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:22 <xHans> bitte

 04:22 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:22 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:23 <MajB> Meeting on 24 February 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:23 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:23 <MajB> Meeting on 01 March 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:23 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:23 <MajB> Meeting on 13 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:23 <MajB> Meeting on 23 February 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:23 <MajB> That is all

 04:23 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:24 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:24 <Ron_A> thanks MajB

 04:24 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:24 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:24 <MajB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:24 <MajB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:24 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:25 <toddc> New Members this week+++ weeks

 04:25 <MajB> Latest AZLOCO members:

 04:25 <MajB> Myles Lynn joined 26 January 2019

 04:25 <MajB> Tommy Worthey joined 22 January 2019

 04:25 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:25 <Ron_A> good meeting toddc

 04:26 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:26 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
