{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 02 Jul at 03:59 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-07-02-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/raspberry-pi-3-b-tops-hacker-board-survey 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/supercomputers-all-linux-all-the-time/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/cip-keeping-lights-linux 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/install-and-play-overwatch-with-lutris-on-ubuntu-18-04 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/6/gplv3-anniversary 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/6/xfce-desktop 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/6/4mlinux-more-just-another-lightweight-distro 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-dpkg-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/create-custom-commands-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://adtmag.com/articles/2018/06/28/kubernetes-update.aspx 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/6/running-integration-tests-kubernetes 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/software-defined-networking-101-what-sdn-is-and-where-its-going/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/centos-rancher-docker-container-management-platform/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/6/guide-to-gathering-project-requirements 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/pyenv-install-and-manage-multiple-python-versions-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://careers.nagra.com/?page=advertisement&sort=&p=2 
''LINK:'' https://www.hireart.com/jobs/5183be16/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/06/mintbox-mini-2-price-specs 
''LINK:'' https://www.computerworld.com/category/linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' http://seagl.org/news/2018/06/04/CFP-open.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (60)
* stephenm (36)
* xHans (16)
* MajB (13)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul  2 03:59:46 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 96100.06

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <wmack> audio probems on bbb

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> tephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> thanks for saying my name wrong toddc

 04:03 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi 3 B+ Tops Hacker Board Survey

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/raspberry-pi-3-b-tops-hacker-board-survey

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> ​Supercomputers: All Linux, all the time

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/supercomputers-all-linux-all-the-time/

 04:03 <toddc> cut paste failure

 04:03 <stephenm> CIP: Keeping the Lights On with Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/cip-keeping-lights-linux

 04:03 <stephenm> why not type?

 04:03 <stephenm> Install and Play Overwatch with Lutris On Ubuntu 18.08

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/install-and-play-overwatch-with-lutris-on-ubuntu-18-04

 04:03 <stephenm> An insider's look at drafting the GPLv3 license

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/6/gplv3-anniversary

 04:04 <stephenm> 8 reasons to use the Xfce Linux desktop environment

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/6/xfce-desktop

 04:04 <stephenm> This one MajB might like

 04:04 <stephenm> 4MLinux: More Than Just Another Lightweight Distro

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/6/4mlinux-more-just-another-lightweight-distro

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux dpkg Command Tutorial for Beginners (8 Examples)

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-dpkg-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Create Custom Commands in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/create-custom-commands-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Kubernetes Update: Open Source Developers Improve Networking, Storage and More

 04:05 <stephenm> https://adtmag.com/articles/2018/06/28/kubernetes-update.aspx

 04:05 <stephenm> Running integration tests in Kubernetes

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/6/running-integration-tests-kubernetes

 04:05 <stephenm> What is SDN? How software-defined networking changed everything

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/software-defined-networking-101-what-sdn-is-and-where-its-going/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Rancher Docker Container Manager on CentOS 7

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/centos-rancher-docker-container-management-platform/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to plan projects in the open, without the stress

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/6/guide-to-gathering-project-requirements

 04:06 <stephenm> Pyenv – Install Multiple Python Versions for Specific Project

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/pyenv-install-and-manage-multiple-python-versions-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> So back to you todc, I'd tell a joke but nobody would get it for 24 hours.

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:  AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end) AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> still waiting 23 hours and 55 minutes for stephenm joke

 04:09 <toddc> The oldest computer can be traced back to Adam and Eve.

 04:09 <toddc> It was an apple but with extremely limited memory. Just 1 byte. And then everything crashed.

 04:09 <toddc> What does a shark and a computer have in common?

 04:10 <toddc> They both have megabites.

 04:10 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> IT Security Engineer

 04:10 <toddc> Best Western Hotels and Resorts

 04:10 <toddc> Multible Linux jobs

 04:10 <toddc> https://careers.nagra.com/?page=advertisement&sort=&p=2

 04:10 <toddc> PHP Programmer

 04:10 <toddc> Hyperion Works Tempe Az

 04:11 <toddc> Autonomous Vehicle Test Engineer

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.hireart.com/jobs/5183be16/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical has 46 open positions

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:11 <toddc> MintBox Mini 2 PC: Industrial Chic Meets Linux Mint 19

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/06/mintbox-mini-2-price-specs

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Linux 2 minutes tech tips

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.computerworld.com/category/linux/

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:13 <MajB> 05 July,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 07 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:14 <MajB> 21 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:14 <xHans> Bring your own p <-- cutoff there

 04:15 <MajB> 26 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <toddc> he does that

 04:15 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:15 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:16 <xHans> PLUG east side is a week from Thursday at 19:00

 04:16 <xHans> topic: uMatrix for web browser protection

 04:16 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:16 <xHans> Chandler Desert Breeze Substation - 251 Desert Breeze Blvd West, Chandler

 04:16 <xHans> Free Software Stammtisch is two weeks from Tuesday

 04:16 <xHans> this month there's a resume review starting at 18:00

 04:16 <xHans> https://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

 04:16 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa

 04:16 <xHans> PLUG security class is two weeks from Thursday @ 19.00

 04:16 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:16 <xHans> Chandler Desert Breeze Substation - 251 Desert Breeze Blvd West, Chandler

 04:16 <xHans> cfp for SeaGL is open, they will have office hours again this year

 04:17 <xHans> http://seagl.org/news/2018/06/04/CFP-open.html

 04:17 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:17 <toddc> thank you  xHans  for the events at PLUG and other events

 04:17 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 July 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:18 <toddc> ctl+v

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 July 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:19 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 July 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 22 July 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 28 July 1-3:30 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:20 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:20 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:20 <MajB> CactusCon September 28-29 at the Mesa Convention Center 263 N Center St Mesa, AZ 85201

 04:21 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:21 <toddc> great meeting tonight

 04:22 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:22 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
