{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 02 August - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed interfacing OBDII scanner with Ubuntu
* Conducted troubleshooting on a broken samba on LM19
* Tested PIA VPN at coffee shop (failed)
* Discussed Linux related topics
* 04 August - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest
* 16 attendees
* 4 Ubuntu installs
* Conducted modifications on 2 servers.
* Updated the configuration on a server
* Installed a server ISO on a client's computer
* Updated a Raspberry Pi system that is functioning in a sprinkler system
* 04 August - AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest
* 14 attendees
* 2 installs (Lubuntu, GalliumOS)
* Updated BIOS for a member
* Distributed Ubuntu information to new attendees
* 05 August - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2005%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 12 August - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2012%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 18 August - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest
* 16 attendees
* 2 installs
* 6 servers were updated
* An attendee was assisted with a customized music project.
* 19 August - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2019%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 23 August - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Discussed the work-around for the failure to boot problem for Ubuntu 18.04 which was uncovered at the 04 August Installfest.  A bug report has been filed with Launchpad.
* Discussed the upcoming Security presentation to be given at the CLUG meeting on Saturday 25 August at the Sierra Vista Public Library.
* Discussed the up-coming Kali Challenge issued by one of our members.  The final results will hopefully be in on Saturday.
* A mini-party was held in honor of the anniversary of the announcement of the Linux Kernel on 25 August 1991 by Linus Torvalds in Helsinki Finland.
* 23 August - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Installed OracleJDK via ppa, 
* Upgraded CentOS to latest release
* Systemback backup configuration with Bodhi Linux
* Troubleshoot Python OO code using Spyder IDE
* 26 August - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2026%2C%202018%20Meeting
