{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 03 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:13 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-02-03-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/allAWS Arizona jobs 34 local open jobs IT many other remote also  (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tuxedocomputers.com/index.php   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-accountancy-software/   (toddc, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (57)
* MajB (29)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:11 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> stardate -298007.53

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:01 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also National Carrot Cake Day

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:03 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:04 <MajB> No canceled events but ...

 04:04 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:04 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:04 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:04 <MajB> 06 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:05 <MajB> 13 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:05 <MajB> 13 February, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:05 <MajB> 15 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:05 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:05 <MajB> 27 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:06 <MajB> 01 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:06 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:06 <MajB> 02 March, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:06 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:06 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:06 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:06 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:06 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:06 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:06 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 13 February, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:07 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 18 February, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:07 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/locations/computer-lab/

 04:07 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 12 February, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month)

 04:07 <MajB> Location:  Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:07 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:07 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 25 February, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:07 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:07 <MajB> That is all I have back to you Todd

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> Linux is free if your time is worthless

 04:09 <toddc> Why did the sysadmin cross the road?

 04:09 <toddc> Because he was probably trying to get to the Linux user group meeting on the other side.

 04:09 <toddc> How many Linux developers does it take to change a light bulb?

 04:09 <toddc> None. Linux doesn't change, it evolves.

 04:09 <toddc> Why did the Linux user book his flight online?

 04:09 <toddc> He'd heard that penguins have wings.

 04:10 <toddc> Why did the linux user get so upset?

 04:10 <toddc> He was shell shocked

 04:10 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> Linux System Engineer: Any Level

 04:10 <toddc> uHost

 04:10 <toddc> &nbsp;

 04:10 <toddc> 1423 South Higley Road, Mesa, AZ 85206

 04:10 <toddc> Desktop Support Linux Technician in Tucson, Arizona

 04:10 <toddc> VSO Tucson

 04:11 <toddc> Linux Engineer

 04:11 <toddc> Sira Consulting Phoenix az

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 244

 04:11 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/allAWS Arizona jobs 34 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:11 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:12 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:12 <toddc> Custom built laptops and desktops optimized for linux and they use tuxOS based on ubuntu

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.tuxedocomputers.com/index.php

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> 10 Best Free and Open Source Accountancy Software

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-accountancy-software/

 04:13 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:13 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:13 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:13 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:13 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
