{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


03 June – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour chaired by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* Discussed Firefox 89 new UI design
* Conducted color calibration on the ngc 7000 (North America Nebula)
* Review of PixInsight, image processing platform in astrophotography
05 June – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* DATA NOT AVAILABLE
06 June – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2006%2C%202021%20Meeting
10 June - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Announced the CLUG meetings for November and December have been changed to the 3rd Saturday of the month so as not to conflict with the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays respectively.
* Announced AntiX 19.4 has been released in both 32 and 64 bits.
* Announced Bodhi Linux 6.0 has been released in 64 bits.  The 32 bit version is forth coming according to the folks in the Bodhi forum.
* Announced Our next Linux Workshop will be on this Saturday.  As a minimum there will be 3 desktops and 2 laptops to install Ubuntu.  There may be an additional 3 laptops if the ac adapters arrive from Phoenix on time.
* We discussed the migration of all Ubuntu (and other OS) IRC channels from freenode to libera.  Since our channel is vastly under used it was decided to keep it where it is currently located and eventually eliminate it.
* A member asked what command is used to determine what operating system is installed on a computer.  The answer is (cat /etc/os-release) without the parenthesis.
* A member asked where to find the default setting for music and video player.  In Ubuntu 20.04 they can be found under Menu→Settings→Default Applications.
* A member asked a question about a loss of Internet connection after he was downloading some drivers.  Since he had Linux Mint 19.3 install, it was recommended that he bring his computer on Saturday and we will install the latest Linux Mint on it, 20.1.
10 June - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour
* DATA NOT AVAILABLE
12 June - Sierra Vista Linux Workshop/Mini-Installfest
* 8 attendees
* 7 installs (5 Ubuntu, 1 Linux Mint, 1 MacOS Catalina)
19 June – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 13 attendees
* Tested Big Blue Button
* Updated IRC access information
* Tested our IRC bot
* Transferred files from freenode to libera
* Discussed Jpoiole and Gunue Cash
20 June – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 7  attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2020%2C%202021%20Meeting
24 June - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour chaired by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* Talked about cybersecurity classes offered at Maricopa Community College
* Troubleshot 3-monitor setup nvidia driver issue
* General discussion on technology
