{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 04 Jan at 03:58 &mdash; 04:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-01-04-03.58.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/best-ubuntu-screen-recorders 
''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/linux-distros-for-students/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/12/remote-work 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/butterfly-web-terminal-websocket-tornado/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/convert-pdf-to-image-using-gimp/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/12/linux-macbook 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/best-ubuntu-screen-recorders 
''LINK:'' https://darryldias.me/2020/turn-raspberry-pi-into-a-remote-linux-development-environment/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxbuzz.com/enable-timestamp-linux-ping-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/12/joe 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/beginners-guide-to-git/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/linux-guides-2020 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/disable-suspend-and-hibernation-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-port-scanners/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/things-to-do-after-installing-kali-linux 
''LINK:'' https://buildvirtual.net/how-to-use-docker-inspect/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/linus-torvalds-announces-first-linux-kernel-5-11-release-candidate 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/12/learn-c-game 
''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/hold-or-prevent-a-package-from-upgrade-in-debian-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/aria2-linux-command-line-download-utility-tool/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/fix-broken-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers 
''LINK:'' https://bloodsystems.taleo.net/careersection/vitalantexttier1/jobdetail.ftl?job=201163&tz=GMT-07%3A00&tzname=America%2FPhoenix 
''LINK:'' https://www.gdit.com/careers/search/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.gdit.com/careers/search/ 
''LINK:'' https://careers.bankofamerica.com/en-us/job-search?ref=search&city=phoenix&state=arizona&country=united+states&searchstring=phoenix%2C+arizona%2C+united+states&start=0&rows=10&search=jobsByCityState 
''LINK:'' https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/9145439?hl=en 
''LINK:'' https://proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/. Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (75)
* stephenm (45)
* MajB (33)
* thndrbvr (4)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* Eleison23 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:58 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:58 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan  4 03:58:26 2021 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:58 <meetingology> 

 03:58 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <stephenm> evening all

 03:59 <MajB> Hi stephenm

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 98609.09

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> i will

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> News is the same as every week

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Ubuntu Screen Recorders

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/best-ubuntu-screen-recorders

 04:03 <stephenm> 3 Best Linux Distros For Students: Options You Can Try Right Now!

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxstans.com/linux-distros-for-students/

 04:03 <stephenm> 9 insights from pivoting to remote work in 2020

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/12/remote-work

 04:03 <stephenm> butterfly – web terminal based on websocket and tornado

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/butterfly-web-terminal-websocket-tornado/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Convert PDF to Image Using Gimp

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/convert-pdf-to-image-using-gimp/

 04:03 <stephenm> Bring an old MacBook back to life with Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/12/linux-macbook

 04:04 <stephenm> Best Ubuntu Screen Recorders

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/best-ubuntu-screen-recorders

 04:04 <stephenm> Turn Raspberry Pi into a remote Linux development environment.

 04:04 <stephenm> https://darryldias.me/2020/turn-raspberry-pi-into-a-remote-linux-development-environment/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Enable Timestamp in Linux Ping Command Output

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxbuzz.com/enable-timestamp-linux-ping-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> Learn to use the JOE text editor on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/12/joe

 04:04 <stephenm> The Beginner's Guide to Git

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/beginners-guide-to-git/

 04:04 <stephenm> 11 Linux command line guides you shouldn't be without

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/linux-guides-2020

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Disable Suspend and Hibernation Modes In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/disable-suspend-and-hibernation-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> 7 Linux Port Scanners for Admins and Enthusiasts

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-port-scanners/

 04:05 <stephenm> Things To Do After Installing Kali Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/things-to-do-after-installing-kali-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Use Docker Inspect

 04:05 <stephenm> https://buildvirtual.net/how-to-use-docker-inspect/

 04:05 <stephenm> Linus Torvalds Announces First Linux Kernel 5.11 Release Candidate

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/linus-torvalds-announces-first-linux-kernel-5-11-release-candidate

 04:05 <stephenm> Practice programming in C++ by writing a simple game

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/12/learn-c-game

 04:05 <stephenm> Hold Or Prevent A Package From Upgrade In Debian, Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/hold-or-prevent-a-package-from-upgrade-in-debian-ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> aria2 – A Command Line Multi-Protocol Download Tool for Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/aria2-linux-command-line-download-utility-tool/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <MajB> How To Fix Broken Ubuntu OS Without Reinstalling It

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <MajB> https://www.tecmint.com/fix-broken-ubuntu/

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <MajB> There are none

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> programmer317   has setup a new cafepress store at

 04:08 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:08 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> Why do people on the iss use linux

 04:11 <toddc> You can't open windows in space

 04:11 <toddc> How do you copy in Linux?

 04:11 <toddc> You press Ctrl and C at t- \^C Process aborted with exit 0

 04:11 <toddc> Why don't cats use Linux?

 04:11 <toddc> They love Windows

 04:12 <toddc> If KFC ran a linux system it would be called "Kernel Sanders"

 04:12 <toddc> My friend died after using Linux for a long time.

 04:12 <toddc> He acquired a terminal illness.

 04:12 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:12 <thndrbvr> Good evening. Just moved into the area.

 04:12 <MajB> Hello thndrbvr

 04:13 <toddc> welcome thndrbvr

 04:13 <MajB> Welcome

 04:13 <thndrbvr> ty, ty.

 04:13 <toddc> we are in our sunday meeting feel free to join in

 04:13 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:14 <toddc> Canonical has 92 open positions

 04:14 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:14 <toddc> Sr. Systems Engineer (Linux)

 04:14 <toddc> https://bloodsystems.taleo.net/careersection/vitalantexttier1/jobdetail.ftl?job=201163&tz=GMT-07%3A00&tzname=America%2FPhoenix

 04:14 <toddc> General Dynamics IT Several jobs in AZ with a linux background

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.gdit.com/careers/search/

 04:14 <toddc> General Dynamics IT Several jobs in AZ with a linux background

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.gdit.com/careers/search/

 04:15 <toddc> Bank of America Phoenix has several openings

 04:15 <toddc> https://careers.bankofamerica.com/en-us/job-search?ref=search&city=phoenix&state=arizona&country=united+states&searchstring=phoenix%2C+arizona%2C+united+states&start=0&rows=10&search=jobsByCityState

 04:15 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:15 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:16 <toddc> Install linux on new chrome books

 04:16 <toddc> https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/9145439?hl=en

 04:16 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:16 <toddc> Proxmox 6.3-3 with Lots of new cluster storage features

 04:16 <toddc> https://proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve

 04:16 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:17 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:17 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:17 <MajB> 07 January, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn about Linux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 14 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour - 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:17 <MajB> 14 January, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour – https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000, Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:18 <MajB> 16 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal proje

 04:18 <MajB> cts, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:18 <MajB> 17 January, AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az, 2100-2130.

 04:18 <MajB> 28 January, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> That is all

 04:18 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:19 <toddc> we need some???

 04:19 <MajB> Yes sir

 04:19 <toddc> 0????

 04:19 <MajB> We are stuck on 315

 04:19 <toddc> FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:19 <thndrbvr> Ah yeah, I gotta finish officially becoming a member.

 04:20 <MajB> I can assist you in that

 04:20 <MajB> after the meeting

 04:20 <toddc> PLUG EVENTS

 04:20 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:20 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:20 <MajB> Most events are being held on line.

 04:21 <toddc> thndrbvr: PLUG is out sister group

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:21 <toddc> we work with a lot of local LUG groups

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:22 <thndrbvr> That's awesome. Refreshing to read there's a lot going on down here. I originally hail from NY.

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> Meeting on 23 January 1300-1500,  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:22 <MajB> That is all I have.  Back to you toddc

 04:22 <toddc> we are a small but very busy group

 04:23 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:23 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:23 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:24 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
