{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Yorokobi> +1
<toddc> +1
<Rich__> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> plesae introduce yurself and tell us a bit about yourself
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> 11 Days till 12.04
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> Bonanza: Four Pane File Manager
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Blogs/Productivity-Sauce/Pane-Bonanza-4Pane-File-Manager
<Dazed_75> Simon Speech Recognition Project Moves from Sourcforge to KDE git 
<Dazed_75> Infrastructure
<Dazed_75> http://dot.kde.org/2012/04/08/simon-speech-recognition-project-moves-kde
<Dazed_75> Some Praise for Unity and the HUD
<Dazed_75> http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/opensource/ubuntu-unity-58-seriously-impresses/3514?tag=content;siu-container
<Dazed_75> http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/opensource/ubuntus-hud-light-years-beyond-any-menu-system/3535
<Dazed_75> Arthur C Clarke Describes the Future [Internet wise] in 1974 Video
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/110904/arthur-c.-clarke-describe-the-future-internet-in-1974-video
<Dazed_75> Kubuntu Gets a Sponsor
<Dazed_75> http://www.kubuntu.org/news/kubuntu-to-be-sponsored-by-blue-systems
<Dazed_75> Support for Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat Ended April 10, 2012
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/support-for-ubuntu-10-10-maverick-meerkat-end-on-april-10-2012-1/
<Dazed_75> How Canonical's Next Moves Could Repaint the Linux Landscape
<Dazed_75> http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/opensource/how-canonicals-next-moves-could-repaint-the-linux-landscape/3550
<Dazed_75> "Send to Ubuntu One" Button
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/send-to-ubuntu-one-button/
<Dazed_75> For Administrators of Large Installations (I think)
<Dazed_75> http://www.jorgecastro.org/2012/04/03/the-juju-charm-store-will-change-the-way-you-use-ubuntu-server/
<Dazed_75> https://juju.ubuntu.com/
<Dazed_75> Make Games for Android, Flash, or iOS
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2012/04/13/want-to-code-your-own-android-flash-or-ios-game-try-stencyl-2-0-beta/
<Dazed_75> http://www.stencyl.com/
<Dazed_75> Move Over Visio Beacuse Dia Delights and is Available for Windows, OS X, 
<Dazed_75> and Linux
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2012/04/12/move-over-visio-because-dia-delights/
<Dazed_75> http://live.gnome.org/Dia  (Note: Linux users get It from their 
<Dazed_75> repositories)
<Dazed_75> Increase Screen Resolution Beyond Its Default Setting
<Dazed_75>      
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/increase-screen-resolution-beyond-its-default-settings-linux/2012/04/13
<Dazed_75> Unity 5.10 Adds New App Install Animation, Minor Tweaks
<Dazed_75>      
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/unity-5-10-adds-new-app-install-animation-minor-tweaks/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Phone Takes a Step (New Hire at Canonical)
<Dazed_75>      http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/ubuntu-phone-os-takes-a-step-closer/
<Dazed_75> Raspberry PI has started shipping!!!!
<Dazed_75> http://www.raspberrypi.org/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.04 LTS KVM Virtualization Battles 8.04.4, 10.04.4 LTS
<Dazed_75> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1204_kvmhist&num=1
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Linux Comes Preloaded on Two New Laptops
<Dazed_75> http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/253436/ubuntu_linux_comes_preloaded_on_two_new_laptops.html
<toddc> thank you Dazed_75 for the news !
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Large Company Seeks Skilled Developer..TOP PAY! (Phoenix)
<toddc> http://phoenix.craigslist.org/cph/sad/2952840118.html
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> We will be moving several events around as part of changes in the server and regular installfest
<toddc> and we will announce more after we check the schedule at UAT for rooms
<toddc> We will also be trying to stream all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is April 28  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Server Installfest Saturday April 21 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> This will be a open lab event to work on server projects please contact us about special projects so we can prepare in advance if possible.
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> With any luck we might have a Raspberry Pi to test
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlueButton ver 08-beta-3 to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page once Drupal is updated.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Ubuntu Women Career Days: Media Liaison
<toddc> Wed, April 18, 4pm – 5pm gmt
<toddc> Where#ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode
<toddc> Instructor: System76Chick
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> We are planning to attend the LUGY meeting in Prescott on May 8 at 7pm
<toddc> I am planning on a carpool for those interested leaving at Az Mills Mall at 4PM
<toddc> I am allowing a bit of extra time to get there but if if you want to go we could
<toddc> leave a bit later if needed
<toddc> ETA for my raspberry PI is 4/23 and as soon as it shows we will be setting up a few events test/break it in and see what it can do!  Any and all ideas for projects are welcome
<toddc> xHans are you here?
<Dazed_75> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday April 17 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<Dazed_75> plug installfest is April 28 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<Dazed_75> Server installfest this Saturday 10-4PM at University of Advancing Technology 2625 W Baseline Rd Tempe AZ Room 208  
<toddc> Two weeks ago I reported that we had 12.04 CD's on the way
<toddc> it seems that I or someone like me?@# ordered cd's during wiki upgrade we now have a total of 275
<toddc> 11.10cd's to pass out in the next week or two and we hate to waste them so please get some and push
<toddc> 11.10 to friends neighbors business schools ect
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fridge/LoCoCalendar
</pre> block.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
