{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> +1
<Siph0n> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Let's start with the news till everyone get's here
<toddc> Seven Changes to Watch for in Ubuntu 12.04 'Precise Pangolin'
<toddc> http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/243541/seven_changes_to_watch_for_in_ubuntu_1204_precise_pangolin.html
<toddc> Ubuntu Plans To Make It Easier To Hookup With Users
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTAxMDg
<toddc> Ubuntu Has a Google+ Page Now
<toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Has-a-Google-Page-Now-233182.shtml
<toddc> A useful way to get more value from putting Ubuntu Live on a Flash drive
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/97177/how-to-put-ubuntu-linux-on-a-usb-thumb-drive-without-the-mess
<toddc> Ubuntu: ALT TAB between browser windows?
<toddc> http://ocaoimh.ie/2011/11/04/ubuntu-alt-tab-between-browser-windows/
<toddc> Barnes & Noble asks DOJ to check Microsoft antitrust issues
<toddc> http://www.electronista.com/articles/11/11/08/barnes.and.noble.says.microsoft.licenses.illegal/
<toddc>  Enabling Compiz Fusion On Ubuntu 11.10 (Oneiric Ocelot)
<toddc> http://www.howtoforge.com/enabling-compiz-fusion-on-ubuntu-11.10-oneiric-ocelot
<toddc> Fedora 16 is out but had poor reviews on the Linux action Show they said it was more for server based use based on tools.
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
<toddc> if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know?
<toddc> We now have 11.10 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> QA Community Coordinator Required: Apply Within Canonical work from home
<toddc> https://tbe.taleo.net/NA3/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=245
<toddc> IT Technician (Level II) /Tempe
<toddc> www.kleinfelder.com and reference Requisition # 6284
<toddc> IT Systems Administrator (Scottsdale, AZ)
<toddc> ESCOJOBS@escocorp.com. POSITION TITLE & LOCATION MUST BE INCLUDED IN THE SUBJECT LINE OF YOUR EMAIL FOR CONSIDERATION.
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated.  So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Due to Thanksgiving and Christmas we have a new schedule for November and December
<toddc> There will be one installfest on December 3 at UAT only
<toddc> There will be one Server installfest on November 19 at UAT
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> No classes this week
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> December 25th meeting is canceled due to falling on Dec 25 Merry Xmas
<toddc>  January 1st meeting will also be canceled
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<xHans> a few things
<xHans> ABLEconf in person meeting Tuesday at 18:00, Iguana Macks in Mesa
<xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/106
<xHans> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday at 19:00, also Iguana Macks in Mesa
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> same night, same location for both
<xHans> ABLEconf call for participation is open
<xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/CfP
<xHans> SCaLE call for proposals closes this Thursday
<xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp/cfp-information
<xHans> you already got the Installfest holiday schedule
<xHans> and that's it from me
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
<slofgren> thats a lot of info gentlemen
<xHans> toddc: bitte
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<Dazed_75> 6 Key Changes in Next Ubuntu (12.04 Precise Pangolin)
<Dazed_75> http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/11/6-key-changes-in-next-ubuntu-1204_12.html
<slofgren> no more CDs :(
<Dazed_75> Thats all from me too
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 for all the hel;p and news items :)
<slofgren> they are great for trouble shooting PCs
<Dazed_75> You need more Shane?
<slofgren> yeah
<slofgren> handed out all I had
<xHans> are x86_64 CDs still being made?
<toddc> I will try to get some there soon if not I will try to be up there for the next meeting
<slofgren> ok
<toddc> I have severl freinds that go back and forth
<slofgren> cool
<Dazed_75> We onlu get 32 bit apparently.  Can make the others tho
<slofgren> 32 is fine
<toddc> starting with 12.04 all cd's will be 64bit
<Dazed_75> xHans: need some 64 bit?
<slofgren> hmm...personally still on a 32bit laptop
<xHans> Dazed_75: if we have them
<toddc> but they may also be DVD too
<xHans> but, mostly I just need them for thumb drives, so it's just a matter of reimaging from the isos I have :)
<Dazed_75> We have to make them.  Let me know what you need
<Dazed_75> aaah, okies
<xHans> ah, well I can burn the isos as well :)
<slofgren> yeah
<toddc> xHans needs a mutisysten usb :0
<xHans> toddc: yes, I do
<Dazed_75> Me too.  I bought a flash drive to make one but never get to it
<xHans> but, Ubuntu is now requiring 4.5 GB for installs :(
<toddc> http://liveusb.info/dotclear/
<toddc> work's great and easy to remove and replace
<slofgren> getting pretty big
<xHans> je ne parle pas fran,cais :)
<toddc> Ubuntu is still cd the 4.5 just has all the language packs installed
<toddc> 11.10 is 721.1mb
<toddc> 12.04 will be about 752mb ---ohh installed would be that yes
<slofgren> if Ubuntu is coming up on its first DVD size does that make Fedora coming up on 20 DVDS
<toddc> fedora 16 is 729.8 (I just downloaded it ) but installed not sure till I play with it
<toddc> puppy linux is still 128 mb if you want small! :)
</pre> block.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
