{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 08 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-10-08-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/10/kids-day-open-source-summit 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/2018/10/att-details-open-white-box-specs-linux-based-5g-routers 
''LINK:'' https://www.coinspeaker.com/2018/09/26/top-five-reasons-to-attend-hyperledger-global-forum/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/shareware-yesterday-today-and-tomorrow-1809.html 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/9/what-comes-after-moores-law 
''LINK:'' https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2018/10/01/linux-guide-how-to-easily-create-a-bootable-live-usb-with-ubuntu/#4269c3af4844 
''LINK:'' https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2018/10/01/what-is-deep-learning-ai-a-simple-guide-with-8-practical-examples/#550b2cd88d4b 
''LINK:'' http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/Keeping-the-software-in-Docker-containers-up-to-date 
''LINK:'' https://www.osradar.com/how-to-install-openldap-server-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-pmap-command/ 
''LINK:'' http://superuser.openstack.org/articles/how-open-source-projects-are-pushing-the-shift-to-edge-computing/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/end-road-systemds-socket-units 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/10/open-source-logging-tools-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/ibm-mainframe-containers-grow-more-secure/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/10/common-network-ports 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (47)
* MajB (38)
* stephenm (37)
* trtck09 (3)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct  8 04:00:15 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date   96368

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <trtck09> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <Ron_A> 

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <stephenm> News should be simple and then gets more techie

 04:01 <MajB> wot wot

 04:02 <stephenm> Kid’s Day at Open Source Summit

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/10/kids-day-open-source-summit

 04:02 <stephenm> AT&T Details Open White Box Specs for Linux-Based 5G Routers

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/2018/10/att-details-open-white-box-specs-linux-based-5g-routers

 04:02 <stephenm> I'm getting details of people saying 5G is bad but not sure why though, maybe a Don question

 04:02 <stephenm> Top Five Reasons to Attend Hyperledger Global Forum

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.coinspeaker.com/2018/09/26/top-five-reasons-to-attend-hyperledger-global-forum/

 04:03 <stephenm> Shareware: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/shareware-yesterday-today-and-tomorrow-1809.html

 04:03 <stephenm> What Comes after Moore's Law?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/9/what-comes-after-moores-law

 04:03 <stephenm> What does come after Moore's law

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux Guide: How To Easily Create A Bootable Live USB Using Ubuntu

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2018/10/01/linux-guide-how-to-easily-create-a-bootable-live-usb-with-ubuntu/#4269c3af4844

 04:03 <trtck09> gnu hurd?

 04:03 <stephenm> What Is Deep Learning AI? A Simple Guide With 8 Practical Examples

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2018/10/01/what-is-deep-learning-ai-a-simple-guide-with-8-practical-examples/#550b2cd88d4b

 04:03 <stephenm> Keeping the Software in Docker Containers Up to Date

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/Keeping-the-software-in-Docker-containers-up-to-date

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install OpenLDAP on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.osradar.com/how-to-install-openldap-server-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:04 <stephenm> And may system keeps bugging me to update from 16.04

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux pmap Command Tutorial for Beginners (5 Examples)

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-pmap-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> How Open Source Projects Are Pushing the Shift to Edge Computing

 04:04 <stephenm> http://superuser.openstack.org/articles/how-open-source-projects-are-pushing-the-shift-to-edge-computing/

 04:04 <stephenm> The End of the Road: systemd's "Socket" Units

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/end-road-systemds-socket-units

 04:05 <stephenm> Open Source Logging Tools for Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/10/open-source-logging-tools-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> IBM Mainframe Containers Grow More Secure

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/ibm-mainframe-containers-grow-more-secure/

 04:05 <stephenm> 14 Common Network Ports You Should Know

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/10/common-network-ports

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you Ron_A

 04:05 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:05 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <Ron_A> MajB has the list of Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:06 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:06 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:06 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:06 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:07 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <Ron_A> "The most amazing achievement of the computer software industry is its

 04:07 <Ron_A> continuing cancellation of the steady and staggering gains made by the

 04:07 <Ron_A> computer hardware industry..."-- Henry Petroski

 04:07 <Ron_A> Usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea: massive,

 04:07 <Ron_A> difficult to redirect, awe-inspiring, entertaining, and a source of

 04:07 <Ron_A> mind-boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it.  -- spaf

 04:07 <Ron_A> Life would be much easier if I had the source code.

 04:07 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:08 <Ron_A> 53 current canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:08 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:08 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:08 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <MajB> 20 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:09 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 25 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <MajB> 25 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 01 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 November, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  Location TBA.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others

 04:09 <MajB> with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 03 November, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop Room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network con

 04:10 <MajB> nectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:10 <MajB> Back to you Ron_A

 04:10 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 11 October 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 18 October 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:12 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:12 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 16 October 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thin

 04:12 <MajB> gs tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem...

 04:12 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:12 <MajB> Meeting on 28 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:12 <MajB> Meeting on 02 November 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:12 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:12 <MajB> Meeting on 10 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 10 October 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 27 October 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:13 <MajB> CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop Room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as

 04:13 <MajB> well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:13 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:13 <Ron_A> El jeffe do you have anything to add?

 04:13 <toddc> not tonight

 04:13 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:13 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:13 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:13 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:13 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:13 <trtck09> \o/

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
