{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

05 January - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
07 January - Virtual Linux Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Discussed why an SD card would mount as read only
* Assisted member with update error on a Raspberry Pi
* Discussed liability when hosting a cloud server
* Assisted in the configuration of a VM on POP OS.
09 January - Introduction To Linux Class conducted by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Discussed 27 reasons why an individual should use a Linux operating system on their computer.
* Discussed the pros and cons of Linux operating systems
* Discussed why Linux is far superior to either Microsoft Windows or Apple operating system
12 January - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Look at March/April time frame for our next Installfest. Discussion will continue at the next meeting.
* Discussed the program Recuva for recovery of accidentally deleted files but unfortunately it is built for Microsoft Windows and not cross platform.
* Discussed the case where an SD card which was formerly mounted as read/write was now mounted as read only. If the lock is not on and attempts to mount it all fail to mount it as read/write it is probably failing so any data on it should be backed up as soon as possible.
* Discussed a large file transfer to a USB device failing in Ubuntu when the screen saver was activated. Possible solutions may be found in the configuration of the power manager or the screen saver itself.
12 January - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Successfully assisted in an install of Ubuntu 22.04 in a VM on POP OS
15 January - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2015%2C%202023%20Meeting
16 January - Security Considerations Class conducted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed Updates, Firewall, Viruses & Malware, Passwords, File Security, Back Up, VPN, and Common Sense
21 January – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* Fixed a Bluetooth Issue
* Worked on Virtual Box set-up
23 January – Configuring Your Ubuntu Desktop class conducted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Discussed how to configure your Ubuntu desktop to your own liking
26 January – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed general Linux topics
30 January - Configuring Firefox Browser Class conducted by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Discussed How to configure Firefox to your desires
