{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 04 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-03-04-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-distros-for-developers-programmers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-18-04-2-refreshes-this-long-term-support-linux-distro/ 
''LINK:'' https://fosspost.org/lists/open-source-speech-recognition-speech-to-text 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/2019/2/st-spins-its-first-linux-powered-cortex-soc 
''LINK:'' https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/devops-for-network-engineers-lfs266/ 
''LINK:'' https://venturebeat.com/2019/02/20/microsoft-releases-new-windows-10-preview-with-linux-files-gaming-improvements-and-timeline-for-chrome/ 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/6-must-attend-talks-at-cloud-foundry-summit-on-serverless-knative-microservices/ 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/the-future-of-artificial-intelligence-at-scale/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-Linux/2017/8/today-good-day-learn-python 
''LINK:'' http://www.theitstuff.com/http-vs-https-2 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/linux-tree-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/2/view-files-command-line 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-imagemagick-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/2/linux-distributions-still-matter-containers 
''LINK:'' https://www.johndcook.com/blog/2019/02/18/command-line-wizard/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/simple-guide-to-install-mysql-workbench-for-linux-ubuntu-rhel-centos/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-netbeans-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-kerberos-server-and-client-on-ubuntu-1804-lts/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/2/secrets-management-tools-git 
''LINK:'' https://kerneltalks.com/scripts/script-to-create-mount-points-in-lvm/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-yarn-npm-client-on-ubuntu-and-manage-dependencies-through-it/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/2/logical-ampersand-bash 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x/travel-information 
''LINK:'' https://fediverse.blog/~/LuftHans/plug-is-1-3-of-s-ca-le-17x-libre-graphics-track 
''LINK:'' https://fediverse.blog/~/LuftHans/s-ca-le17x-bo-f-signup-open 
''LINK:'' https://fediverse.blog/~/LuftHans/jobs-bo-f-resume-reviews-at-s-ca-le17x 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/speakers/der-hans 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/642/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (52)
* Ron_A (45)
* MajB (35)
* xHans (26)
* toddc (6)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (2)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar  4 04:00:06 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:00 <Ron_A> 

 04:01 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:01 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:01 <Ron_A> See any adminitrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:01 <stephenm> sorry almost late

 04:01 <MajB> Hi guy

 04:01 <stephenm> howdy

 04:01 <markthomas> The late stephenm?

 04:01 <MajB> ??

 04:02 <Ron_A> not quit almost;-0

 04:02 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> News is easy than more centric

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 of the Best Linux Distros for Developers and Programmers

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-distros-for-developers-programmers/

 04:03 <stephenm> Ubuntu 18.04.2 refreshes this long-term support Linux distro

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-18-04-2-refreshes-this-long-term-support-linux-distro/

 04:03 <stephenm> before I forget +1

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 Good Open Source Speech Recognition/Speech-to-Text Systems

 04:03 <stephenm> https://fosspost.org/lists/open-source-speech-recognition-speech-to-text

 04:03 <stephenm> ST Spins Its First Linux-Powered Cortex-A SoC

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/2019/2/st-spins-its-first-linux-powered-cortex-soc

 04:03 <stephenm> DevOps Training for Network Engineers

 04:03 <stephenm> https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/devops-for-network-engineers-lfs266/

 04:03 <stephenm> Microsoft Releases Windows 10 Preview with Support for Linux Files

 04:03 <stephenm> https://venturebeat.com/2019/02/20/microsoft-releases-new-windows-10-preview-with-linux-files-gaming-improvements-and-timeline-for-chrome/

 04:04 <stephenm> 6 Must-Attend Talks at Cloud Foundry Summit on Serverless, Knative, Microservices

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/6-must-attend-talks-at-cloud-foundry-summit-on-serverless-knative-microservices/

 04:04 <stephenm> The Future of Artificial Intelligence at Scale

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/the-future-of-artificial-intelligence-at-scale/

 04:04 <stephenm> Today is a Good Day to Learn Python

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-Linux/2017/8/today-good-day-learn-python

 04:04 <stephenm> HTTP vs. HTTPS

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.theitstuff.com/http-vs-https-2

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Master the Linux Tree Command

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/linux-tree-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> 3 tools for viewing files at the command line

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/2/view-files-command-line

 04:05 <stephenm> Install ImageMagick (Image Manipulation) Tool on RHEL/CentOS and Fedora

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-imagemagick-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Do Linux Distributions Still Matter with Containers?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/2/linux-distributions-still-matter-containers

 04:05 <stephenm> The Hard Part in Becoming a Command Line Wizard

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.johndcook.com/blog/2019/02/18/command-line-wizard/

 04:05 <stephenm> Simple guide to install MySQL WorkBench for Linux (Ubuntu & RHEL/CentOS)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/simple-guide-to-install-mysql-workbench-for-linux-ubuntu-rhel-centos/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Netbeans on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-netbeans-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Setup Kerberos Server and Client on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-kerberos-server-and-client-on-ubuntu-1804-lts/

 04:06 <stephenm> 4 secrets management tools for Git encryption

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/2/secrets-management-tools-git

 04:06 <stephenm> Script to create mount points in LVM

 04:06 <stephenm> https://kerneltalks.com/scripts/script-to-create-mount-points-in-lvm/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to install Yarn NPM Client on Ubuntu and Manage Dependencies through it

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-yarn-npm-client-on-ubuntu-and-manage-dependencies-through-it/

 04:06 <stephenm> Logical & in Bash

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/2/logical-ampersand-bash

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you Ron_A

 04:06 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:07 <Ron_A> See any adminitrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:07 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <Ron_A> Window Problems A blonde texts her husband on a cold winter’s morning: "Windows frozen, won’t open." Husband texts back: "Gently pour some lukewarm water over it and gently tap edges with hammer." Wife texts back 5 minutes later: "Computer really messed up now.”

 04:08 <Ron_A> A man was walking down the street with a swivel chair under one arm, a computer under the other and a desk strapped to his back. A policeman ran over to him and handcuffed him, saying

 04:08 <Ron_A> “I’m arresting you for impersonating an office, sir”

 04:08 <Ron_A> 62 current canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <markthomas> +1

 04:08 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:08 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:09 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:09 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:09 <Ron_A> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <MajB> 07 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 14 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 16 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:10 <MajB> are.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 28 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 04 April,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 06 April, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  Location TBD.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others wit

 04:10 <MajB> h theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> Back to you

 04:10 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:11 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:11 <xHans> SCaLE starts this Thursday

 04:11 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17x/travel-information

 04:11 <xHans> UbuCon is Thursday and Friday at SCaLE

 04:11 <xHans> PLUG is providing 1/3 of the LibreGraphics track at SCALE 17x

 04:11 <xHans> https://fediverse.blog/~/LuftHans/plug-is-1-3-of-s-ca-le-17x-libre-graphics-track

 04:11 <xHans> SCaLE BoFs are open for signup

 04:11 <xHans> https://fediverse.blog/~/LuftHans/s-ca-le17x-bo-f-signup-open

 04:11 <xHans> We will be giving resume reviews at this years jobs BoF

 04:12 <xHans> https://fediverse.blog/~/LuftHans/jobs-bo-f-resume-reviews-at-s-ca-le17x

 04:12 <xHans> I will be providing a talk for UbuCon on Thursday and a talk for the SCaLE security track on Sunday

 04:12 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/speakers/der-hans

 04:12 <xHans> The next PLUG east side meeting is the Thursday after SCaLE

 04:12 <xHans> one topic will be: 75 Years of Computing in 60 Minutes

 04:12 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:12 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/642/east-valley-meeting/

 04:12 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is two weeks from Tuesday

 04:12 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/

 04:12 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:12 <xHans> The PLUG Security is two weeks from Thursday

 04:12 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:13 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/

 04:13 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:13 <Ron_A> Thank you XHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:13 <MajB> Thanks xHans

 04:13 <Ron_A> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:13 <xHans> bitte

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:13 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 24 March 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 05 April 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 13 March 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 23 March 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:14 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB !

 04:14 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:14 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:14 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:23 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
