{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 May - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 12 members were present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2001%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 05 May - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis.
* 6 attendees.
* Discussion on systemd issues and comparison to init.
* Discussion on recent samba updates & openvpn.
* Mark successfully upgraded Mint 17.1 to Mint 17.3.
* Off topic: key points & presentation how to skin a rabbit!
* 07 May – West End Fair in Sierra Vista, AZ Linux/FOSS  information booth co-sponsored by AZLOCO/CLUG.
* 6 AZLOCO and CLUG members manned the information booth and approximately 2000 people attended the fair.
* Distributed Ubuntu 14.04 install disks and Ubuntu SWAG.
* Collected names and email addresses to provide them with future information and assistance.
* Various members circulated through the fair wearing a crazy looking penguin hat and/or passing out AZLOCO and CLUG brochures.
* 07 May - Linux installfest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 16 attendees
* Installed Fedora 9 and set up networking on an individual's computer.
* Configured software on another computer.
* Installed updates on a Linux Mint install that was completed a few months ago.
* Installed Fedora updates with SAMBA issues
* Worked out Proxmox issues.
* Repaired technical issues on a laptop.
* Off topic: there was a discussion on hummingbirds along with several other birds by 2 members.
* 08 May - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 12 members were present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2008%2C%202016%20Meeting.
* 14 May – Xenia Xerus Release Party hosted by Walter Mack.
* 15 attendees
* The food was plentiful and of outstanding quality and was excellently prepared by Mr. & Mrs Mack.
* While the party was considered a social event, that did not stop certain individuals from attempting (with moderate success) to discuss certain Linux and FOSS related subjects such as researching the use of Landscape for our servers and why Rex cannot seem to make a bootable flash drive.
* There was a very profound discussion on the viability of Rex's chili.  Opinions ran from too thin to too thick to too spicy to not spicy enough.  Needless to say everyone seemed to have a different opinion.
* There was also a brief rehash of the “How to skin a rabbit” presentation/discussion that was initially bought up at the Tempe Ubuntu Hour.
* 15 May – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 9 members were present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2015%2C%202016%20Meeting.
* 21 May - Linux installfest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 16 attendees (3 new people).
* Three installs: Centos, Mint, and Ubuntu. 
* Computer repairs: UEFI boot, wifi. samba permissions.
* Repaired team access point and conducted server repairs and upgrades.
* Started planning for server class and future server upgrades.
* 22 May – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 11 members were presentation
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2022%2C%202016%20Meeting.
* 26 May – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense.
* 5 attendees
* Discussed the upcoming AZLOCO and CLUG events.
* Discussed the after action report for the West End Fair and the consensus was that we should do it again next year.  The official after action report will be stored on Google Drive for future reference and use.
* Discussed the Xenial Xerus Release party that 3 individuals from Sierra Vista attended in Chandler AZ.
* Discussed the possibility of a UbuCon for the LUGs and computer clubs in the state of Arizona.  This is something that AZLOCO may pursue and there was a general thumbs up given by the individuals present and a willingness to provide assistance.
* 26 May – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole.
* 7 attendees, one of which was new.
* Attempted to repair a MacOS dual boot. (He will attend an installfest for assistance).
* Discussed team server project, snappy core and snap, VIM and redirects as well as speech to text programs.
* 29 May – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 8 members were present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2029%2C%202016%20Meeting. 
