{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 17 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:10 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-04-17-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2023/04/what-does-linux-have-in-common-with-the-barrel-of-rock/   (stephenm1, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/04/13/google-secure-open-source-software-packages/   (stephenm1, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/learn-use-man-pages-efficiently/   (stephenm1, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-waterfox-browser-on-debian-linux/   (stephenm1, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-chatgpt-shell-cli/   (stephenm1, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/100-great-must-have-cli-linux-applications/   (stephenm1, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/duc-a-collection-of-tools-to-inspect-and-visualize-disk-usage/   (stephenm1, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/raw-image-to-jpg-converter/   (stephenm1, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-check-docker-container-ram-and-cpu-usage/   (stephenm1, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/run-linux-command-process-in-background-detach-process/   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-fail2ban-on-debian-linux/   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-python-3-10-on-ubuntu-linux/   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/mastering-journalctl-command-comprehensive-guide   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-enable-system-tray-icons-in-gnome/   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/secure-apache-with-ssl-in-rocky-linux/   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/setting-up-a-vpn-on-linux-without-a-native-app/   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/verify-iso-files-linux/   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/fsck-repair-file-system-errors-in-linux/   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:09)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (56)
* stephenm1 (41)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:13 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  https://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <stephenm1> sorry I'm late, damn router issue

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> Hello stephenm Are you ready

 04:02 <stephenm1> yep

 04:02 <MajB> you are up

 04:02 <stephenm1> What Does Linux Have in Common With ‘The Barrel of Rock’?

 04:02 <stephenm1> https://fossforce.com/2023/04/what-does-linux-have-in-common-with-the-barrel-of-rock/

 04:02 <stephenm1> Google Delivers Secure Open-Source Software Packages

 04:02 <stephenm1> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/04/13/google-secure-open-source-software-packages/

 04:02 <stephenm1> A Beginner Guide to Using Man Pages in Linux Effectively

 04:02 <stephenm1> https://ostechnix.com/learn-use-man-pages-efficiently/

 04:02 <stephenm1> How to Install Waterfox Browser on Debian 12/11/10

 04:02 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-waterfox-browser-on-debian-linux/

 04:02 <stephenm1> Machine Learning in Linux: chatGPT-shell-cli – chatGPT and DALL-E tool

 04:02 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-chatgpt-shell-cli/

 04:03 <MajB> Great article on man pages

 04:03 <stephenm1> 100 Great and Must-Have CLI Linux Applications

 04:03 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxlinks.com/100-great-must-have-cli-linux-applications/

 04:03 <stephenm1> also +1

 04:03 <stephenm1> How to Inspect and Visualize Disk Usage on Linux With Duc

 04:03 <stephenm1> https://ostechnix.com/duc-a-collection-of-tools-to-inspect-and-visualize-disk-usage/

 04:03 <stephenm1> How to Convert Raw Camera Images (cr3, crw) to jpg in Ubuntu

 04:03 <stephenm1> https://trendoceans.com/raw-image-to-jpg-converter/

 04:03 <stephenm1> How to Check Docker Container RAM and CPU Usage

 04:03 <stephenm1> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-check-docker-container-ram-and-cpu-usage/

 04:04 <stephenm1> How to Run Linux Commands to Detach a Process in Terminal

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://www.tecmint.com/run-linux-command-process-in-background-detach-process/

 04:04 <stephenm1> Fail2ban Installation on Debian 12, 11, 10: A Step-by-Step Guide

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-fail2ban-on-debian-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm1> How to Install Python 3.10 on Ubuntu: Step-by-Step Guide

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-python-3-10-on-ubuntu-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm1> Mastering the journalctl Command: A Comprehensive Guide

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/mastering-journalctl-command-comprehensive-guide

 04:04 <stephenm1> How to Enable System Tray Icons in GNOME

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-enable-system-tray-icons-in-gnome/

 04:04 <stephenm1> How to Configure SSL on Apache

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxteck.com/secure-apache-with-ssl-in-rocky-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm1> How to Set Up a VPN on Linux Without a Native Linux Client

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://linuxstans.com/setting-up-a-vpn-on-linux-without-a-native-app/

 04:05 <stephenm1> Beginner’s Guide to Verify ISO Files in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://www.debugpoint.com/verify-iso-files-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm1> How to Use fsck to Repair Linux File System Errors

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://www.tecmint.com/fsck-repair-file-system-errors-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm1> small news tonight, back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm1

 04:06 <stephenm1> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <MajB> 

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:06 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:06 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:06 <MajB> There are 172 open canonical Jobs today

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:06 <MajB> There are 58 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:06 <MajB> There are 11 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:06 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:07 <MajB> 27 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:07 <MajB> 04 May,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:07 <MajB> 06 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your

 04:07 <MajB> personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 07 May, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 11 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:08 <MajB> 11 May, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:08 <MajB> 20 May, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center main conference room, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  Anyone can attend and all are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting wi

 04:08 <MajB> th installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 20 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your

 04:08 <MajB> personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 21 May, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 25 May,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:09 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:09 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:09 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 18 April, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:09 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 11 May, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:09 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:09 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:09 <MajB> Monthly meeting 10 May 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:09 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:09 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 25 April 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month), Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:10 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:10 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
