{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[IanMcewen]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# Jeff Martin aka evilgourmet's sub team
# Gutsy Release Parties
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
21:01 < UncleSam> Welcome to the Ubuntu Arizona Loco Team Meeting
21:01 *** tyche is away: Gone away for now.
21:01 *** tyche is back.
21:01 < johnc4510> everyone ready
21:01 < tyche> yep
21:01 < t00na> not around for the meeting
21:02 < johnc4510> ok, no new members that i see
21:02 < johnc4510> Announcements
21:02 < t00na> downstairs, watching cheesey discovery channel documentaries about the entire continent exploding
21:02 < t00na> see ya!
21:02 < johnc4510> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/07September30
21:02 < johnc4510> .
21:03 < johnc4510> I'm going to be on vacation from Wednesday thru Sunday of this next week, but I should be back for the next meeting. I will also check in from time to time during the wk. If you need me for anything either leave me a msg. or email me at johnc4510-cox@ubuntu.com
21:03 < evilgourmet> HOWDY
21:03 < johnc4510> howdy
21:03 < johnc4510> Case Badges: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges
21:03 < johnc4510> We got our case badges in this week. They are really nice, and very well made. I thing everyone will be happy with them. We got a total of 495 stick on computer case emblems as shown in the above link. 
21:03 < johnc4510> Any member can have up to 2 of them for free. If you need more, we will work something out. To receive yours, please send me a self addressed stamped envelope with the number of badges you want. (Up to 2).
21:04 < johnc4510> John Crawford
21:04 < johnc4510> 3003 W. Broadway Blvd. #20
21:04 < johnc4510> Tucson, AZ 85745
21:04 < johnc4510> Again if you want more, you need to speak with me either after the meeting or sometime this week. 
21:04 < johnc4510> The rest of the case badges we will use as give aways at Install Fests, Demos, and anywhere we feel they would help us to advocate Ubuntu.
21:04 -!- tapH20guru [n=tapH20gu@wsip-24-249-169-46.ph.ph.cox.net] has joined #ubuntu-arizona
21:04 < johnc4510> tapH20guru: hi
21:04 < tapH20guru> hey
21:05 <     tyche> johnc4510: Do you want your address in the newsletter?
21:05 < johnc4510> yeah, it's ok
21:05 < tyche> Thanks
21:05 < johnc4510> i'm going to repeat that for tapH20guru 
21:05 < tapH20guru> thx
21:05 < johnc4510> Case Badges: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges
21:05 < johnc4510> We got our case badges in this week. They are really nice, and very well made. I thing everyone will be happy with them.
21:06 < johnc4510> We got a total of 495 stick on computer case emblems as shown in the above link. Any member can have up to 2 of them for free. If you need more, we will work something out. To receive yours, please send me a self addressed stamped envelope with the number of badges you want. (Up to 2). 
21:06 < johnc4510> John Crawford
21:06 < johnc4510> 3003 W. Broadway Blvd. #20
21:06 < johnc4510> Tucson, AZ 85745
21:06 < tapH20guru> sweet
21:06 < johnc4510> Again if you want more, you need to speak with me either after the meeting or sometime this week. 
21:06 < johnc4510> yep
21:06 < evilgourmet> sounds good johnc4510 
21:06 < johnc4510> ok, next
21:07 < johnc4510> Jeff Martin aka evilgourmet is setting up an install fest for his area. Kingman, Lake Havasu, etc. https://edge.launchpad.net/~mcc-ubuntu 
21:07 < johnc4510> I'm going to set up a wiki page and make this a sub-team project. Jeff has asked for volunteers, but I'm not sure that we have anyone else in that area.
21:07 < johnc4510> However, when we get the Ed Team pages ready, it should help with support by giving insight to the various pre-installed programs and also showing alternatives to them. Please join Jeff's team at the launchpad link above and let's help support him and his project. :)  Nice work Jeff !!
21:08 < tyche> Way to go, Jeff!
21:08 < johnc4510> evilgourmet: you want to add anything?
21:08 < johnc4510> if not i would like to ask a couple of ?'s
21:08 < johnc4510> :)
21:08 < johnc4510> like
21:09 < johnc4510> which Ubuntu release are you going to use
21:09 < evilgourmet> Well the ubuntu-mcc is mostly for people to install and help others install and run single or dual boot ubuntu M$ installations
21:09 < evilgourmet> there is quite a bit of interest, I have handed out a few CDs 
21:09 < evilgourmet> Really waiting for the 7.10 fianl to start the installfest
21:10 < johnc4510> ah, so we can add places we want to have install fests at to your team list?
21:10 < evilgourmet> up till then I am setting up a school club, 
21:10 < evilgourmet> yes, posting install fests there would be great
21:10 < johnc4510> cool
21:10 < johnc4510> that makes a lot of sense
21:10 < evilgourmet> I would be glad to travel to Flagstaff to help if they have one up there
21:11 < johnc4510> cool
21:11 < johnc4510> i'll keep that in mind
21:11 < johnc4510> any other questions about this 
21:11 *** johnc4510 ok next then
21:11 < johnc4510> Gutsy Release Parties
21:11 < johnc4510> Tucson and Phoenix
21:12 < johnc4510> Ok, tyche has a tentative place to hold the Phoenix Party. Deseert Ridge Shopping Mall. It has plenty of seating, is a nice place, has free wifi, and is right off the 101 freeway. Of course, if someone has a better idea, we are always open to suggestions. 
21:12 < johnc4510> also food is available there
21:12 < tyche> Best of all, no reservations are necessary, and dress is casual.
21:13 *** johnc4510 do any of you phoenix people have any other ideas about a place or should we go with that one?
21:13 < tapH20guru> what time / date are we thinking?
21:14 < johnc4510> coming to that is a sec
21:14 < johnc4510> :)
21:14 < tapH20guru> k
21:14 < johnc4510> As for Tucson, I've sent an email to Bookman's requesting a booking of their conference room on East Speedway. I have not heard back from them yet, so I don't know for sure that it is free. Their web site shows conflicting data. If it is not open, I have a couple of other ideas. Again, if you have an idea, feel free to give it.
21:14 < johnc4510> These Gusty Release Parties will be on Thursday, October 18th. Times are not finalized yet, but should be around 7:00 PM local time. We will have more on that later. These events will be open to members, their significant others, and any friends or acquaintances who you think would be interested in learning about the latest version of Ubuntu.
21:15 < johnc4510> in other words, the more the merrier
21:16 < johnc4510> so, once we get these set, i encourage everyone to bring a friend and help us kick off the new version of Ubuntu
21:16 < johnc4510> :)
21:16 < johnc4510> advocacy is one of the basic things the loco'
21:16 < johnc4510> are set up for
21:16 < johnc4510> and 
21:17 < johnc4510> this is a great chance to advocate for Ubuntu in AZ
21:17 *** johnc4510 does anyone else have anything else they wish to discuss?
21:18 < UncleSam> End of Meeting Have a great week!
</pre> block.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
