{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre> 
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	fuzzyvader	+1
[21:00]	Siph0n	+1
[21:00]	toddc	+1
[21:00]	toddc	Our launch pad site https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona
[21:00]	toddc	Our web site is azloco.com
[21:00]	toddc	azlocobbb.banditti.com Big Blue Button sever-- Audio Video Chat with others but still in testing
[21:00]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	toddc	Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:01]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me
[21:01]	LostPenguin	++
[21:01]	toddc	Here is new news from ubuntu news:
[21:01]	toddc	The Official Ubuntu Book Sixth Edition
[21:01]	toddc	is soon the be released so start looking for it
[21:02]	kennymc0	sorry i'm late +1
[21:02]	toddc	np
[21:02]	toddc	thanks for showing up
[21:02]	-->|	Dazed_75 (~larry@173-16-160-52.client.mchsi.com) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:02]	kennymc0	was watching kung fu and lost track of time
[21:02]	xHans	moin moin
[21:02]	toddc	new pc built in a usb stick sized for students with ubuntu preinstalled cool pc for 25$ rasberry PI
[21:02]	Dazed_75	Greetings
[21:02]	toddc	welcome Dazed-_75
[21:03]	toddc	welcome xHans
[21:03]	toddc	new pc built in a usb stick sized for students with ubuntu preinstalled cool pc for 25$ rasberry PI
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.geek.com/articles/games/game-developer-david-braben-creates-a-usb-stick-pc-for-25-2011055/
[21:03]	toddc	MS buys Skype to use on windows mobile and xbox platforms ( what does the future hold for skype?)
[21:04]	toddc	Lenovo to start selling Ubuntu Thinkpads in china
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.muktware.com/news/12/2011/1145
[21:04]	toddc	Ubuntu Makes Lbuntu a official Derivative
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/Ubuntu-Makes-Lubuntu-Official-Derivative
[21:04]	toddc	How to enable exFAT in ubuntu
[21:04]	toddc	http://apcmag.com/how-to-enable-exfat-in-ubuntu.htm
[21:04]	scar	+1
[21:04]	toddc	Virtualization With KVM On Ubuntu 11.04
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.howtoforge.com/virtualization-with-kvm-on-ubuntu-11.04
[21:05]	toddc	welcome scar
[21:05]	scar	thx
[21:05]	toddc	NOTICE ubuntu 9.10 end of life april 30
[21:05]	toddc	Linux Developer Gets laid
[21:05]	toddc	http://www.bbspot.com/News/2000/9/linux_laid.html
[21:05]	toddc	Reasons You Haven't Installed Linux Yet
[21:05]	toddc	11.You're afraid of Gnomes.
[21:06]	toddc	10. You can't pronounce Ubuntu, and too embarrassed to ask.
[21:06]	toddc	9. No disk space left after installing Vista Ultimate.
[21:06]	toddc	8. Your Dad uses a GNU/Linux distro and you're rebelling against authority.
[21:06]	toddc	7. You have intimacy issues and are unable to even mount a hard drive.
[21:06]	kennymc0	lol
[21:06]	toddc	6. You don't trust anything that's free, including speech.
[21:06]	toddc	5. Steve Ballmer threatened to kill you if you do.
[21:07]	toddc	4. You don't care who can access your personal information.
[21:07]	toddc	3. Still waiting for Hurd kernel.
[21:07]	toddc	2. Kids at school already harrass you enough for using Opera, don't want to give them any more reasons.
[21:07]	toddc	1. You'd rather use something secure like OpenBSD.
[21:07]	soldats	LOL
[21:07]	toddc	TEAM NEWS
[21:08]	toddc	I liked that list
[21:08]	toddc	Team Status is still in question and has not moved to my knowledge I have updated the azloco site a bit and made some progress on the team wiki but it still needs more updating before we can go before the council
[21:08]	toddc	I also would like some help copying meeting logs to out team wiki and azloco this would be weekly and should only take a few minutes
[21:08]	toddc	The BBB server is working well. I recommend everyone try it at http://azlocobbb.banditti.comand pick a log in name. I think we can start talking about holding meetings there and picking a date to switch. Any thoughts?
[21:09]	Dazed_75	Everyone should be able to hear and talk even if they have no camera
[21:10]	Dazed_75	Headsets really do help keep the noise down tho
[21:10]	toddc	there is a chat in there and with a speaker they should be fully involved
[21:11]	Dazed_75	and if you don't want to SEE me or Todd, you can turn our pictures off
[21:11]	toddc	my camera lens broke
[21:11]	toddc	TEMPE INSTALLFEST NEWS
[21:11]	toddc	Server installfest is Next Saturday 5/21 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
[21:11]	fuzzyvader	prev link no worky?
[21:11]	Dazed_75	bj0: are you on tonight?
[21:12]	fuzzyvader	or am I f'n it up somehow?
[21:12]	toddc	should I am there
[21:12]	fuzzyvader	Firefox can't find the server at azlocobbb.banditti.comand.
[21:12]	fuzzyvader	.com?
[21:12]	toddc	azlocobbb.bandittti.com
[21:12]	fuzzyvader	righty oh
[21:13]	toddc	copied wrong
[21:13]	toddc	Azloco/plug installfest is a week from Next Saturday 5/28 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
[21:14]	toddc	The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:14]	toddc	Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
[21:15]	toddc	Linux Security Hackfest 12-3 Sat AT Gangplank see azloco.com calender for more info
[21:15]	toddc	I fially made it to one yesterday
[21:15]	Dazed_75	Regular Installfest is on the 28th
[21:15]	xHans	BBB is auto-translating the chat
[21:15]	toddc	xHans do you have any news for us?
[21:16]	xHans	a few things
[21:16]	xHans	Free Software Stammtisch east valley is Tuesday
[21:16]	xHans	19:00 at Iguana Macks, 1371 N. Alma School Rd
[21:16]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:16]	xHans	after the Stammtisch is ABLEconf's kickoff mtg
[21:16]	xHans	starts at 21:00, still a Iguana Macks
[21:17]	xHans	http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/97
[21:17]	xHans	this month we should have a really good turnout for Stammtisch. I hope many stay to help with ABLEconf
[21:17]	xHans	Server Installfest this Saturday
[21:17]	xHans	toddc: already mentioned it
[21:17]	xHans	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/05/21/2739/-/server-installfest.html
[21:17]	xHans	security hackfest this Saturday
[21:17]	-->|	[R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:18]	xHans	http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/05/21/2146/-/linux-security-hackfest.html
[21:18]	xHans	that's it
[21:18]	toddc	Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date
[21:18]	xHans	bitte
[21:18]	toddc	anyone have anything else?
[21:19]	xHans	thanks for giving us space for inter-group news
[21:19]	toddc	np
[21:19]	toddc	if there is nothing else?
[21:19]	toddc	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
