{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in azlocobb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> do i count as new?
* Rich_ (c757e5ab@gateway/web/freenode/ip.199.87.229.171) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Rich_> +1
<toddc> hi Rich_
<Rich_> Hi
<toddc> just getting started
<Rich_> cool
<toddc> Never trust an operating system you don't have sources for.
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> New Kernel Vulnerability Affrcts 12.04 LTS.  Fixed Kernel Available in Updates
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/New-Kernel-Vulnerability-Affects-Ubuntu-12-04-LTS-282765.shtml
* spinrage (~spinrage@ip68-3-158-69.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> 1 sec technical difficulties
<toddc> hi spinrage
<Dazed_75> As Windows 8 Looms, Dell Readies Ubuntu Laptop for Fall Release
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/computing/133112-as-windows-8-looms-dell-readies-ubuntu-laptop-for-fall-release
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2012/07/22/linux-fans-rejoice-dell-xps-13-will-come-with-ubuntu/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Web Apps aim to blur the lines between desktop and web apps
<Dazed_75> http://liliputing.com/2012/07/ubuntu-web-apps-aim-to-blur-lines-between-desktop-and-web-apps.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/how-to-install-ubuntus-new-web-apps-feature
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/ubuntu-unveil-new-web-apps-feature-for-12-10
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/list-of-that-websites-support-unitys-new-web-apps-feature
<spinrage> +1
<Dazed_75> Fogger Brings To-Do App Wunderlust Back to Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/fogger-brings-wunderlist-back-to-the-ubuntu-desktop
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/wunderlist-fogger-app-now-ppa-free
<spinrage> hi toddc!
<Dazed_75> Nautilus Patch Brings Missing File Manager Features Back to Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/nautilus-patch-brings-missing-file-manager-features-back-to-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Thunderbird 15 (in Beta now) Adds New Look, ubuntu One Support
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/thunderbird-15-beta-1-lands-with-new-look-ubuntu-one-support
<Dazed_75> Mark Shutleworth: "We Didn't Want Ubuntu To End Up Like Windows 8"
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/mark-shuttleworth-the-desktop-we-had-4-years-ago-sucked
<Dazed_75> First Issue of GIMP Magazine Coming This Fall
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/first-issue-of-gimp-magazine-coming-this-fall
<Dazed_75> How to Run Multiple Commands In Terminal
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/how-to-run-multiple-commands-in-terminal.html
<Dazed_75> Beware of Dangerous Commands When Using a Terminal
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2011/08/beware-of-dangerous-commands-when-using.html
<Dazed_75> How Browsers Verify Website Identities and Protect against Imposters (and how you tell)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/119723/htg-explains-how-browsers-verify-website-identities-and-protect-against-imposters
<Dazed_75> What is a Zombie Process on Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/119815/htg-explains-what-is-a-zombie-process-on-linux
<Dazed_75> How to Access an exFAT (extended FAT) File System in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/access-exfat-file-system-in-ubuntu/2012/07/23
<Dazed_75> Record Your Desktop to a File or Stream It Over the Internet Using VLC
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/120202/how-to-record-your-desktop-to-a-file-or-stream-it-over-the-internet-with-vlc
<Dazed_75> Download Monitor App for Bandwidth Monitoring on Ubuntu/LinuxMint
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/07/download-monitor-useful-app-for-bandwidth-monitoring-on-ubuntulinux-mint.html
<Dazed_75> M
<Dazed_75> Managing a Headless Virtualbox Installation With phpvirtualbox
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtoforge.com/managing-a-headless-virtualbox-installation-with-phpvirtualbox-opensuse-12.1
<Dazed_75> ProxBash - a Bash Script to manage Proxmox VE
<Dazed_75> http://lxer.raymii.org/cms/p_Proxbash_-_Bash_script_to_manage_Proxmox_VE
<Dazed_75> What's New in the Next Ubuntu (12.10)?
<Dazed_75> http://mybroadband.co.za/news/software/55493-whats-new-with-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> Show Your PDF with Style on Linux
<Dazed_75> http://linuxaria.com/recensioni/show-your-pdf-with-style-with-linux?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Baobob (Disk Usage Analyzer already in Ubuntu): A Tree to Discover Your Disk's Usage in Linux
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/baobab-a-tree-to-discover-your-disks-usage-linux/2012/07/26
<Dazed_75> Latest Skype Realease Added to Ubuntu Software Center (well, maybe not the actual latest)
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/latest-skype-release-added-to-ubuntu-software-center
<Dazed_75> 3ed Party Developer Adds New Features to Ubuntu TV (video)
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/3rd-party-dev-hacks-stunning-new-features-into-ubuntu-tv
<Dazed_75> Latest Stable VLC Heading to Ubuntu 12.04, Help Test It Now
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/latest-stable-vlc-heading-to-ubuntu-12-04-help-test-it-now
* Yorokobi (~Yorokobi@pdpc/supporter/professional/yorokobi) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Some Small Tips to Use VLC
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/some-small-tips-to-use-vlc.html
<Dazed_75> Use "free" tp monitor Memory Use Continuously
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/use-free-to-monitor-memory-usage.html
<Dazed_75> ... and thats it from AJ
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc>  have a couple more to add!
<Yorokobi> sar -r > free for monitoring IMO
<Yorokobi> +1, btw
<toddc> coool welcome Yorokobi
<toddc> 5 Ways to Provide Feedback to Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/118511/5-ways-to-provide-feedback-to-ubuntu/
<toddc> Valve announces Ubuntu port of Steam, Source engine, and Left 4 Dead 2
<toddc> http://arstechnica.com/gaming/2012/07/valve-announces-ubuntu-port-of-steam-source-engine-and-left-4-dead-2/
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> PLEASE NOTE The September 2 Meeting has been canceled due to the Labor Day week- end Enjoy!!
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Linux Administration Support
<toddc>  
<toddc>  Michela John ConsultNet
<toddc>  60 Rio Salado Parkway Suite 900
<toddc>  Tempe, Arizona
<toddc>  480.366.5806- Office 602.576.4841- Cell
<toddc> Part time On-call Linux Admin
<toddc> mddz7-3153841919@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is August 4  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<toddc> PLEASE NOTE We have moved the September 1 installfest to August 25 so that we may have labor day weekend off
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> We finished the new proxmox VM
<toddc> server Thanks to Dewayne and Justin and Don and Walter
<toddc> we also installed it and started testing it.
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on August 11 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday August 18 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Walter Finished the new drupal web site but we need input. It currently in drupal Zen theme
<toddc> please check it out and and give us thoughts on how it looks and or changes that we need test.azloco.com
<toddc> http://test.azloco.com/
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> RC Bug Fixing Workflow---MOTU School
<toddc> Monday July 31 7-8 am
<toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net
<toddc> A grand tour of the channels and bots
<toddc> Thu, August 2, 6-7am
<toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net
<toddc> Ubuntu Hour
<toddc> we had a good turnout at the last ubuntu hour and meet several current users and even did a install
<toddc> next one will be aug 23
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Developer Meeting August 2, 7-9pm at University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<scott_ev> +1
<toddc> hi scott_ev  welcome
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday August 9  7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<scott_ev> sorry, I almost forgot again
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest has a new home August 14 11-2
<toddc> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/meetings/20-linux-security-hackfest/87-linux-security-hackfest-has-a-new-home.html
<Dazed_75> hiya scott_ev
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday August 21 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<scott_ev> hey toddc , Dazed_75
<scott_ev> and everyone else
<toddc> that is all I have but would like some comments on the test site
<toddc> http://test.azloco.com/
<scott_ev> if the backgrounds haven't been re-added I like it as-is.  It's clean, simple, and modern-retro
<toddc> links all work but one for the test server outline
<toddc> should we move it to active or wait?
<scott_ev> move it
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +2
<toddc> ok I will see about getting it online
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<Rich_> I'm thinking I could use a small (7 to 10") tablet.  Are there any readily available now that I can load Ubuntu on?
<Dazed_75> Not that I know of
<toddc> maybe this fall
<Dazed_75> There is a project to make it load but only with li,itations so far
<Rich_> Thanks, I haven't seen any reference to anything available now.  It can wait a bit longer.
<toddc> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTA3MTM
<Dazed_75> http://gigaom.com/mobile/hp-touchpad-becomes-a-low-cost-ubuntu-tablet/
<toddc> spark was renamed and runs KDE
<Dazed_75> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xEhetGMWVdI
<Rich_> Interesting
<Dazed_75> That last is about ubuntu Linux Tablet
<toddc> so we may be able to soon but they are still not quite ready and still in the testing stage
<Rich_> It looks like the only option if I want one now is to get my greasy hands on an HP touchpad.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
