{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


01 October - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 2 attendees
* Configured samba access with system-config-samba
* Extended disks to increase volumes on VM's
03 October - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* NO DATA AVAILABLE
04 October - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2004%2C%202020%20Meeting
08 October - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 13 attendees
* Announced that Ubuntu 20.10 beta has been released and can be downloaded should you want to try it.  Do not use it on your every day computer.
* A question was raised by a member why his Skype started when he starts his computer.  To stop this from occurring Skype must be unchecked on the list of startup applications.
* Discussed the proper way of ending a VPN session.
* Discussed why you cannot use a bootable flash drive to store your other files.
08 October - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* NO DATA AVAILABLE
17 October - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* NO DATA AVAILABLE
18 October - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2018%2C%202020%20Meeting
22 October - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 2 attendees
* Installed/tested Ubuntu 20.10 (released today)
* Configured chrome shell extensions, dash to dock
* Setup/tested Wake-on-LAN on a server

  
