{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 03 August – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed ssh, port 443, and Splunk
* There was also a general discussion of World History
* 05 August – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* Repaired an NVIDIA software issue.
* Had to identify a faulty cable on an individual's server that required replacement.  The cable had to be ordered.
* Conducted one on one instruction for an individual with a wifi problem 
* One installation (Slackware)
* Repaired Team server
* 06 August – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2006%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 13 August - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2013%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 19 August – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 10 attendees
* Installed Ubuntu to a 16 GB flash drive
* Repaired remote access to a samba server
* Worked on a second Samba server issues 
* Repaired installfest server by replacing USB to RJ-45 converter which was not making consistent contact.
* Updated PXE server with Ubuntu 16.04.3
* 20 August – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2020%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 24 August - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees
* Discussed how to conduct an md5sum on a downloaded ISO.
* Discussed the possible cause of a failed Ubuntu install.  We will do a re-install at a  future meeting.
* Discussed why videos from a hand held camera would not copy to the computer.
* Discussed ideas for future presentations at Ubuntu Hours and the Cochise LUG.
* 24 August - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees (one was new)
* Discussed hdd testing, router software, vpn's, and virtual servers
* 27 August – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2027%2C%202017%20Meeting
