{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 22 Jul at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-07-22-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtogeek.com/linux-is-free-but-i-buy-linux-pcs/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/updated-orange-pi-teases-upgraded-orange-pi-5-pro-sbc-with-lpddr5-and-m-2-key-slot/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' http://techrights.org/n/2024/07/17/Billions_of_Computers_Run_Linux_and_Many_Use_Debian_or_a_Deriva.shtml   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/linux-os/top-10-stories-about-compute-engines-linux-of-2024-so-far   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2024/07/how-to-display-ebook-thumbnails-in-nautilus   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/nvidia-gpu-kernel-modules-go-open-source/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2024/07/showtime-gnome-video-player-flathub   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/audacity-3-6-open-source-audio-editor-released-with-master-effects-ffmpeg-7-support   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-powerpoint/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-notepad/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/webserverperformancetools/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-adobe-acrobat-reader-on-ubuntu-20-04-focal-fossa-linux   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxjournal.com/content/simple-linux-shell-scripts-bash-python-and-perl-will-get-you-and-running   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/useful-free-open-source-git-tools/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/dev-sda/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.makeuseof.com/linux-find-large-files-how-to/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/htpasswd-command/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/fsck-command/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/exit-status-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-use-chattr-command-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/maximizing-your-content-management-system-linux   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxandubuntu.com/home/wordpress-vs-core-web-vitals/   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Rust-Safety-Standard-Linux-RFC   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/install-minikube/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/what-is-docker-and-kubernetes/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/nvidia-shifts-to-open-source-gpu-kernel-modules/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org   (MajB, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/svecc-events/   (MajB, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/   (MajB, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (59)
* Stephenm (57)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:31 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <Stephenm> sorry I'm late

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <Stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:02 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <Stephenm> News is random so take what you are looking for.

 04:03 <Stephenm> Linux Is Free, But I Pay for Linux PCs: Here's Why

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.howtogeek.com/linux-is-free-but-i-buy-linux-pcs/

 04:03 <Stephenm> (Updated) Orange Pi Teases Upgraded Orange Pi 5 Pro SBC with LPDDR5 and M.2 Key Slot

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/updated-orange-pi-teases-upgraded-orange-pi-5-pro-sbc-with-lpddr5-and-m-2-key-slot/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Billions of Computers Run Linux and Many Use Debian (or a Derivative of It)

 04:04 <Stephenm> http://techrights.org/n/2024/07/17/Billions_of_Computers_Run_Linux_and_Many_Use_Debian_or_a_Deriva.shtml

 04:04 <Stephenm> Top 10 Stories About Compute Engines, Linux of 2024 So Far

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/linux-os/top-10-stories-about-compute-engines-linux-of-2024-so-far

 04:04 <Stephenm> How to Display eBook Thumbnails in Nautilus (Quick Tip)

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2024/07/how-to-display-ebook-thumbnails-in-nautilus

 04:05 <Stephenm> NVIDIA’s GPU Kernel Modules Goes Open-Source

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/nvidia-gpu-kernel-modules-go-open-source/

 04:05 <Stephenm> GNOME’s New Video Player is Now Available on Flathub

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2024/07/showtime-gnome-video-player-flathub

 04:05 <Stephenm> Audacity 3.6 Open-Source Audio Editor Released with Master Effects, FFmpeg 7 Support

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/audacity-3-6-open-source-audio-editor-released-with-master-effects-ffmpeg-7-support

 04:06 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Microsoft PowerPoint

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-powerpoint/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Microsoft Notepad

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-notepad/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Top 13 Web Server Performance Testing Tools

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/webserverperformancetools/

 04:07 <Stephenm> How to Install Adobe Acrobat Reader on Ubuntu and Debian Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-adobe-acrobat-reader-on-ubuntu-20-04-focal-fossa-linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> Simple Linux Shell Scripts in Bash, Python, and Perl That Will Get You Up and Running

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxjournal.com/content/simple-linux-shell-scripts-bash-python-and-perl-will-get-you-and-running

 04:08 <Stephenm> 29 Useful Free and Open Source Git Tools

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/useful-free-open-source-git-tools/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Purpose of /dev/sda on Linux (When to Use It with an Example)

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/dev-sda/

 04:08 <Stephenm> How to Find Large Files on Linux

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.makeuseof.com/linux-find-large-files-how-to/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Mastering Htpasswd Command on Linux

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/htpasswd-command/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Mastering the fsck Command: Repair Linux File Systems Like a Pro

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/fsck-command/

 04:09 <Stephenm> What is Exit Status Code ($?) of Last Command in Linux

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/exit-status-in-linux/

 04:10 <Stephenm> How to Use Chattr Command in Linux

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-use-chattr-command-in-linux/

 04:10 <Stephenm> Maximizing Your Content Management System with Linux

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/maximizing-your-content-management-system-linux

 04:10 <Stephenm> WordPress vs. Core Web Vitals: Navigating Google Core Web Vitals Challenges

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://linuxandubuntu.com/home/wordpress-vs-core-web-vitals/

 04:10 <Stephenm> Rust Safety Standard Proposed For The Linux Kernel

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Rust-Safety-Standard-Linux-RFC

 04:11 <Stephenm> How to Install, Configure, and Use Minikube on Ubuntu

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/install-minikube/

 04:11 <Stephenm> What is Docker and Kubernetes?

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/what-is-docker-and-kubernetes/

 04:11 <Stephenm> NVIDIA Shifts To Open-Source GPU Kernel Modules

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/nvidia-shifts-to-open-source-gpu-kernel-modules/

 04:12 <Stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:12 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:12 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:12 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:12 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:12 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:13 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:13 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:13 <MajB> There are 260 open canonical Jobs today

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <MajB> There are 20 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:13 <MajB> There are 10 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:13 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:14 <MajB> 25 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 01 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 03 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:14 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 04 August, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:14 <MajB> 08 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 08 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 17 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:14 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 18 August, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:14 <MajB> 22 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS:

 04:14 <MajB> Ryan Ridenour

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group

 04:15 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org

 04:15 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:15 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 08 August, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 20 August, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:15 <MajB> https://svecc.com/svecc-events/

 04:15 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group

 04:15 <MajB> https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 23 July1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
