{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
 {{{
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:02:54] 	 * johnc4510 says it's time is everyone ready?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:03:10] <tyche>	+1
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:03:20] <Wolf_45>	+1
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:03:36] <johnc4510>	is that it?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:03:41] <johnc4510>	:/
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:04:04] <Wolf_45>	But, but, but..........it's ME!
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:04:11] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:04:13] <tyche>	ROFL
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:04:25] <johnc4510>	and we love you but...
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:04:28] <johnc4510>	:(
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:05:09] <johnc4510>	ok, we can go over a couple of things then
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:05:40] <Wolf_45>	I need new glasses.....thought you said something else, john.  :-)
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:05:55] <tyche>	Wolf_45: TMI
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:05:59] <johnc4510>	wed night we may be on radio in phoenix
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:06:25] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: do you know the time and station #?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:06:33] <Wolf_45>	woot!
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:06:39] <LuftHans>	the broadcast will be Sunday
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:06:46] <johnc4510>	ah, ok
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:06:50] <johnc4510>	so it's canned
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:06:52] <johnc4510>	np
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:07:02] <LuftHans>	http://www.GutsyGeeks.com/
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:07:09] <johnc4510>	thx
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:07:09] <LuftHans>	pre-recorded, not canned
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:07:19] <johnc4510>	lol   ok
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:07:28] <tyche>	canned
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:07:47] <tyche>	It's a technical term, used by people in the business
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:07:54] <johnc4510>	i'll send a email to our team list if it comes off    with the details
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:08:17] <LuftHans>	tyche: use to indicate 3rd party content to be re-used
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:08:43] <tyche>	Used for something that's been recorded.
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:08:43] <johnc4510>	it will probably cover our team getting approved, and anything else i can cram in that the host agrees to
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:08:46] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:08:47] <LuftHans>	Gutsy Geeks is pre-recording the shows, not taking generic sources and inserting themselves
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:09:13] <johnc4510>	ok, open source conference
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:09:32] <Wolf_45>	I thought they were doing it in case of a wardrobe malfunction.  Can we get it online?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:09:55] <LuftHans>	Wolf_45: available online in ogg and some proprietary format as well
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:09:59] <johnc4510>	Wolf_45: visit the link LuftHans gave above and see
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:10:08] <johnc4510>	cool
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:10:44] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: how do you want to handle subscribing the lug contacts to the new mail list?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:10:59] <azteech>	evening arizona ..... sorry I'm late ..
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:11:04] <johnc4510>	azteech: hi
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:11:11] <Wolf_45>	Cool, thx LuftHans
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:11:19] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: invite them to join
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:11:30] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:11:53] <johnc4510>	i haven't had much time this wk to do work on the conference
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:12:00] <johnc4510>	you have anything LuftHans
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:12:01] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:12:06] 	 * LuftHans has invited some people who would be useful in organizing the conference, several of whom represent different groups
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:12:19] <tyche>	Cool
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:12:43] <johnc4510>	should we know which groups so we don't cross up each other?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:12:46] <LuftHans>	I've been making personal notes on some tracks ideas and some speakers and other random stuff
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:13:05] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: if we both invite a group that's not too bad
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:13:12] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:13:27] <johnc4510>	mine will mostly be tucson and green valley
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:13:35] <LuftHans>	we'll need to come up with a documentation repository at some point, but for now let's worry about getting underway
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:13:41] <johnc4510>	but tyche might hit some of the phoenix groups
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:13:51] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:14:18] <LuftHans>	BTW, Dennis K reminded me about Software Freedom Day, http://softwarefreedomday.org/
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:14:33] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:14:43] <johnc4510>	when is that this yr
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:14:50] <LuftHans>	Sept 20 seems like a doable date for the conf...
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:15:08] <johnc4510>	combine the two?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:15:18] <LuftHans>	not saying we have to get the events to coincide, but that's definitely worth thinking about
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:15:29] <johnc4510>	yep
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:15:47] <LuftHans>	even if we move future events to another date it would be a good day for the initial event
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:16:36] <azteech>	why not just think of making some workshops, as part of the event .. and make it one of them?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:16:45] <johnc4510>	k, that doesn't give us much time
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:17:16] <LuftHans>	azteech: yeah, lots of options, we need to start evaluating them and making plans :)
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:17:23] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: yup
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:17:37] <johnc4510>	azteech: yeah, we'll look at that
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:17:39] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:18:16] <johnc4510>	ok, i'll get on the ball this wk and get with the tucson and green valley people
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:18:25] <johnc4510>	get that rolling on the mail list
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:19:02] <johnc4510>	once we get a few subscribed, we need to start using it as quick as possible
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:19:06] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:19:27] <johnc4510>	about 12 wks left
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:19:27] <azteech>	mailing list?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:19:52] <LuftHans>	I figure we'll start organizing after tonight's mtg
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:19:54] <johnc4510>	azteech: it's a mail list for the conference comittee
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:19:59] <azteech>	we have another one, besides the group list?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:19:59] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:20:05] <johnc4510>	azteech: it
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:20:10] <azteech>	ah, okay
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:20:17] <johnc4510>	it's not one you need to worry about right now
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:20:30] <johnc4510>	i'll relay info as we go along
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:20:32] <azteech>	agreed ..
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:20:39] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:21:02] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: great
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:21:28] <johnc4510>	ok, anything else on the conference for now?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:22:42] <johnc4510>	k   thx hans, i'll be around later
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:22:49] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:23:00] <johnc4510>	the ubuntu web site we are working on
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:23:21] <johnc4510>	tyche and i found a theme we really like
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:23:50] <johnc4510>	http://s204.photobucket.com/albums/bb24/johnc4510/?action=view&current=Aurora.png
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:23:53] <johnc4510>	http://s204.photobucket.com/albums/bb24/johnc4510/?action=view&current=Events.png
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:24:02] <johnc4510>	couple of screenshots
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:24:52] <johnc4510>	let's hear what you think?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:25:39] <azteech>	will let you know after I get them to come  up ..
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:25:47] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:26:14] <johnc4510>	Wolf_45: you still here?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:27:55] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: I like it
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:28:05] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: thx
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:28:10] 	 * LuftHans hopes it's not fixed width
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:28:11] <johnc4510>	its different
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:28:22] <johnc4510>	i think it is
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:28:30] <johnc4510>	i'll have to check though
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:28:41] <tyche>	I don't.  It fills your screen, and you've got a wide screen
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:29:00] <tyche>	If it were fixed width, there'd only be a narrow little thing down the middle.
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:29:02] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:29:24] <azteech>	still trying to get them come come down ..
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:29:30] <johnc4510>	hee hee
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:29:38] <Wolf_45>	Still here - waiting for it to load  :-(
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:29:39] <tyche>	See my blog site for what fixed width would look like.
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:30:26] <johnc4510-laptop>	right   it's narrow
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:30:28] <johnc4510-laptop>	i remember
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:32:21] <azteech>	arggggggggg ... hate sharing dial-up ..... g/f had download going same time ..
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:32:32] <azteech>	will let you know after meeting
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:33:00] <johnc4510>	kk, i'm going to finish up then. you guys can comment on it to me later
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:33:00] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:33:01] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Jun 22 2008] [21:33:10] <johnc4510>	ok, meeting adjourned then}}}
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
