{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

04 July - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* Canceled
06 July - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Worked on the Team Server
07 July - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2007%2C%202024%20Meeting
11 July – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 Attendees
* Discussed the addition of a second fiber optics Internet Provider in town which apparently will have lower prices than the current provider.  Should be operational next year.
* Discussed a possible project for members who are hardware geeks.  We came into a laptop that was dropped and destroyed the ac adapter port.  We have the new part but the repair will require disassembly and soldering.  Anyone who wants to tackle it please contact Rex.
* Discussed the successful installation of George’s printer.  After many hours of research and trial and error he did it himself.
11 July - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed general Linux topics
20 July - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the world wide IT outage
* Provided a new attendee from Michigan with ideas on how to revive his state LoCo
* Assisted a new attendee on installing Debian in a virtual box on his computer
* Discussed Linux anti-virus software
21 July – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2021%2C%202024%20Meeting
23 July - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed General Linux topics   
