{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

01 May – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2001%2C%202022%20Meeting
05 May – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed features of Ubuntu 22.04
* Discussed alternatives to the AZLOCO Google account
07 May – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 3 attendees
* Discussed how to bypass BIOS password
* Assisted in installation and configuration of Nut
12 May - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees
* Opened Big Blue Button and Zoom to see if members would attend via one of those applications in addition to those attending the physical meeting.  Advantages and disadvantages will be discussed at the next meeting.
* Ron presented a printing problem with his Brother printer.  He has downloaded the driver and instructions on how to install it.
* Chris offered a bounty of a free phone to anyone who can open his phone as root.
* Discussed the possibility of creating a place where members can suggest a topic that they would like to learn more about.  (Perhaps somewhere on the website)
* Talked about members who have azloco.com email addresses who must migrate any email that they wish to save before 31 May when we will lose those addresses.
* Discussed Ventoy
12 May - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed the future of azloco.com email addresses
15 May - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2015%2C%202022%20Meeting
21 May - AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* There were 3 donated computers present for installation. One had only 128 Mbs of SDRAM and was deemed unusable. One had broken hinges that could not be repaired. The third would not boot even after changing RAM, monitors, cables, video cards, etc. So there were no installs.
* A one on one training session was held for an individual on how to install additional programs.
* A one on one training session was held for an individual on the basics of operating a computer in a Linux environment.
* A one on one training session was held for an individual on how to install using a thumb drive which had already been prepared, to include how to get into the BIOS and how to change the boot order.
21 May - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* Data Not Available
28 May - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed general Linux and Ubuntu topics
