{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 18 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-12-18-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.channelfutures.com/channel-futures/stop-calling-everything-open-source-what-open-source-really-means 
''LINK:'' https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2017/12/11/why-linux-hdcp-isnt-the-end-of-the-world/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/os-jobs/2017/12/3-essential-questions-ask-your-next-tech-interview 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/AWS-to-Help-Build-ONNX-Open-Source-AI-Platform-84971.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/12/joplin-open-source-evernote-alternative 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/12/game-framework-python 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3240938/linux/how-to-squeeze-the-most-out-of-linux-file-compression.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/event/open-source-summit-eu/2017/12/challenges-and-solutions-edge-computing-future 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/If-Youre-Ready-for-Arch-ArchMerge-Eases-the-Way-84986.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/configure-wireless-wake-on-lan-for-linux-wifi-wowlan-card/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/New-Open-Platform-Helps-Enterprises-Manage-Their-Own-Cloud-Services-84989.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/New-Open-Source-Tools-Test-for-VPN-Leaks-85005.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/12/ipv6-auto-configuration-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/juniper-moves-opencontrail-linux-foundation/2017/12/?c_action=home_slider 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/orange-relies-opnfv-transform-networks-future/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/32-bit-os-list/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley 
''LINK:'' http://phx2600.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (72)
* stephenm (36)
* toddc (6)
* xHans (6)
* meetingology (3)
* Eleison23 (3)
* wmack (2)
* dennisk (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 18 04:00:03 2017 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <dennisk> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <wmack> +`

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> The news starts out easy and then gets more open-source

 04:03 <stephenm> Stop Calling Everything "Open Source": What "Open Source" Really Means

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.channelfutures.com/channel-futures/stop-calling-everything-open-source-what-open-source-really-means

 04:03 <stephenm> This does make sense because everyone is using open something these days

 04:03 <stephenm> Why Linux HDCP isn't the end of the world

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2017/12/11/why-linux-hdcp-isnt-the-end-of-the-world/

 04:03 <stephenm> 3 Essential Questions to Ask at Your Next Tech Interview

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/os-jobs/2017/12/3-essential-questions-ask-your-next-tech-interview

 04:03 <stephenm> AWS to Help Build ONNX Open Source AI Platform

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/AWS-to-Help-Build-ONNX-Open-Source-AI-Platform-84971.html

 04:03 <stephenm> An introduction to Joplin, an open source Evernote alternative

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/12/joplin-open-source-evernote-alternative

 04:04 <stephenm> Build a game framework with Python using the Pygame module

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/12/game-framework-python

 04:04 <stephenm> How to squeeze the most out of Linux file compression

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3240938/linux/how-to-squeeze-the-most-out-of-linux-file-compression.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Challenges and Solutions in Edge Computing: The Future

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/event/open-source-summit-eu/2017/12/challenges-and-solutions-edge-computing-future

 04:04 <stephenm> If You're Ready for Arch, ArchMerge Eases the Way

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/If-Youre-Ready-for-Arch-ArchMerge-Eases-the-Way-84986.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How to configure wireless wake-on-lan for Linux WiFi card

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/configure-wireless-wake-on-lan-for-linux-wifi-wowlan-card/

 04:05 <stephenm> New Open Platform Helps Enterprises Manage Their Own Cloud Services

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/New-Open-Platform-Helps-Enterprises-Manage-Their-Own-Cloud-Services-84989.html

 04:05 <stephenm> New Open Source Tools Test for VPN Leaks

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/New-Open-Source-Tools-Test-for-VPN-Leaks-85005.html

 04:05 <stephenm> IPv6 Auto-Configuration in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/12/ipv6-auto-configuration-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> Juniper Moves OpenContrail to the Linux Foundation

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/juniper-moves-opencontrail-linux-foundation/2017/12/?c_action=home_slider

 04:05 <stephenm> With OPNFV, Orange Plans a Full-Scale Rollout of Network Functions Virtualization

 04:05 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/orange-relies-opnfv-transform-networks-future/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> Open Source OS Still supporting 32-bit Architecture and Why it???s Important

 04:06 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/32-bit-os-list/

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:07 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> 24 December AZLOCO weekly meeting (Christmas eve)

 04:08 <MajB> 31 December AZLOCO weekly meeting (New Year’s eve)

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 31 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:09 <MajB> South Bay Circuits – Chandler

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 45 new and a total of 154 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 10 new and a total of 43 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:10 <MajB> 28 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 28 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 04 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 06 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:11 <MajB> 20 January,  AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest,  1000-1600, University of Arizona South Learning Resource Center, 1140 Colombo Ave. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We prov

 04:11 <MajB> 20 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:12 <MajB> dennisk do you have anything for the Team?

 04:12 <dennisk> U of A has upgraded their Cyber Operations degree and you can start the degree program here at MCC. Contact me for more information dennis.kibbe@mesacc.edu

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <toddc> FYI I will be renewing azloco.org azloco.com azloco.net Domains this week I assume all should stay the same?

 04:14 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:14 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is Tue

 04:14 <xHans> We confirmed with Boulders that we will be there this month

 04:15 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

 04:15 <xHans> enjoy the holidays, see everyone next year :)

 04:15 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:15 <toddc> thank you xHans

 04:15 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 23 December 10-4 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 05 January 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 09 January 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:16 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 10 January 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 10 January 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 11 January 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 21 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:18 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:

 04:18 <MajB> ScaLE 08-11 March 2018

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:18 <MajB> Libre Planet 2018, 24-25 March 2018,

 04:18 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:19 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:19 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <Eleison23> Part of my honors project next semester will be involved with Installfest.

 04:20 <toddc> cool

 04:20 <Eleison23> So I will be getting up to speed on the relative merits of other distributions that I don't know so wel.

 04:20 <stephenm> pictures needed

 04:20 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:21 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
