{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #66 for the week September 22, October 5.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Sixty Sixth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-October 1, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday October 5, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the September 28, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08September28

johnc4510 began the meeting by asking new members to introduce themselves:

snarkster first introduced himself by saying, "Ho everyone Im snarkster, some of you met me at Able.conf."

snits then introduced himself by saying, " I'm Jerry Snitselaar. I recently met the loco people @ ABLEconf.  I've been a member of PLUG for a while.  I live in Phoenix and work with Linux and Unix for the day job."

Both new members were warmly welcomed by the Team.

johnc4510 then gave his announcements:

* I sent a nice little thank you email to Liz at UAT from out team. Thx to Paula62 and tyche for getting that together for me.
* Everyone should be aware of the following!!  Reports have been coming in that the e1000e ethernet driver for Intel GigE chipsets, as included upstream in Linux 2.6.27, may under certain conditions irreparably damage your ethernet hardware by corrupting the on-board firmware.  This problem is in the Alpha Intrepid kernel and a patch is in the works, with a fix hopefully by final release in Oct. If you are going to use the alpha please make sure your chipset isn't the one listed above.
* Ubuntu 8.10, Intrepid Ibex Beta is scheduled to be released Thursday, October 2nd, 2008
* Ubuntu 7.04 reaches end-of-life on October 19, 2008. No more security updates after that date, so if you are still using 7.04 you need to upgrade to 7.10. Remember that if you want to upgrade to 8.04, you must first upgrade to 7.10, you can not skip to the most recent version.
* The Server Team wants to know: Where does Ubuntu Server fit into your IT environment? Members of the Server team devised a set of questions to better understand where and why you are using Ubuntu Server to support your IT infrastructure. Completing the survey, http://survey.ubuntu.com/, takes around 20 minutes and topics such as hardware, virtualization and system integration are covered.
* ABLEconf highlighted in today's Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue110.  I hope everyone saw the pics on the wiki:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/OpenSourceConference.
* Yours truly was interview for the Ubuntu Community interviews and you can read all about it at: http://matthewhelmke.net/wordpress/2008/09/22/an-interview-with-john-crawford/ It was a nice little perk for me to be recognized be those conducting the interviews.
* The new Full Circle magazine is out: http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-17/

johnc4510 then began discussing the possibility of an installfest, a release party for Intrepid Ibex, or a combination of the two.  johnc4510 mentioned that from what he'd found out about bulk shipments for approved teams, there should be a early order date for delivery 2 wks after the release. That would make it the 15th as a target date for the installfest. As for a release party, we could still have one closer to the release date, but he needs input on whether we want to do both.  johnc4510 suggested that we do a installfest for the 15th'ish and if we want to do an impromptu release party we can fit that in.  tyche agreed with that, but added that they could both be done on the same day.

johnc4510 then brought up the question of locations for the installfests.  johnc4510 suggest that we have one at ASU and one at U of A, thus covering both Phoenix and Tucson areas.  johnc4510 has made some positive contacts with both universities, and feels that we should be able to put them on there.  There is also the possibility of getting the tech students involved in it.

johnc4510 would like to see the publicity for this one hit harder.  We can concentrate on the campus angle, but we shouldn't overlook others that might be interested.  We have a set date, place and time.  We can start advertising.  Also fliers, we can probably adapt one of our previous fliers to fit.  tyche volunteered to look at the fliers he had, and see what could be done with them.  He'll post suggestions on the forum, when he gets them done.  johnc4510 said he'd get with the two contacts at the two campuses this week and try to firm up a date that's good for all.

Another area that johnc4510 felt something else we've missed out on are: Demos, gaming, etc?  johnc4510 felt that on a college campus if we ran a game server at the installfest it would draw more students.  That's an idea to think about this week and talk about at the next meeting.

johnc4510 then changed the subject to discussing how we could help paul928 get more activity going in Yuma.  paul928 mentioned that there were 2 campuses in Yuma:  NAU and a community college.  johnc4510 felt that we need to find a contact on campus in the computer department that will help us inform the student body.  johnc4510 then asked paul928 if he remembered the fliers we had at the conference.  They would be great for informing students of how to get in touch with us.  Leave a few with the computer departments, maybe put some up on campus bulletin boards, etc.

Johnc4510 then asked slofgren to describe the new server he got.  It is a 2U Dell Power``Edge.  He will have more exact specs later this week.  He's mounting Ubuntu 8.04.01 LTS server edition on it.  He will have a basic install this week then we can plan to put it in Phoenix soon, in space provided by the De``Vry LUG.  tyche suggested that he engrave the name of the Lo``Co inside the case, and copy down the serial number.

johnc4510 then suggested that the Team think about the installfest during the week, to be able to discuss it next week.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:41 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
