{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 March – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees (one new person)
* Troubleshoot ipfire (Firewall/IDS) configuration on a Proxmox server
* Discussed multi-track audio editor Garageband (iMac); similar packages on Ubuntu (Audacity, Ardour)
* Discussed how to use Thunderbird's adaptive filters for spam email
* 03 March - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux/Workshop
* 10 attendees
* 6 Ubuntu installs 
* Repaired team server nfs mounts
* Configured zentyal openvpn
* Trained new user on wifi connections
* Assisted a new user in solving audio problems on a Windows VM on a Linux host.
* 04 March - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2004%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 11 March – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2011%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 17 March – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 12 attendees
* 2 Ubuntu installs (laptop and tablet)
* Backed up a /home directory to a USB flash drive
* Attempted unsuccessfully to install Linux Mint as a dual boot with Microsoft Windows
* Worked on a Sentyl box
* Answered general questions on Ubuntu
* Worked on the Installfest server
* 18 March – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2018%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 22 March - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the upcoming events for Cochise Linux User Group and the AZLOCO Team.
* Discussed the upcoming Installfest (co-sponsored by AZLOCO and CLUG) on 28 April 2018. The preparations are on track.  We will be using Ubuntu 16.04.4 install media.  There simply isn’t sufficient time to prepare and test the Ubuntu 18.04 versions which will be released on the 26th.  Individuals will be provided with information on how to upgrade or they can contact any member for assistance.
* AZLOCO and CLUG participation in the West End Fair this year will be limited to passing out flyers stating who we are and what we do.  The search continues for new community projects to spread the word about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS.
* There was a general discussion on member problems and the various ways to secure solutions.  The best way is to bring the computer to a CLUG meeting or a Ubuntu Hour.  However, there are other options.  Both AZLOCO and CLUG have IRC channels on freenode.net (#Ubuntu-US-AZ and #cochiselinux respectively)where questions can be raised.  Both AZLOCO and CLUG have a mailing list that can be used to present problems and find solutions.  Most, if not all Linux distros, have forums that are devoted to solving problems that individuals have with their computers.  Ubuntu’s forums are at  https://ubuntuforums.org/.
* 22 March - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees (one new person)
* Distributed information and flyer to the new individual
* Solved several Thunderbird email issues
* Installed and tested a PLEX server on a laptop
* Updated Zentyal and community server
* 25 March - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2025%2C%202018%20Meeting
