{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 09 Jul at 04:00 &mdash; 04:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-07-09-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/robolinux-lets-you-easily-run-linux-and-windows-without-dual-booting 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/7/decreasing-vulnerabilities-seen-red-hat-linux 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/6/guide-to-gathering-project-requirements 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/dell-launches-world-s-most-powerful-15-and-17-laptops-powered-by-ubuntu-linux-521849.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/anarchy-linux-alternative-to-arch-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/linux-skills-strong 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/requests-for-comments-to-know 
''LINK:'' https://jvns.ca/blog/2018/06/19/what-i-use-wireshark-for/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/linux-shutdown-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/7/wallabag 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudfoundry.org/blog/youre-choosing-multi-platform-approach-according-research/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-build-nginx-from-source-on-ubuntu-1804-lts/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://careers.nagra.com/?page=advertisement&sort=&p=2 
''LINK:'' https://www.hireart.com/jobs/5183be16/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/dell-launches-world-s-most-powerful-15-and-17-laptops-powered-by-ubuntu-linux-521849.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/cpod-simple-elegant-free-podcast-player/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' http://seagl.org/news/2018/06/04/CFP-open.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/LinuxJournal/Online_Privacy_and_Security_Using_a_Password_Manager 
''LINK:'' https://www.cactuscon.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (59)
* stephenm (34)
* MajB (32)
* xHans (20)
* Ron_A (4)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul  9 04:00:10 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 96119.21

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-azY

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> Tonight is just a few things about Linux.

 04:03 <stephenm> Robolinux Lets You Easily Run Linux and Windows Without Dual Booting

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/7/robolinux-lets-you-easily-run-linux-and-windows-without-dual-booting

 04:04 <stephenm> Haven't tried this yet so don't know how well it works.  However it does seem to have virtualbox already installed on it.

 04:04 <stephenm> Decreasing Vulnerabilities Seen in Red Hat Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/7/decreasing-vulnerabilities-seen-red-hat-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> How to plan projects in the open, without the stress

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/6/guide-to-gathering-project-requirements

 04:04 <stephenm> stress ball required

 04:05 <stephenm> Dell Launches World's Most Powerful 15" and 17" Laptops Powered by Ubuntu Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/dell-launches-world-s-most-powerful-15-and-17-laptops-powered-by-ubuntu-linux-521849.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> Anarchy Linux – A User-Friendly Alternative to Arch Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/anarchy-linux-alternative-to-arch-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How do you keep your Linux skills strong?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/linux-skills-strong

 04:05 <stephenm> lots of commands

 04:05 <stephenm> and VMs

 04:05 <stephenm> 6 RFCs for understanding how the internet works

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/requests-for-comments-to-know

 04:06 <stephenm> most of these are useful and the jokes are pretty funny

 04:06 <stephenm> How I use Wireshark

 04:06 <stephenm> https://jvns.ca/blog/2018/06/19/what-i-use-wireshark-for/

 04:06 <stephenm> Haven't had a serious need for Wireshark but this was a good read.

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Shutdown Command

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/linux-shutdown-command/

 04:07 <stephenm> Wallabag: An open source alternative to Pocket

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/7/wallabag

 04:07 <stephenm> Why You’re Choosing a Multi-Platform Approach, According to Our Research

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.cloudfoundry.org/blog/youre-choosing-multi-platform-approach-according-research/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Build NGINX from source on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-build-nginx-from-source-on-ubuntu-1804-lts/

 04:07 <stephenm> Alright that's the news I have for tonight. Back to you toddc.

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <Ron_A> thank you stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:08 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> Bill Gates teaches a kindergarten class to count to ten.

 04:10 <toddc> ???1, 2, 3, 3.1, 95, 98, ME, 2000, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10.???

 04:10 <toddc> Some people are like a software update. When I see them I think, ???Not now.???

 04:11 <toddc> ???I told my kids not to spend all day at a computer but then I realized I do that myself.???

 04:11 <Ron_A> lmfao

 04:11 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:11 <toddc> IT Security Engineer

 04:12 <toddc> Best Western Hotels and Resorts

 04:12 <toddc> Multible Linux jobs

 04:12 <toddc> https://careers.nagra.com/?page=advertisement&sort=&p=2

 04:12 <toddc> Autonomous Vehicle Test Engineer

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.hireart.com/jobs/5183be16/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist

 04:12 <toddc> PHP Programmer

 04:12 <toddc> Hyperion Works Tempe Az

 04:13 <toddc> Canonical has 46 jobs

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:14 <toddc> Dell Launches World's Most Powerful 15" and 17" Laptops Powered by Ubuntu Linux

 04:14 <toddc> https://news.softpedia.com/news/dell-launches-world-s-most-powerful-15-and-17-laptops-powered-by-ubuntu-linux-521849.shtml

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> CPod ??? simple and elegant free podcast player

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.linuxlinks.com/cpod-simple-elegant-free-podcast-player/

 04:15 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:16 <MajB> 21 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:16 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 26 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <MajB> 03 August,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 04 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:16 <MajB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <MajB> 04 August, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500, Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free softw

 04:17 <MajB> are. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:17 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:17 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <xHans> ja, merci

 04:18 <xHans> PLUG east side is this Thursday at 19:00

 04:18 <xHans> topic: uMatrix for web browser protection

 04:18 <xHans> topic: Technical Debt

 04:18 <xHans> topic: Federated Microblogging with Mastodon

 04:18 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:18 <xHans> Chandler Desert Breeze Substation - 251 Desert Breeze Blvd West, Chandler

 04:18 <xHans> Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday

 04:18 <xHans> this month there's a resume review starting at 18:00

 04:18 <xHans> https://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

 04:18 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa

 04:18 <xHans> PLUG security class is a week from Thursday @ 19.00

 04:19 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:19 <xHans> Chandler Desert Breeze Substation - 251 Desert Breeze Blvd West, Chandler

 04:19 <xHans> cfp for SeaGL is open, they will have office hours again this year

 04:19 <xHans> http://seagl.org/news/2018/06/04/CFP-open.html

 04:19 <xHans> I posted my Linux Journal article, "Online Privacy and Security Using a Password Manager"

 04:19 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/LinuxJournal/Online_Privacy_and_Security_Using_a_Password_Manager

 04:19 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:20 <toddc> thank you xHans for all the help

 04:20 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:20 <xHans> bitte

 04:20 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 July 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 July 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 22 July 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 28 July 1-3:30 p.m. Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St, Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 03 August 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux user Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 04 August 11-3 p.m., Sierra Vista Public Library, Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St, Sierra Vista AZ.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or s

 04:22 <MajB> imply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:23 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:23 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:23 <MajB> CactusCon

 04:23 <MajB> September 28-29 at the Mesa Convention Center

 04:23 <MajB> https://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:23 <MajB> 263 N Center St

 04:23 <MajB> Mesa, AZ 85201

 04:23 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:24 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:24 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:24 <Ron_A> Great meeting thanks

 04:24 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
