{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

03 October – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed return to physical event with location near Arizona State University
05 October – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees (2 new people)
* Set up Virtual Box and discussed other virtual options
* Setup and tested Rust Desk server
* Repaired AZLOCO web server and Lets Encrypt Cert and discussed other/better options
06 October – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2006%2C%202024%20Meeting
10 October - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees (2 new people)
* Discussed Ventoy and its usefulness in installing.  There will be a presentation and a hands on workshop on Ventoy at the next meeting on 22 October.
* One of the new attendees brought in a computer that froze up after an attempt to upgrade.  We worked on it but were unsuccessful in repairing it.  Best guess was the hard drive was ready to die and since the screen was constantly flickering the video card was also in the process of dying.  Could not even get Ubuntu to boot correctly in live mode.  He was offered one of the computers that we have ready for donation but declined the offer.
* Distributed information on the group to the new attendees.
10 October - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Worked on a VirtualBox issue
19 October - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Discussed Clear Linux OS
20 October – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2020%2C%202024%20Meeting
24 October – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed upcoming 2025 AZLOCO events.  No change in planning physical events as of now.
