{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' http://www.techrepublic.com/article/create-a-live-system-iso-for-your-ubuntu-based-linux-machines-using-systemback/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.bidnessetc.com/28971-the-dark-hotel-campaign-puts-frequent-travelers-at-risk/ 
''LINK:'' http://itsecurityguru.org/dark-hotel-targets-execs-hotels-industry-views/#VGJrqY 
''LINK:'' http://www.technewsworld.com/story/81304.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.freenas.org/whats-new/2014/12/freenas-9-3-released-2.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-desktop-of-2014-linux-mint-17-1/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Turla-Trojan-Unearthed-on-Linux-81460.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.internetnews.com/blog/skerner/firefox-35-set-to-be-more-responsive-and-conversational.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/article/2856604/with-unity-8-ubuntu-will-bring-pure-linux-experience-to-mobile-devices.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2014/12/an-everyday-linux-user-review-of-puppy.html 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/35-dollar-quad-core-hacker-sbc-offers-rpi-like-expansion/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Users-Want-Windows-10-Features-That-Are-Already-Available-in-Linux-Systems-467111.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/intel-extends-its-internet-of-things-ecosystem/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.datacenterdynamics.com/focus/archive/2014/12/canonical-launches-snappy-ubuntu-core-cloud 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/snappy-ubuntu-challenges-coreos-and-project-atomic-on-lightweight-cloud-servers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/ubuntu-core-linux-gets-snappy-for-docker-container-security.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/my-favorite-linux-applications-and-desktops-1.html 
''LINK:'' http://techcrunch.com/2014/12/12/yahoo-starts-prompting-chrome-users-to-upgrade-to-firefox/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/12/modular-smartphone-ara-rival-ubuntu-touch 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/parallels-adopts-docker-in-next-cloud-server-release/ 
''LINK:'' http://comptechconf.com and have invited PLUG to attend
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.pepid.com/company/careers.asp?jobcode=it 
''LINK:'' http://cybersponse.com/careers 
''LINK:'' http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://localmotors.recruiting.com/user-interface-developer/job/4979799 
''LINK:'' http://hackaday.com/2014/11/18/running-debian-on-a-graphing-calculator/ 
''LINK:'' http://dcfldd.sourceforge.net/ 
''LINK:'' http://opendyslexic.org/get-it-free/ 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free more classes have been added and more dates
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/100-off-linux-foundation-certification-for-ubuntu-users/1915 
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.securityinnovation.com/training/application-security/computer-based/courses/secure-software-design/owasp-top-5-threats-and-mitigations.html 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.SpokesOnSouthern.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley 
''LINK:'' https://reg.socallinuxexpo.org/reg6/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (151)
* xHans (20)
* meetingology (3)
* programmer317 (2)
* MajB (2)
* wmack (2)
* dren (2)
* Rich_ (1)
* markthomas (1)
* Tuxmann (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 15 03:59:03 2014 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Tuxmann> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <Rich_> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 92557.05

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <dren> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <programmer317> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:01 <toddc> the news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:02 <toddc> Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:02 <toddc> Create a live system ISO for your Ubuntu-based Linux machines using Systemback

 04:02 <toddc> http://www.techrepublic.com/article/create-a-live-system-iso-for-your-ubuntu-based-linux-machines-using-systemback/

 04:02 <toddc> The Dark Hotel Campaign Puts Frequent Travelers At Risk

 04:02 <toddc> http://www.bidnessetc.com/28971-the-dark-hotel-campaign-puts-frequent-travelers-at-risk/

 04:03 <toddc> http://itsecurityguru.org/dark-hotel-targets-execs-hotels-industry-views/#VGJrqY

 04:03 <toddc> The Trouble With Facebook's Tor Link

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.technewsworld.com/story/81304.html

 04:03 <toddc> FreeNAS 9.3 Released

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.freenas.org/whats-new/2014/12/freenas-9-3-released-2.html

 04:03 <toddc> Best Linux Desktop of 2014: Linux Mint 17.1

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-desktop-of-2014-linux-mint-17-1/

 04:04 <toddc> Turla Trojan Unearthed on Linux

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Turla-Trojan-Unearthed-on-Linux-81460.html

 04:04 <toddc> Firefox 35 Set to Be More Responsive and Conversational

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.internetnews.com/blog/skerner/firefox-35-set-to-be-more-responsive-and-conversational.html

 04:04 <toddc> Canonical's Will Cooke on how Unity 8 will bring 'pure' Linux experience to mobile devices

 04:04 <dren> Turla smurla

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.itworld.com/article/2856604/with-unity-8-ubuntu-will-bring-pure-linux-experience-to-mobile-devices.html

 04:05 <wmack> +1

 04:05 <toddc> An Everyday Linux User Review Of Puppy Linux Tahr 6.0 Community Edition

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2014/12/an-everyday-linux-user-review-of-puppy.html

 04:05 <toddc> $35 quad-core hacker SBC offers Raspberry Pi-like size and I/O

 04:05 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/35-dollar-quad-core-hacker-sbc-offers-rpi-like-expansion/

 04:06 <toddc> Users Want Windows 10 Features That Are Already Available in Linux Systems

 04:06 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Users-Want-Windows-10-Features-That-Are-Already-Available-in-Linux-Systems-467111.shtml

 04:06 <toddc> Intel extends its Internet-of-Things ecosystem

 04:06 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/intel-extends-its-internet-of-things-ecosystem/

 04:06 <toddc> Ubuntu Gets Container-Friendly Snappy Core

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.datacenterdynamics.com/focus/archive/2014/12/canonical-launches-snappy-ubuntu-core-cloud

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/article/snappy-ubuntu-challenges-coreos-and-project-atomic-on-lightweight-cloud-servers/

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/ubuntu-core-linux-gets-snappy-for-docker-container-security.html

 04:07 <toddc> My Favorite Linux Applications and Desktops (KDE)

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/my-favorite-linux-applications-and-desktops-1.html

 04:08 <toddc> NVIDIA Launches a New Stable Driver for Linux Users, Latest Kernels Supported

 04:08 <toddc> ews.softpedia.com/news/NVIDIA-Launches-a-New-Set-of-Stable-Drivers-for-Linux-Users-Latest-Kernel-Supported-467178.shtml

 04:08 <toddc> Yahoo Starts Prompting Chrome Users To “Upgrade” To Firefox

 04:08 <toddc> http://techcrunch.com/2014/12/12/yahoo-starts-prompting-chrome-users-to-upgrade-to-firefox/

 04:08 <toddc> This Modular Smartphone Wants to Offer Ubuntu, SailfishOS

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/12/modular-smartphone-ara-rival-ubuntu-touch

 04:09 <toddc> Parallels adopts Docker in next Cloud Server release

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/article/parallels-adopts-docker-in-next-cloud-server-release/

 04:09 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:09 <toddc> Thank adrealine and wmack for updating azloco.org and adding users

 04:10 <toddc> Canceled meeting

 04:10 <toddc> 12/28 (Christmas weekend)

 04:10 <programmer317> thanks adrenaline_  & wmack

 04:10 <toddc> Several members are planning to give talks at the Computer Technology Conference. http://comptechconf.com

 04:10 <toddc> February 19 20 21 We will holding the Linux Installfest at the event that week-end and Scale is that week-end also but If anyone would like to give a talk or presentation or assist let us know.

 04:10 <MajB> thanks adrenaline_ & wmack.  You guys done good.

 04:11 <toddc> We have ordered a ubuntu conf pack so that we will have some swag to hand out and we will be running a booth also.

 04:11 <toddc> http://comptechconf.com and have invited PLUG to attend

 04:11 <toddc> I have requested money from Ubuntu community to cover booth fees and should know soon on that. Thanks to programmer317 for the assistance with this.

 04:11 <toddc> the booth will need to be staffed Thursday Friday and Saturday.

 04:12 <toddc> For those presenting CTC would like a Picture a topic and a overveiw

 04:12 <toddc> to be used for promoting your presentations. Most time slots are full  and first come for best times.

 04:12 <toddc> We have had a donation of 200+dvd's with sleeves so we should be able to make lots of dvd's for all the events ( another project)

 04:12 <toddc> We have s team project board to list projects that could/should be done for team http://www.azloco.org/node/184

 04:12 <toddc> if you pick one please leave a comment and status and ask for help

 04:12 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started

 04:13 <toddc> posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:13 <toddc> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.

 04:13 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:13 <toddc> JOB list

 04:14 <toddc> 33 current canonical Jobs today

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.pepid.com/company/careers.asp?jobcode=it

 04:14 <toddc> Several jobs at Cybersponce

 04:14 <toddc> http://cybersponse.com/careers

 04:14 <toddc> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data)

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:15 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:15 <toddc> http://localmotors.recruiting.com/user-interface-developer/job/4979799

 04:15 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:15 <toddc> Running Debian on a Graphing Calculator

 04:15 <toddc> http://hackaday.com/2014/11/18/running-debian-on-a-graphing-calculator/

 04:15 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:16 <toddc> dcfldd is an enhanced version of GNU dd with features useful for forensics and security.

 04:16 <toddc> http://dcfldd.sourceforge.net/

 04:16 <toddc> OpenDyslexic is a new open source font created to increase readability for readers with dyslexia. The typeface includes regular, bold, italic, and bold-italic styles. It is being updated continually and improved based on input from dyslexic users. There are no restrictions on using OpenDyslexic outside of attribution.

 04:16 <toddc> http://opendyslexic.org/get-it-free/

 04:16 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:17 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:17 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:17 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:17 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  Thursday December 18. 2014 17:30 - 18:30 MST , 5:30pm – 6:30pm

 04:17 <toddc> Sierra Vista Public Library (foyer) 2600 East Tacoma St. Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:17 <toddc> Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your

 04:18 <toddc> personal computer and the FREE software that is available as an

 04:18 <toddc> alternative to Microsoft Windows and other software that you must buy

 04:18 <toddc> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:18 <toddc> Tempe Installfest

 04:18 <toddc> Plug/Loco installfest is Saturday December 20 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 206/207 this month 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the

 04:18 <toddc> front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:19 <toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:19 <toddc> Thursday December 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock

 04:19 <toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:19 <toddc> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:20 <toddc> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST

 04:21 <toddc> The first of the month Plug/Loco installfest is Saturday January 03 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 206/207 this month 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the

 04:21 <toddc> front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:21 <toddc> we are now confirmed thru march for the installfests

 04:22 <toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:22 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be Jannuary 07 7pm – 9pm at Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA   http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:22 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:22 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:22 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:22 <toddc> collie

 04:23 <toddc> please say hi if you see him I do not see him here tonight

 04:23 <toddc> LINUX TRAINING

 04:23 <toddc> Linux Intro Course Available Online for Free from edX and The Linux Foundation

 04:23 <toddc> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free more classes have been added and more dates

 04:23 <toddc> $100 off Linux Foundation Certification for Ubuntu Users

 04:23 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/100-off-linux-foundation-certification-for-ubuntu-users/1915

 04:23 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/

 04:24 <toddc> LFS230 Linux Network Management

 04:24 <toddc> 15 Dec » 18 Dec - Virtual

 04:24 <toddc> LFD331 Developing Linux Device Drivers

 04:24 <toddc> 15 Dec » 19 Dec - Virtual

 04:24 <toddc> Security Innovation is offering a free course on OWASP Top Threats and Mitigations on line

 04:24 <toddc> https://www.securityinnovation.com/training/application-security/computer-based/courses/secure-software-design/owasp-top-5-threats-and-mitigations.html

 04:25 <toddc> Ubuntu On-Air

 04:25 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:25 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:25 <toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net

 04:25 <toddc> Juju Charm School - Automated Charm Testing Infrastructure

 04:25 <toddc> WhenFri, December 19, 7pm – 8pm

 04:25 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net (map)

 04:25 <toddc> DescriptionSpeakers: jcastro, tvansteenburgh

 04:26 <toddc> OTHER  LUG EVENTS

 04:26 <toddc> Lugy (Precott users group)

 04:26 <toddc> Tue, January 13, 6:30pm – 9:00pm

 04:26 <toddc> Bills grill 333 S Montezuma St, Prescott, AZ

 04:27 <toddc> The Sunland Linux Users Group (SLUG) will meet in the SVECC computer lab at 6 PM on Wednesday, January 14.

 04:27 <toddc> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:27 <xHans> sure

 04:27 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is moving. The new Iguana Macks didn't work out :(

 04:27 <xHans> For December, it will be at Spokes on Southern, near Southern and McClintock

 04:27 <xHans> http://www.SpokesOnSouthern.com/

 04:28 <xHans> 1470 E Southern Ave, Tempe, AZ 85282

 04:28 <xHans> The manager reached out to us to make sure we have a reservation

 04:28 <xHans> the Spokes on Southern building used to be a Streets of New York

 04:28 <xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

 04:28 <xHans> In January, we will move to Boulders on Southern provided it is open by then

 04:28 <xHans> it's scheduled to open this month, but not in time for us to be certain of a reservation for Stammtisch

 04:28 <xHans> 1010 W Southern Ave Mesa, AZ 85210

 04:28 <xHans> the Boulders on Southern building used to be an RT O'Sullivan's

 04:28 <xHans> both are owned by the local family that started and owns Boulders on Broadway

 04:29 <xHans> SCaLE registration is open, use PLUG code for discount

 04:29 <xHans> the conference is 2015Feb19-22, note that is Thu - Sun, in Los Angeles

 04:29 <xHans> reserve your hotel room as well

 04:29 <xHans> https://reg.socallinuxexpo.org/reg6/

 04:29 <xHans> let me know if you'd like to volunteer to help with SCaLE

 04:29 <xHans> as toddc mentioned, SCaLE is the same weekend as the Computer Technology Conference here in town

 04:29 <xHans> and  that's it for tonight, danke

 04:29 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and plug events

 04:30 <wmack> Thanks Hans!

 04:30 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:30 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
