{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 21 May at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-05-21-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/purism-partners-with-nitrokey-to-reinforce-the-security-of-their-linux-laptops-521182.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/pacvim-a-cli-game-to-learn-vim-commands/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/5/new-technologies-lead-new-linux-and-cloud-training-options 
''LINK:'' https://blog.ubuntu.com/2018/05/18/desktop-plans-for-18-10 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-install-ncurses-library-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/5/manipulating-directories-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3273037/linux/how-to-speak-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/create-bootable-linux-flash-drive-using-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/5/how-kill-process-command-line 
''LINK:'' https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/05/using-command-line-decrypt-message-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-tail-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/5/pandoc-cheat-sheet 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/5/getting-started-regular-expressions 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/linux-command-line-bash-shortcut-keys/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/virtualization/red-hat-virtualization-4.2-gains-new-sdn-high-performance-features 
''LINK:'' https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/3k4nd9/pgp-gpg-efail-vulnerability 
''LINK:'' http://blog.wercker.com/maximize-scalability-containerized-environment 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-manage-mysql-databases-and-users-from-the-command-line/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (59)
* stephenm (47)
* toddc (5)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon May 21 04:00:06 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <stephenm> It's 9 over there in AZ right?

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <wmack> +1

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <toddc> I do

 04:03 <MajB> You do what

 04:03 <stephenm> Ok news it easy then gets more complex

 04:03 <toddc> make comments at anytime

 04:03 <stephenm> ^

 04:04 <stephenm> Purism Partners with Nitrokey to Reinforce the Security of Their Linux Laptops

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/purism-partners-with-nitrokey-to-reinforce-the-security-of-their-linux-laptops-521182.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> PacVim – A CLI Game To Learn Vim Commands

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/pacvim-a-cli-game-to-learn-vim-commands/

 04:04 <stephenm> The game is kinda entertaining but hard

 04:04 <stephenm> New Technologies Lead to New Linux and Cloud Training Options

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/5/new-technologies-lead-new-linux-and-cloud-training-options

 04:04 <stephenm> Seemed useful just don't need it yet

 04:05 <stephenm> Desktop plans for 18.10

 04:05 <stephenm> https://blog.ubuntu.com/2018/05/18/desktop-plans-for-18-10

 04:05 <stephenm> Not a big change

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Install Ncurses Library In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-install-ncurses-library-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Manipulating Directories in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/5/manipulating-directories-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> How to speak Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3273037/linux/how-to-speak-linux.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Learn to create Bootable Linux Flash Drive (using Ubuntu)

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/create-bootable-linux-flash-drive-using-ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Kill a Process from the Command Line

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/5/how-kill-process-command-line

 04:06 <stephenm> Using the Command Line to Decrypt a Message on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/05/using-command-line-decrypt-message-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux tail Command Tutorial for Beginners (5 Examples)

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-tail-command/

 04:06 <stephenm> Convert files at the command line with this Pandoc Cheat Sheet

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/5/pandoc-cheat-sheet

 04:06 <stephenm> Getting started with regular expressions

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/5/getting-started-regular-expressions

 04:07 <stephenm> Useful Linux Command Line Bash Shortcuts You Should Know

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/linux-command-line-bash-shortcut-keys/

 04:07 <stephenm> Red Hat Virtualization 4.2 Gains New SDN, High-Performance Features

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/virtualization/red-hat-virtualization-4.2-gains-new-sdn-high-performance-features

 04:07 <stephenm> People Are Freaking Out That PGP Is ‘Broken’—But You Shouldn’t Be Using It Anyway

 04:07 <stephenm> https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/3k4nd9/pgp-gpg-efail-vulnerability

 04:07 <stephenm> It had a good run though

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Maximize the Scalability of Your Containerized Environment

 04:07 <stephenm> http://blog.wercker.com/maximize-scalability-containerized-environment

 04:08 <stephenm> How to manage MySQL databases and users from the command line

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-manage-mysql-databases-and-users-from-the-command-line/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to you MajB

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome toddc

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May (Memorial Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 40 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 10 open jobs under "Data Science" at Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:10 <MajB> There are a total of 99 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist, 37 of which are new, that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are a total of 26 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist, 14 of which are new, that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:11 <MajB> 24 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 02 June,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your perso

 04:12 <MajB> 07 June,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 16 June,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your perso

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:14 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 27 May 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 04 May 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 June 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 June 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 14 June 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 19 June 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversa

 04:15 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 21 June 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:15 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 23 June 1-3:30 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:17 <toddc> thank you MajB

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
