{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 02 Mar at 03:59 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-03-02-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://bbb.azloco.net/ 
''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://fosspost.org/tutorials/clip-split-large-videos-python 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/gimp-2-10-18-officially-released-heres-whats-new 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/2/open-source-homebank 
''LINK:'' http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/articles/why-source-code-scanning-tools-are-essential-open-source-compliance-3 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/android-x86-9-0-released-lets-you-run-android-9-pie-on-your-pc 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/cool-arduino-projects/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi-4-chronicling-desktop-experience-firefox-upgrade/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/nmap-basic-security-audit.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.librebyte.net/en/data-base/postgres-commands-for-basic-postgres-administration/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/5-non-technical-tips-linux-beginner.html 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-based-makululinux-2020-wants-to-convince-windows-7-users-to-switch-to-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/navigating-linux-filesystem 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-and-export-music-playlists-on-linux 
''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/features/features/open-source-ai-projects-for-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-google-search-from-commandline-using-googler/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-search-duckduckgo-from-commandline-using-ddgr/ 
''LINK:'' https://linoxide.com/linux-how-to/wait-command-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ipfire-open-source-linux-firewall-gets-a-revamped-dns-system 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-add-an-external-repository-on-kodi-in-linux 
''LINK:'' https://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2020/02/the-best-tips-for-lazy-but-smart-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-and-configure-redmine-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/clear-swap-linux 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-enable-picture-in-picture-mode-in-google-chrome-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/do-spelling-check-linux-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-schedule-tasks-with-systemd-timers-in-linux 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-analyze-and-interpret-apache-webserver-log 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-vsftpd-server-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (60)
* Ron_A (43)
* MajB (32)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <Ron_A> #startmeeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar  2 03:59:47 2020 UTC.  The chair is Ron_A. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://bbb.azloco.net/

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team events portal  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:00 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> News is simple and then becomes Linux specific

 04:01 <stephenm> Easily split large videos with this python script

 04:01 <stephenm> https://fosspost.org/tutorials/clip-split-large-videos-python

 04:01 <stephenm> GIMP 2.10.18 Officially Released, Here’s What’s New

 04:01 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/gimp-2-10-18-officially-released-heres-whats-new

 04:01 <stephenm> How to use HomeBank for your open source alternative to Quicken

 04:01 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/2/open-source-homebank

 04:01 <stephenm> Better to go online from what I saw of it.

 04:02 <stephenm> Why Source Code Scanning Tools are Essential to Open Source Compliance

 04:02 <stephenm> http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/articles/why-source-code-scanning-tools-are-essential-open-source-compliance-3

 04:02 <stephenm> Android-x86 9.0 Released, Lets You Run Android 9 Pie on Your PC

 04:02 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/android-x86-9-0-released-lets-you-run-android-9-pie-on-your-pc

 04:02 <stephenm> 17 Cool Arduino Project Ideas for DIY Enthusiasts

 04:02 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/cool-arduino-projects/

 04:02 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi 4: Chronicling the Desktop Experience - Firefox Upgrade

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi-4-chronicling-desktop-experience-firefox-upgrade/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Run a Security Audit of Exposed Ports and Services Using Nmap

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/nmap-basic-security-audit.html

 04:03 <stephenm> 14 commands for basic Postgres administration

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.librebyte.net/en/data-base/postgres-commands-for-basic-postgres-administration/

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 Non-Technical Tips for the Linux Beginner

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/5-non-technical-tips-linux-beginner.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Ubuntu-Based MakuluLinux 2020 Wants to Convince Windows 7 Users to Switch to Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-based-makululinux-2020-wants-to-convince-windows-7-users-to-switch-to-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Looks kinda awesome, sorry I never get around to actually testing these things but I should

 04:04 <stephenm> A beginner's guide to navigating the Linux filesystem

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/navigating-linux-filesystem

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Create and Export Music Playlists on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-and-export-music-playlists-on-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Open-Source AI Projects For Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/features/features/open-source-ai-projects-for-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Google Search From Commandline Using Googler

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-google-search-from-commandline-using-googler/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Search DuckDuckGo From Commandline Using ddgr On Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-search-duckduckgo-from-commandline-using-ddgr/

 04:05 <stephenm> Wait Command in Linux with Examples

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linoxide.com/linux-how-to/wait-command-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> IPFire Open-Source Linux Firewall Gets a Revamped DNS System

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/ipfire-open-source-linux-firewall-gets-a-revamped-dns-system

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Add an External Repository on Kodi in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-add-an-external-repository-on-kodi-in-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> The Best Tips for Lazy but Smart Linux Home Users

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2020/02/the-best-tips-for-lazy-but-smart-linux.html

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install and Configure Redmine on CentOS 8

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-and-configure-redmine-on-centos-8/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to clear swap memory in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/clear-swap-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> How to enable Picture in Picture mode in Google Chrome on Debian 10

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-enable-picture-in-picture-mode-in-google-chrome-on-debian-10/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Do Spelling Checks in the Linux Terminal

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/do-spelling-check-linux-terminal/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to schedule tasks with systemd timers in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-schedule-tasks-with-systemd-timers-in-linux

 04:07 <stephenm> How to analyze and interpret Apache Webserver Log

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-analyze-and-interpret-apache-webserver-log

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install vsftpd FTP Server with SSL/TLS on CentOS 8

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-vsftpd-server-on-centos-8/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to you Ron_A

 04:07 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <Ron_A> Mary had a little key - she kept it in escrow,

 04:08 <Ron_A> and every thing that Mary said, the feds were sure to know.

 04:08 <Ron_A> -- Sam Simpson

 04:09 <Ron_A> 3 operating systems walk into a bar

 04:09 <Ron_A> The first says "I'm Windows. The most popular, everyone likes me and I don't mess about. I'll have a pint of lager."

 04:09 <Ron_A> The second says "I'm Mac OS. I'm the favourite of artists and hipsters, and I could never settle for a boring lager like Windows. Give me your hoppiest artisanal IPA!"

 04:09 <Ron_A> The third says "I'm Linux. I'll have some water, hops, barley and yeast please."

 04:09 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:09 <Ron_A> 72 current canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:09 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:10 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:10 <MajB> 05 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 07 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:10 <MajB> are.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 March, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 21 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:11 <MajB> are.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 26 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:11 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 March 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 March  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thing

 04:13 <MajB> s tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 19 March 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:13 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:13 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:13 <Ron_A> El jeffe do you have anything to add?

 04:13 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 22 March 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 06 March 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave and Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 11 March 6-7:30 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 28 March 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Back to you Ron_A

 04:14 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:14 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:14 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:14 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:14 <MajB> Release Party for 20.04?

 04:15 <Ron_A> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
