{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 19 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-12-19-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-ctree-christmas-tree-terminal/   (stephenm1, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/12/linux-file-manager-gnome   (stephenm1, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/system76-unveils-the-launch-heavy-full-size-and-open-source-configurable-keyboard   (stephenm1, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.shinyos.com/   (stephenm1, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/libreoffice-7-5/   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/5-linux-distros-for-steam-gaming/   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/kde-frameworks-5-101-released-with-plasma-wayland-and-multi-monitor-improvements   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/12/tools-open-source-vulnerability-management   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/12/drupal-content-strategy   (stephenm1, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/news-and-events/wine-on-wayland-2022-updatye-more-games-more-apps-more-fun.html   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/openshot-3-0-open-source-video-editor-released-with-more-than-1000-improvements   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-sas-enterprise-bi-server/   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/neovim-gui-editors/   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/11/29/most-common-passwords-2022/   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/kde-gear-22-12-improves-dolphin-gwenview-kate-kalendar-kde-connect-and-many-apps   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/slack-alternatives/   (stephenm1, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rationalplan.com/projectmanagementblog/rationalplan-6-project-baselines-reports-clients-management-improved-scheduling-and-microsoft-project-integration/   (stephenm1, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/php-8-2-comes-with-functional-and-performance-improvements/   (stephenm1, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://debugpointnews.com/freebsd-12-4/   (stephenm1, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/chown-command-examples/   (stephenm1, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/find-free-disk-space-linux/   (stephenm1, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/9-basic-du-command-in-linux-with-examples/   (stephenm1, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://venturebeat.com/data-infrastructure/new-kubernetes-1-26-release-boosts-security-storage-teases-dynamic-resource-allocation/   (stephenm1, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+A   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:13)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm1 (55)
* MajB (53)
* toddc (5)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:02 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm1> finally

 04:00 <stephenm1> evening all

 04:01 <toddc> Yay you made it!!

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <stephenm1> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at  if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <toddc> +5 to get the count up a bit hight for reports

 04:01 <toddc> higher

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeamhttps://bbb.azloco.net/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZT

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm1> News is a bit longer this week because I took the time to make something.

 04:03 <stephenm1> Linux Candy: ctree – Christmas tree on your terminal

 04:03 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-ctree-christmas-tree-terminal/

 04:03 <stephenm1> Have yet to try this but seems interesting

 04:03 <stephenm1> 5 reasons to love Linux GNOME Files

 04:03 <stephenm1> https://opensource.com/article/22/12/linux-file-manager-gnome

 04:03 <stephenm1> System76 Unveils a Full-Size, Open-Source Configurable Keyboard

 04:03 <stephenm1> https://9to5linux.com/system76-unveils-the-launch-heavy-full-size-and-open-source-configurable-keyboard

 04:03 <stephenm1> Seems just like a flashing keyboard

 04:03 <stephenm1> Announcing Shiny OS V1: Now Available for Download

 04:03 <stephenm1> https://www.shinyos.com/

 04:03 <stephenm1> seems interesting

 04:04 <stephenm1> LibreOffice 7.5: Top New Features & Release Info

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://www.debugpoint.com/libreoffice-7-5/

 04:04 <stephenm1> 5 Linux Distros for Steam Gaming

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://trendoceans.com/5-linux-distros-for-steam-gaming/

 04:04 <stephenm1> KDE Frameworks 5.101 Plasma Wayland, Multi-Monitor Improvements

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://9to5linux.com/kde-frameworks-5-101-released-with-plasma-wayland-and-multi-monitor-improvements

 04:04 <stephenm1> A new generation of tools for open source vulnerability management

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://opensource.com/article/22/12/tools-open-source-vulnerability-management

 04:04 <stephenm1> Why Drupal is the future of content strategy

 04:04 <stephenm1> https://opensource.com/article/22/12/drupal-content-strategy

 04:05 <stephenm1> Wine on Wayland 2022 Update: More Games, Apps, Fun!

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/news-and-events/wine-on-wayland-2022-updatye-more-games-more-apps-more-fun.html

 04:05 <stephenm1> OpenShot 3.0 Brings More Than 1,000 Improvements

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://9to5linux.com/openshot-3-0-open-source-video-editor-released-with-more-than-1000-improvements

 04:05 <stephenm1> Best Free and Open-Source Alternatives to SAS Enterprise BI Server

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-sas-enterprise-bi-server/

 04:05 <stephenm1> Try These Top 5 NeoVim GUI Editors

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://itsfoss.com/neovim-gui-editors/

 04:05 <stephenm1> Top 200 Most Common Passwords in 2022 Are Bad

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/11/29/most-common-passwords-2022/

 04:05 <stephenm1> KDE Gear 22.12 Improves Dolphin, Gwenview, and More

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://9to5linux.com/kde-gear-22-12-improves-dolphin-gwenview-kate-kalendar-kde-connect-and-many-apps

 04:05 <stephenm1> 22 Best Free and Premium Slack Alternatives for Team Chat

 04:05 <stephenm1> https://www.tecmint.com/slack-alternatives/

 04:06 <stephenm1> RationalPlan 6 Brings Project Baselines, Reports, and More

 04:06 <stephenm1> https://www.rationalplan.com/projectmanagementblog/rationalplan-6-project-baselines-reports-clients-management-improved-scheduling-and-microsoft-project-integration/

 04:06 <stephenm1> PHP 8.2 Comes With Functional and Performance Improvements

 04:06 <stephenm1> https://linuxiac.com/php-8-2-comes-with-functional-and-performance-improvements/

 04:06 <stephenm1> FreeBSD 12.4 is Out With 100+ Improvements and Fixes

 04:06 <stephenm1> https://debugpointnews.com/freebsd-12-4/

 04:06 <stephenm1> How to Use the chown Command to Change File Ownership

 04:06 <stephenm1> https://www.tecmint.com/chown-command-examples/

 04:06 <stephenm1> How to Find Free Disk Space in Ubuntu and Other Linux Distros

 04:06 <stephenm1> https://www.debugpoint.com/find-free-disk-space-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm1> 9 Basic du commands in Linux With Practical Examples

 04:06 <stephenm1> https://www.linuxteck.com/9-basic-du-command-in-linux-with-examples/

 04:06 <stephenm1> Kubernetes 1.26 Boosts Security, Storage, and Resource Allocation

 04:07 <stephenm1> https://venturebeat.com/data-infrastructure/new-kubernetes-1-26-release-boosts-security-storage-teases-dynamic-resource-allocation/

 04:07 <stephenm1> That's all the news for tonight, back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm1

 04:07 <toddc> nice news tonight thanks stephenm1

 04:08 <stephenm1> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project

 04:08 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:08 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 205 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 83 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 20 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+A

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:10 <MajB> 22 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 05 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:11 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 January, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 15 January, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> 21 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:11 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking

 04:12 <MajB> 26 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> 01 January, AZLOCO Team meeting, Canceled (Conflict with New Years Day)

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 20 December, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 12 January 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:13 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly meeting 11 January 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 27 December 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month), Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

</pre>
Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)## page was renamed from ArizonaTeam/Meetings/MeetingTemplate
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
