{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Some of us are in   http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/     tonight if you want to talk or see us!
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Computers are like air conditioners -- they stop working properly if you open WINDOWS :)
<Dazed_75> I like it
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> Use Ubuntu's Public Folder to Easily Share Files Between Computers
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/116309/use-ubuntus-public-folder-to-easily-share-files-between-computers
<Dazed_75> How to Recover an Encrypted Home Directory on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/116297/how-to-recover-an-encrypted-home-directory-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Bash aliases for Linux, Unix, Mac OS X
<Dazed_75> http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/bash-aliases-mac-centos-linux-unix.html
<Dazed_75> Simple Authentication Bypass for MySQL root Revealed
<Dazed_75> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Simple-authentication-bypass-for-MySQL-root-revealed-1614990.html
<Dazed_75> How to Configure Ubuntu to Update Through a Proxy
<Dazed_75> http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/06/how-to-configure-ubuntu-to-update.html
<Dazed_75> Linux Find Out Wireless Network Speed Signal Strength, etc via CLI
<Dazed_75> http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/linux-find-out-wireless-network-speed-signal-strength.html
<Dazed_75> Take a Screenshot of the Login Screen in Ubuntu or LinuxMint (Note: not quite right for me)
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/06/take-screenshot-login-screen-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.10 Development Update #1
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/ubuntu-12-10-development-update-1
<Dazed_75> YouTube Music App Musictube ($11.99 and does not support 64-bit)
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/desktop-youtube-music-app-musictube-update-adds-scrobbling-unity-quicklist
<Dazed_75> New Unity Lens Helps You Find the Perfect Time to Stargaze
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/stargazing-lens-for-unity
<Dazed_75> Turn Your Ubuntu Laptop Into a Wireless Access Point
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/116409/how-to-turn-your-ubuntu-laptop-into-a-wireless-access-point
<Dazed_75> AMD ARMs Itself for New War on Intel
<Dazed_75> http://www.wired.com/wiredenterprise/2012/06/amd-finally-arms-itself-for-new-war-on-intel/
<Dazed_75> Linus Torvalds: Linux Succeeded Due to Selfishness and Trust (and a nice Tux collection)
<Dazed_75> http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-18419231
<Dazed_75> Another viewpoint (by someone picking on a nit as if being called selfish was a bad thing)
<Dazed_75> 10 Things to do After Installing Linux Mint 13
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/05/10-things-to-do-after-installing-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/06/some-tweaking-tips-for-linux-mint-13.html
<Dazed_75> Chrome vs Firefox for Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.unixmen.com/chrome-vs-firefox-for-ubuntu/
<Dazed_75> Small Linux PC Overview
<Dazed_75> http://raymii.org/cms/p_Small_Linux_PCs_overview
<Dazed_75> Install and Configure SAMBA in Ubuntu for File Sharing
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/install-and-configure-samba-in-ubuntu-for-file-sharing/2012/06/12
<Dazed_75> Linux Gaming Update:  New Titles Progress
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/linux-gaming-update-carmageddon-lodestar-from-dust-and-more
<Dazed_75> What Does Ubuntu Look Loke on a Retina Display
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/what-does-ubuntu-look-like-on-a-retina-display-bad
<Dazed_75> Add Movie Review Search to the Ubuntu Dash
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/06/search-rotten-tomatoes-reviews-in-the-unity-dash
<Dazed_75> Cinnamon to Get 2D Session, Other New Features
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/cinnamon-to-get-2d-session-more-new.html
<Dazed_75> LibreOffice 3.6 BETA Released
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/06/libreoffice-360-beta-1-released-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> Win8 UEFI Secure Boot and Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/116569/htg-explains-how-windows-8s-secure-boot-feature-works-what-it-means-for-linux
<Dazed_75> Create a Separate Home Partition After Installing Ubuntu Without One
<Dazed_75>    http://www.howtogeek.com/116742/how-to-create-a-separate-home-partition-after-installing-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> ... and that is the news for tonight (from me)
* Rich_ (c757e5ab@gateway/web/freenode/ip.199.87.229.171) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> Hi Rich_
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<Rich_> Hi
<toddc> I have a couple more to add!
<Dazed_75> Hiya Rich
<toddc> Canonical announces Ubuntu Apps Showdown
<toddc> http://www.networkworld.com/news/2012/061412-canonical-ubuntu-showdown-260212.html
<toddc> Gnome gains Microsoft SkyDrive Support
<SlickMcRunFast> thanks for the small linux pc link
<toddc> http://worldofgnome.org/gnome-gains-microsoft-skydrive-support/
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> NOC Services Technician (T1)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit/?id=1560271
<toddc> Full-time Linux SA opportunity with a 3RP client in Chandler
<Rich_> Howdy Dazed.
<toddc> send resumes to - chad@3rp.com
<toddc> Linux Systems Administrator (Phoenix Az )
<toddc> Laura McKee
<toddc> Technical Recruiter
<toddc> Office Direct #423-591-7412
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> July 19 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extream Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> please note there is one this thursday also
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<Dazed_75> I thought the next Ubuntu Hour was June 28
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is July 7  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<Dazed_75> toddc: I thought the next Ubuntu Hour was June 28
<toddc> Looking
<toddc> I had it down as the Third thursday is it the fourth/
<Dazed_75> toddc: 4th Thursday?
<Dazed_75> yes to most often precede installfest
<toddc> ok edit next wek then and I will change notes and datess
<Dazed_75> (desktop emphasis)
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<SlickMcRunFast> Could some please explain ubuntu hour after the meeting to me?
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on July 14 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday July 21 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Ubuntu Training Days
<toddc> June 23-24 on IRC freenode #ubuntu-classroom or just install Lernid
<toddc> See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
<toddc> Great free training and talks
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> or FernHans
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday June 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<MikeofMany> do we or anyone have an FAQ up for the server install fests?
<toddc> yes
<toddc> we can answer that here
* shall (ae13a615@gateway/web/freenode/ip.174.19.166.21) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> hi Shall
<shall> surprise
<toddc> MikeofMany: the calender has the basics of the server event
<toddc> http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<MikeofMany> toddc, looking at it now
<shall> hi toddc I'm here with shall.. Sharen
<Dazed_75> Hi shall.  I don't know of an faq for the Server Installfests, but the is a description in the PLUG calendar event
<toddc> but Dazed_75  and I go to them also and can answer more detailed info
<Dazed_75> Mikeof Many: What did you want to know?
<MikeofMany> it answers enough that I can spam it to those that were asking some questions about it.
<shall> tooddc what time can i lo on for the classes tomorrow
<toddc> shall 1 sec
<toddc> http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/classroom.html
<shall> thank you sharen
<toddc> the time is listed in utc so 8 am it all starts
<toddc> some are for advanced users you may want to look more at the user days stuff
<Dazed_75> SlickMacRunFast: The Ubuntu Hours are intended to draw new people to Ubuntu.  A few of us sit in a restaurant or ... and talk and try to show we welcome people to come chat (signs, etc)
<Dazed_75> We hand out disks and offer invitations to other events
<toddc> shall sharen there is a app for ubuntu called lenid that makes it the classrooms easy to use
* shall has quit (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
<Dazed_75> questions?
<toddc> lernid  sorry I fat fingered it
<toddc> lost them
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
