{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

04 January - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed the optimal time to return to physical events
* Discussed the Linux news of the week
06 January – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 5 attendees
* Assisted an attendee in formatting and partitioning a 2 TB external hard drive.
* Assisted an attendee in configuring PF Sense to automatically revert to a backup Gateway should the primary should fail
07 January – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2007%2C%202024%20Meeting
11 January - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* There will be another purge of the mailing list later in the month.  If you respond within 14 days you will remain on the list.  Failure to do so will result in your name being deleted.  Discussed the procedures to be followed.
* Discussed optimal dates for our next Installfest.  Since there will be a new release of Ubuntu on the 25th of April we will conduct one in the Warrior Healing Center’s computer lab to update those computers to 24.04 in the May/June time frame.  The question of whether we wanted to have one earlier was put on hold until the next meeting.
* An attendee has a desktop computer with a case fan that is quite noisy and appears to be failing.  He will make arrangements next week to have it replaced.
* The election of a new Local Community Council has taken place.  Perhaps we will now have some action and support from them.
11 January - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed Linux firewalls
* Discussed kernal issues
20 January – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 5 attendees
* Discussed containers and Virtual machines
* Discussed Virtual Box issue
* Discussed PF Sense
* Created install media
21 January – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 1  attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2021%2C%202024%20Meeting
25 January - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
