{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 October - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2001%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 05 October - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed virtualization (VMware, vSphere)
* There was a short presentation on dd wrt custom routers
* Discussed bitcoin and crypto-currency
* 07 October – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 14 attendees
* 3 installs (Ubuntu, Zorin, and Linux Mint Mate)
* Replaced the hard drive on a Dell Server
* Installed a Ham Radio application.
* Discussed network questions that were raised
* Discussed How to learn CLI
* Discussed Team projects that need volunteers to work on them.
* 08 October – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2008%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 15 October – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2015%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 21 October – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 11 attendees
* Installation of Kali Linux on thumb drive
* 2 installations of Proxmox on servers
* 2 installations of Ubuntu dual booting with Win10
* 1 unsuccessful install on a laptop due to a bad hard drive
* Attempted to repair installfest server which has a failing hard drive.  We may have to rebuild from scratch.
* Discussed Next Cloud and Moodle integration
* 22 October – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 7 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2022%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 26 October - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees
* The upcoming Installfest on Saturday 28 October was discussed in detail.  All of the hardware has been tested at the UA South and found to be 100% functional.  All of the install media has been updated and checked to insure accuracy.  The manning chart for the Installfest has been finalized.  Publicity for the event has been coordinated with the Sierra Vista Herald/Review, The Cochise Trading Post, and Facebook.  The flyers have been distributed to all members and posted throughout the town and Fort Huachuca.
* There was some discussion about t-shirts for future events.  Rex Bouwense has procured two quotes from local business who print them.  There will be further discussion at future meetings to decide whether we want to purchase them.
* The new LTS release of Ubuntu 18.04 was briefly discussed.  16.04 install media and Ubuntu lanyards were distributed to individuals who required them.
* A list of free lectures to be given at the University of Arizona South in the next two months has been distributed to everyone on the mailing list.  Attend them if you are interested in the topic.
* 26 October - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 10 attendees (one new individual)
* Worked on IPfire router config, cosco routers test, updating mint, root tablet. 
* Demo program to map Mars
* Built several vpn servers
* 28 October - AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 15 attendees
* 4 successful installations of Ubuntu 16.04
* 1 unsuccessful installation of Xubuntu 16.04 due to a bad video card
* Questions about Ubuntu and Open Source Software were answered
* Ubuntu lanyards, install thumb drives, pins, and stickers were distributed to attendees
* 29 October - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2029%2C%202017%20Meeting
