{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 03 March - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis.
* 6 attendees (2 new people).
* Troubleshoot Tammee's Linux Mint email.
* Todd repaired Yvonne's laptop wi-fi issue.
* Discussion on DD-WRT client bridge v. repeater setup.
* Troubleshoot Windows Networking for guests.
* 06 March – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 9 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2006%2C%202015%20Meeting.
* 13 March - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 11 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2013%2C%202015%20Meeting.
* 19 March - Linux installfest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 15 attendees.
* 3 installs.
* Work continues on the on the Team Linux OS/computer data base.
* Justin repaired the Team installfest server.
* 20 March - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 8 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2020%2C%202015%20Meeting.
* 24 March - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense.
* 8 attendees (3 new people).
* Discussed Raspberry Pi lecture which took place on 23 march 2016 at the UA South.  It was an excellent introduction to the Pi but the planned demonstration did not take place.
* Discussed requirements for the West End Fair (7 May) and proceeded to get volunteers to man the information booth.  
* Discussed the procedure for installing Ubuntu as a dual boot on a Compact box with EUFI.
* 24 March – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole.
* 8 attendees (1 new person).
* Discussed Banana Pi and made a OS image and tested. 
* Discussed DNS masking and use and future events. 
* 1 Ubuntu 14.04 virtual box install and training in use. 
* Discussed password management.
* 27 March - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 9 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2027%2C%202015%20Meeting.
