{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 04 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-04-04-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=2016-Last-Day-Off-Stats 
''LINK:'' http://hackerboards.com/linux-robot-teaches-coding-shoots-lasers/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2016/04/internet-explorer-for-linux.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=orange-pi-one&num=1 
''LINK:'' https://www.digitalocean.com/company/blog/introducing-cloudsound/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/how-to-play-your-childhood-nintendo-games-in-linux 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxtechi.com/rm-command-examples-for-beginners/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/3/5-open-source-home-automation-tools 
''LINK:'' http://freedompenguin.com/articles/quick-tips/dude-wheres-data/ 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/isaacs/github/issues/627 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/11-cron-scheduling-task-examples-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://freedompenguin.com/articles/just-ask-matt/whats-difference-gnome-unity-mate/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/ubuntu-lts-debian-linux-apt-command-examples/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-3-2-79-lts-out-now-with-small-s390-x86-and-jffs2-improvements-502505.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.pentaho.com/liger 
''LINK:'' http://www.openfrak.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/3048842/hadoop/hadoop-project-odp-regroups-under-linux-foundations-umbrella.html?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter#tk.rss_linux 
''LINK:'' http://motherboard.vice.com/read/new-ddos-defense-turns-servers-into-moving-targets 
''LINK:'' http://azloco.org/node/225 
''LINK:'' http://www.tucsonlinux.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://tucson.craigslist.org/syd/5527219566.html 
''LINK:'' http://phoenix.craigslist.org/evl/cps/5527807127.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-patches-linux-kernel-security-bugs/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.cactuscon.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7pUAydjne5M&feature=youtu.be&t=2144 
''LINK:'' http://www.poetrysoup.com/poem/linux___by_bob_atkinson_599497 
''LINK:'' http://www.ex-parrot.com/~pete/upside-down-ternet.html I keep meaning to do this at a installfest/workshop
''LINK:'' https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wollensak 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sAe82a06OoE 
''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' http://www.cio.com/article/3053507/linux/linus-torvalds-still-wants-linux-to-take-over-the-desktop.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Places-You-Find-Ubuntu 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/4/containers-virtual-machines-or-bare-metal 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/04/why-microsoft-needed-to-make-windows-run-linux-software/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-practically-use-your-linux-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.ostechnix.com/install-budgie-desktop-ubuntu-16-04-lts/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.techrepublic.com/article/project-sputnik-aims-to-woo-mac-and-windows-users-to-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-patches-linux-kernel-security-bugs/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-botnet-attacks-increase-in-scale/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/4/12-memes-explain-open-source-software 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-touch-ota-10-launches-april-6-for-all-ubuntu-phones-and-the-ubuntu-tablet-502565.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/security/heartbleed-remains-a-risk-2-years-after-it-was-reported.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.openstack.org/software/mitaka/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/article/3052885/data-center/puppet-expands-support-for-docker-kubernetes.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/smart-home-api-released-for-alexa/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-setup-haproxy-as-load-balancer-for-mariadb-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxos.pro/moderate-nss-nss-util-nspr-security-updates/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Qubes-Xen-Like-Security-Requires-a-Leap-of-Faith-83323.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxpromagazine.com/Online/News/Google-Announces-End-to-Flash-Ad-Support 
''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edubuntu-users/2016-March/007529.html 
''LINK:'' https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68 
''LINK:'' https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1101 
''LINK:'' https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1100 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://stretchinternet.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://i-carus.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/RosenInnPointeOrlando/photos/a.207141262657086.45807.117770231594190/991933984177806/?type=3&theater 
''LINK:'' https://simplenote.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/Automattic/simplenote-electron 
''LINK:'' https://zenyway.com/password-manager/home/en/index.html 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.phxlinux.org/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting/147-plug-meeting-on-4-14.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (347)
* toddc (203)
* stephenm (120)
* BobTucson (72)
* tekNorah (37)
* icedm (34)
* [R] (28)
* Pscion (27)
* markthomas (19)
* acksys (19)
* Yorokobi (18)
* nhasian (17)
* toddcnb (16)
* Ron_A (15)
* ethilin (12)
* pscion (10)
* xHans (9)
* pavlos (8)
* dennisk2 (8)
* BobTuxon (7)
* pirateP (5)
* meetingology (5)
* dennisk (5)
* ahi2 (4)
* collie (4)
* dobleremolque (4)
* Meryushi (4)
* meskes (4)
* bjp3 (2)
* smccarthy (2)
* mark91 (2)
* hutchnate (2)
* BobTucson_ (1)
* HoloIRCUser (1)
* zombiesplat (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Apr  4 04:00:01 2016 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <dobleremolque> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <dennisk2> +1

 04:00 <tekNorah> +1

 04:00 <acksys> +1

 04:01 <toddcnb> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <MajB> Star date:  93859.28

 04:02 <MajB> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:03 <MajB> Membership application information is at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <MajB> Team mailing list information and enroll instructions are at http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <markthomas> +1

 04:03 <MajB> Team events portal are at http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:04 <toddcnb> my internet fails to run speedtest.net :)

 04:04 <Ron_A> That is slow

 04:04 <MajB> Team Discourse pages are at http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:04 <toddcnb> last test was 15k

 04:04 <Pscion> +1

 04:05 <MajB> Team wiki pages are at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:05 <MajB> Team Facebook is at https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:06 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:06 <MajB> Lets start with the news which is for beginner to expert users.  Pick and choose what to read, test, and try.

 04:06 <MajB> Tonight the news is brought to you by stephenm.

 04:07 <stephenm> Beginning from understanding to complex.

 04:07 <stephenm> Writing Linux / Open-Source News & Benchmarking 365 Days Per Year

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=2016-Last-Day-Off-Stats

 04:07 <stephenm> Linux robot teaches coding, shoots lasers

 04:07 <stephenm> http://hackerboards.com/linux-robot-teaches-coding-shoots-lasers/

 04:07 <stephenm> They do shoot lasers

 04:07 <stephenm> Internet Explorer for Linux is available for download

 04:08 <stephenm> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2016/04/internet-explorer-for-linux.html

 04:08 <stephenm> The joys of IE coming to a linux near you

 04:08 <stephenm> $10 Orange Pi One Linux Benchmarks Against The Raspberry Pi & Other ARM Boards

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=orange-pi-one&num=1

 04:08 <stephenm> Introducing CloudSound: The Music Your Server Makes

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.digitalocean.com/company/blog/introducing-cloudsound/

 04:08 <stephenm> How To Play Your Childhood Nintendo Games In Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/how-to-play-your-childhood-nintendo-games-in-linux

 04:08 <stephenm> I haven't tested it but looks fun.

 04:08 <stephenm> 10 ‘rm’ command examples for beginners

 04:09 <stephenm> http://www.linuxtechi.com/rm-command-examples-for-beginners/

 04:09 <toddcnb> rm-rf?

 04:09 <stephenm> rm -rf / is your best weapon of keeping your data protected

 04:09 <stephenm> 5 open source home automation tools

 04:09 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/3/5-open-source-home-automation-tools

 04:09 <stephenm> Dude! Where’s My Data!

 04:10 <stephenm> http://freedompenguin.com/articles/quick-tips/dude-wheres-data/

 04:10 <stephenm> Contribution graph can be harmful to contributors

 04:10 <stephenm> https://github.com/isaacs/github/issues/627

 04:10 <stephenm> 11 Cron Scheduling Task Examples in Linux

 04:10 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/11-cron-scheduling-task-examples-in-linux/

 04:10 <stephenm> What’s The Difference Between GNOME, Unity And MATE?

 04:10 <stephenm> http://freedompenguin.com/articles/just-ask-matt/whats-difference-gnome-unity-mate/

 04:10 <stephenm> 10 Ubuntu / Debian Linux apt Command Examples

 04:10 <stephenm> http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/ubuntu-lts-debian-linux-apt-command-examples/

 04:10 <stephenm> Linux Kernel 3.2.79 LTS Out Now with Small s390, x86, and JFFS2 Improvements

 04:10 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-3-2-79-lts-out-now-with-small-s390-x86-and-jffs2-improvements-502505.shtml

 04:11 <stephenm> If you know Big Data, you must meet Liger

 04:11 <stephenm> http://www.pentaho.com/liger

 04:11 <stephenm> People are obsessed with big cats

 04:11 <stephenm> Bitnami Introduces Freaking Awesome Kontainers.

 04:11 <stephenm> http://www.openfrak.com/

 04:11 <stephenm> Hadoop project ODP regroups under Linux Foundation's umbrella

 04:11 <stephenm> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3048842/hadoop/hadoop-project-odp-regroups-under-linux-foundations-umbrella.html?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter#tk.rss_linux

 04:11 <stephenm> New DDoS Defense Turns Servers Into 'Moving Targets'

 04:12 <stephenm> http://motherboard.vice.com/read/new-ddos-defense-turns-servers-into-moving-targets

 04:12 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight folks

 04:12 <MajB> Thank you stephenm.

 04:12 <dobleremolque> Thanks, stephenm

 04:12 <toddcnb> thank you stephenm

 04:12 <Ron_A> Thanks stephenm

 04:12 * stephenm waves a welcome

 04:12 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:12 <toddcnb> great job!

 04:13 <dennisk2> nice job!

 04:13 <tekNorah> lots of news this week!

 04:13 <MajB> Pscion  do you have any updates on your install logging project and do you still need some help with it?

 04:14 <stephenm> we forgot a joke

 04:14 <dobleremolque> no you didn't.... ie for linux

 04:14 <acksys> :D

 04:14 <stephenm> How do you know you're using Linux?

 04:15 <stephenm> Your computer only has 4 modes; Abort, Retry, Fail and Reboot!

 04:15 <MajB> We have a team projects page,https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects  If anyone would like to take on a project, please select and notify any Team administrator.

 04:16 <toddcnb> Why did the text file agree to modify its contents?

 04:16 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  Contact any team administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page.  Let us know about it.

 04:16 <MajB> That was next

 04:16 <toddcnb> Because -i sed so!

 04:16 <MajB> Go back to page

 04:16 <toddcnb> sorry! tag me out

 04:16 <tekNorah> lol

 04:16 <dennisk2> awk, awk

 04:16 <MajB> That was from toddc so I can claim no responsibility for the responses that I imagine are now being uttered under the breath of every member attending.

 04:16 <tekNorah> grep me a new one

 04:17 <stephenm> actually that was from toddcnb

 04:17 <MajB> JOB LIST:

 04:17 <MajB> Same guy

 04:18 <MajB> Software Engineer - Platform Operations EngineerUntitled 1 https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68

 04:18 <stephenm> nah this guy is slower

 04:18 <MajB> Tech Support Engineer https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1101

 04:18 <MajB> I think that he is on dial up

 04:19 <MajB> Software Engineer - Cloud https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1100

 04:19 <Ron_A> And he doesn't even have shotgun modems

 04:19 <MajB> 44 current canonical Jobs today http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:19 <MajB> Systems Administrator and Lead Web Developer http://stretchinternet.com/careers/

 04:20 <MajB> 127 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix AZ http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:20 <toddcnb> This is pscion, I lost internet on my laptop. I worked on the installfest project some more at the last installfest this Saturday. Updates are being pushed to https://github.com/npscion/azloco-installfest . I'm open to help, especially with MySQL. If anyone is interested, let me know so I can help you get setup with a development environment

 04:21 <MajB> Plus 33 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista AZ http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:21 <MajB> Check it out

 04:21 <MajB> WEEKLY DESKTOP APPLICATION PICK:

 04:22 <MajB> QownNotes  is the open source (GPL) plain-text file notepad with markdown support and todo list manager for GNU/Linux http://www.qownnotes.org/

 04:22 <tekNorah> I can help you toddcnb with MySQL, will touch base with you after the meeting

 04:22 <MajB> Spot Light Newsbeuter is an open-source RSS/Atom feed reader for text terminals. It runs on Linux, FreeBSD, Mac OS X http://newsbeuter.org/

 04:23 <MajB> TEAM SERVER NEWS:

 04:23 <MajB> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team administrator.

 04:23 <MajB> AZLOCO UPCOMING EVENTS:

 04:24 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28 .

 04:24 <toddcnb> tekNorah: ping "pscion" when you do. It may be a day or two until I have internet again.

 04:24 <MajB> 07 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Extreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe

 04:25 <MajB> 16 April, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology,  Room 206/207, the big room. 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe .  We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software.

 04:25 <MajB> 28 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista .

 04:25 <MajB> 28 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Extreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.

 04:26 <MajB> 07 May, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop , 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology,  2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe .

 04:26 <MajB> 07 May, 11th Annual West End Fair booth, 1000-1700 Sierra Vista.  We will be co-sponsoring a booth with the CLUG hoping to spread the gospel according to Linus Torvalds.

 04:27 <MajB> 14  May, Xenial Xerus (Ubuntu 16.04 LTS) Release Party, (1400-until it is over) 5831 W. Kesler St., Chandler.  While intended primarily as a social event there will be wireless internet available to install the new release.  If you have already installed it, bring your laptop to show it off.  Hamburgers/hot dogs and the appropriate condiments as well as soda will be provided by our hosts.  Please RSVP to questions@azloco.com with number of

 04:27 <MajB> New Members this week: Fritz Mahnke please welcome him (acksys)

 04:28 <MajB> Welcome acksys

 04:28 <tekNorah> Welcome acksys!

 04:28 <toddcnb> WELCOME!

 04:28 <MajB> Linux Training:

 04:28 <MajB> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:28 <acksys> Thank you, good to be here.

 04:28 <dennisk2> Hi Fritz

 04:28 <Ron_A> Hello Fritz and WELCOME

 04:29 <MajB> Community Team Q&A When Tue, April 25, 8-9am Where #ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:29 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:30 <MajB> PLUG East Meeting, Thu, April 14, 2016, 7pm – 9pm  Various topics ranging form beginner's to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:30 <MajB> Where:DDesert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226

 04:31 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday April 19 at  7:00PM Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210 7PM till ??

 04:31 <MajB> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:31 <MajB> Other AZ LUG Activities:

 04:31 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:31 <MajB> 

 04:32 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 12 April 6:30-9:30 pm.  Park Plaza Liquor & Deli, 402 W. Goodwin St., Prescott, AZ.

 04:32 <MajB> 

 04:33 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 April 2015 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista, AZ.

 04:33 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 April 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa, AZ.

 04:33 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 23 April 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:33 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 24 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:34 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 May 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:34 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:    Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:35 <MajB> That is all I have for tonight.

 04:35 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:35 <dennisk2> MCC news

 04:35 <MajB> What do you have.

 04:35 <dennisk2> MCC and UofA have partnered for a 4 year Cyber Security degree all classes are either at MCC or online

 04:36 <dennisk2> dennisk@mesacc.edu for more info

 04:37 <MajB> Thank you dennisk2.

 04:37 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else?

 04:37 <acksys> MajB, I reviewed the projects page yesterday. I was hoping to get more information on the "servers class".

 04:38 <MajB> Right now we are looking for a teacher.

 04:39 <toddcnb> we used to hold a server class but lost the instructor  so if we have a new instructor to run the event their is a lot of interest

 04:39 <MajB> I'm interested.

 04:39 <dobleremolque> count me in on the server class, too.

 04:39 <markthomas> What did the server class involve?

 04:39 <stephenm> MajB could you be an instructor?

 04:40 <MajB> All we need is an instructor now.

 04:40 <acksys> I would be interested to conduct that, depending on what server means

 04:40 <MajB> MajB just learned how to spell server.

 04:40 <toddcnb> I can give more details on past server classes but will loose internet in a bit

 04:41 <MajB> We can take care of that after the meeting.  Does anyone have anything else?

 04:41 <tekNorah> do you have a curriculum for the server class?

 04:41 <toddcnb> usually part of the day on group project and part on on student projects

 04:41 <toddcnb> got to leave ttl thanks all

 04:41 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:42 <MajB> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
