{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 05 Aug at 04:01 &mdash; 04:20 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-08-05-04.01.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/first-look-at-serpent-os-minimal-gnome-desktop-and-rust-based-package-manager   (stephen_laptop_, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/comicbookviewers/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Intel-Xe-DRM-Next-Linux-6.12   (stephen_laptop_, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-screen/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-read-command-in-linux/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/change-the-linux-shell-with-csh-command/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/super-grub2-disk-2-06s4-system-rescue-tool-released-with-btrfs-support   (stephen_laptop_, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/dreamquest-n95-mini-pc-running-linux-power-consumption/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/oculante-hardware-accelerated-image-viewer/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/set-up-wireguard-vpn-on-linux/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-dust/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/build-web-apps-with-python-using-fasthtml/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/01/xen_4_19/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/impression-create-bootable-drives/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/copy-a-file-while-preserving-selinux-context-on-linux   (stephen_laptop_, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-chezmoi/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-substitute-only-a-first-match-occurrence-using-sed-command   (stephen_laptop_, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/01/linux_rollback_options/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/install-multiple-python-versions-on-ubuntu/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntu-touch.io/   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=395657636422655   (toddc, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:17)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (49)
* stephen_laptop_ (43)
* MajB (31)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:01 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:01:59 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:02 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:02 <MajB> +1

 04:02 <toddc> here 1 sec

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:03 <toddc> Stardate   -298407.4449124671

 04:03 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:03 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:03 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:04 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:04 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:04 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:04 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:04 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:04 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:04 <stephen_laptop_> Sorry about that, community WiFi I'm on sucks and I need to fix my booster for it to work properly

 04:04 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:04 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:04 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:05 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:05 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIE DAY

 04:05 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:05 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:05 <toddc> 

 04:05 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:06 <stephen_laptop_> First Look at Serpent OS: Minimal GNOME Desktop and Rust-Based Package Manager

 04:06 <stephen_laptop_> https://9to5linux.com/first-look-at-serpent-os-minimal-gnome-desktop-and-rust-based-package-manager

 04:06 <stephen_laptop_> 13 Best Free and Open Source Linux Comic Book Viewers

 04:06 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/comicbookviewers/

 04:06 <stephen_laptop_> Intel Xe2 Lunar Lake & Battlemage Graphics Might Be Officially Supported With Linux 6.12

 04:06 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Intel-Xe-DRM-Next-Linux-6.12

 04:06 <stephen_laptop_> How to Install and Use Screen on Linux (15 Practical Examples)

 04:06 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-screen/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> How to Use read Command in Linux

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-read-command-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> Change the Linux Shell with csh Command

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.howtoforge.com/change-the-linux-shell-with-csh-command/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> Super Grub2 Disk 2.06s4 System Rescue Tool Released with Btrfs Support

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> https://9to5linux.com/super-grub2-disk-2-06s4-system-rescue-tool-released-with-btrfs-support

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> DreamQuest N95 Mini PC Running Linux: Power Consumption

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/dreamquest-n95-mini-pc-running-linux-power-consumption/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> Oculante – hardware-accelerated image viewer

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/oculante-hardware-accelerated-image-viewer/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> WireGuard vs OpenVPN: Which One Should You Use?https://www.maketecheasier.com/wireguard-vs-openvpn/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> How to Set Up Wireguard VPN on Linux

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.maketecheasier.com/set-up-wireguard-vpn-on-linux/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> Dust: A Modern Tool to Display the Disk Usage in a Tree Hierarchy

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-dust/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> Build Fast, Scalable Web Apps With Python Using FastHTML

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> https://ostechnix.com/build-web-apps-with-python-using-fasthtml/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> Xen hypervisor quadruples its possible core count for version 4.19

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/01/xen_4_19/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> Impression – create bootable drives]

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/impression-create-bootable-drives/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> Copying Files and Directories While Preserving SELinux Context on Linux

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxconfig.org/copy-a-file-while-preserving-selinux-context-on-linux

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> Chezmoi: Manage Your Dotfiles Across Multiple Linux Systems

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-chezmoi/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> How to Substitute Only the First Match Occurrence Using the Sed Command

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-substitute-only-a-first-match-occurrence-using-sed-command

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> Linux updates with an undo function? Some distros have that

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/01/linux_rollback_options/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> How to Install Multiple Python Versions on Ubuntu Using Pyenv

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> https://ubuntushell.com/install-multiple-python-versions-on-ubuntu/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> OK that's all the news I have tonight, back to toddc

 04:10 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:10 <stephen_laptop_> Welcome

 04:10 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:10 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:11 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:11 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> When in doubt pinkyout     --(tab complete)

 04:12 <toddc> If penguins live in places with cold temperatures, that proves climate change is being caused by gnomes

 04:12 <toddc> Yeah there's like 50 different Linux desktop environments but if you're a sane person there's only 2 real options.

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:13 <toddc> Systems Administrator Nextiva in Scottsdale

 04:13 <toddc> Systems Administrator Gould Intelligent Phoenix AZ

 04:13 <stephen_laptop_> welcome MajB

 04:13 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 263

 04:13 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:13 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 55 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:13 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:14 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:14 <toddc> Ubuntu Touch OTA-5 Is Now Available for Ubuntu Phone Users

 04:14 <toddc> https://ubuntu-touch.io/

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Ubuntu pushing Automotive software (ubuntu core)

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=395657636422655

 04:15 <toddc> are there any cancelled events?

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:15 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:15 <MajB> 08 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <MajB> 08 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:16 <MajB> 17 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:16 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 18 August, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:16 <MajB> 22 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:17 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:18 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:18 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 08 August, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:18 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 20 August, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:18 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:18 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:19 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 27 August, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:19 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:19 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:19 <MajB> That's all

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:19 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:20 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
