{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #111 for the week December 28, January 3, 2010.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Eleventh Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 6, 2010
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday January 10, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the January 3, 2010 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10January3

scott_ev then gave some announcements:

* I believe most of you know that I am only moderating meetings on a temporary basis:  I am not the team leader.  Our team leader, johnc4510, is taking some time off from moderating our meetings.  He is still around handling other aspects of running our Lo``Co and generally taking care of things that don't require a public presence.  In time, this should change and we'll again be rewarded with the opportunity to interact with him.  Until then we'll just have to see what we can do to keep this team active and on track.

* There will be a 10.04 Lucid Lynx release party at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe (http://www.bouldersonbroadway.net/) on the 24th of April.  We will be heading there from the monthly installfest at UAT (http://tinyurl.com/y8w89o8).  Installfest goes from 10am - 4pm.  Boulders is a great place for us to meet since we can gave the upstairs room to ourselves and we can have access to the interweb tubes.  (xHans mentioned that wifi would be set up for Boulders)  We should have some demos up for the Installfest and also set up a couple for the party.

* Brainstorm Top 5 this week:
** Warning when running update manager while using battery - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23211/
** It's annoying when applications start up and take focus away from what your doing - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23209/
** It's important that 3rd party repositories can be added with 1 click - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23207/
** No Error Message - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23220/
** Make it easier for people that use a custom kernel - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23208/

Ubuntu Brainstorm is a community site geared toward letting you add your ideas for Ubuntu. You can submit your own idea, or vote for or against another idea. http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/ntu.com/UserDays .

* Ubuntu will be at Anime Boston 2010.  http://blog.thesilentnumber.me/2009/12/ubuntu-will-be-at-anime-boston-2010.html

* The Launchpad Release Calendar for 2010 has been posted to the Launchpad Development wiki[1]. Note that they are using the YY.MM naming to match the Ubuntu model.  Having a public release calendar is particularly useful for anyone wanting to contribute to our open source project. It is also helpful for users to know when we’re likely to have down-time or read-only time.  Maintenance and system status can be found at the identi.ca website[2]
  1. https://dev.launchpad.net/Releases/2010Calendar
  2. http://identi.ca/launchpadstatus

http://blog.launchpad.net/releases/2010-launchpad-release-calendar

* Tutorial of the Week:  Want to try another desktop environment? Give e17 a try. Enlightenment is not just another windows manager. It comes with a whole set of libraries.  You can set up a minimal install (please see previous ToW) and add e17.  Everything is explained in "HOWTO: installation of e17 from SVN code " and maintained by Rui Pais (http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=862), smartboyathome (http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=264712) and Tux Aubrey (http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=167727). With their help, you will be able to set up a unique desktop!

http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=916690

* So it's official there will be an Ubu``Con at SCa``LE 8x. (February 19-21, 2010 in Southern California) There will be approximately 7 hours of Ubuntu related topics on the 19th of February. (Working on getting it added to the special events page on the SCaLE website, stay tuned). What is an Ubu``Con you might ask.. In this case it will be 7 hours of talks, demos, etc all based on a connection to Ubuntu. http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/

* The Official Ubuntu Book: http://www.amazon.com/Official-Ubuntu-Book-Benjamin-Mako/dp/0137021208/ . (Information found at http://matthewhelmke.net/2009/12/29/ubuntu-unleashed-2010-edition/ )

* Ubuntu 32-bit, 32-bit PAE, 64-bit Kernel Benchmarks - http://www.phoronix.com/scan.p$page=article&item=ubuntu_32_pae&num=1

* 15 game-changing Linux moments of the decade - http://www.techradar.com/news/software/operating-systems/15-game-changing-linux-moments-of-the-decade-659030

* Infamous Chinese pirates launch Ubuntu that looks just like Windows XP - http://www.downloadsquad.com/2009/12/26/chinese-copy-cat-pirates-launch-ubuntu-that-looks-just-like-windows-xp/

* Ubuntu 10.04 LTS: How we get there - http://mdzlog.alcor.net/2009/12/23/ubuntu-10-04-lts-how-we-get-there/

* Most of the info that I just gave you came from the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.  There's a lot of good reading there every week and you may want to check it out if you aren't already doing so. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue174 . [Ed. Note:  For those interested, the UWN can be accessed from this redirect URL:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Current . It automatically takes you to the current issue.]

scott_ev then asked xHans for any PLUG and class announcements:

* PLUG devel is this Thursday night over at UAT _ http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/554

* Community college classes start on the 19th - http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/ .  We have GNU/Linux Networking Administration (services for a small/medium business).  There's also Shell Scripting, Intro to Javascript, Web Scripting w/ PHP and Web Devel II.  All of those are 8 week courses.  The Intro to GNU/Linux is also 8 weeks running in two different locations at night and now also running in the morning.  I don't yet know the status of the Open``Office.org or C classes.  All CC classes should be starting the week of the 19th.

* I believe the security/hackfest is now the 2nd Tuesday of the month, so a week from Tuesday.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/security

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:31 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
