{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 07 Oct at 04:01 &mdash; 04:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-10-07-04.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/9/artificial-intelligence-ai-fears-how-address 
''LINK:'' https://www.datafix.com.au/BASHing/2019-10-04.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/10/open-source-ereaders-android 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/10/corteza-low-code-user-interface 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/easiest-automation 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/flatpak-1-5-linux-app-sandboxing-rolls-out-with-new-features-many-improvements-527689.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-glassfish-with-nginx-as-a-reverse-proxy-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://net2.com/how-to-fix-wifi-not-working-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2019/10/what-you-need-to-know-about-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/10/introducing-ebook-kubernetes 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-docker-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/check-linux-hardware-information-system-configuration/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/bash-comments/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/10/shareware-vs-open-source 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/10/learn-bash-command-line-games 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/10/bash-history-shortcuts 
''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/fedora-projects-for-hacktoberfest/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-use-tee-and-script-commands-to-capture-output-and-errors-to-file/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=SMB3-Faster-Encryption-Samba 
''LINK:'' https://thishosting.rocks/best-linux-security-tools/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-atom-editor-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-use-tar-command-through-network-over-ssh-session/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/linux-tree-command-examples/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.cbts.com/contact/Y 
''LINK:'' https://www.gouldintelligent.com/job_openings.php 
''LINK:'' http://palnar.com/jobs/Y 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Pine64-Teases-25-Linux-Smartwatch-86246.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/traceroute-network-troubleshooting.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (57)
* stephenm (50)
* MajB (32)
* markthomas (3)
* meetingology (3)
* programmer317 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:01 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct  7 04:01:06 2019 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:01 <meetingology> 

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <programmer317> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 97282.01

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime. I will either way

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> 

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> Sorry was out of sorts this week and didn't take the time to read any of the articles to provide a narrative.

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 AI fears and how to address them

 04:03 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/9/artificial-intelligence-ai-fears-how-address

 04:03 <stephenm> How to guess the field separator in a table

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.datafix.com.au/BASHing/2019-10-04.html

 04:03 <stephenm> 4 open source eBook readers for Android

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/10/open-source-ereaders-android

 04:03 <stephenm> How to create the user interface for your Corteza Low Code application

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/10/corteza-low-code-user-interface

 04:04 <stephenm> The four easiest places to get started with automation

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/easiest-automation

 04:04 <stephenm> Flatpak 1.5 Linux App Sandboxing Rolls Out with New Features, Many Improvements

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/flatpak-1-5-linux-app-sandboxing-rolls-out-with-new-features-many-improvements-527689.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install GlassFish with Nginx as a Reverse Proxy on Debian 10

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-glassfish-with-nginx-as-a-reverse-proxy-on-debian-10/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to fix WiFi not working on Ubuntu?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://net2.com/how-to-fix-wifi-not-working-on-ubuntu/

 04:04 <stephenm> What You Need To Know About Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2019/10/what-you-need-to-know-about-linux.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Introducing the guide to getting started with Kubernetes

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/10/introducing-ebook-kubernetes

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Docker on CentOS 7

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-docker-on-centos-7/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Check System Configuration and Hardware Information on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/check-linux-hardware-information-system-configuration/

 04:05 <stephenm> Writing Comments in Bash Scripts

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/bash-comments/

 04:05 <MajB> markthomas, https://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-dma-ypf

 04:05 <stephenm> Sharing vs. free vs. public: The real definition of open source

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/10/shareware-vs-open-source

 04:05 <stephenm> 3 command line games for learning Bash the fun way

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/10/learn-bash-command-line-games

 04:06 <stephenm> 7 Bash history shortcuts you will actually use

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/10/bash-history-shortcuts

 04:06 <stephenm> Fedora projects for Hacktoberfest

 04:06 <stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/fedora-projects-for-hacktoberfest/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to use tee and script commands to capture output and errors to file

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-use-tee-and-script-commands-to-capture-output-and-errors-to-file/

 04:06 <stephenm> Samba 4.12 Bringing Much Faster Encryption Performance With GnuTLS

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=SMB3-Faster-Encryption-Samba

 04:06 <stephenm> 5 Best Security Tools to Have on Your Linux PC

 04:06 <stephenm> https://thishosting.rocks/best-linux-security-tools/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Atom Editor on Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-atom-editor-on-ubuntu/

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Use tar Command Through Network Over SSH Session

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-use-tar-command-through-network-over-ssh-session/

 04:07 <stephenm> Linux 'tree Command' Usage Examples for Beginners

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/linux-tree-command-examples/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you toddc.

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> 02 November 2019 AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop Canceled because of a UAT campus wide event.  No alternative venue is available at this time.

 04:08 <MajB> 28 November 2019 Tempe Ubuntu Hour canceled because of a conflict with Thanksgiving day.

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> now it also has duel factor

 04:10 <markthomas> I will try to be contributing more articles in the near future.

 04:10 <markthomas> Yes, use 2fa on the azloco.org

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> What do you call it when you have your mom???s mom on speed dial?

 04:11 <toddc> Instagram.

 04:11 <toddc> I walked down a street where the houses were numbered 64K, 128K, 256K, 512K and 1MB.

 04:11 <toddc> That was a trip down memory lane.

 04:12 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 62 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <toddc> Linux Administrator

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.cbts.com/contact/Y

 04:13 <toddc> Linux System Administrator

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.gouldintelligent.com/job_openings.php

 04:13 <toddc> Sr. Linux Admin

 04:13 <toddc> http://palnar.com/jobs/Y

 04:13 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:13 <toddc> Pine64 Teases $25 Linux Smartwatch

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Pine64-Teases-25-Linux-Smartwatch-86246.html

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Traceroute: How it Works

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.putorius.net/traceroute-network-troubleshooting.html

 04:14 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:14 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> 10 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 10 October, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:16 <MajB> 19 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:16 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 24 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 02 November, AZLOCO/CLUG Install Fest, 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista. All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions, or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.

 04:17 <MajB> 07 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 10 October 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:19 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 15 October  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thi

 04:19 <MajB> ngs tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:19 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 17 October 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:19 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 27 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 01 November 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 09 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 26 October 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:20 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:20 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:21 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:21 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:21 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
