{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by toddc, 06 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-11-06-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/best-flowchart-and-diagramming-software-for-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/connect-ubuntu-desktop-from-mac/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2023/11/pebbles-last-day-the-short-life-of-a-truly-social-site/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/best-linux-terminal-text-editors-for-beginners/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-assign-multiple-ip-addresses-to-single-network-card-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/open-source-definition-ai/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/sed-command/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcareers.com/resources/blog/2023/11/understanding-litespeed-a-comparison-with-apache-and-nginx/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/apt-command-not-found/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/configure-static-ip-address-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/02/trinity_desktop_q4os/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/locating-leviathan-files-linux   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/10/24/wazuh-open-source-xdr-siem/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/eza-command-listing-files-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://debugpointnews.com/linux-mint-testing-update/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-digital-color-meter/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/nitrux-3-1-released/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/linux-is-about-to-get-bcachefs-support/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/how-to-install-and-use-sar-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/check-package-availability-in-debian-and-ubuntu-repositories/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://us.bebee.com/job/20231105-504a8ead000a1280bfb3105d6eb94ac3?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/linux-admin-need-local-to-arizona-only-at-galaxy-infotech-inc-3681509043?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.com/UM250-Windows-Computer-Output-Graphics/dp/B08QZC6H8Q?th=1   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.home-assistant.io/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (53)
* stephenm (44)
* MajB (27)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:09 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 101443.58

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:01 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime. I will anyway

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL DONUT DAY

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News is all over the place this week.

 04:03 <stephenm> 10 Best Flowchart & Diagramming Software for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/best-flowchart-and-diagramming-software-for-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Connect Remote Ubuntu Desktop from a Mac

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/connect-ubuntu-desktop-from-mac/

 04:04 <stephenm> Pebble’s Last Day — The Short Life of a Truly Social Site

 04:04 <stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2023/11/pebbles-last-day-the-short-life-of-a-truly-social-site/

 04:04 <stephenm> 3 Best Linux Terminal Text Editors Perfect for Beginners

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/best-linux-terminal-text-editors-for-beginners/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Assign Multiple IP Addresses To A Single Network Interface Card In Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-assign-multiple-ip-addresses-to-single-network-card-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Open-Source Definition for AI Models Need a Change

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/open-source-definition-ai/

 04:04 <stephenm> Beginners’ Guide to Sed Command in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/sed-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> Understanding LiteSpeed: A Comparison with Apache and Nginx

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcareers.com/resources/blog/2023/11/understanding-litespeed-a-comparison-with-apache-and-nginx/

 04:05 <stephenm> Fixing the “apt command not found” Error in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/apt-command-not-found/

 04:05 <stephenm> Step-by-Step Guide to Configuring a Static IP Address in Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/configure-static-ip-address-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Trinity desktop's latest release snaps into action on Q4OS 5.3

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/02/trinity_desktop_q4os/

 04:05 <stephenm> Locating Leviathan Files in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/locating-leviathan-files-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> Wazuh: Free and Open-Source XDR and SIEM

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/10/24/wazuh-open-source-xdr-siem/

 04:06 <stephenm> eza: Simplifying File Listing with Improved ‘ls’ Functionality

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/eza-command-listing-files-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Mint Enables Testing Repo and Plans for Wayland

 04:06 <stephenm> https://debugpointnews.com/linux-mint-testing-update/

 04:06 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Digital Color Meter

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-digital-color-meter/

 04:06 <stephenm> Nitrux 3.1 Brings Plasma 5.27.9 and Latest Software Updates

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/nitrux-3-1-released/

 04:07 <stephenm> Linux Is about to Get Bcachefs Support, Here’s More on That

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/linux-is-about-to-get-bcachefs-support/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install and use SAR on Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/how-to-install-and-use-sar-on-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Check Package Availability In Debian and Ubuntu Repositories

 04:07 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/check-package-availability-in-debian-and-ubuntu-repositories/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight back to toddc

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> Met a guy once who rapped about nothing but Linux systems

 04:09 <toddc> His name was 50CentOS

 04:09 <toddc> Thunder and lightning isnt God being angry

 04:10 <toddc> Its Google amazon and Microsoft fighting in the clouds

 04:10 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> Linux Administrator

 04:10 <toddc> https://us.bebee.com/job/20231105-504a8ead000a1280bfb3105d6eb94ac3?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:11 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 2 local open jobs many other remote also

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development

 04:11 <toddc> Linux Admin, Need local to Arizona Only

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/linux-admin-need-local-to-arizona-only-at-galaxy-infotech-inc-3681509043?utm_campaign=google_jobs_apply&utm_source=google_jobs_apply&utm_medium=organic

 04:11 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:11 <toddc> Minisforum DeskMini UM350

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.com/UM250-Windows-Computer-Output-Graphics/dp/B08QZC6H8Q?th=1

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Home Assistant   Full home automations

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.home-assistant.io/

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> 23 November Tempe Ubuntu Hour is canceled because of a conflict with Thanksgiving.

 04:13 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:13 <MajB> 09 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 09 November, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 18 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:14 <MajB> al projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 19 November,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:14 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:14 <MajB> Many events are being held on line.

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:15 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 09 November, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 21 November, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly meeting 09 November, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month),

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 28 November, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Back to you Todd

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:16 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:16 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:17 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
