{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 20 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:20 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-11-20-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.datacenterknowledge.com/networks/facebook-open-sources-openr-its-distributed-network-software 
''LINK:'' http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/articles/open-source-or-open-standards-yes-future-has-arrived 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/easily-recall-forgotten-linux-commands/ 
''LINK:'' https://fossbytes.com/linux-distros-galaxy-first-demo-samsung/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/record-terminal-session-showterm/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/11/kanban-boards-card-sorting 
''LINK:'' https://kerneltalks.com/commands/date-time-management-using-timedatectl-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/setup-fluxbox-desktop-on-kali-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/join-integrate-rhel-centos-linux-system-to-windows-active-directory-ad-domain/# 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/fix-linux-no-space-left-on-device-error/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.esecurityplanet.com/hackers/hacking-blockchain-with-smart-contracts-to-control-a-botnet.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/security/quad9-secure-dns-service-embeds-ibm-security-intelligence 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-icinga2-on-debian-9/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.datamation.com/open-source/slideshows/top-10-linux-tools.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-setup-automatic-security-updates-on-ubuntu-1604/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/the-new-long-term-linux-kernel-linux-4-14-has-arrived/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/keep-ubuntu-system-clean/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/firefox-57-takes-quantum-leap-forward-in-speed-and-looks 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-devs-want-to-know-how-you-feel-about-guest-sessions-in-ubuntu-18-04-lts-518514.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/arch-linux-32-bit/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (93)
* stephenm (30)
* toddc (9)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* dwayne (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov 20 04:00:08 2017 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:00 <dwayne> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> team status?

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> I got until Friday

 04:02 <toddc> hello markthomas

 04:02 <MajB> Then I start in again

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> ok

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> The news start with simple news to more Linux news

 04:04 <stephenm> Facebook Open Sources Open/R, Its Distributed Network Software

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.datacenterknowledge.com/networks/facebook-open-sources-openr-its-distributed-network-software

 04:04 <stephenm> Open Source or Open Standards? (Yes!) The Future has Arrived

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/articles/open-source-or-open-standards-yes-future-has-arrived

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Easily Recall Forgotten Linux Commands

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/easily-recall-forgotten-linux-commands/

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux Distros On Smartphone: The First “Linux On Galaxy” Demo Is Here

 04:04 <stephenm> https://fossbytes.com/linux-distros-galaxy-first-demo-samsung/

 04:04 <stephenm> Record and Share Terminal Session with Showterm

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/record-terminal-session-showterm/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to create better documentation with a kanban board

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/11/kanban-boards-card-sorting

 04:05 <stephenm> Date & time management in Linux using timedatectl command

 04:05 <stephenm> https://kerneltalks.com/commands/date-time-management-using-timedatectl-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> Perfect Fluxbox Desktop on Kali Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/setup-fluxbox-desktop-on-kali-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> adcli – Easy Way To Join RHEL/CentOS System To Active Directory Domain

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/join-integrate-rhel-centos-linux-system-to-windows-active-directory-ad-domain/#

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Fix the 'No Space Left on Device' Error on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/fix-linux-no-space-left-on-device-error/

 04:06 <stephenm> Hacking Blockchain with Smart Contracts to Control a Botnet

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.esecurityplanet.com/hackers/hacking-blockchain-with-smart-contracts-to-control-a-botnet.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Quad9 Secure DNS Service Embeds IBM Security Intelligence

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/security/quad9-secure-dns-service-embeds-ibm-security-intelligence

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Icinga 2 Monitoring Tool on Debian 9.2

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-icinga2-on-debian-9/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight.

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> I have a few more news items

 04:07 <toddc> yhankyou

 04:07 <toddc> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> Top 10 Linux Tools

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.datamation.com/open-source/slideshows/top-10-linux-tools.html

 04:07 <MajB> How to Setup Automatic Security Updates on Ubuntu 16.04

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-setup-automatic-security-updates-on-ubuntu-1604/

 04:08 <MajB> The new long-term Linux kernel, Linux 4.14, has arrived

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.zdnet.com/article/the-new-long-term-linux-kernel-linux-4-14-has-arrived/

 04:08 <MajB> The 10 Easiest Ways to Keep Ubuntu System Clean

 04:08 <MajB> https://www.fossmint.com/keep-ubuntu-system-clean/

 04:08 <MajB> Firefox 57 Takes Quantum Leap Forward in Speed and Looks

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/firefox-57-takes-quantum-leap-forward-in-speed-and-looks

 04:08 <MajB> Ubuntu Devs Want to Know How You Feel About Guest Sessions in Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:08 <MajB> http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-devs-want-to-know-how-you-feel-about-guest-sessions-in-ubuntu-18-04-lts-518514.shtml

 04:09 <MajB> Arch Linux Ends Support for 32-Bit Systems

 04:09 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/arch-linux-32-bit/

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 29 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:10 <MajB> South Bay Circuits – Chandler

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html

 04:10 <toddc> Oaceanblue steve will ne signing up as a new member

 04:11 <MajB> There are 86 new and a total of 183 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are 23 new and a total of 40 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> TEAM SERVER NEWS:

 04:12 <MajB> toddc, Do you have some server news?

 04:12 <MajB> Of course you do.

 04:12 <toddc> markthomas: is updateing next cloud to v12 and rebuilding installfest server please thank him

 04:13 <MajB> Thank you markthomas.

 04:13 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:13 <toddc> we are ostill waiting for news on a DC home

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 02 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, Mesa Center for Higher Education, 245 W. 2nd Street, Mesa .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:14 <MajB> 07 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 16 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:14 <MajB> 28 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 28 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:15 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:16 <MajB> I can cover them in LUG activities

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:16 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 21 November 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conv

 04:16 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 November 10-4 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:17 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 01 December 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:17 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 12 December 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:17 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.

 04:17 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:17 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 14 December 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:18 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 17 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:18 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:

 04:18 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018

 04:18 <MajB> ScaLE

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:18 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:18 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:19 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:19 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:20 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
