{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



<pre>
 Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
Star Date 91695.21 check it at http://www.stoacademy.com/tools/stardate.php
Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
Team Website is http://azloco.org/

Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/
http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us

lets start with the news!!
UBUNTU NEWS

This email is distributed to three groups with members at all experience levels.
Remember: these links point to beginner AND advanced topics.  So pick and chose those that seem right for you and maybe try a few that are a bit of a stretch.  Just don't let any of it intimidate or frustrate you!

http://www.theverge.com/2014/1/24/5336104/smart-home-standard-are-a-mess-zigbee-z-wave

http://www.zdnet.com/uks-security-branch-says-ubuntu-most-secure-end-user-os-7000025312/

http://www.code-love.com/2014/01/26/five-brilliant-resources-for-learning-how-to-code-design-and-think/

http://www.howtogeek.com/180649/htg-explains-whats-the-difference-between-ad-hoc-and-infrastructure-mode/

http://www.howtogeek.com/180798/where-is-the-bios-stored/

http://arstechnica.com/security/2014/01/java-based-malware-driving-ddos-botnet-infects-windows-mac-linux-devices/

http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2014/01/16/manual-full-disk-encryption-setup-guide-for-ubuntu-13-10-linux-mint-16/

http://www.eweek.com/blogs/security-watch/filezilla-other-open-source-software-from-right-sources-is-safe.html

http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-s-Juju-Wins-the-Best-Cloud-Automation-Solution-Award-421598.shtml

Debian init system discussion is still unsettled
http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTU4NTg

http://www.zdnet.com/android-pcs-and-other-windows-alternative-desktops-are-for-real-7000025682/

http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/012814/even-north-korea-loves-linux-and-open-source

http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/01/skype-linux-nixes-noise-issues-fixes-bugs-latest-release
http://news.softpedia.com/news/Skype-4-2-0-13-for-Linux-Fixes-Ubuntu-and-Debian-64-bit-Crashes-421797.shtml

http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/01/reinstall-apps-on-ubuntu-fresh-install
http://www.itworld.com/open-source/402425/install-aptik-linux-mint-16

Why a million Linux music players [or whatever] is a good thing
http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/01/defence-choice-linux

http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/make-firefox-use-native-notifications.html

http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/nautilus-310-available-in-ubuntu-1404.html

http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/rhythmbox-coverart-browser-plugin.html

http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/how-to-enable-amd-radeon-dynamic-power.html

http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/pipelight-brings-widevine-support-for.html
http://www.webupd8.org/2013/08/pipelight-use-silverlight-in-your-linux.html

http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/With-B1-Archiver-No-Need-to-RTFM-79866.html

http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Quirky-Linux-Gets-More-Pep-Out-of-Puppy-79841.html

http://libretechtips.com/reviews-linux/manjaro-linux-0.8.9-cinnamon

http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/01/libreoffice-4-2-new-icon-theme

http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Installing-Linux-The-Good-Bad-and-Ugly-79883.html

http://www.howtogeek.com/175159/an-introduction-to-the-z-file-system-zfs-for-linux/

http://ask.xmodulo.com/draw-stacked-histogram-gnuplot.html

http://www.howtogeek.com/180987/5-things-you-need-to-do-immediately-after-plugging-in-your-new-router/

http://chadfowler.com/blog/2014/01/26/the-magic-of-strace/

http://betanews.com/2014/01/30/windows-xp-home-users-should-upgrade-to-linux-not-windows-8-1/
http://betanews.com/2014/01/31/from-windows-xp-to-linux-youd-have-to-be-mad/
http://betanews.com/2014/01/30/switching-from-a-windows-8-1-pc-to-mac-a-painful-yet-worthwhile-transition/

http://betanews.com/2014/01/31/able-hd-wants-to-put-a-monitor-in-your-bag/

http://news.softpedia.com/news/New-Kernel-Vulnerability-Affects-Ubuntu-13-10-422445.shtml

http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/professional-video-editor-lightworks.html
http://linuxg.net/lightworks-11-5-for-linux-is-now-available-for-download/

UK Cabinet Office signals move towards Open Source Office suites
http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/article.php?story=20140130112925328
http://www.techienews.co.uk/975412/uk-gov-planning-abandon-microsoft-office/

http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2014/01/20/how-to-install-ubuntu-13-10-and-linux-mint-16-on-a-btrfs-filesystem/

http://fossforce.com/2014/01/maintenance-achilles-heel-linux/

http://www.maketecheasier.com/install-intel-graphics-drivers-linux/

http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/how-to-fix-non-bootable-ubuntu-system.html

http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/LXLE-Gives-New-Zest-to-Old-Machines-79898.html

http://www.zdnet.com/dell-cooks-up-an-android-pc-on-a-hdmi-stick-7000025851/

http://www.maketecheasier.com/run-radio-station-with-raspberry-pi/

http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2014/01/the-lost-ancestors-of-ascii-art/283445

Thank you Dazed_75 lots of good information in there!

Scale12x February 21-23, 2014, Hilton Los Angeles Airport
https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale12x

TEAM NEWS

We are still looking for a central Phoenix meeting location for presentations - if anyone has location ideas please let us know!

JOB list
57 current canonical Jobs
http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

System Administor
AIM IT Services http://aimitservices.com

Canonical is looking for a work-from-home software engineer. We are seeking to fill a DevOps position to work on a variety of our online services. We are looking for either a developer or a

 sysadmin who's passionate and knowledgeable about deployments, production performance metrics and scaling complex services. The team is diverse and distributed and knowledgeable in a wide range 

of subjects, and are looking for someone to join a small team that facilitates deployments a complex and  inter-connected services, builds and extends infrastructure to display how services are operating and scaling them appropriately. For more information please markthomas

Runs LINUX
Corvette Racing’s Secret Weapon Is The Pratt & Miller Radar Camera
http://gmauthority.com/blog/2013/03/corvette-racings-secret-weapon-is-the-pratt-miller-radar-camera/

Linux App of the week

Livestreamer is a Command Line Interface that pipes video streams
http://livestreamer.tanuki.se/en/latest/

NEW MEMBERS THIS WEEK

TEMPE INSTALL-FEST

We had a great installfest several installs and repairs but also got a lot done on team projects.

The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday Febuary 15 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the 

front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28 

We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  
If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up. 

NORTH INSTALLFEST
 Sat, Febuary 22, 9am – 2pm
Paradise Valley Community College 18401 North 32nd Street, Phoenix, AZ 85032, USA

Enter from the north east or east lot toward the center and look for the computer commons area Building E Room E152 For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28 
we did 6 installs and one network repair

WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
West side ubuntu hour will be Febuary  5  7pm – 9pm
Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find 
out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
There were 6+4 new people at January's event this has started out as a great event.

TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
Thursday Febuary 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information 

TUCSON UBUNTU HOUR
We need one!!

TEAM SERVER NEWS

Thanks to adrenaline ArchFan markthomas wmack rudgan and any others I missed
get the new server on-line and rudgan will be maintaining drupul and user lists

Thanks to wmack he is working on the dualboot issues at home please contact him with any ideas

ArchFan also built a new BBB server for the team and after some testing we hope to deploy it since it has a lot of new features.

we will  plan to do more uefi dual boot testing I  may also do some demos on zoneminder and mythTV at the next events

UBUNTU TRAINING
no classes this week
adreanline is doing a Basic Linux Adminsitration and also has two blogs out see at azloco.org on the front page

ubuntu on-air
http://ubuntuonair.com/
http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

Jono Bacon Q&A Tuesday Jan 21 12 noon local time every Tuesday not on the schedule but he usually there anyway

Wednesday 7 am App design Clinic

FUTURE EVENTS 

Any thoughts on other events or projects???

PLUG EVENTS
Plug East side meeting Thursday Febuary 13  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226

Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday Febuary 18 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

that is all I have, any questions or comments or other news or ideas?

                         
      

                                     

             
                  

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
