{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 25 Aug at 04:00 &mdash; 04:29 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2014/ubuntu-us-az.2014-08-25-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/08/munich-council-say-talk-limux-demise-greatly-exaggerated 
''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/08/ubuntu-mate-remix-course-become-official-flavour 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Calibre-eBook-Reader-and-Editor-2-0-Massive-Update-Arrives-in-Force-455910.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/edubuntu-vs-uberstudent-return-college-best-linux-distro/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/35-open-source-tools-for-the-internet-of-things-1.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/d/open-source-software/walmarts-investment-in-open-source-isnt-cheap-248819 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/applications/top-linux-productivity-apps-1.html 
''LINK:'' http://xmodulo.com/2014/08/sniff-http-traffic-command-line-linux.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/linus-torvalds-still-wants-the-linux-desktop-7000032805/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/emulator-brings-x86-linux-apps-to-arm-devices/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.geekyprojects.com/cloning/setup-a-clonezilla-server-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://integrate.com/company/careers 
''LINK:'' https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1561203377/the-stack-box-a-smart-home-controller?ref=nav_search 
''LINK:'' http://xmodulo.com/2014/08/listen-to-internet-radio-command-line-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/u/0/+BrianCluff/posts/J2Dcam6bE2R 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/u/0/+BrianCluff/posts/G91shfXiER2 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/u/0/+BrianCluff/posts/jTVbHQhau4i 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* wmack (139)
* toddc (20)
* FernHans (18)
* MajB (6)
* meetingology (3)
* stephenm (3)
* MadDanEccles (2)
* pavlos (2)
* Ron_A (2)
* BobTucson (2)
* TuxMann (1)
* erroric (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug 25 04:00:49 2014 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <TuxMann> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <BobTucson> +

 04:01 <erroric> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <BobTucson> +1

 04:01 <wmack> Join us on bbb.azloco.net

 04:01 <wmack> if using firefox please ask for help to

 04:01 <wmack> add flash support to your system

 04:02 <wmack> If anyone has a interest in helping and or running meetings let us know

 04:02 <wmack> Star Date 92173.9

 04:02 <wmack> Team Website is HTTP://azloco.org/

 04:02 <wmack> IRC stats HTTP://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:03 <wmack> Team membership HTTP://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <wmack> HTTP://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <wmack> Team events portal HTTP://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <wmack> HTTP://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:04 <wmack> HTTP://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:04 <wmack> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:04 <wmack> lets start with the news!!

 04:04 <wmack> LINUX  NEWS

 04:04 <wmack> Thanks to turbidtux for the news.

 04:04 <wmack> Ubuntu estimates 30 million  users word wide

 04:05 <wmack> Before I forget -

 04:05 <wmack> Do we have any new visitors tonight?

 04:05 <toddc> welcome MadDanEccles tonight!!!

 04:05 <wmack> If so, please introduce yourself.

 04:05 <wmack> welcome!!

 04:05 <MajB> Welcome MadDan

 04:05 <MadDanEccles> thanks

 04:05 <toddc> waves!!!

 04:06 <MadDanEccles> waves back

 04:06 <wmack> Munich Council Say Talk of LiMux Demise Is Greatly Exaggerated

 04:06 <wmack> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/08/munich-council-say-talk-limux-demise-greatly-exaggerated

 04:06 <wmack> Ubuntu MATE Remix Seeks Official Spin Status

 04:06 <wmack> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/08/ubuntu-mate-remix-course-become-official-flavour

 04:06 <wmack> Founder Explains What Docker Is All About

 04:06 <wmack> HTTP://www.serverwatch.com/server-trends/docker-founder-explains-what-docker-is-all-about.html

 04:06 <wmack> Dangling the Linux Carrot

 04:06 <wmack> HTTP://fossforce.com/2014/08/dangling-the-linux-carrot/

 04:07 <wmack> Setup FTP server using VsFtp and Configure Secure FTP connections on Ubuntu 14.04 Server

 04:07 <wmack> HTTP://www.ubuntugeek.com/setup-ftp-server-using-vsftp-and-configure-secure-ftp-connections-using-tlsssl-on-ubuntu-14-04-server.html

 04:07 <wmack> What is a good EPUB reader on Linux

 04:07 <wmack> HTTP://xmodulo.com/2014/08/good-epub-reader-linux.html

 04:07 <wmack> Microsoft Lobby Denies the State of Chile Access to Free Software

 04:07 <wmack> HTTP://news.softpedia.com/news/Microsoft-Lobby-Denies-the-State-of-Chile-Access-to-Free-Software-455598.shtml

 04:07 <wmack> Home automation hub runs Linux, offers cloud services

 04:07 <wmack> HTTP://www.linuxtoday.com/upload/home-automation-hub-runs-linux-offers-cloud-services-140819183019.html

 04:08 <wmack> How To Enable HTML5 Playback For Netflix On Ubuntu 14.04 Or 14.10  in Chrome

 04:08 <wmack> HTTP://www.webupd8.org/2014/08/how-to-enable-html5-playback-for.html

 04:08 <wmack> Linux Foundation Debuts Linux Certification Effort

 04:08 <wmack> HTTP://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/linux-foundation-debuts-linux-certification-effort.html

 04:08 <wmack> How to configure a network printer and scanner on Ubuntu desktop

 04:08 <wmack> HTTP://xmodulo.com/2014/08/configure-network-printer-scanner-ubuntu-desktop.html

 04:08 <wmack> Is KVM or Docker Faster for Server Virtualization?

 04:08 <wmack> HTTP://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/is-kvm-or-docker-faster-for-server-virtualization.html

 04:09 <wmack> Viewing your processes through the eyes of /proc

 04:09 <wmack> HTTP://www.itworld.com/operating-systems/432024/unix-viewing-your-processes-through-eyes-proc

 04:09 <wmack> Is it time to automate your home with Linux?

 04:09 <wmack> HTTP://www.itworld.com/open-source/432272/automate-your-home-with-linux

 04:09 <wmack> Top Linux Productivity Apps

 04:09 <wmack> HTTP://www.datamation.com/applications/top-linux-productivity-apps-1.html

 04:09 <wmack> Calibre eBook Reader and Editor 2.0 Massive Update Arrives in Force

 04:09 <wmack> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Calibre-eBook-Reader-and-Editor-2-0-Massive-Update-Arrives-in-Force-455910.shtml

 04:10 <wmack> The Justice League of Linux: If Distros Were Superheroes

 04:10 <wmack> HTTP://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/08/justice-league-linux-distros-superheroes

 04:10 <wmack> How to Setup Monitorix – Network and System Monitoring Tool for Linux

 04:10 <wmack> HTTP://www.linuxtoday.com/it_management/how-to-setup-monitorix-network-and-system-monitoring-tool-for-linux.html

 04:10 <wmack> Edubuntu Vs UberStudent: Return To College With The Best Linux Distro

 04:10 <wmack> http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/edubuntu-vs-uberstudent-return-college-best-linux-distro/

 04:10 <toddc> hi Ron_A

 04:10 <wmack> 35 Open Source Tools for the Internet of Things

 04:10 <wmack> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/35-open-source-tools-for-the-internet-of-things-1.html

 04:10 <wmack> hello Ron_A

 04:11 <Ron_A> Hello

 04:11 <wmack> Walmart's investment in open source isn't cheap

 04:11 <wmack> http://www.infoworld.com/d/open-source-software/walmarts-investment-in-open-source-isnt-cheap-248819

 04:11 <wmack> Top Linux Productivity Apps

 04:11 <wmack> http://www.datamation.com/applications/top-linux-productivity-apps-1.html

 04:11 <wmack> How to sniff HTTP traffic from the command line on Linux

 04:11 <wmack> http://xmodulo.com/2014/08/sniff-http-traffic-command-line-linux.html

 04:11 <wmack> Linus Torvalds still wants the Linux desktop

 04:11 <wmack> http://www.zdnet.com/linus-torvalds-still-wants-the-linux-desktop-7000032805/

 04:11 <toddc> hello stephenm

 04:12 <wmack> Emulator brings x86 Linux apps to ARM devices

 04:12 <wmack> http://linuxgizmos.com/emulator-brings-x86-linux-apps-to-arm-devices/

 04:12 <wmack> Setup a Clonezilla Server on Ubuntu with muticast

 04:12 <Ron_A> +1

 04:12 <wmack> http://www.geekyprojects.com/cloning/setup-a-clonezilla-server-on-ubuntu/

 04:12 <wmack> TEAM NEWS

 04:12 <wmack> Pearson Publishing has donated a free Official Ubuntu Book to the Loco Team use when it arrives. Thanks to Pearson publishing.

 04:12 <wmack> We would like to update and link face book pages and g+ if someone has the time to set up and maintain those see toddc for more info.

 04:13 <wmack> We have started a team project board to list projects that could/should be done for team HTTP://www.azloco.org/node/184

 04:13 <stephenm> +1

 04:13 <wmack> if you pick one please leave a comment and status and ask for help

 04:13 <wmack> We are getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:13 <wmack> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others HTTP://loco.ubuntu.com/events/know about it.

 04:13 <wmack> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:14 <wmack> canceled events due to holidays

 04:14 <wmack> next week the meeting is cancelled

 04:14 <wmack> Sunday 8/31 weekly meeting (Labor day weekend)

 04:14 <stephenm> Where are the HowToDO articles?

 04:14 <wmack> Ubuntu 14.04 DVD's are In stock and ready to pass out carry some with you!!

 04:14 <wmack> we now have access to community project money

 04:14 <toddc> stephenm: step is that set up docs

 04:14 <wmack> HTTP://fridge.ubuntu.com/2014/05/29/community-donations-funding-report/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ubuntu-fridge+%28The+Fridge+-+News+for+Human+Beings%29

 04:14 <toddc> step 1

 04:14 <wmack> HTTP://community.ubuntu.com/help-information/funding/

 04:15 <wmack> JOB list

 04:15 <wmack> DevOps Engineer

 04:15 <wmack> http://integrate.com/company/careers

 04:15 <wmack> 45 current canonical Jobs this week  and they are adding more each day

 04:15 <wmack> HTTP://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:15 <wmack> Unix Engineer Best Western

 04:15 <wmack> HTTP://hiring.accolo.com/jobs/Phoenix/Arizona/Unix_Engineer/341446423/job.htm?sourceType=9

 04:15 <toddc> stephenm: azloco blogs als have a lot of project guides

 04:15 <wmack> IT Security Administrator

 04:15 <wmack> HTTP://careers-leslies.icims.com/jobs/14509/bi-data-analyst-report-developer/job

 04:16 <wmack> Runs LINUX

 04:16 <wmack> The STACK Box - A Smart Home Controller

 04:16 <wmack> https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1561203377/the-stack-box-a-smart-home-controller?ref=nav_search

 04:16 <wmack> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:16 <wmack> Shutter

 04:16 <wmack> Pianobar on Linux play radio or music from the command line

 04:16 <wmack> http://xmodulo.com/2014/08/listen-to-internet-radio-command-line-linux.html

 04:16 <wmack> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:17 <wmack> we have started adding users to the Owncloud server talk to wmack or toddc for accounts

 04:17 <wmack> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:17 <wmack> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:17 <MajB> 28 August 5:30-6-30 or when its over.

 04:18 <MajB> Sierra Vista Public Library foyer

 04:18 <MajB> Everyone is welcome

 04:18 <pavlos> +1

 04:18 <toddc> see HTTP://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:18 <wmack> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:19 <toddc> hi pavlos

 04:19 <wmack> Thursday August 28 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame in Tempe southern and McClintock

 04:19 <wmack> HTTP://xtremebeancoffee.com

 04:19 <pavlos> hi all, a bit late

 04:19 <wmack> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and

 04:19 <wmack> open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or HTTP://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:19 <wmack> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:19 <wmack> West side Ubuntu hour will be September 3 7pm – 9pmStarbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA HTTP://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:19 <wmack> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:19 <wmack> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:20 <wmack> There were 4 people at the last event

 04:20 <wmack> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST

 04:20 <wmack> The next Plug installfest is Saturday September 6 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 206/207 this month 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the

 04:20 <wmack> front building.

 04:20 <wmack> For more information see calender at HTTP://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:21 <wmack> LINUX TRAINING

 04:21 <MajB> Any activity in Tucson yet?

 04:21 <wmack> Linux Intro Course Available Online for Free from edX and The Linux Foundation Starts Aug 1 2014

 04:21 <toddc> none yet :(

 04:21 <wmack> HTTP://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/2400-introduction-to-linux-course-will-be-free-and-online-this-summer/ use the code free more classes have been added and more dates

 04:21 <toddc> ubuntu on-air

 04:21 <toddc> HTTP://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:21 <toddc> HTTP://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:21 <toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net

 04:22 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:22 <toddc> When Tue, August 26, 8am – 9pm AZ local time

 04:22 <wmack> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:22 <toddc> great place to see what is new and ask why things are the way they are

 04:22 <wmack> thanks toddc

 04:22 <wmack> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <wmack> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:23 <wmack> OTHER EVENTS

 04:23 <wmack> FernHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:24 <FernHans> yes, danke

 04:24 <FernHans> Brian post-produced and posted videos from last week's talks

 04:24 <FernHans> CLI packet forensics

 04:24 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/+BrianCluff/posts/J2Dcam6bE2R

 04:24 <FernHans> Basic Modelling Tools in Blender 3D

 04:24 <FernHans> 

 04:25 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/+BrianCluff/posts/G91shfXiER2

 04:25 <FernHans> Desktop Security Series: Web Browser Tracking

 04:25 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/+BrianCluff/posts/jTVbHQhau4i

 04:25 <FernHans> A week from Wednesday I will be giving a brown bag presentation for Gangplank

 04:25 <FernHans> Topic: Online Privacy and Security

 04:26 <FernHans> 260 S Arizona Ave, Chandler, AZ 85225

 04:26 <FernHans> this is a long-form presentation coming from my regular desktop security short topic series from PLUG

 04:27 <FernHans> and that's it for this week

 04:27 <FernHans> thanks for the multi-group cooperation

 04:27 <wmack> Thank you FernHans for this large list of things!

 04:27 <stephenm> FernHans is that on September 3rd?

 04:27 <wmack> Other news:

 04:27 <FernHans> bitte

 04:27 <FernHans> stephenm: yes

 04:28 <wmack> A new Linux Users Group has formed in Queen Creek: Maricopa Pinal GNU Linux Users Group.

 04:28 <FernHans> stephenm: I was slow on getting them abstract, so they haven't yet added it to the calendar, should be added anytime now

 04:28 <wmack> More info under http://www.mpglug.org

 04:29 <wmack> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:29 <wmack> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:29 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
