{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


01 August - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2001%2C%202021%20Meeting
05 August - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed the grub> and grub rescue> prompts
07 August - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Configured Weewx with Apache2
* Installed/upgraded Nvidia driver
* Repaired Maria DB error
* Fedora upgrade process
12 August - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed the 3rd point release of Ubuntu 20.04 on 26 August and the release of Linux Mint 20.3 by Christmas.
* Discussed topics for presentations.  Since 40 plus presentations have been given, a recommendation was made to use our spare computers and hand then out to members so they can install a Linux distribution on then give a short presentation on the distribution to the gathered members to include any problems or hiccups that occurred during installation, how the distribution handled during daily use, any problems that may have occurred during updates, pros and cons of using the distribution plus anything else that may be of interest.  Distributions that were considered include; Elementary, Linux Mint, Pop OS, MX Linux, and AntiX.
12 August – Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Microphone testing
15 August – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2015%2C%202021%20Meeting
21 August - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Virtualbox on a Fedora install
* Rockey Linux install and media creation
* Let's encrypt repair on Next Cloud
* IPcamera discussion
* Discussed the possible change of Ubuntu Hour dates in the Phoenix area
* Discussed the possible reasons for hoarding of toilet paper
26 August - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees 
