{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# Discussion
# PLUG Announcements
# ETC

If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with toddc or scott_ev.

=== Log ===
<pre>
toddc>	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	<fuzzyvader>	+1
[21:00]	<toddc>	+1
[21:00]	<scott_ev>	+1+1
[21:00]	<toddc>	9.00
[21:00]	<ravitejavad>	+1
[21:00]	<LostPenguin>	+1
[21:00]	<FernHans>	moin moin, dual-meetinging
[21:00]	<toddc>	Our launch pad site
[21:00]	<toddc>	https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona
[21:00]	<toddc>	Our web site is azloco.com
[21:01]	<toddc>	lot of stuff tonight so let me know if I need to go over anything
[21:01]	<toddc>	ravitejavad is new tonight so say hi and welcome him
[21:01]	<fuzzyvader>	yo
[21:01]	<scott_ev>	welcome
[21:01]	<ravitejavad>	hi everybody
[21:01]	<toddc>	Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:01]	<scott_ev>	what does that nic mean?
[21:01]	<toddc>	be nice!
[21:02]	<ravitejavad>	it is my name
[21:02]	<scott_ev>	ok, cool
[21:02]	<scott_ev>	where are you?
[21:02]	<ravitejavad>	i live in tempe,az but am from Indiaq
[21:02]	<ravitejavad>	*India
[21:02]	<scott_ev>	excellent
[21:02]	<toddc>	I live in Tempe also
[21:02]	<ravitejavad>	cool
[21:02]	<scott_ev>	which part of India?
[21:03]	<ravitejavad>	the southern part
[21:03]	<toddc>	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:03]	<scott_ev>	ok, thanks fort answering
[21:03]	<ravitejavad>	sure
[21:03]	<toddc>	Here is new news from ubuntu news:
[21:03]	<toddc>	Ubuntu manual Project opening Job listings
[21:03]	<toddc>	http://itigloo.com/2011/03/04/ubuntu-manual-project-job-openings/
[21:03]	<toddc>	Quick Ubuntu install using minimal installer
[21:04]	<toddc>	http://www.lifehacker.com.au/2011/03/speed-up-your-ubuntu-install-with-ubuntu-minimal/
[21:04]	<toddc>	Ubuntu cancels 11.04 UNR since Unity interface is the same. Netbook remix
[21:04]	<toddc>	Ubuntu 11.10 to be named Oneirc Ocelot
[21:04]	<toddc>	Ubuntu is the 4th Most Popular linux Distribution on web servers and continues to grow faster
[21:04]	<toddc>	http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/02/ubuntu-is-4th-most-popular-linux.html
[21:05]	<toddc>	ATI full support will be included in 11.04 I am using it ATM
[21:05]	-->|	Eric-A (~eric@184-98-16-177.phnx.qwest.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:05]	<toddc>	hello eric-A
[21:05]	<Eric-A>	hello
[21:05]	<toddc>	Ubuntu Globbal Jam April 1-3
[21:05]	<toddc>	http://www.linuxsouls.com/node/32
[21:05]	<toddc>	any interest in doing a group event or getting involved?
[21:06]	<toddc>	Why every ubuntu user must install ubuntu tweak!
[21:06]	<toddc>	http://www.muktware.com/a/23/2011/787/why-every-ubuntu-user-must-install-ubuntu-tweak
[21:06]	<scott_ev>	I can't commit to that
[21:06]	<toddc>	How to sync windows with ubuntu one
[21:06]	<toddc>	http://www.howtogeek.com/news/sync-your-windows-computer-with-your-ubuntu-one-account-desktop-client/3776/
[21:06]	<toddc>	Spotlight on Linux: Puppy Linux 5.2
[21:06]	<toddc>	http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/spotlight-linux-puppy-linux-52
[21:07]	<toddc>	Ubuntu 11.04 will include upgrade option on live disk
[21:07]	<toddc>	http://www.webupd8.org/2011/03/ubuntu-live-cd-will-let-you-upgrade-to.html
[21:07]	<toddc>	Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?
[21:07]	<ravitejavad>	interested.
[21:07]	<toddc>	Job list
[21:07]	<toddc>	AMD hiring over 1000 IT/linux engineers
[21:07]	<toddc>	http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=OTIwNA
[21:08]	<toddc>	Free open source auction site bunfu.com
[21:08]	<toddc>	http://www.buntfu.com/
[21:08]	<scott_ev>	hey
[21:08]	<toddc>	YO
[21:08]	<scott_ev>	you need to slow down and let people answer your question
[21:08]	<ravitejavad>	any news about Nvidia optimus technology support on 11.04?
[21:08]	<scott_ev>	ravitejavad: said yes, interested and you just kept going
[21:09]	<toddc>	I have not seen anything on it but I usually only check when I run into a problem
[21:09]	<ravitejavad>	oks
[21:10]	<scott_ev>	does that mean we'll be discussing installfests/server projects later?
[21:10]	<toddc>	any ideas on what and hoe to participate in it?
[21:10]	<toddc>	yes
[21:10]	<scott_ev>	I'll be at teh installfest
[21:10]	<toddc>	Tucson or Tempe or both
[21:10]	<scott_ev>	unless something happens that I can't get out of
[21:10]	<scott_ev>	both
[21:11]	<toddc>	cool
[21:11]	<scott_ev>	I plan on starting to attend monthly at UAT like before
[21:11]	<fuzzyvader>	when's tempe?
[21:11]	<scott_ev>	fuzz, I need to talk to you after the meeting
[21:11]	<toddc>	Azloco/plug installfest is this Saterday at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
[21:11]	<fuzzyvader>	scott_ev: cool
[21:12]	<fuzzyvader>	crap I can't make it...
[21:12]	<fuzzyvader>	I might try for tucson, but that's a hike for me
[21:12]	<toddc>	this saterday is the server installfest nesxt week is the normal installfest
[21:12]	<ravitejavad>	toddc: i will attend normal installfest.
[21:12]	<ravitejavad>	at tempe
[21:12]	<fuzzyvader>	hmm I could prolly make next sat... this sat wife and I are celebrating anniversary
[21:13]	<toddc>	TUCSON INSTALLFEST NEWS
[21:13]	<toddc>	current plans are for me to drive to Tucson 4/2/2011 with my van to carpool leaving Azmills at 7:00AM
[21:13]	<toddc>	Dazed_75 will be with me anyone else?
[21:13]	<fuzzyvader>	possibly
[21:13]	<fuzzyvader>	will keep you posted
[21:14]	<toddc>	no hurry but let me know before the 2nd
[21:14]	<ravitejavad>	maybe, but will confirm later
[21:14]	<toddc>	cool the more the merrier
[21:14]	<toddc>	Thanks to azmike he has posted over 30 flyer's for the Tucson installfest
[21:14]	<ravitejavad>	toddc: will the Tucson be a server installfest
[21:15]	<toddc>	so we should have a good showing for the Tucson installfest
[21:15]	<toddc>	normal but will answer questions and help if we can
[21:16]	<ravitejavad>	toddc: thanks
[21:16]	<toddc>	on servers since they usually take more time and are usually set up differently
[21:17]	<toddc>	I will be out of town next Saterday and miss the Server event
[21:18]	<toddc>	but will be at the normal and Tucson events
[21:18]	<toddc>	TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:18]	<toddc>	The team servers needs updating at Devry so the plans are to get together some Saturday and update and rebuild both as a group event and will be lead by Shane Lofgren AKA slofgren but we need a date and a list of who is interested in this.
[21:19]	<scott_ev>	I have to find out when shane is available and he won't know until after he talks to devry
[21:19]	<toddc>	ok so hold this a while?
[21:20]	<toddc>	The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:20]	<scott_ev>	just let people know that we will be doing it
[21:21]	<scott_ev>	and when I get more info from shane I'll report back to the team
[21:21]	<toddc>	I will need to read more about the global JAM unless anyone knows more about it and what or how to participate in it
[21:22]	<scott_ev>	I've been involved before as an individual
[21:22]	<scott_ev>	but am uncertain how a team participates
[21:23]	<ravitejavad>	toddc: we could ask other LoCo teams who have registered
[21:23]	<scott_ev>	ravitejavad: would you be willing to do some research for us?
[21:25]	<toddc>	if not I can check this week and bring it up at the next meeting
[21:27]	<sloggerkhan>	I'm kinda a here...
[21:27]	-->|	slofgren (~slofgren@unaffiliated/slofgren) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:27]	<ravitejavad>	toddc: i will fo some research on it and contct the other teams
[21:27]	<toddc>	hello and welcome
[21:27]	<scott_ev>	sloffy
[21:28]	<scott_ev>	we were just discussing upgrading the servers as a team event
[21:28]	<toddc>	thanks I am here or toddc@azloco.com
[21:28]	<toddc>	The team servers needs updating at Devry so the plans are to get together some Saturday and ####update and rebuild both as a group event and will be lead by Shane Lofgren AKA slofgren but we ####need a date and a list of who is interested in this.
[21:30]	<toddc>	we put this on hold till we know more about when from you slofgren
[21:31]	<toddc>	here are a few events from plugaz
[21:31]	<toddc>	East side free software Stammtisch Tuesday at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
[21:31]	=-=	Mode #Ubuntu-US-AZ +o slofgren by ChanServ
[21:31]	=-=	Mode #Ubuntu-US-AZ +o scott_ev by slofgren
[21:31]	<slofgren>	howdy
[21:32]	<toddc>	hello are with us now?
[21:32]	<slofgren>	kinda
[21:32]	<slofgren>	lol
[21:32]	<slofgren>	eatting cereal
[21:33]	<toddc>	np we table the server stuff till we hear about when you are availible and can get access
[21:34]	-->|	SlickMcRunFast (~mark@host-86-116.aztegmo.clients.pavlovmedia.com) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:34]	<toddc>	hey slick
[21:34]	<slofgren>	you can always email me slofgren @ gmail
[21:34]	<toddc>	ok
[21:34]	<slofgren>	I will try to be here for 9pm meetings
[21:34]	<toddc>	West side free software Stammtisch Thursday at Sals Tusan Grill 7:00PM 13291 W. McDowell Rd Goodyear AZ 85395
[21:35]	<toddc>	that is all I have anyone have anything else?
[21:36]	<toddc>	FernHans if you are here do you have any news for us? --I know he is in another meeting so he may not make it
[21:36]	<slofgren>	I spray painted my sandisk USB drive yellow and waiting for then to dry - all my news
[21:37]	=-=	Mode #Ubuntu-US-AZ +o toddc by slofgren
[21:37]	<toddc>	ABLEconf.com is April 2 at UAT
[21:37]	<slofgren>	go nuts
[21:37]	<slofgren>	REALLY?
[21:37]	<toddc>	thanks it will help
[21:38]	<slofgren>	so is ableconf offical?
[21:38]	<toddc>	now I can get back at all those that kicked me out of here before
[21:38]	<toddc>	yes it is in it's third year
[21:38]	<FernHans>	slofgren: yes, has been for months :)
[21:38]	<toddc>	http://www.ableconf.com/
[21:39]	<FernHans>	toddc: the big thing is ABLEconf :)
[21:39]	<FernHans>	as you said, it's the first Saturday in April at UAT
[21:39]	* slofgren	feels bad for not being envolved
[21:39]	<FernHans>	we've gotten confirmation from all but two presenters and will hopefully have the schedule up in a couple of days
[21:39]	<toddc>	due to my poor planning it is the same day as the Tucson Installfest
[21:40]	<slofgren>	cancel it
[21:40]	<scott_ev>	damnn, that's like choosing between Barak Hosein Obama and John the cripple McCain
[21:41]	<slofgren>	o.O
[21:41]	* scott_ev	is always politically correct
[21:41]	<scott_ev>	haha
[21:41]	<FernHans>	we have come cool talks this year: Local-Motors, Dell, accessiblity, several business talks, graphics, translation software, geneology, cloud computing, wikipedia, hackerspaces
[21:41]	<slofgren>	always as in never
[21:41]	<slofgren>	lol
[21:41]	<scott_ev>	agreed
[21:41]	<toddc>	looks like we are getting a lot of RSVP to the Tucson installfest and a lot of linux users are emailing me about it
[21:41]	<sloggerkhan>	hmm what day ableconf vs tucson installfest?
[21:42]	<toddc>	april 2
[21:42]	<scott_ev>	FernHans: who's going to be the biggest players in cloud computing in the long run? What do you think of Silicon Graphics?
[21:42]	<FernHans>	so ABLEconf is looking good
[21:42]	<FernHans>	we also probably have a keynote this year :). on renewable energy and Free Software
[21:42]	<scott_ev>	nice
[21:43]	<slofgren>	say cloud one more time...
[21:43]	<FernHans>	scott_ev: BTW, does your startup want a table?
[21:43]	<scott_ev>	it is quite the buzz word this year
[21:44]	<FernHans>	slofgren: we don't get to see them very often down here :)
[21:44]	<toddc>	some send me a live video feed from ableconf?
[21:44]	<scott_ev>	FernHans: We dissolved that entity, sorry
[21:44]	<eeeThugal>	:(
[21:45]	<FernHans>	scott_ev: ah
[21:45]	<FernHans>	toddc: we might have that
[21:45]	<scott_ev>	in other words my partner went MIA after I quit shelling out the $
[21:45]	<toddc>	it would be used
[21:45]	<FernHans>	toddc: ok, I'll hold you to that :)
[21:46]	<toddc>	I will show in Tucson if availible
[21:46]	<scott_ev>	brb
[21:48]	<toddc>	that is about all I have for the meeting to night but I will be here a while if anyone has questions or comments
[21:48]	<slofgren>	well I plan to be there unless the baby comes a month early
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
