{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 16 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-12-16-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/new-vulnerability-lets-attackers-sniff-or-hijack-vpn-connections/ 
''LINK:'' http://techrights.org/2019/12/14/fsm-out-from-the-box/ 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/the-lost-worlds-of-telnet/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/how-the-community-can-help-your-business-people-powered/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-cm3-dev-board-breaks-through-with-38-price/ 
''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Articles/806230/ 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-warms-up-to-ipv6/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-script-command-record-replay-terminal-session-activity/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/poll-cords 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/12/videos-linux-app-summit 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/12/mate-linux-desktop 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-execute-bin-and-run-files-in-debian/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/12/openbox-linux-desktop 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3489537/7-ways-to-remember-linux-commands.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/set-path-variable-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-openvpn-server-and-client-with-easy-rsa-3-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.usessionbuddy.com/post/What-is-firewall-cmd-and-how-to-use-it/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-ntp-server-and-client-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2019/05/17/an-introduction-to-linux-virtual-interfaces-tunnels/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/completely-wipe-hard-drive-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (53)
* stephenm (44)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (3)
* markthomas (1)
* programmer317 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 16 04:00:03 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <programmer317> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/html5client/join?sessionToken=klnklkijs1nnsjpt if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> The news is short because I forgot what week is was again sorry

 04:03 <stephenm> New vulnerability lets attackers sniff or hijack VPN connections

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/new-vulnerability-lets-attackers-sniff-or-hijack-vpn-connections/

 04:03 <stephenm> Guest Article: The Free Software Movement Should Come Out From the Box

 04:03 <stephenm> http://techrights.org/2019/12/14/fsm-out-from-the-box/

 04:03 <stephenm> The Lost Worlds of Telnet

 04:03 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/the-lost-worlds-of-telnet/

 04:03 <markthomas> +1 sorry I'm late

 04:03 <stephenm> How the community can help your business: People Powered

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/how-the-community-can-help-your-business-people-powered/

 04:04 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi CM3 dev board breaks through with $38 price

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-cm3-dev-board-breaks-through-with-38-price/

 04:04 <stephenm> Creating Kubernetes distributions

 04:04 <stephenm> https://lwn.net/Articles/806230/

 04:04 <stephenm> Kubernetes Warms Up to IPv6

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-warms-up-to-ipv6/

 04:04 <stephenm> Script – A Simple Command-Line Tool for Recording Your Terminal Session Activity

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-script-command-record-replay-terminal-session-activity/

 04:05 <stephenm> Sysadmins: How many spare cords do you have sitting around?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/poll-cords

 04:05 <stephenm> Watch these videos from the Linux App Summit

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/12/videos-linux-app-summit

 04:05 <stephenm> What GNOME 2 fans love about the Mate Linux desktop

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/12/mate-linux-desktop

 04:05 <stephenm> How to execute .bin and .run files in Debian

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-execute-bin-and-run-files-in-debian/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to configure Openbox for your Linux desktop

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/12/openbox-linux-desktop

 04:06 <stephenm> 7 ways to remember Linux commands

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3489537/7-ways-to-remember-linux-commands.html

 04:06 <stephenm> How to set the PATH variable in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/set-path-variable-linux.html

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install OpenVPN Server and Client with Easy-RSA 3 on CentOS 8

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-openvpn-server-and-client-with-easy-rsa-3-on-centos-8/

 04:07 <stephenm> What is firewall-cmd and how to use it

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.usessionbuddy.com/post/What-is-firewall-cmd-and-how-to-use-it/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install NTP Server and Client(s) on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:07 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-ntp-server-and-client-on-ubuntu/

 04:07 <stephenm> An Introduction to Linux Virtual Interfaces: Tunnels

 04:07 <stephenm> https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2019/05/17/an-introduction-to-linux-virtual-interfaces-tunnels/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Completely Wipe Your Hard Drive in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/completely-wipe-hard-drive-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you MajB

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 67 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are a total of 135 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are a total of 24 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar

 04:10 <MajB> 21 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.

 04:10 <MajB> Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 26 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 02 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 04 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.

 04:11 <MajB> Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 09 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 09 January, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS:

 04:12 <MajB> Michelle Lowman joined 04 December 2019

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FernHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <toddc> thanks to MajB we have been approved as a team for another 2 years

 04:14 <toddc> please thank MajB

 04:14 <MajB> By the way AZLOCO has been reverified for another two years until 11 Dec 2020

 04:14 <MajB> Ninga ed by the boss

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org  Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 December  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  U

 04:14 <MajB> s Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 09 January 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:15 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 16 January 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:15 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml Meeting on 22 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/  Meeting on 03 January 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm  Meeting on 08 January 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 28 December 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:17 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
