{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 22 Jun at 03:59 &mdash; 04:39 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2015/ubuntu-us-az.2015-06-22-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' http://www.iwillfolo.com/exciting-new-features-are-about-to-arrive-with-next-kodi-version-15-0/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/2936258/linux/the-linux-aio-project-all-of-a-distros-desktops-in-one-iso.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/Mate-1.1-Arrives?utm_source=Linux+Update&utm_campaign=Linux_Update_87_OpenStack_2015-06-17&utm_medium=email 
''LINK:'' http://www.sysads.co.uk/2015/06/handbrake-0-10-2-video-converter-tool-released/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/US-Government-Requires-HTTPS?utm_source=Linux+Update&utm_campaign=Linux_Update_87_OpenStack_2015-06-17&utm_medium=email 
''LINK:'' http://www.iwillfolo.com/linux-deepin-2014-3-bringing-the-eye-candy-to-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/This-IKEA-Table-Has-Ubuntu-Powered-Multitouch-PC-Inside-483680.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-spyware.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=X12-2015-Still-The-Same 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20150614112018846/Humor.html 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/tiny-module-aims-quad-core-64-bit-snapdragon-410-at-iot/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Is-It-That-Hard-to-Use-Linux-As-Your-Main-Computer-Operating-System-484750.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/surveillance-oriented-nest-cam-offers-optional-cloud-analytics/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/whos-afraid-of-systemd.html 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2015/06/linux-foundation-scholarships-no-excuse-now/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/portable-wireless-speakers-run-linux-on-a-raspberry-pi/ 
''LINK:'' http://linux.about.com/od/howtos/ss/How-To-Dual-Boot-Windows-81-And-Debian-Jessie.htm 
''LINK:'' http://linuxconfig.org/docker-container-backup-and-recovery 
''LINK:'' http://azloco.org/node/219 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Touch-Gets-Automatic-Refunds-for-All-Purchased-Apps-484822.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linuxscoop.com/video/heres-workspace-k-y-srinivasan-the-linux-kernel-developer-at-microsoft 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/mobile/are-600-million-samsung-android-phones-really-at-risk.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/antiX-Linux-Doesnt-Fool-Around-82166.html 
''LINK:'' http://lifehacker.com/why-chrome-uses-so-much-freaking-ram-1702537477 
''LINK:'' http://www.computerworld.com/article/2920343/security/new-linux-rootkit-leverages-gpus-to-hide.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/cinnamon-26-released?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+linuxjournalcom+%28Linux+Journal+-+The+Original+Magazine+of+the+Linux+Community%29 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/82186.html?rss=1 
''LINK:'' http://www.foxnews.com/leisure/2015/06/10/learn-how-to-make-epic-bacon-wrapped-grilled-cheese/?intcmp=features 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam and http://www.reddit.com/r/arizona/comments/33tjao/calling_ubuntu_users/
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://cybersponse.com/careers 
''LINK:'' https://www.google.com/about/careers/search?src=Online/Job+Board/indeed&utm_source=indeed&utm_medium=jobaggr&utm_campaign=freeaggr#!t=jo&jid=102635001 
''LINK:'' https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592 
''LINK:'' http://stretchinternet.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux  and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (141)
* MajB (21)
* toddc (15)
* julian1 (4)
* collie (3)
* pavlos (3)
* meetingology (3)
* PirateP (2)
* markthomas (2)
* Hobbet1 (1)
* Tuxmann (1)
* wmack (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun 22 03:59:59 2015 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Join us on http://bbb.azloco.net if using firefox please ask for help to

 04:00 <toddc> add flash support to your system

 04:00 <toddc> If anyone has a interest in helping and or running meetings let us know

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <collie> +1

 04:00 <Tuxmann> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <pavlos> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <markthomas> toddc mobile client +ZNC FTW

 04:01 <PirateP> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Thanks for your input pavlos.

 04:01 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <pavlos> np

 04:01 <toddc> cool markthomas

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <Ron_A> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:02 <toddc> hi julian1

 04:02 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> Hi julian1

 04:02 <julian1> Hi toddler

 04:02 <julian1> Oops. Damn iPhone.

 04:02 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <collie> say plus 1 julian1

 04:03 <toddc> toddler!!!!!!!!!!!

 04:03 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <julian1> +1

 04:03 <MajB> A new nick.

 04:03 <collie> toddler on the keyboard!

 04:03 <Ron_A> lets start with the news!!

 04:03 <toddc> 'oj;gzpogetyqq asdga34069

 04:03 <Ron_A> LINUX  NEWS

 04:03 <julian1> Hi MajB

 04:04 <Ron_A> The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:04 <Ron_A> Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:04 <Ron_A> Exciting New Features Are About To Arrive With Next Kodi Version 15.0

 04:04 <Ron_A> http://www.iwillfolo.com/exciting-new-features-are-about-to-arrive-with-next-kodi-version-15-0/

 04:04 <Ron_A> Want to try out all of the desktop environments for a distro? Linux AIO makes it a whole lot easier

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://www.networkworld.com/article/2936258/linux/the-linux-aio-project-all-of-a-distros-desktops-in-one-iso.html

 04:05 <Ron_A> Mate 1.1 Arrives

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/Mate-1.1-Arrives?utm_source=Linux+Update&utm_campaign=Linux_Update_87_OpenStack_2015-06-17&utm_medium=email

 04:05 <Ron_A> HandBrake 0.10.2 Video Converter Tool released

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://www.sysads.co.uk/2015/06/handbrake-0-10-2-video-converter-tool-released/

 04:06 <Ron_A> The Obama White House has issued a memorandum telling all US government agencies they must use HTTPS for all websites and web communication.

 04:06 <Ron_A> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/US-Government-Requires-HTTPS?utm_source=Linux+Update&utm_campaign=Linux_Update_87_OpenStack_2015-06-17&utm_medium=email

 04:06 <Ron_A> Deepin 2014.3 Bringing the eye candy to Linux

 04:06 <MajB> Lock the door after the horse is gone.

 04:06 <Ron_A> http://www.iwillfolo.com/linux-deepin-2014-3-bringing-the-eye-candy-to-linux/

 04:07 <Ron_A> This IKEA Table Has Ubuntu-Powered Multitouch PC Inside

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/This-IKEA-Table-Has-Ubuntu-Powered-Multitouch-PC-Inside-483680.shtml

 04:07 <Ron_A> Is there spyware in Ubuntu? Answered.

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-spyware.html

 04:08 <Ron_A> Don't Bet On "X12" Succeeding X11 Rather Than Wayland (Or Mir

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=X12-2015-Still-The-Same

 04:08 <Ron_A> Linux Humor on the Command-line

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20150614112018846/Humor.html

 04:08 <Ron_A> Tiny module aims quad-core 64-bit Snapdragon 410 at IoT

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://linuxgizmos.com/tiny-module-aims-quad-core-64-bit-snapdragon-410-at-iot/

 04:09 <Ron_A> Is It That Hard to Use Linux as Your Main Computer Operating System?

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Is-It-That-Hard-to-Use-Linux-As-Your-Main-Computer-Operating-System-484750.shtml

 04:09 <Ron_A> Surveillance-oriented Nest Cam offers optional cloud analytics

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://linuxgizmos.com/surveillance-oriented-nest-cam-offers-optional-cloud-analytics/

 04:10 <Ron_A> Who's Afraid of Systemd?

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/whos-afraid-of-systemd.html

 04:10 <Ron_A> Linux Foundation Scholarships: No Excuse Now

 04:11 <Ron_A> http://fossforce.com/2015/06/linux-foundation-scholarships-no-excuse-now/

 04:11 <Ron_A> Portable wireless speakers run Linux on a Raspberry Pi

 04:11 <Ron_A> http://linuxgizmos.com/portable-wireless-speakers-run-linux-on-a-raspberry-pi/

 04:12 <Ron_A> http://linux.about.com/od/howtos/ss/How-To-Du

 04:12 <Ron_A> How To Dual Boot Windows 8.1 And Debian Jessie

 04:13 <Ron_A> http://linux.about.com/od/howtos/ss/How-To-Dual-Boot-Windows-81-And-Debian-Jessie.htm

 04:13 <Ron_A> Docker container: Backup and Recovery

 04:13 <Ron_A> http://linuxconfig.org/docker-container-backup-and-recovery

 04:14 <Ron_A> Plotting the temperature of your PI

 04:14 <Ron_A> http://azloco.org/node/219

 04:14 <MajB> That sounds familiar.  Excellent.

 04:14 <Ron_A> Ubuntu Touch Gets Automatic Refunds for Purchases, Lets Users Edit App Reviews and Ratings

 04:14 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Touch-Gets-Automatic-Refunds-for-All-Purchased-Apps-484822.shtml

 04:15 <Ron_A> Here’s Workspace K.Y. Srinivasan – The Linux Kernel Developer at Microsoft

 04:15 <Ron_A> http://linuxscoop.com/video/heres-workspace-k-y-srinivasan-the-linux-kernel-developer-at-microsoft

 04:15 <Ron_A> If you have a Samsung phone

 04:15 <Ron_A> http://www.eweek.com/mobile/are-600-million-samsung-android-phones-really-at-risk.html

 04:16 <Ron_A> Looking for a Distro for older hardware? Maybe this??

 04:16 <Ron_A> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/antiX-Linux-Doesnt-Fool-Around-82166.html

 04:16 <Ron_A> Why Chrome uses so much RAM

 04:16 <Ron_A> http://lifehacker.com/why-chrome-uses-so-much-freaking-ram-1702537477

 04:16 <Ron_A> Jellyfish rootkit for Linux

 04:17 <Ron_A> http://www.computerworld.com/article/2920343/security/new-linux-rootkit-leverages-gpus-to-hide.html

 04:17 <Ron_A> Cinnamon 2.6 Released

 04:17 <Ron_A> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/cinnamon-26-released?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+linuxjournalcom+%28Linux+Journal+-+The+Original+Magazine+of+the+Linux+Community%29

 04:17 <toddc> hello Hobbet1

 04:17 <toddc> welcome

 04:17 <Ron_A> Linux Scholarships

 04:17 <Hobbet1> hello thank you

 04:18 <toddc> mid meeting

 04:18 <Ron_A> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/82186.html?rss=1

 04:18 <Ron_A> Not Linux, but who doesn't love bacon?

 04:18 <Ron_A> http://www.foxnews.com/leisure/2015/06/10/learn-how-to-make-epic-bacon-wrapped-grilled-cheese/?intcmp=features

 04:18 <MajB> Hi Hobbet1.  Enter +1

 04:18 <Ron_A> TEAM NEWS

 04:19 <Ron_A> It is that Time again to get AzLoCo re-approved as a Team again for another two years. MajB has started the renewal application at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-validationApplication2015

 04:19 <Ron_A> And now to MajB for information concerning our upcoming Re-Validation.

 04:19 <Ron_A> MajB please take it away.

 04:19 <MajB> OK.

 04:19 <MajB> Before I talk about re-val.  There are few other things.

 04:20 <MajB> 1.  The Team wiki page has been redone.  We are looking for comments, corrections, or additions.   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:20 <MajB> It has links to Team Projects  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:21 <MajB> and Team Reports  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamReports

 04:21 <MajB> We are particularly looking for someone to take a hard look at the Server Team page  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server

 04:21 <MajB> for corrections and additions.  You can edit yourself or send them to me (majb@azloco.com) and I will post them.

 04:21 <MajB> 2.  We are looking for a Membership Team Czar.  Any volunteers?

 04:22 <MajB> 3.  Re-validation with the Ubuntu LoCo Council.  Please have a look at the Re-validation Application Page  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-validationApplication2015

 04:22 <MajB> Comments, corrections, or edits again can be sent to me for posting.

 04:23 <MajB> Thank you Ron_A.  That is all I have.

 04:23 <Ron_A> MajB Thanks

 04:23 <Ron_A> We must appear before the loco council on or before September 17 2015 to stay as a approved team Please look over the application and help us get all the details correct and add your testimonial at the  bottom. Once we are ready I will setup a meeting with the loco council. The more members that can attend the online meeting the better the chance we have to get reapproved.

 04:23 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam and http://www.reddit.com/r/arizona/comments/33tjao/calling_ubuntu_users/

 04:24 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:24 <Ron_A> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.

 04:24 <Ron_A> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:24 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES

 04:25 <Ron_A> I've felt strongly that the advantage of Linux is that it doesn't have a niche or any special market, but that different individuals and companies end up pushing it in the direction they want, and as such you end up with something that is pretty balanced across the board. Linus Torvalds

 04:25 <toddc> pavlos: thanks you for the testimonial

 04:25 <Ron_A> Read more at http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/keywords/linux.html#cx7psrsF4kwQ3B4e.99

 04:25 <Ron_A> JOB list

 04:25 <Ron_A> 36 current canonical Jobs today

 04:25 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:26 <Ron_A> CyberSponse  Sr. Systems Engineer

 04:26 <Ron_A> http://cybersponse.com/careers

 04:26 <Ron_A> Associate City Manager, Google Fiber Phoenix AZ

 04:26 <pavlos> toddc, np

 04:26 <MajB> Ron_A:  I need a testimonial from you as well so I can post it to the Re-Validation application.

 04:26 <Ron_A> https://www.google.com/about/careers/search?src=Online/Job+Board/indeed&utm_source=indeed&utm_medium=jobaggr&utm_campaign=freeaggr#!t=jo&jid=102635001

 04:27 <Ron_A> Systems Administrator Scottsdale

 04:27 <Ron_A> Okay MajB

 04:27 <Ron_A> https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592

 04:27 <Ron_A> Systems Administrator

 04:28 <Ron_A> http://stretchinternet.com/careers/

 04:28 <Ron_A> Runs LINUX

 04:28 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:28 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:29 <Ron_A> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:29 <Ron_A> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:29 <Ron_A> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  is Thursday June 25th. 2014 7 MST , 6PM to 7 PM

 04:29 <MajB> Come on down.  Everyone is welcome

 04:29 <Ron_A> Schlotzsky's Cafe 3900 East Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista AZ 85635

 04:30 <Ron_A> Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your computer

 04:30 <Ron_A> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:30 <Ron_A> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:30 <Ron_A> Thursday June 25 at 7PM is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock

 04:31 <Ron_A> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:31 <Ron_A> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:31 <Ron_A> Linux Installfest Cancelled due to the Holiday! Sat, July 04, 10am – 4pm Gangplank, 260 S Arizona Ave Chandler, AZ 85225

 04:32 <Ron_A> Anyone interested in learning more about open source or Linux is invited to an open workshop!

 04:32 <Ron_A> We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer router or all most any device that can run on linux

 04:32 <Ron_A> (you must bring everything needed to use your computer e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, router, server, etc).

 04:32 <Ron_A> West side Ubuntu Hour

 04:33 <Ron_A> West side Ubuntu Hour will be July 01, 7pm – 9pm at Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA   http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find  out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:33 <Ron_A> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:33 <PirateP> Facebook.com/ubuntuazteam/events I think

 04:33 <Ron_A> Thursday July 07 at 7PM is the 2nd Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock

 04:33 <Ron_A> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux  and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:34 <Ron_A> New Members this week

 04:34 <Ron_A> hippyjake please welcome him

 04:34 <Ron_A> Linux Training

 04:35 <Ron_A> http://ubuntuonair.com/ http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:35 <Ron_A> Community Team Q&A

 04:35 <Ron_A> WhenTue, June 23, 4pm – 5pm UTC

 04:35 <Ron_A> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:35 <Ron_A> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:36 <Ron_A> PLUG EVENTS

 04:36 <Ron_A> Plug East side meeting Thursday July 09, 7-9 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226 Misc presentations and chat about linux and open source projects.

 04:36 <Ron_A> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday July 21 at  7:00PM Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210 7PM till ??

 04:36 <Ron_A> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:37 <Ron_A> Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux. Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:37 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:37 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:37 <Ron_A> OTHER  LUG EVENTS

 04:38 <Ron_A> Lugy (Prescott users group) Wed , July 08, 7pm – 9:00pm

 04:38 <Ron_A> Black Hole Beer Company 1590 Swenson St, Prescott, AZ 86305, USA

 04:38 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:39 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight toodc will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:39 <toddc> well done Ron_A  Thank you!!!!!

 04:39 <Ron_A> You are welcome

 04:39 <MajB> Good job Ron_A.

 04:39 <Ron_A> Thanks MajB

 04:39 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
