{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 17 Jul at 04:00 &mdash; 04:11 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-07-17-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/swing-music-web-based-self-hosted-music-player/   (stephenm, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-google-password-manager/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/arianna-ebook-reader-library-management-app/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/new-steam-client-stable-update-fixes-ui-issues-on-linux-for-intel-amd-users   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/wayland-support-for-budgie-desktop-looks-bright-even-for-budgie-10   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://debugpointnews.com/solus-4-4/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/awesome-linux-game-tools-gpu-screen-recorder-gtk   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.libreofficehelp.com/factory-reset-libreoffice/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/linux-hits-3-percent-market-share/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.ubuntumint.com/connect-postgres-command-line/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/sniffnet-network-monitoring-tool/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-libretranslate-self-hosted-machine-translation/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.ubuntumint.com/disable-ipv6-nginx/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/suse-announces-rhel-fork-to-preserve-choice-in-enterprise-linux   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/oracle-takes-on-red-hat-in-linux-code-fight/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/07/11/cve-2023-3188-cve-2023-33967/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/parted-command-create-linux-partitions/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/useful-bash-aliases/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/curl-command-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/apt-cache-command/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.ubuntumint.com/run-c-program-in-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/apt-get-command/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.ubuntumint.com/ubuntu-system-information-tools/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/finding-your-raspberry-pis-ip-address-a-quick-guide   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/fd-find-command-alternative/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/svecc-events/   (MajB, 04:10)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (55)
* MajB (52)
* meetingology (2)
* meskes (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:04 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <meskes> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  https://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:01 <stephenm> news is scattered like always but should be some good stuff

 04:01 <stephenm> Swing Music: Web-Based, Self-Hosted Music Player

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/swing-music-web-based-self-hosted-music-player/

 04:02 <stephenm> Doesn't have anything to do with the genre Swing music

 04:02 <stephenm> Best Free and Open-Source Alternatives to Google Password Manager

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-google-password-manager/

 04:02 <stephenm> Arianna: E-Book Reader and Library Management App

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/arianna-ebook-reader-library-management-app/

 04:02 <stephenm> New Steam Client Update Fixes UI Issues on Linux for Intel, AMD

 04:02 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/new-steam-client-stable-update-fixes-ui-issues-on-linux-for-intel-amd-users

 04:02 <stephenm> Wayland Support for Budgie Desktop Looks Bright, Even for Budgie 10

 04:02 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/wayland-support-for-budgie-desktop-looks-bright-even-for-budgie-10

 04:02 <stephenm> Solus 4.4 Returns With Refreshed Desktop Experience

 04:02 <stephenm> https://debugpointnews.com/solus-4-4/

 04:03 <stephenm> Awesome Linux Game Tools: gpu-screen-recorder-gtk

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/awesome-linux-game-tools-gpu-screen-recorder-gtk

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Factory Reset LibreOffice [Complete Guide]

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.libreofficehelp.com/factory-reset-libreoffice/

 04:03 <stephenm> After 30 Years, Linux Finally Hits 3% Market Share

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/linux-hits-3-percent-market-share/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Connect to PostgreSQL Database From Command Line

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.ubuntumint.com/connect-postgres-command-line/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Monitor Internet Traffic Using Sniffnet in Linux, Unix

 04:03 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/sniffnet-network-monitoring-tool/

 04:03 <stephenm> Machine Learning in Linux: LibreTranslate is Self-hosted Machine Translation

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-libretranslate-self-hosted-machine-translation/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Enable or Disable IPv6 in NGINX

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.ubuntumint.com/disable-ipv6-nginx/

 04:04 <stephenm> SUSE Announces Free RHEL Fork to Preserve Choice in Enterprise Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/suse-announces-rhel-fork-to-preserve-choice-in-enterprise-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Oracle takes on Red Hat in Linux code fight

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/oracle-takes-on-red-hat-in-linux-code-fight/

 04:04 <stephenm> Owncast, EaseProbe Security Vulnerabilities Revealed

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/07/11/cve-2023-3188-cve-2023-33967/

 04:04 <stephenm> 8 Parted Commands to Manage Disk Partitions in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/parted-command-create-linux-partitions/

 04:04 <stephenm> Master The Command Line With Useful Bash Aliases In Linux And Unix

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/useful-bash-aliases/

 04:05 <stephenm> cURL Command in Linux: 30 Powerful Examples Unveiled

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcapable.com/curl-command-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> 6 Useful apt-cache Command Examples for Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/apt-cache-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Compile and Run C/C++ Program in Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ubuntumint.com/run-c-program-in-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> 20 Useful apt-get Commands for Ubuntu Package Management

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/apt-get-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> 8 CLI + GUI System Information Tools for Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ubuntumint.com/ubuntu-system-information-tools/

 04:05 <stephenm> Finding Your Raspberry Pi’s IP Address: A Quick Guide

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/finding-your-raspberry-pis-ip-address-a-quick-guide

 04:05 <stephenm> Fd: Find Command Alternative for Mastering File Search in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/fd-find-command-alternative/

 04:06 <stephenm> that's all for tonight, back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:06 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 172 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <MajB> There are 58 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:07 <MajB> There are 11 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:07 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:08 <MajB> 27 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 03 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 05 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:08 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 06 August, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 10 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:08 <MajB> 10 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:09 <MajB> 19 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:09 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 20 August, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> 24 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:09 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:09 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:09 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 10 August, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:09 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 15 August, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:10 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:10 <MajB> https://svecc.com/svecc-events/

 04:10 <MajB> Monthly meeting 09 August 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:10 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:10 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 25 July 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month), Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:10 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:11 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
