{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 02 February - AZLOCO Team Meeting hosted by Ron Ash
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2002%2C%202020%20Meeting
* 06 February - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 5 attendees
* Configured proxmox network interfaces
* Troubleshot openvpn & linksys router access issue
* Interfaced GPS receiver with python to extract LON/LAT data
* Discussed class A, B, C networks, CIDR, and subnets.
* 13 February – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the release of Ubuntu 18.04.4 on 06 February and the update of all of our install media which has been completed in anticipation of our installation festival on 04 April.
* A question was raised concerning an Epson Artisan series 830 printer.  Apparently it prints normally with a Microsoft Windows computer but prints very dark with Linux Mint computer on the same network.  One solution was offered to download and install the recommended Linux driver on the Linux machine.
* Discussed the Endeavour Operating System update process  which apparently uses a PacMan icon to gobble up the dots as it is updating.
* A donated computer was given to one of the members who was in need of a laptop.
* 13 February – Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
* 15 February – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 22 attendees
* 2 Raspberry Pi configuration issues tested and repaired
* Conducted a data recovery from a hard drive
* Repaired one install media flash drive 
* 7 installs (5 Ubuntu, 2 Linux Mint)
* 2 server repairs 1 was a file server setup the other was a web server routing issue
* 16 February – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2016%2C%202020%20Meeting
* 27 February – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Resolved a blacklisted hostname for vpn access
* Enabled Proxmox 2nd nic / added vmbr1,2 interfaces
* Discussed Remmina and uses for remote administration
