{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 22 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-02-22-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/to-infinity-and-beyond-linux-and-open-source-goes-to-mars/#ftag=RSSbaffb68   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/2/chromebook-linux   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/2/python-pulp-internship   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/kodi-19-matrix-open-source-home-theater-released-this-is-whats-new   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/mx-linux-fluxbox-respin-officially-released-for-raspberry-pi   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/free-introduction-to-node-js-online-training-now-available/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/02/how-to-limit-battery-charging-set.html   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/customize-cinnamon-desktop/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/2/linux-wine   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/02/openrgb-open-source-rgb-lighting.html   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-dual-boot-kali-linux-and-windows-10   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.xmodulo.com/fix-unzip-error.html   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/news-and-events/wayland-on-wine-an-exciting-first-update.html   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/hands-on-with-ubuntu-unity-20-10-on-the-raspberry-pi-4   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.xmodulo.com/how-to-measure-average-cpu-utilization.html   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-use-gdb-to-debug-programs-in-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/networkmanager-1-30-adds-support-for-wpa3-enterprise-192-bit-mode-new-ethtool-offload-features   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://dev.to/talzvon/handling-unix-kill-signals-in-rust-55g6   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/enable-conda-forge-channel-for-conda-package-manager/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-21-04-is-now-powered-by-linux-5-10-lts-wayland-enabled-by-default   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/access-remote-windows-desktop-ubuntu/   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/ppa-purge/   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/gnome-3-38-4-released-with-more-gnome-shell-mutter-and-wayland-improvements   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (59)
* stephenm (43)
* toddc (3)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:04 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <toddc> 1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> news in random because I'm cold and forgot to do it this week

 04:02 <stephenm> To infinity and beyond: Linux and open-source goes to Mars

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/to-infinity-and-beyond-linux-and-open-source-goes-to-mars/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:02 <stephenm> Unlock your Chromebook's hidden potential with Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/2/chromebook-linux

 04:03 <stephenm> My open source internship during a pandemic

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/2/python-pulp-internship

 04:03 <stephenm> Kodi 19 “Matrix” Open-Source Home Theater Released, This Is What’s New

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/kodi-19-matrix-open-source-home-theater-released-this-is-whats-new

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm: did you get hit with power and water issues?

 04:03 <stephenm> MX Linux Fluxbox Respin Officially Released for Raspberry Pi

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/mx-linux-fluxbox-respin-officially-released-for-raspberry-pi

 04:03 <stephenm> nope, power was fine and I stocked up on water a few weeks ago, learning how to prep

 04:04 <stephenm> Free Introduction to Node.js Online Training Now Available

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/free-introduction-to-node-js-online-training-now-available/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Limit Battery Charging (Set A Charge Threshold) For ASUS Laptops On Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/02/how-to-limit-battery-charging-set.html

 04:04 <stephenm> 7 Ways to Customize Cinnamon Desktop in Linux [Beginner’s Guide]

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/customize-cinnamon-desktop/

 04:04 <stephenm> Run your favorite Windows applications on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/2/linux-wine

 04:04 <stephenm> OpenRGB: Open Source RGB Lighting Control For Keyboards, Fans, Mice And Much More

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/02/openrgb-open-source-rgb-lighting.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How to dual boot Kali Linux and Windows 10

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-dual-boot-kali-linux-and-windows-10

 04:05 <stephenm> How to fix unzip error "End-of-central-directory signature not found"

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.xmodulo.com/fix-unzip-error.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Wine on Wayland: An exciting first update

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/news-and-events/wayland-on-wine-an-exciting-first-update.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Hands-On with Ubuntu Unity 20.10 on the Raspberry Pi 4

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/hands-on-with-ubuntu-unity-20-10-on-the-raspberry-pi-4

 04:05 <stephenm> How to measure the average CPU utilization of a Linux process

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.xmodulo.com/how-to-measure-average-cpu-utilization.html

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Use GDB to Debug Programs in Ubuntu 20.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-use-gdb-to-debug-programs-in-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> NetworkManager 1.30 Adds Support for WPA3 Enterprise 192-Bit Mode, New Ethtool Offload Features

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/networkmanager-1-30-adds-support-for-wpa3-enterprise-192-bit-mode-new-ethtool-offload-features

 04:05 <stephenm> Handling Unix Kill Signals in Rust

 04:05 <stephenm> https://dev.to/talzvon/handling-unix-kill-signals-in-rust-55g6

 04:06 <stephenm> Enable Conda-forge Channel For Conda Package Manager

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/enable-conda-forge-channel-for-conda-package-manager/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight,back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> thank you stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> Ubuntu 21.04 Is Now Powered by Linux 5.10 LTS, Wayland Enabled by Default

 04:06 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-21-04-is-now-powered-by-linux-5-10-lts-wayland-enabled-by-default

 04:07 <MajB> How to Access Remote Windows Desktops from Ubuntu Linux

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.linuxtechi.com/access-remote-windows-desktop-ubuntu/

 04:07 <MajB> How to Use PPA Purge in Ubuntu and Other Debian-based Distros

 04:07 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/ppa-purge/

 04:07 <MajB> GNOME 3.38.4 Released with More GNOME Shell, Mutter, and Wayland Improvements

 04:07 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/gnome-3-38-4-released-with-more-gnome-shell-mutter-and-wayland-improvements

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:08 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 119 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 132 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 46 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:10 <MajB> 25 February,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 04 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 06 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:11 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 March, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> 11 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 11 March, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 20 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:11 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 21 March, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 25 March, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> meeting on 27 February 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:16 <MajB> Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.

 04:16 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
