{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

02 April - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* Discussed Audacity, Rose Garden, and Tenacity and how to install Tenacity.
* Discussed possible assistance we can provide to a STEM project in Bisbee, Arizona.
* Discussed Light Fidelity.
* Discussed Chaos Computer Club’s upcoming event 14-17 April.
* Assisted an attendee install her Realtek rtl 8821ce wifi driver.
03 April - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2003%2C%202022%20Meeting
07 April – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Attempted to resolve Big Blue Button issues
* Discussed various Linux topics
14 April – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 11 attendees
* Discussed the Light Fidelity lecture at the University of Arizona on 7 April.
* Discussed how to change the size of the icons within the file manager.
* Discussed options for getting FireWire to work on a modern Linux operating system.
* Discussed possible days for the next Installfest/Linux Workshop in May. The day selected was 21 May. 
14 April – Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
16 April – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 4 attendees
* Attempted to solve a server problem that would not connect to fiber optics
* Discussed possible solutions to Google’s requirement that AZLOCO upgrade our account to a paid subscription or we lose our current AZLOCO domain email addresses.  Since the cost is prohibitive we discussed various alternatives.  Additional research is required.
17 April – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2017%2C%202022%20Meeting
28 April - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
