{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 07 July - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis.
* 16 attendees (4 new people who are all Linux users).
* The discussion centered around ProxMox, IRC clients, game stations, and  Install-fests.
* 10 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 6 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2010%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 16 July - Linux install-fest/workshop co-sponsored by AZLOCO/PLUG.
* 20 attendees
* Built a server
* Ubuntu installation (2)
* Terminal training was conducted
* There was a Virtual box installation
* New computer install of Lubuntu completed
* Installation of Ubuntu on a cell phone
* There were several Linux questions answered for people who just happened to wander in.
* 17 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 10 Members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2017%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 24 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 9 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2024%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 28 July - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense.
* 11 attendees
* Discussed AZLOCO and CLUG upcoming events to include an unofficial TFUG meeting on Sunday 31 July at 2:30 pm. at Caffe Luce in Main Gate Square, University of Arizona, in Tucson.
* Discussed switching to a Linux distribution from Microsoft Windows.
* Distributed Ubuntu install disks and Ubuntu SWAG to the new folks attending
* 28 July - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole.
* 9 attendees
* Discussions about ssh, setup and tested open vpn nmap for port scans external port scanners, Debian VM's setup, Desktop UI. 
* Updated multi-system ISO for install-fest UEFI USB 3.0
* 31 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole.
* 6 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2031%2C%202016%20Meeting
 
