{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 08 Jul at 04:02 &mdash; 04:19 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-07-08-04.02.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/07/comedy-adventure-3-minutes-to-midnight-set-to-release-in-august/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/fossify-file-manager/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-audio-converters/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/rakwireless-unveils-wisgate-soho-pro-rak7267-a-compact-lorawan-gateway-solution/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-terminal-based-calendar-tools/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-adobe-firefly/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-power-bi/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/best-open-source-crm/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/windows-game-on-linux-experience/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtogeek.com/things-you-didnt-know-run-on-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/bash-scripting-vs-shell-scripting   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-divide-two-variables-bash-scripting   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/calamares-installer-3-3-8-released/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/reset-forgotten-root-password-in-ubuntu/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/restarting-docker-on-linux-daemon-containers-composer-and-services   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-xpipe-linux-docker-controller-hub/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/07/02/freedos_30_freebsd_31/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-reset-a-network-interface-in-linux   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/access-remote-file-systems-ssh-sshfs/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Ubuntu-crypto-config   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/install-latest-mainline-linux-kernel-on-ubuntu/   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-corel-pdf-fusion/   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-laptop/   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:16)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (52)
* Stephenm (51)
* MajB (27)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:02 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:02 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:02:33 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:02 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:02 <MajB> +1

 04:02 <toddc> +1

 04:03 <toddc> Stardate   -299515.82

 04:03 <Stephenm> +1

 04:03 <Stephenm> He appears

 04:03 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:03 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:03 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:03 <MajB> Only 2 minutes and 33 seconds late

 04:03 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:04 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:04 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:04 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:04 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:04 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:04 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:04 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:04 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:04 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:04 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:05 <toddc> Today is also National Macaroni Day

 04:05 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:05 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:05 <toddc> lets start with the news stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:06 <Stephenm> Sorry didn't put this together as properly as I should have, but here is the news

 04:06 <Stephenm> Comedy adventure 3 Minutes to Midnight set to release in August

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/07/comedy-adventure-3-minutes-to-midnight-set-to-release-in-august/

 04:06 <Stephenm> My Favourite Pick for Open-Source File Manager App on Android

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/fossify-file-manager/

 04:06 <Stephenm> 10 Best Free and Open Source Audio Converters

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-audio-converters/

 04:06 <Stephenm> RAKwireless Unveils WisGate Soho Pro RAK7267: A Compact LoRaWAN Gateway Solution

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/rakwireless-unveils-wisgate-soho-pro-rak7267-a-compact-lorawan-gateway-solution/

 04:06 <Stephenm> 9 Best Free and Open Source Terminal-Based Calendar Tools

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-terminal-based-calendar-tools/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Adobe Firefly

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-adobe-firefly/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Microsoft Power BI

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-power-bi/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Best Open Source CRM Software of 2024

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/best-open-source-crm/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Running One of My Favorite Windows Game on Linux: Here's How It Went

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/windows-game-on-linux-experience/

 04:07 <Stephenm> 7 Things You Didn't Know Run on Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.howtogeek.com/things-you-didnt-know-run-on-linux/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Bash Scripting vs Shell Scripting: Differences, Examples, and Comparisons

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/bash-scripting-vs-shell-scripting

 04:08 <Stephenm> How to Divide Two Variables in Bash Scripting

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-divide-two-variables-bash-scripting

 04:08 <Stephenm> Calamares Installer 3.3.8 Released, Here’s What’s New

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/calamares-installer-3-3-8-released/

 04:08 <Stephenm> How to Reset Forgotten Root Password in Ubuntu (via 2 Methods)

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/reset-forgotten-root-password-in-ubuntu/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Restarting Docker on Linux: daemon, containers, composer and services

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/restarting-docker-on-linux-daemon-containers-composer-and-services

 04:09 <Stephenm> How to Create a Linux and Docker Controller Hub with XPipe

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-xpipe-linux-docker-controller-hub/

 04:09 <Stephenm> FreeDOS and FreeBSD prove old code never dies, just gets nifty updates

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2024/07/02/freedos_30_freebsd_31/

 04:09 <Stephenm> How to Reset a Network Interface in Linux

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-reset-a-network-interface-in-linux

 04:09 <Stephenm> Access Remote File Systems Over SSH with SSHFS

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/access-remote-file-systems-ssh-sshfs/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Ubuntu Developing "crypto-config" For System-Wide Cryptography Configuration

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Ubuntu-crypto-config

 04:09 <Stephenm> How To Install Latest Mainline Linux kernel On Ubuntu

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/install-latest-mainline-linux-kernel-on-ubuntu/

 04:10 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Corel PDF Fusion

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-corel-pdf-fusion/

 04:10 <Stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to toddc

 04:10 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:10 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:10 <toddc> s there any other news we missed?

 04:10 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:11 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:11 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <Stephenm> welcome MajB

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX was not designed to stop you from doing stupid things, because that would also stop you from doing clever things.

 04:12 <toddc> % cat "food in cans" -- cat: can't open food in cans

 04:12 <toddc> "The great thing about Linux is that it gives you the freedom to mess things up in so many different ways."

 04:12 <toddc> "Why did the Linux user go to therapy?

 04:13 <toddc> To get to the root of his problems!"

 04:13 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:13 <toddc> Systems Administrator https://www.berkleytechnologyservices.com

 04:13 <toddc> Systems Administrator Perform Air International Inc. 480-610-3500

 04:14 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 255

 04:14 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:14 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 58 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:14 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:14 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:14 <toddc> The best laptops you can buy: Expert tested

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-laptop/

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> libreoffice. 24.2

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB

 04:15 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:15 <MajB> 11 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 11 July, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:16 <MajB> 20 July,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:16 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 21 July, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:16 <MajB> 25 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:16 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:16 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:17 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:17 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 11 July, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:17 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 16 July, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:17 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:17 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:17 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 23 July, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:17 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:17 <MajB> Back to you todd

 04:18 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:18 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:18 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <Stephenm> night all

 04:19 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
