{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 16 Feb at 03:54 &mdash; 04:35 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2015/ubuntu-us-az.2015-02-16-03.54.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' http://opensource.com/business/15/2/without-open-source-there-would-be-no-devops 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/can-cyanogen-really-challenge-iphones-and-android-smartphones/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/open-source-debate-copyleft-vs.-permissive-licenses.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxvoice.com/crack-passwords/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/All-Ubuntu-Phones-are-Now-Sold-Out-New-Flash-Sale-at-3PM-CET-472823.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/install-linux-malware-detect-lmd-in-rhel-centos-and-fedora/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/linux-raid-replace-failed-harddisk/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Kernel-based-Operating-Systems-Will-Have-100-Uptime-Thanks-to-Live-Patching-473077.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2015/02/crossing-our-fingers-for-a-lucky-scale-13x/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuhandbook.org/indefixed 
''LINK:'' http://linoxide.com/file-system/find-remove-duplicate-files-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.techdrivein.com/2014/07/odf-uk-official-document-format.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.techdrivein.com/2015/02/third-ubuntu-phone-us-launch-this-year.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+techdrivein+%28Tech+Drive-in%29 
''LINK:'' http://www.iwillfolo.com/2015/02/raspberry-pi-2-will-run-windows-10/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2015/02/09/what-i-can-say-about-kde-plasma-5-that-i-cant-say-about-windows-8/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itworld.com/article/2883114/should-you-pay-for-elementary-os.html 
''LINK:'' http://linoxide.com/linux-how-to/recovery-data-corrupt-formatted-usb-flash-using-photorec/ 
''LINK:'' http://rt.com/usa/231815-cell-phone-unlocking-deal-implemented/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/14/12/r-open-source-language-data-science 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/build-wikid-openvpn-server-with-packer/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-powered-quadcopter-acts-like-a-smart-shuttlecock/ 
''LINK:'' http://crunchbangplusplus.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.primeteampartners.com/jobs.php 
''LINK:'' http://www.pepid.com/company/careers.asp?jobcode=it 
''LINK:'' http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592 
''LINK:'' http://www.reddit.com/r/LinuxActionShow/comments/2v4fip/the_lego_movie_runs_linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://lmms.io/ 
''LINK:'' https://code.google.com/p/autokey/ 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux
''LINK:'' http://training.linuxfoundation.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (155)
* Tuxmann (6)
* markthomas (5)
* justin007 (4)
* stephenm (4)
* MajB (3)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack1 (2)
* pavlos (1)
* julian2 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:54 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:54 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 16 03:54:58 2015 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:54 <meetingology> 

 03:54 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:55 <wmack1> hello all

 03:55 <justin007> hello

 03:55 <MajB> Hi wmack

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Tuxmann> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <justin007> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> just in time

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 92729.45

 04:00 <wmack1> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:02 <toddc> the news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:02 <toddc> Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:03 <toddc> Without open source, there would be no DevOps

 04:03 <toddc> http://opensource.com/business/15/2/without-open-source-there-would-be-no-devops

 04:03 <toddc> Can CyanogenMod phones challenge iPhones and Android smartphones?

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/article/can-cyanogen-really-challenge-iphones-and-android-smartphones/

 04:03 <toddc> Open Source Debate: Copyleft vs. Permissive Licenses

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/open-source-debate-copyleft-vs.-permissive-licenses.html

 04:03 <toddc> How Secure are your Passwords?

 04:03 <toddc> http://www.linuxvoice.com/crack-passwords/

 04:04 <toddc> All Ubuntu Phones Are Now Sold Out 12,000 per minute and crashed BQ servers

 04:04 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/All-Ubuntu-Phones-are-Now-Sold-Out-New-Flash-Sale-at-3PM-CET-472823.shtml

 04:04 <toddc> How to install and use Linux Malware Detect (LMD) with ClamAV as Antivirus Engine

 04:04 <toddc> http://www.tecmint.com/install-linux-malware-detect-lmd-in-rhel-centos-and-fedora/

 04:04 <toddc> How to replace a failed harddisk in Linux software RAID

 04:04 <toddc> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/linux-raid-replace-failed-harddisk/

 04:05 <toddc> Linux Kernel-Based Operating Systems Will Have 100% Uptime Thanks to Live Patching

 04:05 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Kernel-based-Operating-Systems-Will-Have-100-Uptime-Thanks-to-Live-Patching-473077.shtml

 04:05 <toddc> Crossing Our Fingers for a Lucky SCALE 13x

 04:05 <toddc> http://fossforce.com/2015/02/crossing-our-fingers-for-a-lucky-scale-13x/

 04:05 <toddc> VirtualBox 4.3.22 Fixed Kernel 3.19 issue for Linux Guests

 04:05 <toddc> http://ubuntuhandbook.org/indefixed

 04:06 <toddc> How to Find and Remove Duplicate Files on Linux

 04:06 <toddc> http://linoxide.com/file-system/find-remove-duplicate-files-linux/

 04:06 <toddc> Microsoft is losing its war on document standards, ODF is now UK's official document format

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.techdrivein.com/2014/07/odf-uk-official-document-format.html

 04:06 <toddc> Rumor: A third Ubuntu Phone is in the making, US launch likely to happen later this year!

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.techdrivein.com/2015/02/third-ubuntu-phone-us-launch-this-year.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+techdrivein+%28Tech+Drive-in%29

 04:06 <toddc> Raspberry Pi 2 Will Run Windows 10 Too

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.iwillfolo.com/2015/02/raspberry-pi-2-will-run-windows-10/

 04:07 <toddc> What I can say about KDE Plasma 5 that I can't say about Windows 8

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2015/02/09/what-i-can-say-about-kde-plasma-5-that-i-cant-say-about-windows-8/

 04:07 <toddc> Should you pay for Elementary OS?

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.itworld.com/article/2883114/should-you-pay-for-elementary-os.html

 04:07 <toddc> How to Recover Data from Corrupt / formatted USB Flash using Photorec

 04:07 <toddc> http://linoxide.com/linux-how-to/recovery-data-corrupt-formatted-usb-flash-using-photorec/

 04:08 <toddc> Free at last: Deal allowing US customers to unlock cell phones comes into force — RT USA

 04:08 <toddc> http://rt.com/usa/231815-cell-phone-unlocking-deal-implemented/

 04:08 <toddc> Why now is the time to learn R

 04:08 <toddc> https://opensource.com/business/14/12/r-open-source-language-data-science

 04:08 <toddc> Build your own combined OpenVPN/WiKID server for a VPN with built-in two-factor authentication using Packer.

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/build-wikid-openvpn-server-with-packer/

 04:09 <toddc> Linux-powered quadcopter acts like a smart shuttlecock

 04:09 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/linux-powered-quadcopter-acts-like-a-smart-shuttlecock/

 04:09 <toddc> CrunchBang Linux is back from the dead

 04:09 <toddc> http://crunchbangplusplus.org/

 04:09 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:09 <toddc> I will be giving a talk at the Computer Technology Conference. http://comptechconf.com

 04:09 <toddc> Thursday Febuary 21 9:15-10:30 AM in the Fairway Building

 04:10 <toddc> Saturday February 21 We will holding the Linux Installfest at the event

 04:10 <toddc> that week-end is Scale but If anyone would like to assist let us know.

 04:10 <toddc> The installfest will be in the Superstition Building. The Vendor Expo is in the Fountain Building where we will have a booth friday only from 3:00-6:00 PM

 04:10 <toddc> We have recived a ubuntu conf pack so that we will have some swag to hand out and we will be running a booth also.  http://comptechconf.com and have invited PLUG to attend

 04:11 <toddc> We have a team project board to list projects that could/should be done for team http://www.azloco.org/node/184 if you pick one please leave a comment and status and ask for help

 04:11 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:11 <toddc> If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:12 <toddc> JOB list

 04:12 <toddc> 43 current canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <toddc> Senior Linux Administrator (N. Scottsdale)

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.primeteampartners.com/jobs.php

 04:12 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.pepid.com/company/careers.asp?jobcode=it

 04:13 <toddc> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data)

 04:13 <toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:13 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:13 <toddc> http://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/

 04:13 <toddc> Systems Administrator

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592

 04:13 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:14 <toddc> The Lego Movie… Runs Linux!

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.reddit.com/r/LinuxActionShow/comments/2v4fip/the_lego_movie_runs_linux/

 04:14 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:14 <toddc> Lets Make Music (LMMS)

 04:14 <toddc> https://lmms.io/

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> AutoKey is a desktop automation utility for Linux and X11. It allows you to manage collection of scripts and phrases, and assign abbreviations and hotkeys to these.

 04:15 <toddc> This allows you to execute a script or insert text on demand in whatever program you are using.

 04:15 <toddc> https://code.google.com/p/autokey/

 04:16 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:16 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:16 <toddc> Phoenix Ubuntu Hour

 04:16 <toddc> Phoenix Ubuntu hour wil be meeting on the first and third Tuesday at 6pm Burton Barr library on the 4th floor in the mach1 area.1221 North Central Avenue, Phoenix, AZ 85004

 04:17 <toddc> Stop by for all your linux questions chat and have fun and seee Linux in action!

 04:17 <toddc> Tempe Installfest

 04:17 <toddc> CTC Arizona Golf Resort 425 South Power Road Mesa, AZ 85206 Superstition Building

 04:17 <toddc> We can just chat and answer questions or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer

 04:18 <toddc> or any device that can run linux (you must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc). We will have local linux users and experts on hand to assit you one on one with

 04:18 <toddc> your computer project. We will have power and networking and install media on hand. A Very fun event. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. Please see

 04:18 <toddc> the calendar at http://www.azloco.org

 04:18 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:19 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  Thursday Febuary 26. 2014 17:30 - 18:30 MST , 5:30pm – 6:30pm

 04:19 <toddc> Sierra Vista Public Library (foyer) 2600 East Tacoma St. Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:19 <toddc> Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your

 04:19 <toddc> personal computer and the FREE software that is available as an

 04:19 <toddc> alternative to Microsoft Windows and other software that you must buy.

 04:20 <toddc> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:20 <toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:20 <toddc> Thursday Febuary 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock

 04:20 <toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:20 <toddc> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:21 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be March 04 7pm – 9pm at Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA   http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:21 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:21 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:21 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:21 <toddc> Say hello to julian2

 04:22 <justin007> Hi all..

 04:22 <toddc> he is in BBB also

 04:22 <julian2> Hi! Thanks for the welcome. :)

 04:22 <toddc> LINUX TRAINING

 04:22 <Tuxmann> Hi justin007.

 04:22 <stephenm> good evening justin007

 04:22 <MajB> Hi julian2

 04:23 <toddc> http://training.linuxfoundation.org/

 04:23 <toddc> LFD331 Developing Linux Device Drivers

 04:23 <toddc> 02 Mar » 06 Mar - Virtual

 04:23 <toddc> Ubuntu On-Air

 04:23 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:23 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:23 <toddc> Charmers Meeting

 04:23 <toddc> Mon, February 16, 3pm – 4pm UTC

 04:24 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:24 <toddc> WhenTue, Febuary 17, 9am – 10am local time

 04:24 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:24 <toddc> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:26 <toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday Febuary 17 at  7:00PM Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210 7PM till ??

 04:26 <toddc> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.

 04:27 <toddc> Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux. Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:27 <toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday March 12 7-9 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226 Misc presentations and chat about linux and open source projects.

 04:27 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:28 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:28 <Tuxmann> I just finished a project.

 04:28 <toddc> Tuxmann:  would you like to talk about it?

 04:29 <markthomas> I have a project as well

 04:29 <toddc> markthomas: would you like to talk about it?

 04:29 <Tuxmann> I finished making an add on board for the Raspberry Pi that runs a python script at start up and it sends the IP address to the add on board. That then displays the IP address on a 3 digit 7 segment display.

 04:29 <markthomas> I've been asked to update the Ubuntu server guide for samba 4. Every section need reviewed, tested, and updated.

 04:30 <Tuxmann> I don't have the files on github, but I will post them there soon and the project will be open source, including the printed circuit board files.

 04:30 <markthomas> It's a community documentation project, but it's "official", so it undergoes a peer review after changes.

 04:31 <toddc> both cool projects   would a nice post on azloco.org

 04:32 <toddc> markthomas:  will that be a solo project or will you need assistance?

 04:32 <markthomas> Anyone who wants to participate in the guide, with me or on a separate section, is welcome.

 04:33 <Tuxmann> I still need to create my documentation for the project, but I would be happy to post on azloco.org as well. markthomas, sounds like a good project. I use Samba for my home server and guides are great.

 04:33 <toddc> cool that sound like a great project

 04:33 <toddc> Lugy (Precott users group)

 04:34 <toddc> Tue, March 10, 6:30pm – 9:00pm

 04:34 <toddc> Raven Cafe 142 N. Cortez St Prescottt AZ 86301 928-717-0009

 04:34 <toddc> SLUG Sunland Village East Computer Club

 04:34 <toddc> March 11 6-8 PM in the Computer Club Training Facility 2145 So. Farnsworth Mesa AZ 85209

 04:34 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:35 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:35 <stephenm> Whats this Charmers?

 04:35 <justin007> thank you.

 04:35 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
