{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
21:01 < tyche> Anyone here for the meeting, give me a +1
21:01 < todd> +1
21:01 < br24> +.1
21:02 < tyche> Plus POINT one?
21:02 < _MrsApple_> +1
21:02 < _MrsApple_> :)
21:02 < scott_ev> +1
21:02 < word> +1
21:02 < tyche> johnc4510 will be here in a couple of minutes.
21:02 < tyche> He asked me to "warm you up"
21:02 < xHans> uh oh
21:02 < todd> tell jokes?
21:03  * xHans sees a smashamatic on the horizon
21:03 < tyche> I should have told him that this is Arizona.  The problem is trying to cool people off.
21:03 < _MrsApple_> ice breaker games!
21:03 < hobbet1> bad jokes?
21:03 < scott_ev> Ok, a jew, a mormon and Michael hackeon welked into....
21:03 < _MrsApple_> scott_ev,  knows plenty of htose
21:03 < tyche> xHans: That's Sledge-O-Matic.
21:03 < xHans> tyche: I prefer the cheaper, generic brand :)
21:03 < RiceStitcher> hi tyche
21:03 < tyche> What have you got against Michael Jackson, scott_ev?
21:04 < _MrsApple_> hes just mean lol
21:04 < scott_ev> everything
21:04 < _MrsApple_> scott_ev, not michael jackson
21:04 < _MrsApple_> XD
21:04 < _MrsApple_> jk
21:04 < br24> Im partially here
21:05 < tyche> xHans: That was one of the best skits he ever did.  It ranked right up there with the "Hippie Dippie Weatherman with all the Hippie Dippie Weather, Man"
21:06 < xHans> tyche: don't remember that one
21:06 < scott_ev> what's the difference between a bull dyke and an elephant?
21:06 < tyche> That may have been a bit before your time.  Rowan and Martin's Laugh In.
21:06 < hobbet1> lipstick?
21:06 < scott_ev> about 50 pounds and a flannel shirt
21:06 < tyche> I don't know.  Is it clean?
21:06 < xHans> "the other day I lost a hair, it was a grey hair, but it was still a hair" with much better delivery than I give in IRC :)
21:07 < johnc4510> ooooooooooh, Sledge-O-Matic      splat     audience members in the front rows used _big_ plastic sheets for protection
21:07 < tyche> Ah.  OK.   Hee hee
21:07 < xHans> tyche: but well worth watching in late night reruns!
21:07 < scott_ev> xHans: definitely
21:07 < tyche> Ah. johnc4510 remembers.
21:07 < johnc4510> evening everyone....what a nice _cool_ day it was today....NOT!!
21:07 < johnc4510> :)
21:07 < _MrsApple_> hi johnc4510 it wasnt too bad in flag today. :)
21:07 < xHans> I was back far enough to be mostly safe
21:08 < johnc4510> ah, flag is always nice
21:08 < johnc4510> :)
21:08 < johnc4510> xHans: LOL
21:08 < _MrsApple_> except for when it snows. then it becomes epic fail
21:08 < johnc4510> nods
21:08 < johnc4510> ok, shall we begin ??
21:08 < scott_ev> please
21:08 < tyche> Snow = 4 letter word starting with "S"
21:08 < johnc4510> hey scott_ev
21:08 < scott_ev> hello again, sir
21:09 < johnc4510> lol, sir was my father  hee hee
21:09 < scott_ev> haha
21:09 < johnc4510> ok, announcements then
21:09 < johnc4510> .
21:09 < johnc4510> Karmic Alpha 3 released: Pre-releases of Karmic are *not* encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent breakage. They are, however, recommended for Ubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing bugs.
21:09 < johnc4510> .
21:09 < johnc4510> Alpha 3 is the third in a series of milestone CD images that will be released throughout the Karmic development cycle. The Alpha images are known to be reasonably free of show-stopper CD build or installer bugs, while representing a very recent snapshot of Karmic. You can download it here: Ubuntu: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/karmic/alpha-3/
21:10 < johnc4510> Kubuntu: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/karmic/alpha-3/
21:10 < johnc4510> Xubuntu: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/karmic/alpha-3/
21:10 < johnc4510> Ubuntu Studio: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/karmic/alpha-3/
21:10 < johnc4510> .
21:10 < tyche> (It's so nice that johnc4510 has the UWN to steal material from.  Hee hee)
21:11 < johnc4510> now it's fun to try out the upcoming version of  course...just put it on a separate partition if you do
21:11 < johnc4510> :)
21:11 < johnc4510> nods
21:11 < johnc4510> .
21:11 < johnc4510> Launchpad is now open source: Released under the GNU Affero General Public license, version 3, Launchpad's code is now open source. Note that although it had been previously announced that two components (codehosting and soyuz) would be held back, a last minute change now includes both. The Canonical Launchpad developers will be on IRC in channel #launchpad-dev on irc.freenode.net. That’s the place to go for real time development discu
21:11 < johnc4510> .
21:11 < johnc4510> launchpad is of course the ubuntu development platform for devs
21:12 < tyche> That's OK, johnc4510.  I'll fill in what got cropped when I do the newsletter.
21:12 < johnc4510> lol
21:12 < johnc4510> i want to welcome _MrsApple_ to the meeting...i think it's her first time for a meeting
21:13 < _MrsApple_> thank you johnc4510 .... im allowed to be here right??
21:13 < johnc4510> nods
21:13 < johnc4510> of course
21:13 < tyche> Yes, you are.
21:13 < _MrsApple_> >< i was curious.
21:13 < scott_ev> I have an announcement about one of our friends
21:13 < tyche> You're a team member.
21:13 < johnc4510> we're a very open team
21:13 < johnc4510> scott_ev: ok, go ahead please
21:13 < scott_ev> vorian quit his job managing a tractor supply and will be moving
21:13 < johnc4510> oh
21:14 < johnc4510> to here?
21:14 < scott_ev> he's looking at utah or idaho
21:14 < johnc4510> i hope
21:14 < johnc4510> oh
21:14 < johnc4510> hmmm, scott_ev when did you hear this?
21:14 < scott_ev> I don't know much more than that, but his last day will be wednesday
21:14 < tyche> Tough time to quit a job.  I wish him well
21:14 < scott_ev> from him yesterday
21:14 < johnc4510> k
21:14 < johnc4510> well, i know he wasn't exactly happy with his job there
21:15 < scott_ev> I believe he has something lined up and just doesn't know where they'll send him,
21:15 < johnc4510> i was hoping if he moved it would be to AZ
21:15 < johnc4510> k
21:15 < johnc4510> great
21:15 < scott_ev> definitely
21:15 < johnc4510> for those of you that don't know vorian
21:15 < johnc4510> he was instrumental to helping us form out team
21:16 < johnc4510> and has been very active in Ubuntu and kubuntu
21:16 < johnc4510> we wish him well :)
21:16 < johnc4510> .
21:17 < johnc4510> ok lets get going on tucson installfest again please
21:17 < johnc4510> first off we need to reset a date...about 4-6 wks from now
21:17 < johnc4510> ideas
21:18 < scott_ev> I'm open as soon as my truck gets fixed
21:18 < johnc4510> aug 29th or sept 5th maybe ??
21:18 < scott_ev> sounds good to me
21:19 < scott_ev> oh, did you ever get in touch with lenards?
21:19 < tyche> When is Labor Day?
21:19 < johnc4510> no, i need someone to do that if possible please ??
21:20 < xHans> Sept 19th is Software Freedom Day, http://www.SoftwareFreedomDay.org/
21:20 < scott_ev> he was here the other day...was at OSCON.  I'll lok for his email addy to contact him
21:20 < johnc4510> Labor Day in 2009 is on Monday, the 7th of September.
21:20  * xHans brushes off tyche's question and responds with something else :)
21:20 < scott_ev> then aug 29 might be better
21:21 < johnc4510> scott_ev: thx...ask him for ideas on u of a location for event...maybe oscr
21:21 < tyche> Labor day is September 7.  So the weekend of September 5, 6, and 7 might be a problem.
21:21 < johnc4510> nods
21:21 < scott_ev> johnc4510: I'm on it
21:21 < johnc4510> thx
21:22 < johnc4510> lets try for Aug. 29th then
21:22 < johnc4510> that's a sat
21:22 < tyche> OK
21:22 < scott_ev> sweet
21:22 < johnc4510> 10-4 or 5
21:22 < johnc4510> depending on the venue
21:22 < xHans> that'll also be the Installfest in Phoenix
21:23 < xHans> we could do some co-promotion of the events even though it won't be the big Installfest in Phx
21:23 < johnc4510> scott_ev: here is the addy for oscr for your email: http://www.oscr.arizona.edu/
21:23 < johnc4510> xHans: sounds cool
21:23 < tyche> I just checked with Paula.  That shouldn't conflict with her surgery and recovery.
21:23 < johnc4510> tyche: oh great
21:23 < johnc4510> :)
21:23 < scott_ev> excellent
21:24 < scott_ev> Email already sent to lenards
21:24  * xHans wishes Paula and/or tyche a successful surgery
21:24 < tyche> That doesn't mean that she'd be able to come.  Just that I might be able to free up the Jeep to come down.
21:24 < johnc4510> scott_ev: thx :)
21:24 < tyche> xHans: Thanks
21:24 < johnc4510> tyche: sounds great :)
21:24 < johnc4510> and dito on what xHans wished you both
21:25 < tyche> Thanks
21:25 < johnc4510> does anyone besides me belong to tfug mailing list??
21:25  * _MrsApple_ steals xHans wishes and gives them to tyche as well
21:25 < _MrsApple_> :)
21:25 < johnc4510> :)
21:26 < tyche> Thanks again
21:26 < [R]> johnc4510: i used to :)
21:26 < johnc4510> guess not....ok, i'll email tfug and the tucson computer society linux sig and see if i can stir up some folks to get involved
21:27 < scott_ev> nice
21:27 < johnc4510> [R]: ok, i'll get it this time i guess, but thx....i'll keep you in mind
21:27 < johnc4510> :)
21:28 < johnc4510> i'll let them know the date and tell them venue is tentative as yet
21:28 < johnc4510> i'm getting lag
21:28 < johnc4510> :(
21:28 < johnc4510> ok
21:28 < tyche> johnc4510: naw.  That's just old age
21:28 < johnc4510> lol
21:28 < tyche> :-D
21:29 < johnc4510> what we need next is someone to contact zach at ASULUG about us setting up a game server like they us at their events
21:29 < johnc4510> we can use our test server to run it
21:29 < johnc4510> and advertise it for the installfest
21:30 < scott_ev> ok, I'll do that too
21:30 < johnc4510> that might draw some students interested in seeing what games linux runs
21:30 < xHans> Zach is stepping down, I don't know if they have a new president
21:30 < johnc4510> scott_ev: ok, tell him i was asking about it and wondered if they could help us out
21:31 < johnc4510> xHans: ah
21:31 < scott_ev> will do
21:31 < xHans> is there a user group at UofA?
21:31 < johnc4510> so he's graduating probably
21:31 < scott_ev> I'll see what I can find out
21:31 < johnc4510> xHans: that's a no
21:31 < johnc4510> scott_ev: k
21:31 < johnc4510> thx
21:31 < xHans> johnc4510: a shame, didn't Debian start there?
21:31 < scott_ev> np
21:31 < johnc4510> xHans: hmmm, that i'm not sure of
21:32 < xHans> I think Ian started debian while he was at UofA
21:32 < johnc4510> i do have a contact there in the computer lab who would like to see a lug get started there
21:32 < johnc4510> maybe
21:33 < johnc4510> if we could get this event going and make a big draw, we could talk about helping them start a group maybe
21:33 < johnc4510> ??
21:33 < johnc4510> if there is interest
21:33 < scott_ev> ayup
21:34 < johnc4510> tyche: are you using remix on your netbook or did you go full version?
21:34 < tyche> Full Jaunty
21:34 < johnc4510> k
21:34 < tyche> I tried the remix and didn't like it.
21:34 < tyche> Too restrictive
21:35 < tyche> Besides, it's more of a shocker to people to see a full distribution on a Mini 9
21:35 < johnc4510> might be a good talk to have....how jaunty can profrom on a netbook ??
21:35 < johnc4510> preform
21:35 < tyche> I'll think about it.  Especially if we can get a place that has a projector I can tie into.
21:35 < johnc4510> nods
21:35 < word> i found the remix to be better than a full desktop (because i only ever used it for notes and web-based homework anyway) but i think i've been trying moblin and i like it alot better :-/
21:36 < johnc4510> scott_ev: that's another thing...when lenard's replies, we would love to have a projector if possible
21:36 < johnc4510> word: ah ok
21:36 < tyche> word: Yep.  I can understand.  Basically it depends on what you want a computer to do.
21:36 < todd> fyi i tried 9.10net remix and had too many bugs but am very happy with 9.04 remix
21:36 < scott_ev> johnc4510: I'll remeember to ask
21:37 < johnc4510> todd: cool
21:37 < johnc4510> ok, we can consider promotional items when we get a venue set
21:38 < todd> added 2 g ram and a 320 gb harddrive
21:38 < word> personally i can't wait for plasma-netbook to be done. I <3 kde. ;)
21:38 < johnc4510> nice
21:38 < johnc4510> nods
21:38 < scott_ev> venue and equiptment will dictate what we can do
21:38 < johnc4510> mobin may be a coming thing
21:38 < johnc4510> i think hand held net available devices are going to start picking up
21:40 < todd> I have had a wifi wm5 for years but I am waiting for more linux phones to hit market
21:40 < tyche> Yea, especially if Qualcomm has anything to say about it.
21:41 < johnc4510> this one is cool http://www.linuxfordevices.com/c/a/News/Androidbased-gadgets-to-ship-in-October/
21:41 < word> right now moblin's lacking a few things, like the only social networks it supports are last.fm and twitter, but the way it uses your messaging accounts to assemble a list of 'people' is pretty cool.
21:41 < johnc4510> android based though
21:41 < johnc4510> due out before the end of yr
21:41 < word> it's also gnome based, which is a downer. :P
21:41 < scott_ev> hahah
21:41 < johnc4510> also there are suppose to be lots of new android phones in the last quarter of this yr
21:42  * scott_ev takes away word's soapbox
21:42 < tyche> Ubuntu has GOT to get on that bandwagon
21:42 < word> scott_ev: there's nothing more dissapointing than looking at all the pretty moblin stuff, and then opening a folder and getting nautilus :P
21:42 < johnc4510> word: yeah, but it was hot at the last show for new devices
21:42 < todd> just waiting to see which one I want
21:42 < johnc4510> nods
21:42 < scott_ev> haha, understood
21:43 < johnc4510> ok, lets see if we can get the venue set by the next meeting...so scott_ev try to keep me informed please :)
21:43 < johnc4510> thx
21:43 < johnc4510> then we'll set up the promotional stuff
21:43 < scott_ev> will do.  I'll be around more again from now on
21:43 < johnc4510> i'll try to get the local lugs on board by next meeting too
21:43 < johnc4510> great
21:43 < scott_ev> I'll have a connection at the cabin when I head back up there
21:43 < johnc4510> xHans: you have announcements?
21:43 < johnc4510> great
21:43 < xHans> johnc4510: a few
21:44 < xHans> ABLEconf group sponsor requirements were created this week.
21:44 < johnc4510> ah, you have a link on that one please??
21:44 < xHans> We need a group liaison from Ubuntu-US-AZ.
21:44 < xHans> Same for TFUG and other non-Phoenix groups!
21:44 < xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2009Phx/GroupSponsors
21:44 < xHans> johnc4510: there :)
21:44 < johnc4510> thx
21:44 < xHans> bitte
21:44 < xHans> The initial press release will be going out in the next couple of days.
21:45 < xHans> We need lots of help getting it distributed
21:45 < johnc4510> ok on the liaison
21:45 < xHans> Please sign up to help with promo!
21:45 < xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2009Phx/Promotion
21:45 < xHans> johnc4510: got someone?
21:46 < johnc4510> no, but i'll push for someone
21:46 < xHans> ok, danke
21:46 < johnc4510> nods
21:47 < xHans> this Friday is the 10th annual Sysadmin Appreciation Day
21:47 < xHans> http://www.SysadminDay.com/
21:48 < xHans> remember to thank your sysadmin :)
21:48 < tyche> OH!  Is that the day we all get to throw rotten eggs at our sysadmins?
21:48  * johnc4510 pats his friendly sysadmin on the back
21:48 < johnc4510> lol
21:48 < scott_ev> what about the Operators/
21:48 < johnc4510> where's slofgren when you need him
21:48 < xHans> as I mentioned, Software Freedom Day is coming up, Saturday, September 19th
21:48 < scott_ev> prolly eatin fish
21:48 < xHans> http://www.SoftwareFreedomDay.org
21:49 < xHans> http://SoftwareFreedomDay.org/teams/northamerica/AZ
21:49 -!- paul928_laptop [n=paul@CPE-76-178-61-65.natsow.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-us-az
21:49 < xHans> tyche: no, thwap them with fish
21:49 < johnc4510> are you guys in phoenix doing anything for SFD?
21:49 < xHans> No PLUG events this week, I get to sleep :).
21:49 < xHans> We did get a job posting, though.
21:49 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/1123
21:49 < xHans> Classes start soon at the community colleges.
21:49 < xHans> I will be updating info on my site, but we will also have posts to PLUG.
21:49 < xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes
21:50 < xHans> We really want to fill up the OpenOffice.org class!
21:50 < xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes/BPC110.html
21:50 < xHans> in county prices for all of Maricopa and Pima counties. For some others, but I don't remember which
21:50 < xHans> johnc4510: Dennis is leading that, I don't yet know what he has planned
21:50 < johnc4510> whos' Dennis Kibbe?
21:51 < johnc4510> don't know him
21:51 < xHans> I want ABLEconf to be out helping so we can also advertise ABLEconf
21:51 < johnc4510> nods
21:51 < xHans> johnc4510: he's a steering committee member for PLUG, an instructor over at MCC and all around good guy
21:51 < johnc4510> k
21:51 < johnc4510> thx
21:51 < scott_ev> I'll vouch for him being an all around good guy
21:51 < xHans> and that's all my announcements this week :)
21:52 < johnc4510> xHans: thx bud :)
21:52 < xHans> he's also one of the primary leaders for the monthly Installfest
21:52 < scott_ev> thx xHans
21:52 < johnc4510> ok, does anyone have anything they wish to discuss before we adjourn??
21:53 < johnc4510> ok then i think we're adjourned...next wk. promotional items for tucson installfest and venue discuss
21:53 < johnc4510> thx all

 </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
