{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 04 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-12-04-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/news/2017/12/week-open-source-linux-foundation-events-2018-how-linux-came-dominate-supercomputers-more 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/launching-open-source-project-free-guide/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/11/wake-and-shut-down-linux-automatically 
''LINK:'' https://venturebeat.com/2017/11/29/tech-giants-are-using-open-source-frameworks-to-dominate-the-ai-community/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/17/11/4-ways-open-stakeholders 
''LINK:'' https://www.csoonline.com/article/3238884/linux/linux-antivirus-and-anti-malware-8-top-tools.html#slide1 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Features/Wireless-APs-with-Ubuntu-Core 
''LINK:'' http://www.thelinuxrain.com/articles/when-will-this-script-finish-doing-its-job 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-kill-a-process-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/write-a-custom-nagios-check-plugin/ 
''LINK:'' http://technosophos.com/2017/11/20/securing-helm.html?utm_content=buffer0e79f&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (80)
* stephenm (28)
* toddc (5)
* meetingology (3)
* Eleison23 (3)
* wmack (2)
* Ryan_ (1)
* markthomas (1)
* az_fox (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec  4 04:00:15 2017 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <Eleison23> +1

 04:01 <toddc> welcome all

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <Ryan_> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <az_fox> +1

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> The news starts out simple and then gets more in-depth

 04:03 <MajB> Hey az_fox

 04:03 <stephenm> This Week in Open Source: Linux Foundation Events in 2018, How Linux Came to Dominate Supercomputers, & More

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/news/2017/12/week-open-source-linux-foundation-events-2018-how-linux-came-dominate-supercomputers-more

 04:03 <stephenm> Launching an Open Source Project: A Free Guide

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/launching-open-source-project-free-guide/

 04:04 <stephenm> Wake up and Shut Down Linux Automatically

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/11/wake-and-shut-down-linux-automatically

 04:04 <stephenm> Tech giants are using open source frameworks to dominate the AI community

 04:04 <stephenm> https://venturebeat.com/2017/11/29/tech-giants-are-using-open-source-frameworks-to-dominate-the-ai-community/

 04:04 <stephenm> 4 ways to engage your organization's various stakeholders

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/17/11/4-ways-open-stakeholders

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux antivirus and anti malware: 8 top tools

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.csoonline.com/article/3238884/linux/linux-antivirus-and-anti-malware-8-top-tools.html#slide1

 04:04 <stephenm> Lot of good anti-virus actually

 04:04 <stephenm> A Rasp Pi wireless access point

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Features/Wireless-APs-with-Ubuntu-Core

 04:05 <stephenm> When will this script finish doing its job?

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.thelinuxrain.com/articles/when-will-this-script-finish-doing-its-job

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Kill a Process in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-kill-a-process-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Write a Custom Nagios Check Plugin

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/write-a-custom-nagios-check-plugin/

 04:05 <stephenm> Securing Helm

 04:05 <stephenm> http://technosophos.com/2017/11/20/securing-helm.html?utm_content=buffer0e79f&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer

 04:05 <stephenm> sorry that's all I have for tonight, back to you MajB

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <wmack> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <toddc> great job stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:07 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:07 <MajB> Once again, the Ubuntu Local Community Council will attempt to get a quorum to vote on the re-verification of our Team along with three others.  This will occur on 11 December at 1300 in #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net. (That is 1pm our time.)  Attend if you can.

 04:08 <Eleison23> Would I qualify as a voting member if I attend that meeting?

 04:08 <toddc> Eleison23: yes

 04:08 <Eleison23> And is that MST Timezone?

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> 24 December AZLOCO weekly meeting (Christmas eve)

 04:08 <MajB> 31 December AZLOCO weekly meeting (New Year’s eve)

 04:09 <MajB> Unfortunately Eleison23 none of us are voting members

 04:09 <MajB> Yes it is MST

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 28 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:10 <MajB> South Bay Circuits – Chandler

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are a total of 172 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are a total of 44 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:12 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:12 <MajB> 07 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 16 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:13 <MajB> 28 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 28 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 06 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:14 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:15 <MajB> I will cover their events with the other LUG activities

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:16 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 12 December 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:16 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.

 04:16 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 14 December 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:16 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:17 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 17 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:17 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:17 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 19 December 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conv

 04:17 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 23 December 10-4 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:17 <MajB> http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 05 January 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:18 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS: Conferences

 04:18 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018

 04:18 <MajB> ScaLE

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:19 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:19 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:19 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:19 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:20 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <stephenm> good job MajB

 04:20 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:21 <toddc> thank you MajB  great job as allways

 04:21 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
