{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddcnb> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<wmack1> +1
<scott_ev> wow, that's great
<toddcnb> +1
<scott_ev> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddcnb> Star Date 91752.67 check it at http://www.stoacademy.com/tools/stardate.php
<toddcnb> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddcnb> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<gnewbie> +1
<toddcnb> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddcnb> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddcnb> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/
<toddcnb> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209
<toddcnb> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddcnb> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<adrenaline> +1
<toddcnb> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddcnb> lets start with the news!!
<toddcnb> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> Just got back from a few days in Hospice care.  That's why there is not as much Linux news as usual.  Sorry but there ARE some good ones in here.
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-word-document-formatting-essentials/lesson1/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-word-document-formatting-essentials/lesson2/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-word-document-formatting-essentials/lesson3/
<adrenaline> I hope all is well Dazed_75
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-word-document-formatting-essentials/lesson4/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-word-document-formatting-essentials/lesson5/
<markthomas> +1. A bit late.
<Dazed_75> adrenaline: it now :)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-excel-formulas-and-functions/lesson1/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-excel-formulas-and-functions/lesson2/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-excel-formulas-and-functions/lesson3/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-excel-formulas-and-functions/lesson4/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/school/microsoft-excel-formulas-and-functions/lesson5/
<Dazed_75> http://www.theconnectivist.com/2014/02/how-do-internet-speed-tests-work
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182847/htg-explains-how-does-windows-activation-work/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182926/ask-htg-why-does-my-new-hdtvs-picture-look-awful/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182905/how-peering-agreements-affect-netflix-youtube-and-the-entire-internet/
<Dazed_75> --- good info but pretty technical
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/123599/who-provides-internet-service-for-my-internet-service-provider/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182754/ask-htg-how-should-i-store-old-hard-drives-and-electronic-components/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182950/what-are-the-security-implications-if-a-password-is-submitted-in-the-username-field/
<Dazed_75> http://thenextweb.com/microsoft/2014/02/13/15-months-windows-8-sold-100-million-fewer-copies-windows-7
<Dazed_75> --> please read these :)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182649/htg-explains-what-is-unix/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/139287/the-great-debate-is-it-linux-or-gnulinux/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/132624/htg-explains-whats-a-linux-distro-and-how-are-they-different/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182702/mouse-dpi-and-polling-rates-explained-do-they-matter-for-gaming/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/181601/ask-htg-how-do-i-get-local-login-back-in-windows-8/
<Dazed_75>  --> Retirees might want to share with [grand]kids
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182765/how-to-make-a-resume-for-free-without-using-microsoft-office/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182817/htg-explains-why-does-windows-want-to-reboot-so-often/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182825/why-you-should-get-an-xbox-360-controller-for-pc-gaming/
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/business/2014/02/google-fiber-chooses-nine-metro-areas-for-possible-expansion
<Dazed_75> http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2014/02/20/heres-why-big-cities-arent-getting-google-fiber-anytime-soon
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182965/how-to-get-navigation-directions-even-offline-without-buying-a-gps/
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/hell-no-we-wont-go-10-reasons-some-xp-users-refuse-to-upgrade-7000026539
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/182931/htg-reviews-the-hootoo-tripmate-a-travel-battery-and-wi-fi-wonder/
<Dazed_75> An amazing 8  minute video on science fiction come true
<Dazed_75>      http://www.howtogeek.com/183026/science-fiction-as-science-fact/
<Dazed_75> http://www.fastcolabs.com/3026698/inside-duckduckgo-googles-tiniest-fiercest-competitor
<Dazed_75> http://news.cnet.com/8301-33620_3-57619155-278/dont-be-a-techhole-a-common-sense-guide-to-tech-courtesy
<Dazed_75> http://www.techradar.com/us/news/software/applications/best-free-antivirus-9-reviewed-and-rated-1057786
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/183051/htg-explains-how-computers-generate-random-numbers/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2014/02/21/4-million-brazilian-students-get-google-apps-for-education/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2014/02/21/windows-xp-is-at-deaths-door-and-users-need-to-move-on/
<Dazed_75> http://fossforce.com/2014/02/recommending-linux-friend/ a +- commentary
<Dazed_75> http://www.networkworld.com/community/blog/gnewsense-31-fsf-approved-linux-distro-thats-stuck-2010
<Dazed_75> Commment deadline on UK Cabinet office "ODF Only" policy is Feb. 26
<Dazed_75>    http://www.consortiuminfo.org/standardsblog/article.php?story=20140220165521599
<Dazed_75>    http://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/news/2330040/microsoft-cries-out-to-uk-government-against-open-source
<Dazed_75> http://pastoredb.wordpress.com/2014/02/20/taming-virtualbox-or-how-i-learned-to-love-launching-scripts/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/run-windows-applications-mac/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/convert-media-files-to-different-formats/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/mastering-nano-text-editor/
<Dazed_75> I'm starting to get excited for Ubuntu 1404-here are a few reasons
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/02/windows-xp-users-may-switch-linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/02/locally-integrated-menus-ubuntu-14-04
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/02/ubuntu-1404-gets-locally-integrated.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/02/ubuntu-1404-unity-gets-new-gtk3-css.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/02/unity-spread-gets-support-for-filtering.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/02/video-downloader-youtube-dl-gets.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Dear-Adobe-Make-Software-for-Linux-Too-79999.html
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2014/02/spoof-mac-address-network-interface-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2014/02/watch-free-online-tv-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2014/02/rainloop-webmail-ubuntu-server.html
<Dazed_75> C-HTML
<Dazed_75> C-HTML (a.k.a. Compact HTML, CHTML, cHTML, and i-mode-HTML) is a subset of standard HTML that was specifically adapted for use with small, ‘limited ability’ electronic devices such as mobile phones (older/earlier versions) and PDAs.
<Dazed_75> Since C-HTML is a stripped down version of standard HTML, it does not include support for: tables, image maps, multiple fonts, styling of fonts, background colors, background images, JPEG images, frames, and style sheets. It is also limited to a monochromatic display.
<Dazed_75> C-HTML is ‘set up’ so that all basic interactive operations can be done via a combination of four buttons.
* scott_ev has quit (Quit: WeeChat 0.3.8)
<Dazed_75> That's it from AJ.  I hope everyone found something of use in there.
<toddcnb> Thank you Dazed_75 lots of good information in there!
<toddcnb> I have a few more to add
<toddcnb> Ubuntu phones to ship this year from two manufacturers
<toddcnb> http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2014/02/ubuntu-phones-to-ship-this-year-from-two-manufacturers/
<toddcnb> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/02/bq-meizu-ubuntu-smartphones-confirmed-for-2014-release
<toddcnb> Microsoft cries out to UK government against open source
<toddcnb> http://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/news/2330040/microsoft-cries-out-to-uk-government-against-open-source
<toddcnb> http://blogs.technet.com/b/mpn_uk/archive/2014/02/19/government-open-standards-consultation-will-likely-impact-all-of-us-make-sure-your-voice-is-heard-by-26th-february.aspx
<toddcnb> TEAM NEWS
<toddcnb> We are still looking for a central Phoenix meeting location for presentations - if anyone has location ideas please let us know!
<toddcnb> wed we did a demo in surprize and had 30 people attend and may go out there to do a installfest next month (March 8)
<toddcnb> several of them showed up at the PVCC installfest
<toddcnb> JOB list
<toddcnb> .50 current canonical Jobs
<toddcnb> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies
<toddcnb>  Software Engineer Location: Home based - North America/Europe Juju is the leading open source service orchestration tool and the Juju UI team works on the Juju GUI, the best orchestration management UI available. We aspire to be at the center of a revolution in the cloud computing space providing compelling user experiences to development, admin, and webops teams. The Juju UI team as a...
<toddcnb> ...whole is responsible for delivering tools that help Juju users get started with Juju, find and deploy
<toddcnb> application workloads, and visualize their running cloud environments with unparalleled ease across all platforms including public clouds, private clouds, manually provisioned servers, dynamically provisioned bare-metal servers, and containerized local environments. You will work on many new features from modeling complex ideas such as networking and storage to beautiful user experiences in...
<toddcnb> ...the browser through the Juju Gui. Applicants should be passionate about the future of the software
<toddcnb> defined datacenter, about the ability for Juju, OpenStack, and open source generally to define that future, and about providing first class tools to users that enable them to do more. Canonical is a globally distributed team of engineers who share that passion, and you will need to work well in that context. Engineers who thrive at Canonical are mindful of the dynamics of the open source...
<toddcnb> ...ecosystem, and equally aware of the needs of large but innovative organizations.
<toddcnb> Software Engineer Location: Home based - North America/Europe The Ubuntu Server and Openstack Team is looking for a rock star Openstack developer. We are responsible for delivering Ubuntu Server, the fastest growing and the most popular operating system for the cloud today. Focus of this position is on Ubuntu Server's release of Openstack which includes development and support spanning all of
<toddcnb> Software Engineer Location: Home based - North America/Europe The Ubuntu Foundations Team is responsible for delivering he core Ubuntu system that the whole Ubuntu family of products and services is built upon. Applicants should be passionate about the future of Java in Ubuntu, and able to
<toddcnb> work in a globally distributed team of engineers who share that passion. Ubuntu strives to deliver the latest-best  free software components, in an easy to use and highly reliab le form. We build on the technical excellence of Debian and bring additional focus and shape to the solutions we offer industry. The successful candidate will be mindful of the dynamics of the open source ecosystem,...
<toddcnb> ...and equally
<toddcnb>  aware of the needs of large but innovative organizations.
<toddcnb>  
<toddcnb> Software Engineer Location: Home based – Worldwide Canonical is seeking a talented, productive and friendly software developer, to work in the Unity development team. You will be developing a technology that is to become the user interface shell for Ubuntu across all form factors. You're willing to work across software technologies from C++ to scripting languages. This role will be focused on
<toddcnb> the use of Qt & QML to deliver the visual user experience as envisioned by the Canonical design team. It requires quick turn around of protoyping and iterating, while at the same time maintaining quality and a high testing standard. For
<toddcnb> Blinkx  Linux Systems Administrator Tempe
<toddcnb> http://176c2626.dxjob1.com/4fe3fbc4
<toddcnb> Runs LINUX
<toddcnb> Project Tango, Runs Linux!
<toddcnb> Project Tango is a phone which uses complex array of sensors that track motion in closed environments, and can build a visual 3D of rooms and other indoor areas. The goal of Project Tango is to give mobile devices a human-scale understanding of space and motion.
<toddcnb> Linux App of the week
<toddcnb> Stikked An advanced and beautiful pastebin written in PHP
<toddcnb> https://github.com/claudehohl/Stikked
<toddcnb> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddcnb> Thursday February 27 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddcnb> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and
<toddcnb> open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information
<toddcnb> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST
<toddcnb> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday March 1 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the
<toddcnb> front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddcnb> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddcnb> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddcnb> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddcnb> West side Ubuntu hour will be March 5 7pm – 9pm
<toddcnb> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
<toddcnb> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find
<toddcnb> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<toddcnb> There were 6+4 new people at January's event this has started out as a great event.
<toddcnb> NORTH INSTALLFEST
<toddcnb> Saturday, March 22, 9am – 2pm
<toddcnb> Paradise Valley Community College 18401 North 32nd Street, Phoenix, AZ 85032, USA
<toddcnb> Enter from the north east or east lot toward the center and look for the computer commons area Building E Room E152 For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddcnb> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddcnb> Thanks to adrenaline ArchFan markthomas wmack rudgan and any others I missed
<toddcnb> get the new server on-line and rudgan will be maintaining drupul and user lists
<toddcnb> Thanks to wmack he has completed a our first dualboot with uefi and secure boot
<toddcnb> notes are on azloco docs and at azloco.org we expect a lot of variations and would love more input and
<toddcnb> and testing on other boxes
<toddcnb> adreanline is doing a Basic Linux Adminsitration and also has two blogs out see at azloco.org on the front page
<toddcnb> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddcnb> ubuntu on-air
<toddcnb> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddcnb> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddcnb> Jono Bacon Q&A Tuesday February 11 at noon local time every Tuesday
<toddcnb> Ubuntu Engineering Live! Wed, Febuary 26, at 11 AM
<toddcnb> Wednesday Febuary 26 at 7 am App design Clinic
<toddcnb> QA Lightning Talks #4: Porting to Python 3 / Coverage Report on Jenkins Wed Febuary 26 3:30Pm
<toddcnb> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddcnb> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddcnb> scale talks are online http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale12x/video
<toddcnb> xHans
<toddcnb> xHans would you like to do the Plug news?
<toddcnb> PLUG EVENTS
<toddcnb> Plug East side meeting Thursday March 13  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ
<toddcnb> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday March 18 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddcnb> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddcnb> that is all I have, any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
* scott_ev (~scott@ubuntu/member/scottev) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddcnb> Thanks for coming here tonight I will beer here for a while if you have any questions
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
