{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 22 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-01-22-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/norway-short-haul-flights-electric-deadline-no-fossil-fuels-climate-change-a8165526.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/1/5-best-linux-distributions-development 
''LINK:'' http://www.datacenterknowledge.com/security/red-hat-we-didnt-pull-cpu-microcode-update-pass-buck 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/1/my-linux-story-coding-not-required 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/realistic-racing-game-drag-coming-to-linux-next-month-built-on-linux-and-it-looks-astonishing.11069 
''LINK:'' https://hackernoon.com/the-gravity-of-kubernetes-33126a96ee23 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/1/4-tools-network-snooping-linux 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/1/how-debuggers-really-work 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/1/creating-outlines-treeline 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/ccat-colorize-cat-command-output/ 
''LINK:'' https://hackaday.com/2018/01/19/linux-fu-custom-bash-command-completion/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/control-systemd-services-on-remote-linux-server/# 
''LINK:'' https://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/linux-unix-bsd-openssh-server-best-practices.html 
''LINK:'' https://wpmojo.com/how-to-use-ncdu-ncurses-disk/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/guider-a-system-wide-linux-performance-analyzer/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-cassandra-database-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://gbhackers.com/sparta-network-penetration-testing-gui-toolkit/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (69)
* stephenm (37)
* toddc (6)
* Ron_A (5)
* meetingology (3)
* MajB_ (1)
* Eleison23 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan 22 04:00:27 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +me too

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB_> +1

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> welcome kettleblack

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <Ron_A> +1

 04:03 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:03 <MajB> Hi Ron_A

 04:03 <Ron_A> Hi MajB

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <stephenm> Hi Ron_a

 04:03 <Ron_A> Hi stephenm

 04:03 <toddc> hi Ron_A

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <Ron_A> hi toddc

 04:04 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:04 <stephenm> Norway to make all short-haul flights electric by 2040

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/norway-short-haul-flights-electric-deadline-no-fossil-fuels-climate-change-a8165526.html

 04:04 <stephenm> The 5 Best Linux Distributions for Development

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/1/5-best-linux-distributions-development

 04:04 <stephenm> Red Hat: We Didn't Pull CPU Microcode Update to Pass the Buck

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.datacenterknowledge.com/security/red-hat-we-didnt-pull-cpu-microcode-update-pass-buck

 04:04 <stephenm> My Linux story: Coding not required

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/1/my-linux-story-coding-not-required

 04:05 <stephenm> Realistic racing game 'DRAG' coming to Linux soon, built on Linux and it looks astonishing

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/realistic-racing-game-drag-coming-to-linux-next-month-built-on-linux-and-it-looks-astonishing.11069

 04:05 <stephenm> The Gravity of Kubernetes

 04:05 <stephenm> https://hackernoon.com/the-gravity-of-kubernetes-33126a96ee23

 04:05 <stephenm> 4 Tools for Network Snooping on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/1/4-tools-network-snooping-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> How debuggers really work

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/1/how-debuggers-really-work

 04:05 <stephenm> How to create outlines in Linux with TreeLine

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/1/creating-outlines-treeline

 04:05 <stephenm> Ccat – Colorize Cat Command Output

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/ccat-colorize-cat-command-output/

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Fu: Custom Bash Command Completion

 04:06 <stephenm> https://hackaday.com/2018/01/19/linux-fu-custom-bash-command-completion/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Control Systemd Services on Remote Linux Server

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/control-systemd-services-on-remote-linux-server/#

 04:06 <stephenm> Top 20 OpenSSH Server Best Security Practices

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/linux-unix-bsd-openssh-server-best-practices.html

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Use ncdu (NCurses Disk Usage)  To Easily Obtain Disk Usage Information in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://wpmojo.com/how-to-use-ncdu-ncurses-disk/

 04:06 <stephenm> Guider – A System Wide Linux Performance Analyzer

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/guider-a-system-wide-linux-performance-analyzer/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Cassandra Distributed Database on CentOS 7

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-cassandra-database-on-centos-7/

 04:07 <stephenm> Sorry still no commentary yet I will get back to it one day.  Anyways back to you MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> SPARTA - Network Penetration Testing GUI Toolkit

 04:07 <MajB> https://gbhackers.com/sparta-network-penetration-testing-gui-toolkit/

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 01 April 			(Easter)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 34 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <MajB> There are 10 open jobs under "Data Science" at Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:11 <MajB> There are 36 new and a total of 131 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are 5 new and a total of 30 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:12 <MajB> 25 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 25 January, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 01 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 03 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:13 <MajB> 17 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:14 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 28 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 February 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 08 February 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 February 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 15 February 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:17 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.     http://phxlinux.org/

 04:17 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 February 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conv

 04:17 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 February 1-3:45 pm, Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E Tacoma Street, Sierra Vista http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:

 04:18 <MajB> ScaLE 08-11 March 2018

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:18 <toddc> thanks MajB

 04:18 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:18 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <Ron_A> Great job MajB AND stephenm

 04:19 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <stephenm> welcome Ron_A

 04:19 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
