{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 19 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-09-19-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/differences-between-su-sudo-su-sudo-s-sudo-i/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://venturebeat.com/data-infrastructure/ibm-upgrades-linux-mainframe-boosting-availability-and-ai-performance/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/linus-torvalds-rust-may-make-it-into-the-next-linux-kernel-after-all/#ftag=RSSbaffb68   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-screenshot/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/9/linux-visually-impaired-users   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/best-self-hosted-raspberry-pi-apps/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/gnome-shell-on-mobile-is-shaping-up-nicely-gets-new-navigation-gestures-quick-settings   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/09/05/nmap-7-93-released/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/command-line-to-do-list-managers/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/atuin-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/features/what-are-checksums-why-should-you-be-using-them   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/arch-linux-history/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-clear-command-line-history-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/9/protect-home-network   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/change-screen-resolution-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/linux-mint-install-windows/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/debian-chroot/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/change-password-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-containerd-container-runtime-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-openproject-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/ubuntu-ssh-key/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/vnstat-monitor-network-bandwidth-in-linux-and-bsd/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-fail2ban-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-tomcat-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-calendar-server-baikal/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/how-to-set-up-mariadb-on-rocky-linux-8/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (59)
* stephenm (57)
* toddc (4)
* meetingology (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:08 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> OK so I did a little more this week so here is the news,

 04:02 <stephenm> The Differences between Su, Sudo Su, Sudo -s and Sudo -i

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/differences-between-su-sudo-su-sudo-s-sudo-i/

 04:02 <stephenm> IBM Upgrades Linux Mainframe, Boosting availability and AI performance

 04:02 <stephenm> https://venturebeat.com/data-infrastructure/ibm-upgrades-linux-mainframe-boosting-availability-and-ai-performance/

 04:03 <stephenm> Linus Torvalds: Rust may make it into the next Linux kernel after all

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/linus-torvalds-rust-may-make-it-into-the-next-linux-kernel-after-all/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Screenshot

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-screenshot/

 04:03 <MajB> Hello polo welcome to the AZLOCO meeting

 04:03 <stephenm> Remixing Linux for blind and visually impaired users

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/9/linux-visually-impaired-users

 04:03 <stephenm> 10 Best Self-Hosted Apps for Your Raspberry Pi

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/best-self-hosted-raspberry-pi-apps/

 04:03 <stephenm> GNOME Shell on Mobile Is Shaping up Nicely

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/gnome-shell-on-mobile-is-shaping-up-nicely-gets-new-navigation-gestures-quick-settings

 04:03 <stephenm> Nmap 7.93, the 25th anniversary edition, has been released

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/09/05/nmap-7-93-released/

 04:03 <stephenm> 6 Best To-Do List Managers for Linux Command Line

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/command-line-to-do-list-managers/

 04:03 <stephenm> Atuin: A Powerful Alternative for Shell History (SQLite Database) in Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/atuin-linux/

 04:04 <toddc> stephenm: congrats for 5 years at your job!!

 04:04 <stephenm> What Are Checksums & Why Should You Be Using Them?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/features/what-are-checksums-why-should-you-be-using-them

 04:04 <stephenm> thank you

 04:04 <stephenm> The History of Arch Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/arch-linux-history/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Ways to Clear Bash History in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-clear-command-line-history-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> 3 steps to protect your home network

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/9/protect-home-network

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Change the Screen Resolution in Ubuntu

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/change-screen-resolution-ubuntu/

 04:04 <stephenm> Install Linux Mint with Windows 11 Dual Boot [Complete Guide]

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/linux-mint-install-windows/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to use chroot on Debian 11

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/debian-chroot/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Change User Password in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/change-password-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Containerd Container Runtime on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-containerd-container-runtime-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install OpenProject on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-openproject-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> Generate SSH Keys in Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/ubuntu-ssh-key/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Monitor Network Bandwidth Using vnStat in Linux and BSD

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/vnstat-monitor-network-bandwidth-in-linux-and-bsd/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Fail2ban on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-fail2ban-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Tomcat on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-tomcat-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Create a Calendar Server With Baikal

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-calendar-server-baikal/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Set Up MariaDB on Rocky Linux 8

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxteck.com/how-to-set-up-mariadb-on-rocky-linux-8/

 04:06 <markthomas> +1

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:07 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 208 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are 90 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 21 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 22 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 01 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:09 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 02 October, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> 06 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 13 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 13 October, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 15 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:10 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 16 October, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <toddc> please thank markthomas for upgrading Nextcloud

 04:10 <MajB> 27 October, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <toddc> and wmack for fixing BBB certs

 04:11 <MajB> Yes thank you markthomas and wmack

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> LuftHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 13 October 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 20 September, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:13 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly meeting 12 October 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 24 September 1300-1500 (fourth Saturday of each month), Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:14 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:14 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022 (virtual)

 04:14 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
