{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Rich_> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Some us will be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see us.
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> Microsoft gives you Windows... Linux gives you the whole house.
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> hi spinrage!!
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> Eleven Ubuntu One Features You May Not Be Aware Of
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118496/11-ubuntu-one-features-you-may-not-be-aware-of
<Dazed_75> Five Ways to Provide Feedback to Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118511/5-ways-to-provide-feedback-to-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Database of Vendors/Machines With Linux Pre-Installed
<Dazed_75> http://lxer.com/module/db/index.php?dbn=14
<Dazed_75> How to Dual Boot Ubuntu on Your Chrome OS Device
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/computing/132300-unleash-your-chromebox-how-to-dual-boot-ubuntu-linux-on-your-chrome-os-device
<Dazed_75> About Ubuntu One
<Dazed_75> http://linux-news.org/index.php/2012/07/09/all-about-ubuntu-one/
<toddc> +2???
<Dazed_75> Understanding AppArmor in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/understanding-apparmor-in-ubuntu-linux/2012/07/09
<Dazed_75> Is Lightread the Best RSS Reader for Ubuntu?
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/is-lightread-the-best-rss-reader-for-ubuntu-we-go-hands-on
<Dazed_75> Easily Send Files to Other Machines on the LAN
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/07/nitroshare-send-files-computers-lan-network.html
<Dazed_75> Execute Actions When Specific Events Are Triggered
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/07/execute-actions-when-events-triggered.html
<Dazed_75> Disable Popup When Running Scripts in Ubuntu (consider carefully whether you want to do this)
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/disable-popup-window-when-running.html
<Dazed_75> Use "cat" to Concatenate Multiple Files (Beginner)
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/use-cat-to-merge-multiple-files.html
<Dazed_75> Add a Watermark to Documents Using GIMP and LibreOffice Writer
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/add-watermark-to-documents-using-gimp.html
<Dazed_75> Ten Package Management Operations You Need Synaptic For on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118665/10-package-management-operations-you-need-synaptic-for-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Stupid Geek Tricks: Change Your IP From the Command Line
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118337/stupid-geek-tricks-change-your-ip-address-from-the-command-line-in-linux
<Dazed_75> Update & Upgrade Ubuntu Without Internet Connection
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/update-upgrade-ubuntu-without-internet-connection/2012/07/10
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu One Contacts Loses Facebook Sync
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/ubuntu-one-contacts-looses-facebook-sync
<Dazed_75> Seven Quick Tricks for Ubuntu and Some Other Linux Desktops
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118751/7-quick-tricks-for-ubuntu-and-other-linux-desktops
<Dazed_75> Windows 8 Might Drive Some to Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/computing/121015-windows-8-may-drive-me-to-linux
<Dazed_75> How to Swap the Two and Three Finger Touchpad Tap Actions on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118817/how-to-swap-the-two-and-three-finger-touchpad-tap-actions-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Ten Awesome Indicator Applets for Ubuntu's Unity Desktop
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118908/10-awesome-indicator-applets-for-ubuntus-unity-desktop
<Dazed_75> Debian Wants to Work with Its Offspring (Ubuntu)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTEzOTQ
<Dazed_75> Use "pushd" and "popd" for Quick CLI Switching Between Directories
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/07/use-pushd-and-popd-for-quick-switching.html
<Dazed_75> Open Source on the Advance in Italy
<Dazed_75> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Open-source-on-the-advance-in-Italy-1640986.html
<Dazed_75> How to Mount a VirtualBox Drive Image In Ubuntu 12.04 / 12.10
<Dazed_75> http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-mount-virtualbox-drive-image-vdi-in-ubuntu-12-1012-04.html
<Dazed_75> Unity Glass Offers Refined New Look for the Unity Launcher
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/unity-glass-offers-refined-new-look-for-the-unity-launcher
<Dazed_75> Schedule Alarms / Reminders in Ubuntu with Indicator Remindor
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/07/schedule-alarms-reminders-in-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu / Unity Beginner Stuff
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntu-manual.org/downloads
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/118700/download-the-unity-make-it-yours-lenses-and-scopes-for-ubuntu-12.04-lts-guide-for-free
<Dazed_75> and that it from AJ tonight
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc> I have 1 to add
<toddc> How to Get One Of Dell’s Linux-Based Developer Laptops And Become A Sputnik Beta Cosmonaut
<toddc> http://techcrunch.com/2012/07/06/how-to-get-one-of-dells-linux-based-developer-laptops-and-become-a-sputnik-beta-cosmonaut/
<toddc> cheap not free but hay if you need a laptop why not check it out!
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> System Administrator
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> NOC Services Technician (T1)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit/?id=1560271
<toddc> Cloud/Data Engineer - Luxury Resort in TUCSON
<toddc> www.miravalresorts.com
<toddc> I.T Consultant/ System Engineer
<toddc> eng7-12@clickcomputerservices.com
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> is Thursday July 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extream Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday July 21 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> this saturday
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Yesterday we built and installed a new VM Server using debian with Proxmox and installed it
<toddc> give us a while to get to know it but we will be soon able to issue Virtual Machines to Team members in the near future.
<toddc> Walter Mack is planning on attending the next Server installfest and will help us update AzLoco web sites so if you would like to help/learn dupal admin Feel free to stop by Saterday.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> there will be a Ubuntu events test on July 20 to test new software 4:30 az time
<toddc> that is it for loco news
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday July 17 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> Ubuntu Hour
<toddc> July 26 7:00 PM at Extreame Bean 1707 E. Southern Ave. Tempe, AZ 85282
<toddc> http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28 or http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest has a new home August 14 11-2
<toddc> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/meetings/20-linux-security-hackfest/87-linux-security-hackfest-has-a-new-home.html
<toddc> Developer Meeting August 2, 7-9pm at University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday August 9  7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
