{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 07 Jul at 04:02 &mdash; 04:14 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-07-07-04.02.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://techrights.org/n/2025/07/06/Leadership_in_Free_Software.shtml   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2025/06/microsoft-surprises-ms-dos-fans-with-remake-of-ancient-text-editor-that-works-on-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/elementary-os-8-where-privacy-meets-design-simplicity-better-linux-experience   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/test-microphone-on-ubuntu/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/gstreamer-1-26-3-delivers-bug-and-security-fixes/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Articles/1001773/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/screencapture/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/windows-freedom-how-zorin-os-17-3-makes-migrating-linux-seamless   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2025/06/warp-takes-your-terminal-to-light-speed-and-beyond/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-install-docker-on-almalinux-10/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/show-progress-of-linux-commands/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/lets-encrypt-begins-supporting-ip-address-certificates/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/system-insights-with-command-line-tools-free-and-vmstat/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/linux-path-environment-variable/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/lstr-blazing-fast-directory-tree-viewer-rust/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/run-multiple-shells-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/insert-last-command-argument-bash-fish-zsh/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Btrfs-Large-Data-Folios-Coming   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/408-error-request-timeout-what-is-it-and-how-to-fix-it/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Articles/1024202/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/install-umami-analytics-on-ubuntu/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/06/24/anthropic_book_llm_training_ok/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/repair-corrupted-usb-drive-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:13)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Stephenm (51)
* MajB (43)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:02 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:02 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:02:26 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:02 <Stephenm> k

 04:02 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:02 <MajB> +1

 04:02 <Stephenm> +1

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:03 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:03 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:03 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:03 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:03 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeamTeam membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:04 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:04 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:04 <Stephenm> News is simple tonight and varies

 04:04 <Stephenm> Leadership in Free Software

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://techrights.org/n/2025/07/06/Leadership_in_Free_Software.shtml

 04:04 <Stephenm> Microsoft surprises MS-DOS fans with remake of ancient text editor that works on Linux

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2025/06/microsoft-surprises-ms-dos-fans-with-remake-of-ancient-text-editor-that-works-on-linux/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Elementary OS 8: Where Privacy Meets Design Simplicity for a Better Linux Experience

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/elementary-os-8-where-privacy-meets-design-simplicity-better-linux-experience

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Test Microphone on Ubuntu (via 3 Methods)

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/test-microphone-on-ubuntu/

 04:05 <Stephenm> GStreamer 1.26.3 Delivers Bug and Security Fixes

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/gstreamer-1-26-3-delivers-bug-and-security-fixes/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Nyxt: the Emacs-like web browser

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://lwn.net/Articles/1001773/

 04:06 <Stephenm> 9 Best Free Linux Screen Capture GUI Tools

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/screencapture/

 04:06 <Stephenm> From Windows to Freedom: How Zorin OS Eases the Transition to Linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/windows-freedom-how-zorin-os-17-3-makes-migrating-linux-seamless

 04:06 <Stephenm> Warp Takes Your Terminal to Light Speed and Beyond

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2025/06/warp-takes-your-terminal-to-light-speed-and-beyond/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Install Docker on AlmaLinux 10: A Step-by-Step Guide

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-install-docker-on-almalinux-10/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Show Progress of cp, mv, Tar, Rsync, or Scp Commands in Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/show-progress-of-linux-commands/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Let’s Encrypt Begins Supporting IP Address Certificates

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/lets-encrypt-begins-supporting-ip-address-certificates/

 04:07 <Stephenm> System insights with command-line tools: free and vmstat

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/system-insights-with-command-line-tools-free-and-vmstat/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Understanding Linux PATH Environment Variable: A Complete Guide For Beginners

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/linux-path-environment-variable/

 04:08 <Stephenm> lstr: The Blazing-Fast Linux Directory Tree Viewer in Rust

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/lstr-blazing-fast-directory-tree-viewer-rust/

 04:08 <Stephenm> How To Run Multiple Shells In Linux: Bash, Fish, Zsh And More

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/run-multiple-shells-linux/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Easy Ways To Insert The Last Argument Of The Previous Command In Bash, Fish and Zsh

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/insert-last-command-argument-bash-fish-zsh/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Btrfs Preps Experimental Large Data Folios For Better Performance

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Btrfs-Large-Data-Folios-Coming

 04:08 <Stephenm> 408 Error Request Timeout: What is it and How to Fix It?

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/408-error-request-timeout-what-is-it-and-how-to-fix-it/

 04:09 <Stephenm> How to write Rust in the kernel: part 1

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://lwn.net/Articles/1024202/

 04:09 <Stephenm> How to Install Umami Analytics on Ubuntu 25.04

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/install-umami-analytics-on-ubuntu/

 04:09 <Stephenm> LLMs can hoover up data from books, judge rules

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/06/24/anthropic_book_llm_training_ok/

 04:10 <Stephenm> How to Repair a Corrupted USB Drive in Linux

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/repair-corrupted-usb-drive-linux/

 04:10 <Stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:10 <MajB> Thank you for the news tonight stephenm

 04:10 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:11 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:11 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:11 <MajB> 

 04:11 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:11 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:11 <MajB> There are 260 open canonical Jobs today

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:12 <MajB> 10 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 10 July, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 19 July,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:12 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 24 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 02 August Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop,  1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:12 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 03 August. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:13 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have.

 04:14 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:14 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
