{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 06 July - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest
* 12 attendees
* Repaired parallel printer problem 
* Regenerated our IP Fire certificates
* Updated team next cloud server
* 3 installs (Fedora, 2 Ubuntu)
* Repaired web browser 
* Repaired 1 Ubuntu computer (16.04 updates)
* Repaired a Firefox flash issue
* 07 July - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2007%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 11 July - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 18 attendees (3 new people)
* Announced that Canonical has withdrawn their statement about no longer supporting x86 ISO’s. They will continue to support the 32 bit versions beyond 2020.  This of course is good news for Ubuntu users who are still using older machines and perhaps cannot afford a new computer but wish to continue to use Ubuntu.
* Discussed the possibility of conducting a second repair your computer workshop.  It was decided to hold it at the SV Public Library in lieu of a presentation during Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 August from 1300 to 1545.
* A computer was presented to Jaidon for his personal use.  This is the 12th computer that has been donated to an individual by the group.
* Since we are getting a greater number of computers, computer parts, and accessories we are actively looking for a place to store them where they can be available to members for repair workshops.  Gene is looking to donate several functional computers.
* Discussed the feasibility of not conducting quarterly Installfests and doing mini-installfests at the meetings.  This was initially suggested by Devi.  It was decided that this was probably a better use of our resources.  Two installs are already scheduled for the July 27th meeting.
* Repaired a Ubuntu 18.04 computer install that could not get on the Internet.
* Recommended video.  Why Ubuntu is the Devil and Why So Many No Longer Use It. https://youtu.be/L7uL50zVZJA.  It was initially posted by Devi to the mailing list and parts of it are quite humorous. 
* Information on Ubuntu, the Cochise Linux User Group, Free and Open Source Software, and AZLOCO was distributed to the new attendees.  Their questions were answered.
* 11 July -  Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
* Test location for a new Ubuntu Hour.
* 20 July - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 12 attendees
* Worked on and resolved email issues
* PIA manager to work on 17.3 Linux Mint
* Worked on printer issues that are still unresolved
* A locked laptop trying to resolve issues
* DNS issued being worked on
* Several laptop repairs done
* Updated and configured IPFire wifi
* My SQL database password reset
* Trained new user on basic linux
* 21 July - Team meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2021%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 25 July - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 5 attendees
* Discussed usb, parallel port cards, ZFS, & cybersecurity
* Configured GPUs on Ubuntu server for machine learning
