{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<tuxmann> +1
<adrenaline> +1
<Rich_> +1
<erroric> +1
<toddc> +1
<wmack> +1
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<larry_> +1
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<larry_> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/07/different-methods-to-change-delimiter.html
<larry_> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/01/make-sudo-stop-asking-for-password-when.html
<larry_> http://thenextweb.com/google/2013/07/09/chrome-28-arrives-with-rich-notifications-for-apps-and-extensions-on-windows-mac-and-linux-coming-soon
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/167418/5-ways-to-bypass-internet-censorship-and-filtering/
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/167195/how-to-change-your-raspberry-pi-or-other-linux-devices-hostname/
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/167239/7-reasons-to-use-a-third-party-dns-service/
<larry_> http://betanews.com/2013/07/10/curious-what-the-nsa-gleans-from-your-gmail-now-you-can-see-for-yourself/
<larry_> http://betanews.com/2013/07/09/fedora-19-schrodingers-cat-seeks-linux-purr-fection/
<larry_> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/07/08/fedora-19-review-schrodingers-cat/
<larry_> I think we reported this previously, but ...
<larry_>     http://betanews.com/2013/07/10/new-trojan-targets-linux-servers/
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/review-of-precise-puppy/2013/07/10
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/make-firefox-download-panel-more-useful/2013/07/09
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/local-backups-of-cloud-backup/2013/07/08
<larry_> hold a sec please
<adrenaline> Holding
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/hotshots-screen-capture-tool-linux/2013/07/08
<larry_> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/ubuntu-top-10-selling-apps-june-2013
<larry_> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/unity-preview-click-fixes-in-ubuntu-13-10
<larry_> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/china-telcom-unicom-join-ubuntu-touch-group
<larry_> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/07/recent-android-app-update (for OMG Ubuntu app)
<larry_> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/how-to-get-xcf-thumbnails-in-nautilus.html
<larry_> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/genymotion-fast-easy-to-use-android-x86.html
<larry_> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Many-Minor-Glitches-Make-Mint-15-More-Work-Than-Its-Worth-78441.html
<larry_> and he leaves out the most obvious (i.e. wc file)
<larry_>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/07/different-command-methods-to-count.html
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/167502/google-has-added-a-calling-feature-to-their-hangouts-messaging-system/
<larry_> http://www.howtogeek.com/167190/how-and-why-to-assign-the-.local-domain-to-your-raspberry-pi/
<larry_> http://www.simplehelp.net/2013/07/11/the-complete-guide-how-to-dual-boot-ubuntu-and-windows-8
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/getting-a-surge-protector/2013/07/12
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/quick-tips/play-youtube-videos-in-vlc
<larry_> http://arstechnica.com/security/2013/07/how-elite-security-ninjas-choose-and-safeguard-their-passwords/
<larry_> http://www.thepowerbase.com/2013/07/gnome-3-9-4-intros-photos-app/ & Improves Wayland support
<larry_> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTQwOTI
<larry_> http://www.xjonquilx.com/2013/07/how-to-get-amazon-prime-instant-video.html in 13.04 & Mint
<larry_> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Mint-15-Xfce-Is-Based-on-Ubuntu-13-04-367788.shtml
<larry_> http://www.itworld.com/software/364860/are-there-too-many-linux-distros-do-we-suffer-distro-overload
<larry_> http://itknowledgeexchange.techtarget.com/mobile-cloud-view/verizon-joins-forces-with-ubuntu-but-is-there-a-us-market/
<larry_> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Verizon-connects-with-Ubuntu-for-phones-carrier-group-1916414.html
<larry_> Ubuntu's performance over the past 2 years' releases
<larry_>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1310_2&num=1
<larry_> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/07/how-to-buy-laptop-pre-installed-with.html
<larry_> http://linuxgizmos.com/wireless-energy-management-controller-runs-linux/
<larry_> http://www.maketecheasier.com/3-search-engines-for-online-learning/2013/07/13
<larry_> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/07/how-to-download-and-install-windows-81.html [fonts only]
<larry_> ... and thats all from Apache Junction.  I hope everyone found SOME piece of news useful
<toddc> Dazed_75 great news as always thanks!!
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> FBI warns of increased spear phishing attacks
<toddc> http://www.computerweekly.com/news/2240187487/FBI-warns-of-increased-spear-phishing-attacks
<toddc> Raspberry Pi Microwave
<toddc> http://madebynathan.com/2013/07/10/raspberry-pi-powered-microwave/
<nhasian> +1
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<toddc> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<toddc> Network Engineer
<toddc> http://www.greenloopsolutions.com
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Runs Linux
<toddc> Lernstift
<toddc> http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/lernstift/lernstift-the-first-pen-that-vibrates-when-u-make
<toddc> this pen will correct your spelling
<toddc> Android App Pick of the week
<tuxmann> Check out SatTrack on Google Play! https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.heavensabove
<tuxmann> It will show you the irridium satellites that produce “irridium flares” and also will show you the International Space Station
<toddc> surespot encrypted messenger
<toddc> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.twofours.surespot&feature=nav_result#?t=W251bGwsMSwxLDMsImNvbS50d29mb3Vycy5zdXJlc3BvdCJd
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<tuxmann> Wireshark for analyzing network traffic. http://www.wireshark.org/
<toddc> Gnome SSH Tunnel Manager
<toddc> http://sourceforge.net/projects/gstm/
<toddc> Tucson ubuntu is on hold for the time being
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
* smccarthy has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday July 20 and Saturday August 3 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> For more info see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<toddc> Thursday July 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thank adrenaline for updating azloco.org to the latest version of drupal Saturday night
<toddc> THANK
<erroric> yay adrenaline saving the day!
<toddc> YOU!!
<toddc> slofgren has arranged for a donation to the team of two Dell 2950 servers that are fully loaded
<toddc> but we still need new home for them if anyone has ideas?
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> ubuntu development hang out Tuesday and Thursday 9 PM GMT
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> we should get set up on meetup.com anyone that would like to take this on please contact me or yell or???  Several other Teams have had great luck gaining new users/members using meetup.com
<toddc> I ap planning on setting a team g+ account to invite and announce events and could use some help with that
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday July 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday August 8  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<adrenaline> toddc: do you think UAT may colo a server or two for us?
<toddc> we have been unable to even confirm our installfests with them at this point they do not return calls or email to confirm or stop out events
<toddc> our
* WeeTuxMann (~jason@ip68-110-85-252.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
* WeeTuxMann has quit (Client Quit)
* WeeTuxMann (~jason@ip68-110-85-252.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<erroric> dang? :/
<erroric> just keep showing up till they say stop heh
<toddc> just informed that we have a new contact there
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
