{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 05 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-12-05-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/30/i-for-one-welcome-our-dobot-overlords/?ncid=rss 
''LINK:'' http://thehill.com/policy/cybersecurity/308088-last-ditch-effort-to-prevent-change-to-rule-41-fails 
''LINK:'' http://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-red-hat-is-happy-to-have-others-make-billions-on-its-open-source-dime/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/data-center/open-source-good-for-business.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/16/11/open-source-dependency-management 
''LINK:'' http://www.marksei.com/how-to-install-microsoft-sql-server-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.devpy.me/your-guide-to-a-practical-linux-desktop-with-i3wm/ 
''LINK:'' https://marietjeschaake.eu/en/eu-budget-creates-bug-bounty-programme-to-improve-cybersecurity 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/16/12/community-over-code 
''LINK:'' http://www.thelinuxrain.com/articles/redshift-functionality-on-fedora-25-gnome-wayland-yes-its-possible 
''LINK:'' http://hackerboards.com/first-open-source-risc-v-chips-arrive-in-arduino-board/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.suse.com/communities/blog/acquisition-news-suse-acquiring-iaas-and-paas-technology-and-talent-from-hpe/ 
''LINK:'' https://blogs.s-osg.org/introduction-testing-linux-kernel-kselftest/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/intel-s-clear-linux-now-shipping-x-org-server-1-19-kernel-4-8-11-mesa-13-0-1-510595.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/cloud-computing/amazon-delivers-cloud-superpowers.html 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts http://ubuntuonair.com/
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/cmnod3fgelipbout2ajg2tfrrq0 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/clroqo7iamc7hponuqo0e7tdoio 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (53)
* stephenm (38)
* MajB (27)
* xHans (10)
* toddc (5)
* RioOfTheWind (3)
* meetingology (3)
* hungmoney (3)
* Toonces (1)
* pavlos (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <Ron_A> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec  5 04:00:42 2016 UTC.  The chair is Ron_A. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <Toonces> +1

 04:01 <pavlos> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <RioOfTheWind> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Star Date 94529.71

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> +2?

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:04 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:04 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <stephenm> starting news from simple to detailed, we'll start with the last convo before the meeting

 04:04 <stephenm> Dobot is crowdfunding a robot that laser-engraves, 3D prints and much more

 04:04 <stephenm> https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/30/i-for-one-welcome-our-dobot-overlords/?ncid=rss

 04:04 <stephenm> I doubt that it's beer or food but still important

 04:05 <stephenm> Last-ditch effort to prevent changes to law enforcement hacking rule fails

 04:05 <stephenm> http://thehill.com/policy/cybersecurity/308088-last-ditch-effort-to-prevent-change-to-rule-41-fails

 04:05 <stephenm> Why Red Hat is happy to have others make billions on its open source dime

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-red-hat-is-happy-to-have-others-make-billions-on-its-open-source-dime/

 04:05 <MajB> Welcome hungmoney

 04:05 <stephenm> Is Open Source Good for Business?

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.datamation.com/data-center/open-source-good-for-business.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Open source dependency management is a balancing act

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/16/11/open-source-dependency-management

 04:06 <stephenm> How to install Microsoft SQL Server on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.marksei.com/how-to-install-microsoft-sql-server-on-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Your Guide to a Practical Linux Desktop With i3WM

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.devpy.me/your-guide-to-a-practical-linux-desktop-with-i3wm/

 04:06 <stephenm> EU budget creates bug bounty programme to improve cybersecurity

 04:06 <stephenm> https://marietjeschaake.eu/en/eu-budget-creates-bug-bounty-programme-to-improve-cybersecurity

 04:06 <stephenm> Someone planning a trip to Europe soon?

 04:06 <stephenm> How to care for the community over the code

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/16/12/community-over-code

 04:07 <stephenm> Redshift functionality on Fedora 25 (GNOME + Wayland). Yes, it's possible!

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.thelinuxrain.com/articles/redshift-functionality-on-fedora-25-gnome-wayland-yes-its-possible

 04:07 <hungmoney> OOVERLOAD

 04:07 <stephenm> First open source RISC-V chips arrive in Arduino board

 04:07 <stephenm> http://hackerboards.com/first-open-source-risc-v-chips-arrive-in-arduino-board/

 04:07 <stephenm> well that will teach you to come in before the news start

 04:07 <stephenm> Watch your PaaS (and IaaS) – SUSE acquires OpenStack and Cloud Foundry technology from HPE

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.suse.com/communities/blog/acquisition-news-suse-acquiring-iaas-and-paas-technology-and-talent-from-hpe/

 04:08 <stephenm> An Introduction to Testing the Linux Kernel with Kselftest

 04:08 <stephenm> https://blogs.s-osg.org/introduction-testing-linux-kernel-kselftest/

 04:08 <stephenm> Intel's Clear Linux Now Shipping X.Org Server 1.19, Kernel 4.8.11 & Mesa 13.0.1

 04:08 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/intel-s-clear-linux-now-shipping-x-org-server-1-19-kernel-4-8-11-mesa-13-0-1-510595.shtml

 04:08 <RioOfTheWind> Whoa an open source computer chip!

 04:08 <stephenm> Amazon Delivers Cloud Superpowers

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.datamation.com/cloud-computing/amazon-delivers-cloud-superpowers.html

 04:09 <stephenm> yep the reading is a bit dry but seems pretty awesome with the way things are heading.

 04:09 <toddc> +1

 04:09 <stephenm> Anyways that is the news for tonight turning chair back to MajB and crowd

 04:09 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <toddc> thank you stephenm

 04:09 <MajB> Great job as always stephenm

 04:09 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:10 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <Ron_A> “I think Microsoft named .Net so it wouldn’t show up in a Unix directory listing.”

 04:11 <Ron_A> Oktal

 04:11 <Ron_A> Linux is a complex example of the wisdom of crowds. It's a good example in the sense that it shows you can set people to work in a decentralized way - that is, without anyone really directing their efforts in a particular direction - and still trust that they're going to come up with good answers.

 04:11 <Ron_A> James Surowiecki

 04:11 <MajB> Passwords are like underwear.  You don't share them,

 04:12 <MajB> you don't hang them on your monitor or under your keyboard,

 04:12 <MajB> you don't email them, or put them on a web site,

 04:12 <MajB> and you must change them very often.

 04:12 <Ron_A> 26 current canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:12 <RioOfTheWind> I looked at the projects, I can help with the YouTube thing.  I am part of a online media cooperative and we already maintain a channel.  What advice do you guy need?

 04:12 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:13 <hungmoney> As if the hardware wasn't backdoored from the beginning rule 41 SHAM

 04:13 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:13 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:13 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 17 December, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software

 04:14 <toddc> RioOfTheWind: we wanted to record Big Blue Button sessions to you tube

 04:14 <MajB> 22 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 22 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.           Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> THE WEEKLY AZLOCO ON LINE MEETINGS FOR 25 DECEMBER AND 01 JANUARY HAVE BEEN CANCELLED BECAUSE OF THE HOLIDAYS

 04:15 <MajB> 05 January, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.           Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 07 January, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.

 04:16 <MajB> That is all that I have for now.

 04:16 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB

 04:16 <Ron_A> ubuntu on air

 04:16 <Ron_A> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:16 <Ron_A> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:16 <Ron_A> When Tue, December 6, 4pm – 5pm

 04:17 <Ron_A> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:17 <Ron_A> also be advised they are moving to you-tube soon

 04:17 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:17 <xHans> this Thursday is PLUG's December mtg, out annual end of year party

 04:18 <xHans> it's a pot luck, so please bring some food or drink to share if you can, no booz

 04:18 <xHans> e

 04:18 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/cmnod3fgelipbout2ajg2tfrrq0

 04:18 <xHans> Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday on the 13th

 04:19 <xHans> er, two weeks from Tuesday on the 20th

 04:19 <xHans> calendaring is hard, time for some calculus

 04:19 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/clroqo7iamc7hponuqo0e7tdoio

 04:19 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:19 <Ron_A> Thank you xHans

 04:19 <Ron_A> PLUG EVENTS

 04:20 <Ron_A> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:20 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:20 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 13 December 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD (See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest update on location), Prescott, AZ.

 04:21 <hungmoney> What is the install-fest web-app

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, Learning Resource Center, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:21 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 18 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.  This is a change of dates because of the holiday.

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 December is CANCELLED  because of the Christmas holiday.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 January 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org/

 04:22 <MajB> That's all folks

 04:22 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB !

 04:22 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:22 <MajB> AZLOCO and CLUG will be co-sponsoring an Installation Festival in Sierra Vista AZ on 28 January 2017, 10-4 pm. University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, Resource Learning Center commons area, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:23 <MajB> SCaLE 15x will be held 2-5 March 2017 at the Pasadena Convention Center, Pasadena CA.  Plan to attend if you can.  More information will be distributed as it becomes available.  https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/

 04:23 <Ron_A> Any other thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:23 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up? great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:23 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight someone will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:24 <Ron_A> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
