{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 26 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:20 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-03-26-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/purism-librem-13-security-focused-powerhouse-linux-laptop 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Features/Kernel-Protection 
''LINK:'' https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/raspberry-pi-3-model-bplus-sale-now-35/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/3/patent-grant-mit-license 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/3/digitizing-vhs-fedora 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-find-if-a-cpu-supports-virtualization-technology-vt/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/more-tips-for-managing-a-fast-growing-open-source-project/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/3/7-steps-devops-hiring-success 
''LINK:'' https://www.infoworld.com/article/3263395/application-development/the-programming-languages-you-should-learn-now.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-od-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/simple-load-balancing-dns-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-compress-and-decompress-files-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/8-ways-to-maintain-a-clean-lean-ubuntu-machine/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/ddgr-duckduckgo-search-from-the-command-line-in-linux/# 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/check-linux-meltdown-spectre-vulnerability/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://www.virtra.com/careers 
''LINK:'' https://motiontactic.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.radjav.com/en_us/job-board 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://earlywarning.silkroad.com/epostings/index.cfm?fuseaction=app.jobinfo&jobid=1711&company_id=16231&version=1&source=ONLINE&jobOwner=992330&aid=1 
''LINK:'' https://betanews.com/2018/03/23/linux-mint-mintbox-mini-2/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.teamviewer.com/en/download/linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (68)
* MajB (35)
* stephenm (31)
* meetingology (3)
* Yorokobi (1)
* markthomas (1)
* wmack (1)
* BobTucson (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar 26 04:00:12 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95831.93

 04:00 <BobTucson> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> News is general Linux stuff then gets more detailed.

 04:03 <stephenm> Purism Librem 13: A Security-Focused Powerhouse of a Linux Laptop

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/purism-librem-13-security-focused-powerhouse-linux-laptop

 04:03 <stephenm> The Kernel Self-Protection project aims to make Linux more secure

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Features/Kernel-Protection

 04:03 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+ on sale now at $35

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/raspberry-pi-3-model-bplus-sale-now-35/

 04:03 <stephenm> Why so little love for the patent grant in the MIT License?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/3/patent-grant-mit-license

 04:03 <stephenm> Digitizing VHS with Fedora

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/3/digitizing-vhs-fedora

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Find If A CPU Supports Virtualization Technology (VT)

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-find-if-a-cpu-supports-virtualization-technology-vt/

 04:04 <stephenm> More Tips for Managing a Fast-Growing Open Source Project

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/more-tips-for-managing-a-fast-growing-open-source-project/

 04:04 <stephenm> 7 steps to DevOps hiring success

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/3/7-steps-devops-hiring-success

 04:04 <stephenm> The programming languages you should learn now

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.infoworld.com/article/3263395/application-development/the-programming-languages-you-should-learn-now.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux OD Command Tutorial for Beginners (6 Examples)

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-od-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> Simple Load Balancing with DNS on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/simple-load-balancing-dns-linux

 04:05 <wmack> +1

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Compress And Decompress Files In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-compress-and-decompress-files-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> 8 Ways to Maintain a Clean, Lean Ubuntu Machine

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/8-ways-to-maintain-a-clean-lean-ubuntu-machine/

 04:05 <stephenm> ddgr – A Command Line Tool To Search DuckDuckGo From The Terminal

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/ddgr-duckduckgo-search-from-the-command-line-in-linux/#

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight I'm going to sleep now.  Back to you toddc.

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <MajB> How to Check Your Linux PC for Meltdown or Spectre Vulnerability

 04:06 <MajB> https://www.maketecheasier.com/check-linux-meltdown-spectre-vulnerability/

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <toddc> Canceled meetings and events. In the near future?

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:07 <MajB> PLus 1 April for Easter

 04:07 <MajB> No meeting on Easter

 04:07 <toddc> haha april 1?

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> For real

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <MajB> Not an April Fools jag

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> pavlos added one friday

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <Yorokobi> +1

 04:09 <toddc> welcome Yorokobi

 04:09 <toddc> ???I???m not interrupting you, I???m putting our conversation in full-duplex mode.???

 04:09 <MajB> Well now

 04:09 <toddc> ??? Antone Roundy

 04:10 <toddc> A logician tells a colleague his wife just had a baby.

 04:10 <toddc> Is it a boy or a girl?

 04:10 <toddc> Yes.

 04:10 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <MajB> -1

 04:11 <toddc> PYTHON WEB DEVELOPER  (Tempe)

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.virtra.com/careers

 04:11 <toddc> web devoper

 04:11 <toddc> https://motiontactic.com/careers/

 04:11 <toddc> System admin at Crexendo

 04:11 <toddc> Contact us at itjobs2017@gmail.com with any questions of your resume

 04:11 <toddc> Threshold Communications   Consulting Network Engineer / Tier 2 IP NOC

 04:11 <toddc> Phone: (206) 812.6200 Toll Free: (844) 844.1382 Email: info@thresholdcommunications.com

 04:12 <toddc> Software Developer - work with a blockchain! (Chandler, AZ

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.radjav.com/en_us/job-board

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 33 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <toddc> Production Control Analyst III

 04:12 <toddc> https://earlywarning.silkroad.com/epostings/index.cfm?fuseaction=app.jobinfo&jobid=1711&company_id=16231&version=1&source=ONLINE&jobOwner=992330&aid=1

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> Linux Mint ditches AMD for Intel with new Mintbox Mini 2

 04:12 <toddc> https://betanews.com/2018/03/23/linux-mint-mintbox-mini-2/

 04:13 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:13 <toddc> TeamViewer for Linux ( No wine)

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.teamviewer.com/en/download/linux/

 04:13 <toddc> hmm

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 05 April,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 07 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:14 <MajB> 21 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop and Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic Beaver Release party, 1400-1800 at the home of Walter and Ingeborg Mack, 5831 W. Kesler St. Chandler.  The AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest for the same day at the University of Advancing Technology will be relocated to that location also starting at 2 pm. instead of the normal 10 am. Internet will be available, installs will still be conducted and problems will be solved while we celebra

 04:15 <MajB> Please RSVP with number attending and the dish you will be bringing to questions@azloco.com

 04:15 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:15 <MajB> 26 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:16 <MajB> 26 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <toddc> PLUG EVENTS

 04:16 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 April 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 April 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 April 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 April 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:18 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 April 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the convers

 04:18 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:18 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 19 April 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:18 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Join the Phoenix Linux Users Group at their Security Session to learn about Tor and why it is pretty terrible. We will be discussing how Tor can increase your privacy, enhance your security, and reduce major co

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 22 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 28 April 1100-1500 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.   Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free

 04:19 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:19 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:19 <toddc> new events?

 04:20 <toddc> great meeting tonight

 04:20 <MajB> Excellent

 04:20 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:20 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
