{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 20 Jul at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-07-20-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/pocketable-120-and-up-wifi-gateway-has-dual-gbe-ports/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/virtualbox-6-1-12-adds-new-glx-graphics-output-guest-additions-improvements 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/7/sharepoint-alternative 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/favorite-shell 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/overlay-mounts 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/pay-it-forward 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/7/linux-bengali 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/introduction-red-hat-insights 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/check-memory-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/this-linux-os-looks-exactly-like-windows-10-is-bad-news-for-microsoft-530527.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-is-becoming-the-windows-alternative-microsoft-never-wanted-530528.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/nstat-command-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/test-network-throughput-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-linux-virtualization-workstation/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/list-enabled-virtual-hosts-in-apache-web-server/ 
''LINK:'' https://bytexd.com/freeradius-centos/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/restrict-network-access-using-firewalld/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/fix-hard-disk-with-uuid-already-exists-issue-in-virtualbox/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/containers/suse-buys-rancher-labs-its-kubernetes-game 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-create-a-backup-of-mysql-databases-using-mysqldump-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-logstash/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2020/07/14/introduction-to-linux-kernel-initcalls/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/install-and-configure-webmin-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/07/scan-repair-bad-sector-disk-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-enable-virsh-console-access-for-kvm-guests/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-19-10-eoan-ermine-reached-end-of-life-upgrade-to-ubuntu-20-04-lts-now 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/mozilla-thunderbird-78-officially-released-with-major-changes-heres-whats-new 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/. Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (59)
* MajB (55)
* toddc (6)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (2)
* programmer317 (2)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul 20 04:00:03 2020 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.  There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:00 <markthomas> MajB is a chair?

 04:00 <MajB> Yes

 04:01 <stephenm> what type of chair?

 04:01 <toddc> MajB: is in a chair

 04:01 <MajB> Easy chair

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> rocking chair?

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> computer chair maybe

 04:02 <toddc> Rolling chair?

 04:02 <MajB> hi programmer317

 04:02 <toddc> hi programmer317

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <programmer317> hi m	ajb and toddc

 04:03 <programmer317> +1

 04:03 <stephenm> News is small but got a couple articles

 04:03 <stephenm> Pocketable, $120 and up WiFi gateway has dual GbE ports

 04:03 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/pocketable-120-and-up-wifi-gateway-has-dual-gbe-ports/

 04:03 <stephenm> Neat looking device I'll give it that

 04:03 <stephenm> VirtualBox 6.1.12 Adds New GLX Graphics Output, Guest Additions Improvements

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/virtualbox-6-1-12-adds-new-glx-graphics-output-guest-additions-improvements

 04:04 <stephenm> Don't care for the new graphics but hey if I need it

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 things to look for in an open source alternative to SharePoint

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/7/sharepoint-alternative

 04:04 <stephenm> What's your favorite shell for sysadmin work?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/favorite-shell

 04:04 <stephenm> bash

 04:04 <stephenm> Speed up container builds with overlay mounts

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/overlay-mounts

 04:04 <stephenm> Sysadmin careers: How sysadmins can pay it forward

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/pay-it-forward

 04:04 <stephenm> My Linux story: breaking language barriers with open source

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/7/linux-bengali

 04:05 <stephenm> Introduction to Red Hat Insights

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/introduction-red-hat-insights

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Check Memory Usage in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/check-memory-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> This Linux OS looks exactly like Windows 10, is bad news for Microsoft.

 04:05 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/this-linux-os-looks-exactly-like-windows-10-is-bad-news-for-microsoft-530527.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> Does look like Wins 10 if your into that

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux is becoming the Windows Alternative Microsoft never wanted

 04:05 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-is-becoming-the-windows-alternative-microsoft-never-wanted-530528.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> Using the nstat network statistics command in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/nstat-command-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Test Network Throughput Using iperf3 Tool in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/test-network-throughput-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Create A Linux Virtualization Workstation

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-linux-virtualization-workstation/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to List All Virtual Hosts in Apache Web Server

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/list-enabled-virtual-hosts-in-apache-web-server/

 04:06 <stephenm> Install FreeRADIUS & daloRADIUS on CentOS 8 + MySQL/MariaDB

 04:06 <stephenm> https://bytexd.com/freeradius-centos/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Restrict Network Access Using FirewallD

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/restrict-network-access-using-firewalld/

 04:06 <stephenm> Fix “hard disk with UUID already exists” Issue In VirtualBox

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/fix-hard-disk-with-uuid-already-exists-issue-in-virtualbox/

 04:07 <stephenm> SUSE Buys Rancher Labs to Up Its Kubernetes Game

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/containers/suse-buys-rancher-labs-its-kubernetes-game

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Create a Backup of MySQL Databases Using mysqldump on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-create-a-backup-of-mysql-databases-using-mysqldump-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install Logstash Logfile Analytics Software on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-logstash/

 04:07 <stephenm> An introduction to Linux kernel initcalls

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2020/07/14/introduction-to-linux-kernel-initcalls/

 04:07 <stephenm> Install and Configure Webmin with free Let’s Encrypt SSL Certificate on Debian 10

 04:07 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/install-and-configure-webmin-on-debian-10/

 04:07 <stephenm> Scan and Repair Disk Bad Sectors in Ubuntu Linux, Fedora

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2020/07/scan-repair-bad-sector-disk-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Enable Virsh Console Access For KVM Guests

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-enable-virsh-console-access-for-kvm-guests/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news and comments I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:08 <MajB> thanks

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:08 <MajB> Ubuntu 19.10 (Eoan Ermine) Reached End of Life, Upgrade to Ubuntu 20.04 LTS Now

 04:08 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-19-10-eoan-ermine-reached-end-of-life-upgrade-to-ubuntu-20-04-lts-now

 04:09 <MajB> Mozilla Thunderbird 78 Officially Released with Major Changes, Here's What's New

 04:09 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/mozilla-thunderbird-78-officially-released-with-major-changes-heres-whats-new

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 41 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 107 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 16 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Many or all of these events may be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:11 <MajB> 23 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 01 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:11 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 06 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 13 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 13 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 15 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:12 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 27 August, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:15 <MajB> North Phoenix Pi and Linux User Group https://www.meetup.com/Phoenix-Linux-Meetup-Group/

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/Meeting on 25 July 1-3:45 pm.  Bisbee Senior Center, 300 Collins Road, Bisbee AZ.  A hands on guided practice installation of Ubuntu and Linux Mint for newer members to give them practice in conducting an installation and the steps that are required immediately afterward.

 04:17 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
