{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #86 for the week March 16, March 22.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Eighty Sixth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-March 25, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday March 29, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the March 22, 2009 meeting ====

tyche called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09March22

tyche began the meeting with an announcement:

First of all, I have some bad news.  johnc4510 won't be with us tonight.  In his words, "I'm going to have to bow out tonight. I'm really feeling rotten, and can't keep anything down."  I sent him back to bed.  Hopefully, it will pass soon.  So, that's the bad news.  The good news is . . . YOU'VE GOT ME!!!  Hee hee

Next, tyche asked for any new members who had not had a chance to introduce themselves.  MatthewMPP responded: "I have started to be more active in the community lately.  Plug meetings, ASU install fest, and Wednesday I will be going to the West Side meeting.  This is my AZloco meeting."  MatthewMPP was welcomed to the team.

Next, tyche reported the announcements from the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter:

* Everyone should take a look at the Ubuntu Forums news in todays UWN issue. It lays out some of the major things about the forums that everyone should know. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue134

* There is a good interview with Jono Bacon the Ubuntu Community Mgr. who works for Canonical here: http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/interviews-28/interview-with-jono-bacon-ubuntu-community-manager-712635/

* And on the lighter side:  Here is a quick little read that gave several of us working on the UWN a good laugh today. It'll only take you about 5 mins. at the most. http://www.ubuntuproductivity.com/journal/uncategorized/03/2009/top-10-reasons-ill-never-use-ubuntu/

tyche then asked scott_ev for what was new on the bug front:

scott_ev reported, "I'm putting together a presentation.  MatthewMPP and I are going to work on a few things."  A three-way discussion resulted between scott_ev, MatthewMPP and xHans concerning how soon the presentation was needed.  MatthewMPP felt that he and scott_ev could have it ready by May 14.

tyche then said, "johnc4510 asked me to have everyone put in ideas for the Jaunty events.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/JauntyEvents .  Jeff_Martin has put in some ideas for Northern Arizona.  Some of the ideas we need are ways to improve our media exposure, how to get the flyers out better, game ideas, etc."  Ideas that followed included:

# Siph0n suggested, "What about having some games at the parties? Computer games.  And having sort of a lan party / release party."
# xHans suggested that whoever is working on promo for Jaunty parties should also help with ABLEconf promo.  And we'll push the ABLEconf promo channels to help with the Jaunty release promo.
# kennymc0 suggested we could have a pool party at your (tyche's) apartment for the release party like scott_ev keeps mentioning.

tyche then asked for PLUG announcements from xHans.

* GNU/Linux classes are starting this week, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/757 .  I think we're full up at MCC, but EMCC had some openings.  They're all GNU/Linux classes this quarter ranging from intro to sysadmin  to security.  There might also be a shell scripting class in there.  In the Fall we should again have OpenOffice.org, some webdev stuff and PHP and Python classes.  I'm working on Inkscape, GIMP and Blender, but don't count on that soon.

* PLUG West side this Wednesday, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/357 .  The West side meeting will have a presentation on Free Software gaming.  The presentation is based on a presentation from SCaLE that got good reviews from all I've talked to.  In fact, the presenter from SCaLE and calimer are probably plotting on Free Software gaming stuff.

* PLUG Installfest this Saturday, http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/107

* we're working on an ABLEconf in Tucson, join the ABLEconf discuss mailing list if you'd like to help.  http://lists.ABLEconf.com/private.cgi/discuss-ableconf.com/2009-March/000056.html

tyche then said, "Thanks, xHans.  We appreciate the information."

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:33 PM and tyche thanked everyone for coming.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
