{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 12 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-09-12-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/how-google-uses-and-contributes-open-source 
''LINK:'' http://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/08/31/fbi_wants_adult_conversation_about_backdoors/ 
''LINK:'' http://futurism.com/electricity-generating-windows-could-turn-skyscrapers-into-solar-farms/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.itproportal.com/features/the-h-factor-why-you-should-be-building-human-firewalls/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/sweet-suse-hpe-snags-itself-a-linux-distro/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/8/why-i-love-these-markup-languages 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/7-best-linux-distributions-no-proprietary-components 
''LINK:'' http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/The-practical-benefits-of-network-namespaces 
''LINK:'' http://linux.about.com/od/Blog/fl/Which-Is-The-Best-Compression-Tool-For-Linux.htm 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/ibm-launches-new-linux-power8-openpower-systems/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/analysis/security-performance-in-nfv/2016/09/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/news/pokemon-rootkit-targets-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://blog.wuc.me/2016/09/08/nextcloud-totp-two-factor.html 
''LINK:'' https://freedompenguin.com/articles/the-linux-crowd/blocking-big-brother-senji-security/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (72)
* stephenm (36)
* Ron_A (9)
* KarateKid (4)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack_ (1)
* pavlos (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 12 04:00:01 2016 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <KarateKid> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <mark91> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us.

 04:01 <MajB> Star date:  94299.77

 04:01 <wmack_> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Membership application information is at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information and enroll instructions are at http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal are at http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Team Discourse pages are at http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:02 <MajB> Team wiki pages are at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> Team Facebook is at https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> Lets start with the news which is for beginner to expert users.  Pick and choose what to read, test, and try.

 04:02 <MajB> Tonight the news is brought to you by stephenm.

 04:03 <MajB> Over to you stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> Tonight's news starts out easy then gets hard with time

 04:03 <MajB> Rah

 04:03 <stephenm> How Google Uses and Contributes to Open Source

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/how-google-uses-and-contributes-open-source

 04:03 <stephenm> BI Director wants 'adult conversation' about backdooring encryption

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/08/31/fbi_wants_adult_conversation_about_backdoors/

 04:04 <stephenm> adult conversation is very important

 04:04 <stephenm> Electricity-Generating Windows Could Turn Skyscrapers into Solar Farms

 04:04 <stephenm> http://futurism.com/electricity-generating-windows-could-turn-skyscrapers-into-solar-farms/

 04:04 <stephenm> The H Factor – Why you should be building “human firewalls”

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.itproportal.com/features/the-h-factor-why-you-should-be-building-human-firewalls/

 04:04 <stephenm> I found this article interesting

 04:05 <stephenm> Sweet SUSE! HPE snags itself a Linux distro

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/sweet-suse-hpe-snags-itself-a-linux-distro/

 04:05 <stephenm> Now owned by HP don't know how I feel about that

 04:05 <stephenm> Why I love these markup languages

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/8/why-i-love-these-markup-languages

 04:05 <stephenm> 7 Best Linux Distributions With No Proprietary Components

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/7-best-linux-distributions-no-proprietary-components

 04:05 <stephenm> The practical benefits of network namespaces

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/The-practical-benefits-of-network-namespaces

 04:05 <stephenm> Which Is The Best Compression Tool For Linux?

 04:05 <stephenm> http://linux.about.com/od/Blog/fl/Which-Is-The-Best-Compression-Tool-For-Linux.htm

 04:05 <stephenm> not the complete list

 04:06 <stephenm> IBM launches new Linux, Power8, OpenPower systems

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/ibm-launches-new-linux-power8-openpower-systems/

 04:06 <stephenm> Why Security Performance Will be Key in NFV

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/analysis/security-performance-in-nfv/2016/09/

 04:06 <stephenm> Pokemon Rootkit Targets Linux Systems

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/news/pokemon-rootkit-targets-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> For all you Pokemon lovers

 04:06 <stephenm> Secure your Nextcloud with TOTP two-factor auth

 04:06 <stephenm> http://blog.wuc.me/2016/09/08/nextcloud-totp-two-factor.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Blocking Big Brother with Senji Security

 04:06 <stephenm> https://freedompenguin.com/articles/the-linux-crowd/blocking-big-brother-senji-security/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news tonight, back to you MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm.  Good job.

 04:07 <KarateKid> Good links...

 04:07 <Ron_A> thanks stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> We have a team projects page,https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> if anyone would like to take on a project, please select and notify any Team administrator.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  Contact any team administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page.  Let us know about it.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES:

 04:09 <MajB> Q. What kind of doctor fixes broken websites?

 04:09 <MajB> A. A URLologist.

 04:10 <MajB> Linux geek started working at McDonalds. A customer asked him for a Big Mac and he gave him a bit of paper with FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF written on it.

 04:10 <MajB> I think there is a duck in my router. It always goes NAT, NAT, NAT.

 04:11 <MajB> JOB LIST:

 04:11 <MajB> Jobs will be brought to us by Ron_A

 04:11 <Ron_A> systems Administrator Scottsdale

 04:11 <Ron_A> Https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592

 04:12 <Ron_A> Multiple jobs at Limelight

 04:12 <KarateKid> Speaking of the BI some might find this paper interesting. https://dspace.mit.edu/bitstream/handle/1721.1/97690/MIT-CSAIL-TR-2015-026.pdf

 04:12 <Ron_A> https://www.limelight.com/careers/

 04:12 <Ron_A> 28 current canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <Ron_A> Back to MajB

 04:13 <MajB> Thank you Ron_A

 04:13 <MajB> TEAM SERVER NEWS:

 04:13 <MajB> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin.

 04:14 <MajB> UP COMMING EVENTS:

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 17 September, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:14 <MajB> 22 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 22 September, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 01 October, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:15 <MajB> 06 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> LINUX TRAINING:

 04:16 <MajB> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:16 <MajB> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:16 <MajB> PLUG EVENTS:

 04:16 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <MajB> I will cover the PLUG events with the other LUG events.

 04:18 <MajB> LUG EVENTS:

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:18 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 13 September 6:30-9:30 pm.  Barbudos Dos,  3250 Gateway Blvd, Suite 516, Prescott, AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 September 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 September 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 September 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 September 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 25 September 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 September 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 07 October 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 09 October 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 13 October 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.

 04:19 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:

 04:20 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:20 <MajB> That is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:21 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:22 <KarateKid> Thanks! Have a good night everyone.

 04:22 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
