{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 04 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-02-04-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/1/xen-project-celebrates-unikraft-unikernel-projects-one-year-anniversary 
''LINK:'' https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3305265 
''LINK:'' https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/future-proof-your-career-with-ai-1901.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/01/free-video-cutter-losslesscut-adds.html 
''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2019/01/29/todays-firefox-gives-users-more-control-over-their-privacy/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2019/01/29/microsoft_internet_explorer_10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/can-you-trust-the-personal-internet-of-things/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/libreoffice-6-2-slated-for-release-on-february-7-will-introduce-a-new-tabbed-ui-524743.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/1/more-about-angle-brackets-bash 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2019/01/sap-one-of-open-sources-best-kept-secrets/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3333640/linux/zipping-files-on-linux-the-many-variations-and-how-to-use-them.html 
''LINK:'' https://machinelearningmastery.com/machine-learning-in-python-step-by-step/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/more-text-files-linux 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-and-delete-users-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-and-use-the-dolphin-emulator-on-linux 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-access-your-google-drive-account-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/apollo-lake-based-railway-computer-runs-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/check-partitions-uuid-filesystem-uuid-universally-unique-identifier-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/1/devops-advice-7-contrarian-pieces 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/1/quantum-computing-and-security-5-looming-questions 
''LINK:'' https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/01/15/container-storage-interface-ga/ 
''LINK:'' https://justi.cz/security/2019/01/22/apt-rce.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/secure-nginx-with-let-s-encrypt-on-debian-9/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/how-companies-are-building-sustainable-ai-and-ml-initiatives 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/scipio-erp 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (56)
* Ron_A (43)
* MajB (36)
* meetingology (3)
* pirateP (1)
* markthomas (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb  4 04:00:10 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <pirateP> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date 96693.89

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <Ron_A> 

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <stephenm> News it kinda long with different articles

 04:01 <stephenm> Xen Project Celebrates Unikraft Unikernel Project’s One Year Anniversary

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2019/1/xen-project-celebrates-unikraft-unikernel-projects-one-year-anniversary

 04:02 <stephenm> A Hitchhiker's Guide to the Blockchain Universe

 04:02 <stephenm> https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3305265

 04:02 <stephenm> Future-Proof Your Career with AI

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/future-proof-your-career-with-ai-1901.html

 04:02 <stephenm> Free Video Cutter LosslessCut Adds Multiple Cut Points, Video Merging Feature

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/01/free-video-cutter-losslesscut-adds.html

 04:02 <stephenm> Today’s Firefox Gives Users More Control over their Privacy

 04:02 <stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2019/01/29/todays-firefox-gives-users-more-control-over-their-privacy/

 04:02 <stephenm> Microsoft decides Internet Explorer 10 has had its fun: Termination set for January 2020

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2019/01/29/microsoft_internet_explorer_10/

 04:03 <stephenm> Can you trust the personal Internet of Things?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/can-you-trust-the-personal-internet-of-things/

 04:03 <stephenm> The answer is no, Alexa is bad news

 04:03 <stephenm> LibreOffice 6.2 Slated for Release on February 7, Will Introduce a New Tabbed UI

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/libreoffice-6-2-slated-for-release-on-february-7-will-introduce-a-new-tabbed-ui-524743.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> More About Angle Brackets in Bash

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2019/1/more-about-angle-brackets-bash

 04:03 <stephenm> SAP: One of Open Source’s Best Kept Secrets

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2019/01/sap-one-of-open-sources-best-kept-secrets/

 04:04 <stephenm> Zipping Files on Linux: The Many Variations and How to Use Them

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3333640/linux/zipping-files-on-linux-the-many-variations-and-how-to-use-them.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Your First Machine Learning Project in Python Step-By-Step

 04:04 <stephenm> https://machinelearningmastery.com/machine-learning-in-python-step-by-step/

 04:04 <stephenm> Using more to View Text Files at the Linux Command Line

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/more-text-files-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Add and Delete Users on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-and-delete-users-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Install and Use The Dolphin Emulator On Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-and-use-the-dolphin-emulator-on-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Access your Google Drive Account in Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-access-your-google-drive-account-in-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Railway computer runs Ubuntu on Apollo Lake

 04:05 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/apollo-lake-based-railway-computer-runs-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> 7 Methods To Identify Disk Partition/FileSystem UUID On Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/check-partitions-uuid-filesystem-uuid-universally-unique-identifier-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> 7 pieces of contrarian DevOps advice

 04:05 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/1/devops-advice-7-contrarian-pieces

 04:05 <stephenm> Quantum computing and security: 5 looming questions

 04:05 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/1/quantum-computing-and-security-5-looming-questions

 04:05 <stephenm> Container Storage Interface (CSI) for Kubernetes GA

 04:05 <stephenm> https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/01/15/container-storage-interface-ga/

 04:05 <stephenm> Remote Code Execution in apt/apt-get

 04:05 <stephenm> https://justi.cz/security/2019/01/22/apt-rce.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Secure Nginx with Let's Encrypt on Debian 9

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/secure-nginx-with-let-s-encrypt-on-debian-9/

 04:06 <stephenm> How Companies Are Building Sustainable AI and ML Initiatives

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/how-companies-are-building-sustainable-ai-and-ml-initiatives

 04:06 <stephenm> Create an online store with this Java-based framework

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/scipio-erp

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to the moderator

 04:06 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <Ron_A> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB> 19 February Installfest/Linux Workshop (Campus wide event – no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:07 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:07 <Ron_A> See any adminitrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:07 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <Ron_A> "Real men don't use backups, they post their stuff on a public ftp server and let the rest of the world make copies."

 04:07 <Ron_A> Linus Torvalds

 04:07 <Ron_A> "I had a fortune cookie the other day and it said: 'Outlook not so good'. I said:

 04:08 <Ron_A> 'Sure, but Microsoft ships it anyway'."

 04:08 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:08 <Ron_A> 51 current canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:08 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:09 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:09 <Ron_A> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:09 <Ron_A> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <MajB> 07 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 14 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 16 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, CANCELED

 04:10 <MajB> 28 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 02 March, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:10 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:10 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 14 February 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:12 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 19 February 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thi

 04:12 <MajB> ngs tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 21 February 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:12 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:12 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:12 <MajB> Meeting on 24 February 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 01 March 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 13 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 23 February 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:13 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB !

 04:13 <MajB> Back to you Ron_A

 04:14 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:14 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:14 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:14 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:14 <stephenm> night all

 04:14 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:14 <MajB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:14 <MajB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:14 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
