{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 09 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-10-09-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/sifive-unleashes-the-first-linux-ready-64-bit-risc-v-soc 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-wine-gallium-nine-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/cloud/oracle-is-moving-to-kubernetes-and-cloud-native-computing 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/10/enable-update 
''LINK:'' https://www.datamation.com/careers/it-salary-2018.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/create-video-pdf-files-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/synapse-application-launcher-and-file-search-tool/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/10/7-deadly-sins-documentation 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/best-modern-open-source-code-editors-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/codeanywhere-cloud-ide-editor-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/10/linux-networking-hardware-beginners-lan-hardware 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/10/save-time-ansible-without-writing-line-code 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/multiple-linux-one-usb/ 
''LINK:'' https://blog.devcloud.hosting/configuring-iptables-firewall-with-puppet-hiera-e33a0902b18f 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.shutterflyinc.com/jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (50)
* MajB (47)
* stephenm (34)
* Ron_A (4)
* markthomas (3)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct  9 04:00:18 2017 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95372.28

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <stephenm> The news started from novice and can get more direct to open-source and Linux related.

 04:02 <stephenm> SiFive unleashes the first Linux-ready, 64-bit RISC-V SoC

 04:02 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/sifive-unleashes-the-first-linux-ready-64-bit-risc-v-soc

 04:02 <stephenm> How to Install Wine Gallium Nine in Linux for Near-Native Gaming Performance

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-wine-gallium-nine-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Oracle Is Moving to Kubernetes and Cloud Native Computing

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/cloud/oracle-is-moving-to-kubernetes-and-cloud-native-computing

 04:03 <stephenm> How a university's 3D-printed prosthetics club provides devices for amputees

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/10/enable-update

 04:03 <stephenm> IT Salary 2018

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.datamation.com/careers/it-salary-2018.html

 04:03 <stephenm> How To Create A Video From PDF Files In Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/create-video-pdf-files-linux/

 04:03 <markthomas> +1

 04:04 <toddc> hi markthomas

 04:04 <stephenm> Synapse – A Semantic Launcher for Searching and Launching Apps and Files

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/synapse-application-launcher-and-file-search-tool/

 04:04 <MajB> Yo markthomas

 04:04 <stephenm> 7 deadly sins of documentation

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/10/7-deadly-sins-documentation

 04:04 <markthomas> Sorry I’m late.

 04:04 <stephenm> howdy markthomas

 04:04 <Ron_A> 20 lashes markthomas

 04:04 <MajB> Late is all relative.

 04:04 <stephenm> 4 Best Modern Open Source Code Editors For Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/best-modern-open-source-code-editors-for-linux/

 04:05 <markthomas> Most of mine are.

 04:05 <stephenm> ya like I was early by an hour

 04:05 <toddc> markthomas: is early for stephenm

 04:05 <stephenm> Codeanywhere – A Feature-Rich Cross-Platform Cloud IDE for Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/codeanywhere-cloud-ide-editor-for-linux/

 04:05 <toddc> ^

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Networking Hardware for Beginners: LAN Hardware

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/10/linux-networking-hardware-beginners-lan-hardware

 04:05 <stephenm> Save time with Ansible without writing a line of code

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/10/save-time-ansible-without-writing-line-code

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Multiple Linux Distributions on One USB

 04:06 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/multiple-linux-one-usb/

 04:06 <stephenm> Setting Up iptables Firewall on Linux with Puppet & Hiera

 04:06 <stephenm> https://blog.devcloud.hosting/configuring-iptables-firewall-with-puppet-hiera-e33a0902b18f

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news for this week, back to you toddc

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <toddc> we did cancel 2 atyears end and new year

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <MajB> How about 24 and 31 December.

 04:08 <Ron_A> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> 3

 04:08 <toddc> 2

 04:08 <toddc> 1

 04:09 <toddc> "See daddy ? All the keys are in alphabetical order now."

 04:09 <toddc> "Crap... Someone knocked over my recycle bin... There's icons all over my desktop..."

 04:09 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical has 28 open positions

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <toddc> Network System Specialist Administrator (CHANDLER)

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.sbcinc.com/careers.html

 04:10 <toddc> Shutterfly

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.shutterflyinc.com/jobs.html

 04:11 <toddc> Network Data Center Analyst

 04:11 <toddc> call Ted Finch at 760-696-9789.

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:11 <MajB> 21 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:12 <MajB> 26 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 28 October, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Arizona South Learning Resource Center, 1140 N. Colombo Ave. Sierra Vista.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisti

 04:13 <MajB> 02 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 04 November,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, Mesa Center for Higher Education, 245 W. 2nd Street, Mesa .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:13 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:13 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:14 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:15 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 10 October 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:15 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.

 04:15 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 October 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:15 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:15 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 October 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:15 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 15 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:15 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Linux Meet-up meeting on 17 October 7-8 pm. Location TBA, Tucson.

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/

 04:15 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 October 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conve

 04:15 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 28 October 10-4 pm.  Learning Resource Center University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 03 November 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:16 <MajB> That is all that i have.

 04:16 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:17 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:17 <MajB> 24 October 2017, DevOpsDays Phoenix

 04:17 <MajB> 515 E Grant St,

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix, AZ 85004

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/

 04:17 <MajB> 09 November 2017, 3rd Annual Cyber Southwest (CSW) symposium

 04:17 <MajB> Radisson Suites Hotel - Catalina Ballroom

 04:17 <MajB> Tucson, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/

 04:17 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:17 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:17 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:17 <Ron_A> Thanks for giving us a look at things going on MajB

 04:18 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
