{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #109 for the week December 7, December 13.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Ninth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-December 16, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday December 20, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the December 13, 2009 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09December6

scott_ev then gave an announcement:

* We've decided on having a 10.04 release party April 24 at Boulders on Broadway right after the installfest at UAT.  So, we should start arriving at Boulders at around 4:30.  Hans will be making arrangements for us.  I'm trying to get in touch with people in Tucson to do another installfest there.

scott_ev then asked for PLUG announcements from xHans.

* Stammtisch Tuesday in Tempe.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#Tempe

* Stammtisch Wednesday in Avondale/Goodyear.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#Avondale

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:12 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
