{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 08 Jul at 04:00 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-07-08-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/canonical-github-account-hacked-ubuntu-source-code-safe/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/7/open-source-browsers 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhandbook.com/symbolic-link-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/how-to-use-the-tee-command-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/end-command-line 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-see-the-terminal-commands-you-use-most-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/07/raspberry-pi-power-on-off-tv-connected.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/beyond-cowsay 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/debian-gnu-linux-10-buster-isos-now-ready-for-testing-ahead-of-july-6th-launch-526597.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/record-replay-linux-terminal-sessions-activity/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/command-line-http-clients-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechlab.com/cws-complete-guide-install-centos-web-panel/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/generate-gpg-keys-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-list-databases-tables-in-postgreqsl/ 
''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2019/07/why-gnome-2-continues-to-win-the-desktop-popularity-contest/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-view-the-contents-of-an-archive-or-compressed-file-without-extracting-it/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-fstab-works-introduction-to-the-etc-fstab-file-on-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/customizing-linux-filesystem-commands 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/ubuntu-vs-fedora/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/delete-all-text-in-a-file-using-vi-editor/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/excellent-utilities-tusk-evernote-desktop-software/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-time-series-databases-are-exploding-in-popularity/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-use-nano-text-editor/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/install-r-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/17/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/30/floss-jobs-networking-event/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/18/plug-security/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (52)
* MajB (51)
* xHans (19)
* toddc (12)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul  8 04:00:41 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/b/tod-2g6-9wc if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:02 <toddc> +1

 04:02 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:04 <toddc> Canonical GitHub account hacked, Ubuntu source code safe

 04:04 <toddc> https://www.zdnet.com/article/canonical-github-account-hacked-ubuntu-source-code-safe/

 04:05 <toddc> Debian 10 "buster" released

 04:05 <stephenm> sorry was a little sick

 04:05 <stephenm> 6 open source web browser alternatives.

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/7/open-source-browsers

 04:05 <toddc> np are you able to do news?

 04:06 <toddc> yep

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Create Symbolic Links in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxhandbook.com/symbolic-link-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Use the Tee Command in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/how-to-use-the-tee-command-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> In the End Is the Command Line

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/end-command-line

 04:06 <stephenm> How to see the terminal commands you use most on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-see-the-terminal-commands-you-use-most-on-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi: Power On / Off A TV Connected Via HDMI-CEC

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/07/raspberry-pi-power-on-off-tv-connected.html

 04:07 <stephenm> Had a weird case with my nephews PI not letting me reset the root passwd come to think of it.

 04:07 <stephenm> Darn thing would boot to single user but didn't know what mount was, weird

 04:07 <stephenm> anyways back to news

 04:07 <stephenm> Linux terminal highlights: Going beyond cowsay

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/beyond-cowsay

 04:08 <stephenm> Debian GNU/Linux 10 "Buster" ISOs Now Ready for Testing Ahead of July 6th Launch

 04:08 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/debian-gnu-linux-10-buster-isos-now-ready-for-testing-ahead-of-july-6th-launch-526597.shtml

 04:08 <stephenm> Learn how to Record and Replay Linux Terminal Sessions Activity

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechi.com/record-replay-linux-terminal-sessions-activity/

 04:08 <stephenm> Best Command Line HTTP Clients for Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/command-line-http-clients-for-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> CWS : Complete guide to install CentOS Web Pane

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxtechlab.com/cws-complete-guide-install-centos-web-panel/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Generate GPG Keys in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/generate-gpg-keys-linux/

 04:09 <stephenm> List PostgreSQL Databases and Tables using psql

 04:09 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-list-databases-tables-in-postgreqsl/

 04:09 <stephenm> Why Gnome 2 Continues to Win the Desktop Popularity Contest

 04:09 <stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2019/07/why-gnome-2-continues-to-win-the-desktop-popularity-contest/

 04:09 <stephenm> 10 Different Ways To View The Contents Of An Archive Or Compressed File

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-view-the-contents-of-an-archive-or-compressed-file-without-extracting-it/

 04:09 <stephenm> How fstab works - introduction to the /etc/fstab file on Linux

 04:09 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-fstab-works-introduction-to-the-etc-fstab-file-on-linux

 04:09 <stephenm> Customizing Linux filesystem commands

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/customizing-linux-filesystem-commands

 04:10 <stephenm> Ubuntu or Fedora: Which One Should You Use and Why

 04:10 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/ubuntu-vs-fedora/

 04:10 <stephenm> How to Delete all Text in a File Using Vi/Vim Editor

 04:10 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/delete-all-text-in-a-file-using-vi-editor/

 04:10 <stephenm> Excellent Utilities: Tusk- Evernote desktop software

 04:10 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/excellent-utilities-tusk-evernote-desktop-software/

 04:10 <stephenm> Why time series databases are exploding in popularity

 04:10 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-time-series-databases-are-exploding-in-popularity/

 04:10 <stephenm> How to Use Nano, the Command Line Text Editor in Linux

 04:10 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-use-nano-text-editor/

 04:10 <stephenm> How to Install and Use R on Ubuntu

 04:10 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/install-r-ubuntu/

 04:11 <stephenm> OK that's all the news I have for tonight.  Know it's a late dinner and then to sleep

 04:11 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:11 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:11 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:11 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:11 <stephenm> welcome

 04:12 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:12 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:12 <toddc> thank markthomas for upgrading and maintaing tesm servers

 04:12 <MajB> There are 59 open canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <MajB> Hats off to markthomas

 04:13 <MajB> There are 79 new jobs and a total of 120 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:13 <MajB> There are 24 new jobs and a total of 63 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> 11 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 11 July, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:15 <MajB> 20 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:15 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> 25 July,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 01 August,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 03 August, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:15 <MajB> are.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <toddc> I wanted to write an IPv4 joke, but the good ones were all already exhausted.

 04:16 <toddc> Q. What is a Unix or Linux sysadmin???s favourite hangout place?

 04:17 <toddc> A. Foo Bar

 04:17 <toddc> Linux geek started working at McDonalds. A customer asked him for a Big Mac and he gave him a bit of paper with FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF written on it.

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:18 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:18 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:18 <xHans> the East Side mtg is this Tuesday at 19:00

 04:18 <xHans> Topics: RedHat 8, Debian 10

 04:18 <xHans> Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler

 04:18 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:18 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/17/east-valley-meeting/

 04:18 <xHans> this month we'll have a resume review event before Stammtisch

 04:19 <xHans> the resume review starts at 18:00, with Stammtisch starting at 19:00

 04:19 <xHans> both are at Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ 85204

 04:19 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/30/floss-jobs-networking-event/

 04:19 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday, starting at 19:00

 04:19 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:19 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch/

 04:19 <xHans> PLUG security is a week from Thursday starting at 19:00

 04:19 <xHans> Topic: passiveDNS For fun and Profit (part1)

 04:19 <xHans> Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler

 04:19 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:19 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/18/plug-security/

 04:19 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:20 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 28 July 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 02 August 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:21 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:21 <MajB> Meeting on 14 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> Meeting on 27 July 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:21 <toddc> Routers also visit the URLologist. Always saying the same: It hurts when IP. xD

 04:22 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:22 <MajB> Great comment toddc

 04:22 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
