{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

 

* 01 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2001%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 05 July – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 3 attendees
* Discussed interfacing raspberry pi with A/C
* Discussed general Linux related topics
* 07 July – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 12 attendees
* Downloaded the new Operating System for the Raspberry Pi which is being used to operate a sprinkler system for a member
* Built a new installfest server
* Computer mount point training
* Discussed the differences between Free NAS, PF Sense, and CFS
* Updated AZLOCO Team server
* 08 July – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2008%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 15 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2015%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 21 July – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 12 attendees
* 3 Ubuntu installations.
* Resolved some PDF reader issues
* Transferred files on 3 Proxmox servers
* Continued with configuration of the installest server
* Replaced power plug on a laptop
* Replaced hard drive on a laptop
* Started reconfiguration of a raspberry pi
* 22 July – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2022%2C%202018%20Meeting
* 26 July - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 11 attendees (2 new people)
* The first point release for Ubuntu 18.04 was due to be released today.  It is solid and you may if you wish do a distribution upgrade from 16.04 LTS to 18.04 LTS.  Be sure and back up your data to an external source just in case Murphy is in attendance.
* Discussed the differences between the LTS Ubuntu releases and the interim releases (which are only supported for 9 months).  Of course Ubuntu 16.04 LTS is a very solid release and will be continued to be supported until April of 2021 so there is no urgent need to upgrade if you do not want to.
* 17 of the 27 Ubuntu 16.04 LTS flash drives have been upgraded from 16.04 to 18.04 in anticipation of the 4 August installfest.  We are waiting the results of the other 10.
* Discussed the preparations for the Installfest and the manning requirements.  Everything appears to be ready and while no snags are anticipated there are plans in place to cover problems that may develop.
* Discussed a possible topic for a future presentation “Personal Security for your Computer”. Occasionally the simplest things are often overlooked.  It was suggested that perhaps some of the members may need a refresher on PC Security.
* Discussed the procedures and methods to install upgrades.
* 29 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2029%2C%202018%20Meeting
