{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 31 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:27 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-10-31-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://www.cbsnews.com/news/snapchat-skype-put-users-privacy-rights-at-risk-amnesty-international/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.theverge.com/2016/10/24/13379466/ai-judge-european-human-rights-court-prediction 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/halloween-3D-prints 
''LINK:'' http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2016/10/2-linux-clients-for-microsofts-onedrive.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/linux-and-the-imaginary-new-user.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/education/16/10/simplescreenrecorder-and-kazam 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/chapeau-exactly-what-linux-desktop-needs-0 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/lets-encrypt-and-ford-foundation-aim-create-more-inclusive-web 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/apache-centos-linux-beginners 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/sort-ls-output-by-last-modified-date-and-time/ 
''LINK:'' http://thenewstack.io/developing-stronger-leadership-increase-diversity-openstack-community/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/5-common-failures-package-installation 
''LINK:'' http://www.pcworld.com/article/3135505/linux/how-to-keep-your-linux-pc-safe-from-exploits.html 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/10/how-security-flaws-work-sql-injection/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.darkreading.com/operations/how-to-build-a-strong-security-awareness-program/a/d-id/1327314 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/top-10-reasons-why-nodejs-next-big-thing-web-application-development 
''LINK:'' https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZr 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/c51779tjvasemm3llfeq98sh1p4 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/c28cc8u3ni71kgi310qi8nr2ndk 
''LINK:'' https://osem.seagl.org/conference/seagl2016/schedule 
''LINK:'' http://hubs.ly/H04sBRL0 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/what-do-you-have-to-say-share-it-at-libreplanet-2017 
''LINK:'' https://lists.debconf.org/lurker/message/20160902.125635.8129251b.en.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (72)
* stephenm (45)
* FernHans (20)
* toddc (6)
* Ron_A (5)
* dennisk (4)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* pavlos (1)
* packetlock (1)
* markthomas (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 31 04:00:08 2016 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <mark91> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at http://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Star Date 94433.84

 04:01 <dennisk> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> First the the news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:02 <MajB> The news is for beginner to expert users.  Pick and choose what to read, test, and try.

 04:03 <stephenm> grr

 04:03 <stephenm> Snapchat, Skype put users' "human rights at risk," Amnesty Int'l reports

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.cbsnews.com/news/snapchat-skype-put-users-privacy-rights-at-risk-amnesty-international/

 04:03 <Ron_A> Good doggy

 04:03 <stephenm> you just love taking my spotlight MajB

 04:03 <Ron_A> please don't growl

 04:03 <stephenm> AI program able to predict human rights trials with 79 percent accuracy

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.theverge.com/2016/10/24/13379466/ai-judge-european-human-rights-court-prediction

 04:03 <stephenm> Five 3D printing projects for Halloween

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/halloween-3D-prints

 04:04 <stephenm> although Halloween is almost over this does give ideas for 3d projects

 04:04 <MajB> Why do I get blamed?

 04:04 <stephenm> 2 Linux clients for Microsoft's OneDrive. Yes, they work, but...

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2016/10/2-linux-clients-for-microsofts-onedrive.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Because I can say it

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux and the Imaginary New User

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/linux-and-the-imaginary-new-user.html

 04:04 <Ron_A> Because you are an easy target

 04:04 <MajB> Roger that

 04:05 <stephenm> You know this is kinda ambiguous seeing as how Linux is a kernel not an OS

 04:05 <stephenm> 2 free desktop recording tools to try: SimpleScreenRecorder and Kazam

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/education/16/10/simplescreenrecorder-and-kazam

 04:05 <stephenm> blah

 04:05 <stephenm> Chapeau Is Exactly What the Linux Desktop Needs

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/chapeau-exactly-what-linux-desktop-needs-0

 04:06 <stephenm> need to read this article again all I see is Castle is what the Linux desktop needs

 04:06 <stephenm> Let’s Encrypt and The Ford Foundation Aim To Create a More Inclusive Web

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/lets-encrypt-and-ford-foundation-aim-create-more-inclusive-web

 04:06 <stephenm> This was a good article

 04:06 <stephenm> Apache on CentOS Linux For Beginners

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/apache-centos-linux-beginners

 04:06 <stephenm> Apache still very much useful

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Sort Output of ‘ls’ Command By Last Modified Date and Time

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/sort-ls-output-by-last-modified-date-and-time/

 04:07 <stephenm> Increasing Diversity is not Just the Duty of the Marginalized

 04:07 <stephenm> http://thenewstack.io/developing-stronger-leadership-increase-diversity-openstack-community/

 04:07 <stephenm> 5 Common Failures Of Package Installation

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/5-common-failures-package-installation

 04:07 <stephenm> How to keep your Linux PC safe from exploits

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.pcworld.com/article/3135505/linux/how-to-keep-your-linux-pc-safe-from-exploits.html

 04:07 <stephenm> How security flaws work: SQL injection

 04:07 <stephenm> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/10/how-security-flaws-work-sql-injection/

 04:07 <stephenm> If you try these I am not held responsible

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Build A Strong Security Awareness Program

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.darkreading.com/operations/how-to-build-a-strong-security-awareness-program/a/d-id/1327314

 04:08 <stephenm> Top 10 Reasons Why Node.js Is Next Big Thing in Web Application Development

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/top-10-reasons-why-nodejs-next-big-thing-web-application-development

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight folks.  Back to MajB to steal someone else's time.

 04:08 <toddc> great job stephenm

 04:08 <wmack> Thanks stephenm. Very good

 04:08 <Ron_A> thanks stephenm

 04:08 <MajB> Excellent job stephenm.

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:09 <markthomas> +1 sorry I'm late.

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <toddc> hello markthomas

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX QUOTES

 04:10 <MajB> "To err is human... to really foul up requires the root password."

 04:10 <MajB> "If brute force doesn't solve your problems, then you aren't using enough."

 04:10 <dennisk> That's one for my students! :-)

 04:11 <toddc> thanks to markthomas for the server fix this week!

 04:11 <MajB> "There are 10 types of people in the world: those who understand binary, and those who don't."

 04:11 * packetlock is late

 04:11 <MajB> JOB LIST:

 04:11 <MajB> Software Engineer - Platform

 04:11 <MajB> DevOps Engineer

 04:11 <MajB> https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/operations-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF?code=revolutionparts&ref=rss&sid=68

 04:12 <MajB> 30 current canonical Jobs todayr

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <MajB> 35 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:12 <MajB> Plus 32 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZr

 04:13 <MajB> TEAM SERVER NEWS:

 04:13 <MajB> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:13 <toddc> MajB:

 04:14 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 03 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 05 November, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 .  Gangplank, 260 S Arizona Avenue, Chandler, AZ.  There is free public parking just across the street next to Circle K.   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer yo

 04:15 <MajB> 17 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista. *** Notice*** This is a date change because of Thanksgiving.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet

 04:15 <MajB> 17 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.          *** Notice*** This is a date change because of Thanksgiving. Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 19 November, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:16 <MajB> LINUX TRAINING:

 04:16 <MajB> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:16 <MajB> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:17 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS THIS WEEK:  We have two new members.

 04:17 <MajB> PLUGAZ NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:17 <toddc> no nicks for them so we cannot introduce them here

 04:17 <MajB> FernHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:18 <FernHans> ja, danke

 04:19 <FernHans> A week from Thursday is PLUG's November mtg with 2 topics

 04:19 <FernHans> Kaia Taylor: What I've learned setting up a VM environment for pen test practice

 04:20 <FernHans> Aaron Jones: Managing Your Money - The Linux Way

 04:20 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/events/c51779tjvasemm3llfeq98sh1p4

 04:20 <FernHans> Stammtisch is two weeks from Tuesday on the 15th

 04:20 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/events/c28cc8u3ni71kgi310qi8nr2ndk

 04:20 <FernHans> SeaGL 2016 schedule was posted, conference is 2016Nov11-12

 04:20 <FernHans> https://osem.seagl.org/conference/seagl2016/schedule

 04:20 <FernHans> Percona Live cpf is open until tomorrow, 2016Oct31

 04:20 <FernHans> http://hubs.ly/H04sBRL0

 04:20 <FernHans> SCaLE 15x cpf is open until 2016Nov15

 04:21 <FernHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp

 04:21 <FernHans> Next year SCaLE is at the beginning of March

 04:21 <FernHans> LibrePlanet cfp is open until 2016Nov14

 04:21 <FernHans> https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/what-do-you-have-to-say-share-it-at-libreplanet-2017

 04:21 <FernHans> Debconf 2017 is looking for new speakers

 04:21 <FernHans> https://lists.debconf.org/lurker/message/20160902.125635.8129251b.en.html

 04:21 <FernHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:21 <MajB> Thank you FernHans

 04:21 <FernHans> bitte

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Linux Meet Up on 01 November, 7-8 pm. Raging Sage, 2458 N. Campbell Ave., Tucson, AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> http://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/

 04:22 <MajB> 

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 04 November 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org/

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 06 November 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:22 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 08 November 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD (See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest update on location), Prescott, AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 09 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, Room B159, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 09 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 26 November 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 20 November 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 27 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:23 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:

 04:24 <MajB> AZLOCO and CLUG will be co-sponsoring and Installation Festival in Sierra Vista AZ on 28 January 2017, 10-4 pm. University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, Resource Learning Center commons area, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:24 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:24 <MajB> That is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:24 <dennisk> Registration is open for the Spring semester. Classes include Linux Security, Linux Networking and Bash Shell Scripting. And a new course in our Advanced Manufacturing, digital 3D printing. Contact me for details dennis.kibbe@mesacc.edu

 04:25 <dennisk> Also, we are partnering with Uof A on a Cyber Operations degree.

 04:26 <MajB> Thank you dennisk for that information

 04:26 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:27 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
