{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 02 November 2019 - AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest
* 20 attendees
* 7 installs (5 Ubuntu, 1 Linux Mint, and 1 MX Linux)
* Configured 3 computers for use with multiple monitors
* Upgraded the RAM in one of the desktop computers in the Warrior Healing Center Computer Lab.
* Donated two additional computers (with Ubuntu 18.04 installed) to the Warrior Healing Center Operations Center.
* 02 November 2019 - Mini-AZLOCO Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 3 attendees
* Re-installed VPN certificate on a member’s computer
* Worked on Team Next Cloud server
* Worked on Paul's VPN (unable to resolve hosts)
* 03 November 2019 - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2003%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 07 November 2019 - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 9 attendees
* Installed/tested Ubuntu 19.10 in a VM
* Restored/configured a member’s Next Cloud server
* Setup Next Cloud to use large drive as storage
* Tested IPFire VPN (resolve hosts by name)
* Demonstrated Proxmox & IPFire
* 14 November 2019 - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Ubuntu 20.04, Focal Fassa will be released on 23 April 2020.
* Discussed the support that we have provided the Warrior Healing Center.
* Discussed the possibility of a Tails presentation to be given at a future date.
* Gene displayed a Timex Sinclair 1000 (computer circa 1982) which his family has had in their possession from that period.
* Request for “what to do after installing” web sites to be posted for easy access. https://easylinuxtipsproject.blogspot.com/p/2.html.
* Discussed how to restore the theme options to Linux Mint 19 that they removed. https://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?t=272414 and https://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=208&t=272414.
* 14 November 2019 - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
* Updated Next Cloud server
* 16 November 2019 - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest
* 26 attendees (2 new people)
* 10 installs (6 Ubuntu, 1 custom Linux on a Surface pro, 2 Linux Mint, 1 Lubuntu)
* 1 laptop donated
* 4 computer repair and modification
* 17 November 2019 - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2017%2C%202019%20Meeting
