{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 03 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:23 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-03-03-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/vlc-moon-expedition/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.androidauthority.com/ayn-odin-2-linux-support-3529916/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.dedoimedo.com/games/reviving/pharaoh-cleopatra-hd.html   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/bootutilities/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-drum-machines/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-syntax-highlighters/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-february-2025-updates/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-wildcards-match-filenames-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.xda-developers.com/productivity-apps-you-need-on-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtogeek.com/stuck-in-the-linux-terminal-do-this-before-you-google-it/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://bashscript.net/bash-script-to-convert-json-to-csv/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-fooocus-image-generating-software/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/check-and-secure-open-ports-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Extending-Linux-GPU-Wedge-Event   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-Motion-Control-Subsystem   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2025/02/27/implementing-bluetooth-on-embedded-linux-with-open-source-bluez-vs-proprietary-stacks/   (Stephenm, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-zfs-on-debian-ubuntu   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-lifecycler-terminal-aquarium/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/understanding-common-port-numbers/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/networkmanager-1-52-released-with-ipvlan-interface-support-ethtool-fec-mode   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://hackaday.com/2025/02/27/linux-fu-usb-everywhere/   (Stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/docker-engine-28-strengthens-container-security/   (Stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://bashscript.net/bash-script-to-suspend-the-system-after-user-inactivity/   (Stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/linux-os/top-5-linux-security-best-practices-every-admin-must-know   (Stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/stay-ahead-game-essential-tools-and-techniques-linux-server-monitoring   (Stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:16)
* ''LINK:'' https://mindlance.com/job-board/Embedded Linux Developer Phoenix  (toddc, 04:20)
* ''LINK:'' https://careers.smartrecruiters.com/XceedSearchcom/   (toddc, 04:20)
* ''LINK:'' https://careers.masterelectronics.com/master-electronics/jobs?page=1   (toddc, 04:21)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:21)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:21)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Framework-2nd-Gen-Announcements   (toddc, 04:22)
* ''LINK:'' https://tuxcare.com/blog/essential-linux-security-tools-a-comprehensive-overview-for-security-professionals/   (toddc, 04:22)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (65)
* Stephenm (54)
* MajB (32)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:27 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> stardate -298165.46

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> please sign in in a with a +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <Stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also National Banana Cream Pie Day

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:04 <toddc> before I forget we were donated 12 used dell servers we still have 9 availibe for aynone that would like 1 or 2 or 3 or

 04:04 <toddc> also  Linux get-together/picnic

 04:04 <toddc> All members of the Ubuntu-Arizona Local Community Team, Cochise Linux User Group, or Phoenix Linux User Group are invited to attend a Linux users picnic/get-together

 04:05 <toddc> at the home of Walter Mack, 5831 W. Kessler Street, Tempe AZ on Sunday, 16 March 2025 from 1300-1600 (1:00-4:00 pm). Enjoy meeting other Linux users in a social environment, sharing experiences and generally having some fun. Grilled hamburgers and hot dogs will be served. Please bring a covered side dish or dessert for others to enjoy.

 04:05 <toddc> Please RSVP NLT 14 March 2025 to either

 04:05 <toddc> Todd Cole, toddc@azloco.com

 04:05 <toddc> or Rex Bouwense, majb@azloco.com

 04:06 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:06 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:06 <Stephenm> News is a mixed bag of things

 04:06 <Stephenm> VLC Literally Reaches for the Moon to Mark its 20-Year Anniversary

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/vlc-moon-expedition/

 04:07 <Stephenm> This popular Android gaming handheld can now get better emulators, thanks to Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.androidauthority.com/ayn-odin-2-linux-support-3529916/

 04:07 <Stephenm> How to play Pharaoh city-building game on HD screens in Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.dedoimedo.com/games/reviving/pharaoh-cleopatra-hd.html

 04:07 <Stephenm> 8 Best Free and Open Source Linux Boot Utilities

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/bootutilities/

 04:08 <Stephenm> 7 Best Free and Open Source Drum Machines

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-drum-machines/

 04:08 <Stephenm> 6 Best Free and Open Source Syntax Highlighters

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-syntax-highlighters/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Software: February 2025 Updates

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-february-2025-updates/

 04:08 <Stephenm> How to Use Wildcards to Match Filenames in Linux

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-wildcards-match-filenames-in-linux/

 04:09 <Stephenm> 6 productivity apps you must install on Linux

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.xda-developers.com/productivity-apps-you-need-on-linux/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Stuck in the Linux Terminal? Do This Before You Google It

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.howtogeek.com/stuck-in-the-linux-terminal-do-this-before-you-google-it/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Bash Script to Convert JSON to CSV

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://bashscript.net/bash-script-to-convert-json-to-csv/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Machine Learning in Linux: Fooocus – image generating software

 04:09 <Stephenm> http://linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-fooocus-image-generating-software/

 04:10 <Stephenm> How To Check And Secure Open Ports In Linux

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/check-and-secure-open-ports-in-linux/

 04:10 <Stephenm> Linux's New Way Of Informing User-Space Over Hung GPUs May Become More Useful

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Extending-Linux-GPU-Wedge-Event

 04:10 <Stephenm> Motion Control Subsystem Proposed For The Linux Kernel

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-Motion-Control-Subsystem

 04:10 <Stephenm> Implementing Bluetooth on embedded Linux: Open source BlueZ vs proprietary stacks

 04:10 <Stephenm> https://www.collabora.com/news-and-blog/blog/2025/02/27/implementing-bluetooth-on-embedded-linux-with-open-source-bluez-vs-proprietary-stacks/

 04:11 <Stephenm> How to Install ZFS on Debian/Ubuntu

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-zfs-on-debian-ubuntu

 04:11 <Stephenm> Linux Candy: lifecycler – terminal aquarium

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-lifecycler-terminal-aquarium/

 04:11 <Stephenm> Understanding Common Port Numbers: A Beginner’s Guide to Networking

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/understanding-common-port-numbers/

 04:11 <Stephenm> NetworkManager 1.52 Released with IPvlan Interface Support, ethtool FEC Mode

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/networkmanager-1-52-released-with-ipvlan-interface-support-ethtool-fec-mode

 04:12 <Stephenm> Linux Fu: USB Everywhere

 04:12 <Stephenm> https://hackaday.com/2025/02/27/linux-fu-usb-everywhere/

 04:12 <Stephenm> Docker Engine 28 Strengthens Container Security

 04:12 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/docker-engine-28-strengthens-container-security/

 04:12 <Stephenm> Bash Script to Suspend the System after User Inactivity

 04:12 <Stephenm> https://bashscript.net/bash-script-to-suspend-the-system-after-user-inactivity/

 04:13 <Stephenm> Top 5 Linux Security Best Practices Every Admin Must Know

 04:13 <Stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/linux-os/top-5-linux-security-best-practices-every-admin-must-know

 04:13 <Stephenm> Stay Ahead of the Game: Essential Tools and Techniques for Linux Server Monitoring

 04:13 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/stay-ahead-game-essential-tools-and-techniques-linux-server-monitoring

 04:13 <Stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:13 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:13 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:13 <Stephenm> Welcome

 04:14 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events

 04:14 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:15 <MajB> 06 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 13 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 13 March, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:15 <MajB> 15 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:15 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> 27 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 03 April, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:15 <MajB> 05 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:15 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:16 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:16 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:16 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 13 March, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 18 March, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/locations/computer-lab/

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 12 March, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month)

 04:16 <MajB> Location:  Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 25 March, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:16 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:17 <MajB> There are no canceled events this month

 04:17 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:17 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:17 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:17 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:17 <toddc> Linux users think they???re the best??? are they right?

 04:18 <MajB> Perhaps

 04:18 <toddc> In 2025 Humans populated the earth then they all moved to the cloud

 04:18 <toddc> REDHAT = Hatred

 04:18 <toddc> Why do programmers prefer dark mode? Because the light attracts bugs.

 04:18 <toddc> Why do programmers hate nature???It has too many bugs.

 04:19 <toddc> What???s a programmers favorite way to get around town?

 04:19 <toddc> By riding an array

 04:20 <toddc> Why do Java developers wear glasses?

 04:20 <toddc> Because they can???t C#.

 04:20 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:20 <toddc> UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator - Mid Level (3-5 Yrs) remote

 04:20 <toddc> https://mindlance.com/job-board/Embedded Linux Developer Phoenix

 04:20 <toddc> https://careers.smartrecruiters.com/XceedSearchcom/

 04:21 <toddc> IT Systems Administrator

 04:21 <toddc> https://careers.masterelectronics.com/master-electronics/jobs?page=1

 04:21 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 258

 04:21 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:21 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 36 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:21 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:21 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:21 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:22 <toddc> Framework Announces Ryzen AI Max Powered Desktop, Framework Laptop 12

 04:22 <toddc> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Framework-2nd-Gen-Announcements

 04:22 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:22 <toddc> 25+ Essential Linux Security Tools: Key Features, Uses & More

 04:22 <toddc> https://tuxcare.com/blog/essential-linux-security-tools-a-comprehensive-overview-for-security-professionals/

 04:23 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:23 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ?

 04:23 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:23 <MajB> Just get your RSVPs in

 04:23 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:23 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
