{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by toddc, 08 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-12-08-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.equinoxpayments.com/about-equinox/careers-at-equinox/   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.elitetechnicaljobs.com/   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-now-lets-you-safely-eject-hdd-and-nvme-drives-connected-via-usb   (toddc, 04:11)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (60)
* MajB (27)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:22 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <MajB> And no stephen yet

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> stardate -297066.0950025367

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also National Cotton Candy Day

 04:03 <toddc> have you had some today? no but wish i did

 04:03 <MajB> Not here either

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:04 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:04 <toddc> 

 04:04 <toddc> MajB: do you have any noews items?

 04:04 <MajB> Unfortunately I do not

 04:05 <toddc> np just thought I would ask

 04:05 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:05 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:05 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:05 <toddc> My wife says I am faster than an I/O interrupt.

 04:06 <toddc> She was talking about my brain!

 04:06 <MajB> Are you sure

 04:06 <toddc> What comes after Ununoctium in the periodic table ?

 04:06 <toddc> I never mind moving on

 04:07 <toddc> Gnomium.

 04:07 <toddc> Why are Gnome's extensions found only on Firefox or Iceweasel ?

 04:07 <toddc> Chromium is too shiny for them to stick and they never survive on safari.

 04:07 <toddc> How do you convert audio output from mono to hexadecimal ?

 04:08 <toddc> Install PulseAudio.

 04:08 <toddc> How does Gnome make a flatpak ?

 04:08 <toddc> By building a sixpack and then lying down some.

 04:08 <toddc> A Linux user, a vegan, and an atheist walk into a bar....

 04:09 <toddc> I know because they told everybody there

 04:09 <toddc> Local Linux Jobs

 04:09 <toddc> inux System Administrator - AZ Only

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.equinoxpayments.com/about-equinox/careers-at-equinox/

 04:09 <toddc> Linux and Cloud Application Support Specialist

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.elitetechnicaljobs.com/

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 278 most are remote

 04:10 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:10 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 32 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:10 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:10 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:10 <toddc> New Jolla Phone Now Available for Pre-Order as an Independent Linux Phonehttps://9to5linux.com/new-jolla-phone-now-available-for-pre-order-as-an-independent-linux-phone

 04:11 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:11 <toddc> Raspberry Pi OS Now Lets You Safely Eject HDD and NVMe Drives Connected via USB

 04:11 <toddc> https://9to5linux.com/raspberry-pi-os-now-lets-you-safely-eject-hdd-and-nvme-drives-connected-via-usb

 04:11 <toddc> MajB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:12 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:12 <MajB> 25 December – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour (Christmas)

 04:12 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:13 <MajB> 11 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 11 December, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 20 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:13 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 01 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> 03 January, Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop,  1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:13 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 04 January. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for LUG events and activities with map locations can be found on their websites.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities.

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> 11 December, PLUG East meeting, 1900-2200, 1702 E. Highland Ave. (3rd floor), Phoenix, AZ (2nd Thursday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB> 16 December, Free Software Stammtisch, 1900-2200, BOULDERS ON SOUTHERN, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ (3rd Tuesday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> 23 December, monthly meeting, 1700-1830, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ (4th Tuesday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:15 <toddc> thank you for all the info and help!!!

 04:15 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:15 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:15 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:15 <MajB> There is a problem with BBB so some of these events may meet elsewhere

 04:16 <toddc> correct

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
