{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 04 April - AZLOCO/PLUG Virtual Installfest/Linux Workshop
* Conducted on line, https://bbb.azloco.net/
* 8 attendees
* Solved a problem that a member had with permissions when he transferred a file from one computer to a second one with a different user ID.
* Introduced attendees to the options available in Big Blue Button.
* Discussed some general Linux topics.  (Snap vs Flatpak and spinning disks vs ssd’s)
* 05 April - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3  attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2005%2C%202020%20Meeting
* 09 April - Virtual Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* Discussed the capabilities of Big Blue Button; (audio, video, presentations, public chat).
* Discussed future Cochise Linux User Group activities which may be conducted on Big Blue Button.
* Discussed the Sierra Vista mini-release party for Ubuntu 20.04 which has been put on hold until the Covid-19 virus is no longer a threat.
* Briefly discussed the final beta version of Ubuntu 20.04.
* 09 April - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
* Demonstration of Big Blue Button
* Discussed LXD vs Docker
* 18 April – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
** 11 attendees
** Discussed LXC vs Docker
** Big Blue Button installs, IPfire issues, uvtools
* 19 April – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/April%2019%2C%202020%20Meeting
