{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 20 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-04-20-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-home-cooking-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/toughened-up-coffee-lake-computer-family-includes-a-pcie-x16-model/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/4/state-software-engineering-javascript-and-more-industry-trends 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/steam-play-proton-50-6-is-out-to-help-doom-eternal-rockstar-launcher-and-more-on-linux.16442?module=articles_full&title=steam-play-proton-50-6-is-out-to-help-doom-eternal-rockstar-launcher-and-more-on-linux&aid=16442 
''LINK:'' https://devops.com/top-six-open-source-tools-for-monitoring-kubernetes-and-docker/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/gentoo-based-exgent-linux-now-available-for-raspberry-pi-4 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-6-4-3-released-with-more-than-50-fixes 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2020/04/pdf-manipulation-tool-pdf-arranger-gets.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/with-coronavirus-forcing-us-to-work-from-home-suse-suggests-the-linux-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-find-devices-connected-to-your-network-using-debian-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-configure-guacamole-on-ubuntu-1804/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/3-antimalware-solutions 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-view-a-specific-section-in-man-pages-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/how-to-enable-single-click-file-opening-in-nautilus-file-manager-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/housekeeping-archives-backups 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/sysadmins-dont-sudo 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-find-if-the-disk-is-ssd-or-hdd-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/4/package-python-applications-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/3-antimalware-solutions 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/4/systemd 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-opencart-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/setup-nginx-haproxy-load-balancer-in-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/setup-apache-virtual-hosts-on-ubuntu-18-04-google-cloud/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/antix-lightweight-linux-systemd-free 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/4063/floss-jobs-networking-event/ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/4805/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://flattenthecurve.tech/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (57)
* stephenm (50)
* Flox_Advocate (19)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Apr 20 04:00:16 2020 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/

 04:01 <MajB> if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your user name and log in.  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:03 <stephenm> News is normal, about general workings and then about Linux.

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux at Home: Cooking with Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-home-cooking-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Toughened up Coffee Lake computer family includes a PCIe x16 model

 04:03 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/toughened-up-coffee-lake-computer-family-includes-a-pcie-x16-model/

 04:03 <stephenm> State of software engineering, JavaScript is the future, and more industry trends

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/4/state-software-engineering-javascript-and-more-industry-trends

 04:04 <stephenm> Steam Play Proton 5.0-6 is out to help DOOM Eternal, Rockstar Launcher and more on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/steam-play-proton-50-6-is-out-to-help-doom-eternal-rockstar-launcher-and-more-on-linux.16442?module=articles_full&title=steam-play-proton-50-6-is-out-to-help-doom-eternal-rockstar-launcher-and-more-on-linux&aid=16442

 04:04 <stephenm> Top Six Open Source Tools for Monitoring Kubernetes and Docker

 04:04 <stephenm> https://devops.com/top-six-open-source-tools-for-monitoring-kubernetes-and-docker/

 04:04 <stephenm> Gentoo-Based exGENT Linux Now Available for Raspberry Pi 4

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/gentoo-based-exgent-linux-now-available-for-raspberry-pi-4

 04:04 <stephenm> LibreOffice 6.4.3 Released with More Than 50 Fixes

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/libreoffice-6-4-3-released-with-more-than-50-fixes

 04:04 <stephenm> PDF Manipulation Tool PDF-Arranger Gets New User Interface, Is Now Available On Flathub

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2020/04/pdf-manipulation-tool-pdf-arranger-gets.html

 04:05 <stephenm> With coronavirus forcing us to work from home, SUSE suggests the Linux desktop

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/with-coronavirus-forcing-us-to-work-from-home-suse-suggests-the-linux-desktop/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to find Devices connected to your Network using Debian Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-find-devices-connected-to-your-network-using-debian-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to install the web-based Guacamole Remote Desktop Client on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-configure-guacamole-on-ubuntu-1804/

 04:05 <stephenm> 3 antimalware solutions for Linux systems

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/3-antimalware-solutions

 04:05 <stephenm> How To View A Specific Section In Man Pages In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-view-a-specific-section-in-man-pages-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Enable Single-Click File Opening in Nautilus File Manager in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/how-to-enable-single-click-file-opening-in-nautilus-file-manager-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux housekeeping: Handling archives and backups

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/housekeeping-archives-backups

 04:06 <stephenm> Real sysadmins don't sudo

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/sysadmins-dont-sudo

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Find If The Disk Is SSD Or HDD In Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-find-if-the-disk-is-ssd-or-hdd-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to package Python applications for Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/4/package-python-applications-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> 3 antimalware solutions for Linux systems

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/3-antimalware-solutions

 04:06 <stephenm> Learning to love systemd

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/4/systemd

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install OpenCart with Nginx and Let's Encrypt on Debian 10

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-opencart-on-debian-10/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Setup HAProxy as Load Balancer for Nginx on CentOS 8

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/setup-nginx-haproxy-load-balancer-in-centos-8/

 04:07 <stephenm> Setup Apache Virtual Hosts on Ubuntu 18.04 – Google Cloud

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/setup-apache-virtual-hosts-on-ubuntu-18-04-google-cloud/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight.

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> AntiX - A Lightweight systemd-free Linux distribution for old computers

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/antix-lightweight-linux-systemd-free

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on https://azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:10 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> 23 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:10 <MajB> 07 May, Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:10 <MajB> 28 May, Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 50 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <MajB> There are 82 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are 20 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Many or all of these events may be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:12 <MajB> 02 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your persona

 04:12 <MajB> l projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 07 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, Canceled

 04:13 <MajB> 14 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 14 May, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 16 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:13 <MajB> al projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 28 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, Canceled

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:14 <MajB> This is the latest information that we have.  Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site for the latest up to date information on their activities since many of them have canceled events or moved them on line because of the Covid-19 virus situation.

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <Flox_Advocate> danke

 04:14 <Flox_Advocate> Free Software Stammtisch events will be virtual until after the covid shutdown

 04:14 <Flox_Advocate> This Tuesday is Stammtisch at 19:00 with tech career networking at 18:00

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> Jill, Tucker and I will be there for the tech career event

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> Both will use the same video conferencing service

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> Details will be posted tomorrow

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> https://gettogether.community/events/4063/floss-jobs-networking-event/

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> https://gettogether.community/events/4805/floss-stammtisch/

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> PLUG has also gone virtual only until after the covid shutdown

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> We will still have a general presentation meeting

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> The security meetings are on hold

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> we will have security topics at the general meeting

 04:15 <Flox_Advocate> for instance, next month will have a pfsense presentations

 04:17 <Flox_Advocate> The Flatten the Curve Summit is this week with pay what you can tickets

 04:17 <Flox_Advocate> https://flattenthecurve.tech/

 04:17 <Flox_Advocate> the summit is has some great speakers scheduled, check the site for details

 04:17 <Flox_Advocate> that's it for tonight, thanks again for the great cross-group cooperation

 04:19 <Flox_Advocate> FTC speakers: Trish Greenhalgh, University of Oxford - Cory Doctorow, Electronic Frontier Foundation - Gabriella “Biella” Coleman, McGill University - Sean O’Brien, Yale University - Luis Falcón, GNU Health - Evan Greer, Fight for the Future - Dina Gilio-Whitaker, California State University San Marcos - Abbe R. Gluck, Yale University - Twila Brase, Citizens’ Council for Health Freedom - Scott J. Shapi

 04:19 <Flox_Advocate> ro, Yale University - Sri Ramkrishna, ITRenew - Olejnik, independent researcher - Mikalai Birukou, 3NSoft - Ashley Dawson, CUNY and the College of Staten Island - Stephen Robinson, East Rock Software - Nathan McNulty, OpSecEdu - Cypurr Collective NYC - Michael McMahon, Free Software Foundation

 04:19 <MajB> Thanks for the info

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 26 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Last month's meeting was canceled so check their website

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 01 May 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave & Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 13 May 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:20 <MajB> Meeting on 25 April 1-3:45 pm.  On line on Big Blue Button.

 04:21 <MajB> Please check each LUG's website to ensure that the events are still a go.

 04:21 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:22 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
