{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 17 May at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-05-17-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-21-04-hirsute-hippo-gets-its-first-kernel-security-patch-update-now   (MajB, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-the-latest-vlc-player-in-ubuntu/   (MajB, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/bodhi-linux-6-0-released-with-fresh-new-look-based-on-ubuntu-20-04-2-lts   (MajB, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://lateweb.info/10-best-lite-command-line-text-editors-in-linuxeasy-to-use/   (MajB, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://lateweb.info/7-ways-to-check-network-speed-in-linux-with-browser-cli/   (MajB, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-starters-guide-linux-bootable-ubuntu-usb-stick-windows/   (MajB, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-starters-guide-linux-install-ubuntu-usb-stick/   (MajB, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-customize-bash-terminal-prompt-on-debian/   (MajB, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://lateweb.info/4-social-media-command-line-tools-facebboktwitterreddit/   (MajB, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://techtutorialsite.com/docker-container-lifecycle/   (MajB, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/kill-processes-unresponsive-programs-in-ubuntu/   (MajB, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/mysterious-uses-of-symbol-or-operator-in-linux-commands/   (MajB, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://bytexd.com/how-to-use-nmap/   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/ansible-will-stick-to-the-inclusive-language-in-the-new-version/   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2021/05/11/enterprises-open-source-software/   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/linux-commandline-chat-server-and-remove-unwanted-packages/   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-beginners-guide-firewalld/   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/05/cyberos-first-look/   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-a-custom-rpm-repository-on-linux   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://er2.bamboohr.com/jobs/view.php?id=148   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://er2.bamboohr.com/jobs/view.php?id=141   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://er2.bamboohr.com/jobs/view.php?id=137   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://er2.bamboohr.com/jobs/view.php?id=144   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/environmental-multi-sensor-device-runs-on-raspberry-pi-cm4/   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (91)
* toddc (23)
* meetingology (2)
* Eleison23 (1)
* pirateP (1)
* lubotu1 (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:04 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <pirateP> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week

 04:02 <MajB> Ubuntu 21.04 (Hirsute Hippo) Gets Its First Kernel Security Patch

 04:02 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-21-04-hirsute-hippo-gets-its-first-kernel-security-patch-update-now

 04:02 <MajB> How to Install the Latest VLC Player in Ubuntu 20.04 LTS

 04:02 <MajB> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-the-latest-vlc-player-in-ubuntu/

 04:03 <MajB> Bodhi Linux 6.0 Released with Fresh New Look, Based on Ubuntu 20.04.2 LTS

 04:03 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/bodhi-linux-6-0-released-with-fresh-new-look-based-on-ubuntu-20-04-2-lts

 04:03 <MajB> 10 Best Lite Command Line Text Editors In Linux

 04:03 <MajB> https://lateweb.info/10-best-lite-command-line-text-editors-in-linuxeasy-to-use/

 04:03 <MajB> 7 Ways to Check Network Speed in Linux with Browser & cli

 04:03 <MajB> https://lateweb.info/7-ways-to-check-network-speed-in-linux-with-browser-cli/

 04:03 <MajB> Linux for Starters Part 3: Make a Bootable Ubuntu USB Stick

 04:03 <MajB> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-starters-guide-linux-bootable-ubuntu-usb-stick-windows/

 04:04 <MajB> Linux for Starters Part 4—Install Ubuntu from Your USB Stick

 04:04 <MajB> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-starters-guide-linux-install-ubuntu-usb-stick/

 04:04 <MajB> How to Customize Your Bash Terminal Prompt on Debian 10

 04:04 <MajB> https://vitux.com/how-to-customize-bash-terminal-prompt-on-debian/

 04:04 <MajB> 4 Social Media Command Line Tools

 04:04 <MajB> https://lateweb.info/4-social-media-command-line-tools-facebboktwitterreddit/

 04:04 <MajB> Know the Docker Container Lifecycle

 04:04 <MajB> https://techtutorialsite.com/docker-container-lifecycle/

 04:05 <MajB> Kill Linux Processes/Unresponsive Applications Using xkill

 04:05 <MajB> https://www.tecmint.com/kill-processes-unresponsive-programs-in-ubuntu/

 04:05 <MajB> !: 10 Amazing and Mysterious Uses of the ! Operator in Linux Commands

 04:05 <MajB> https://www.tecmint.com/mysterious-uses-of-symbol-or-operator-in-linux-commands/

 04:05 <lubotu1> MajB: I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)

 04:05 <MajB> Don't worry we don't

 04:06 <MajB> How To Use Nmap: A Comprehensive Guide, Basics to Advanced

 04:06 <MajB> https://bytexd.com/how-to-use-nmap/

 04:06 <MajB> Ansible Will Stick to the Inclusive Language in the New Version

 04:06 <MajB> https://linuxiac.com/ansible-will-stick-to-the-inclusive-language-in-the-new-version/

 04:06 <MajB> Enterprise Increasingly Relying on Open Source

 04:06 <MajB> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2021/05/11/enterprises-open-source-software/

 04:07 <MajB> Useful Commands to Create Command Line Chat Server and Remove Unwanted Packages in Linux

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.tecmint.com/linux-commandline-chat-server-and-remove-unwanted-packages/

 04:07 <MajB> How to Configure and Manage firewalld Rules in Linux

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-beginners-guide-firewalld/

 04:07 <MajB> CyberOS - A New QT-Based Arch Linux Distribution that Looks Like Deepin DE

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/05/cyberos-first-look/

 04:08 <MajB> How to Create a Custom RPM Repository on Linux

 04:08 <MajB> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-a-custom-rpm-repository-on-linux

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 143 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <toddc> ER2 Mesa, AZ

 04:10 <toddc> Full Stack PHP Developer

 04:10 <toddc> $75,000/year

 04:10 <toddc> https://er2.bamboohr.com/jobs/view.php?id=148

 04:10 <toddc> ER2 Mesa, AZ

 04:10 <toddc> Laptop Computer Testing & Repair Technician

 04:10 <toddc> $15-17/hr

 04:10 <toddc> ER2 Mesa, AZ

 04:10 <toddc> Desktop Computer Testing & Repair Technician

 04:10 <toddc> $15-17/hr

 04:10 <toddc> https://er2.bamboohr.com/jobs/view.php?id=141

 04:10 <toddc> ER2 Phoenix, AZ

 04:10 <toddc> Retail Store Lead/Keyholder

 04:11 <toddc> $15-16/hr

 04:11 <toddc> https://er2.bamboohr.com/jobs/view.php?id=137

 04:11 <MajB> There are 149 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <toddc> ER2 Mesa, AZ

 04:11 <toddc> Electronic Refurbishing Production Tech

 04:11 <toddc> $15/hr DOE

 04:11 <toddc> https://er2.bamboohr.com/jobs/view.php?id=144

 04:11 <MajB> There are 21 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:12 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:12 <MajB> 27 May,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 03 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 05 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:12 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 06 June, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:13 <MajB> 10 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 10 June, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 19 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:13 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 20 June, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:13 <MajB> 24 June, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:13 <MajB> Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:13 <toddc> Environmental multi-sensor device runs on Raspberry Pi CM4

 04:13 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/environmental-multi-sensor-device-runs-on-raspberry-pi-cm4/

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:14 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:15 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:15 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:15 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month at the Sunland Village East computer lab 1800-1930.

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 22 May 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:16 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:16 <MajB> Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
