{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc_> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc_> +1
<Rich__> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc_> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc_> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc_> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc_> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc_> Some of us are in   http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/     tonight if you want to talk or see us!
<toddc_> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc_> "Microsoft: ""You've got questions. We've got dancing paperclips."
<toddc_> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc_> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> How to Resize Your Ubuntu Partitions
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/114503/how-to-resize-your-ubuntu-partitions
<Dazed_75> Five Reasons to be Excited About Linux Mint 13 (Ubuntu Derivative)
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/features/five-reasons-to-be-excited-about-linux-mint-13-lts-mate-and-more/
<Dazed_75> http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/2012/05/24/linux-mint-13/
<Dazed_75> Install Ubuntu Server 12.04 LTS
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuserverguide.com/2012/05/how-to-install-ubuntu-server-12-04-lts-precise-pangolin-included-screenshot.html
<Dazed_75> Install LAMP Server in Ubuntu Server 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuserverguide.com/2012/05/how-to-install-lamp-server-in-ubuntu-server-12-04-lts.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.ubuntugeek.com/step-by-step-ubuntu-12-04-precise-lamp-server-setup.html
<Dazed_75> Install WordPress in Ubuntu Server 12.04 LTS
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuserverguide.com/2012/05/how-to-install-latest-wordpress-in-ubuntu-server-12-04-lts.html
<Dazed_75> Five Ways to Avoid Windows 8 (#3 is the best of course)
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/blog/open-source/five-ways-to-avoid-windows-8/11007
<Dazed_75> Dream Studio 12.04 is Based on Ubuntu 12.04 LTS
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Dream-Studio-12-04-Is-Based-on-Ubuntu-12-04-LTS-270754.shtml
<Dazed_75> Mark Shuttleworth Interview for Ubuntu 12.10
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Mark-Shuttleworth-Interview-for-Ubuntu-12-10-270687.shtml
<Dazed_75> OwnCloud 4 Released with File Encryption, Versioning and More
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/05/owncloud-4-released-with-file.html
<Dazed_75> How to Increase Ubuntu Performance on a PC/Laptop with Low RAM
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/05/how-to-increase-performance-ubuntu-pclaptop-with-low-ram.html
<Dazed_75> Install Elementary Desktop Environment in Ubuntu 12.04 LTS
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/2012/05/install-elementary-desktop-environment-in-ubuntu-12-04-lts.html
<Dazed_75> How to Integrate Skype with Ubuntu Unity
<Dazed_75> http://maketecheasier.com/integrate-skype-with-ubuntu-unity/2012/05/23
<Dazed_75> Wallpapers for Dual, Triple and Quad Monitor Setups
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/114732/score-dual-triple-and-quad-monitor-wallpaper-at-the-mmg-network
<Dazed_75> Five Cool Things You Can Do With an SSH Server
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/114812/5-cool-things-you-can-do-with-an-ssh-server
<Dazed_75> Free Linux Essentials Training Manual
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxcertification.co.za/content/free-linux-essentials-e-book
<Dazed_75> Chameleonic Ambiance Script Matches GTK Theme to Your Wallpaper
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/05/chameleonic-ambiance-script-matches-gtk-theme-to-your-wallpaper/
<Dazed_75> How to Repair GRUB2 When Ubuntu Won't Boot (like after re-installing windows)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/114884/how-to-repair-grub2-when-ubuntu-wont-boot
<Dazed_75> Or, even better
<Dazed_75> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecureRemix
<Dazed_75> Bluefish: A Powerful HTML Editor and so much more
<Dazed_75> http://linuxaria.com/article/bluefish-a-powerful-html-editor-and-more?lang=en
<Dazed_75> Write a Simple Launcher Using Zenity (which can do many other things)
<Dazed_75> http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/articles/writing_simple_launcher_using_zenity
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu One vs Dropbox, Google Drive, Spider Oak
<Dazed_75> http://www.muktware.com/ubuntu-one-vs-dropbox-google-drive-spider-oak
<Dazed_75> http://www.muktware.com/3634/ubuntu-one-vs-dropbox-which-cloud-do-you-use
<Dazed_75> https://plus.google.com/u/0/104354108367295104608/posts/Vrgv4TMDVsG
<Dazed_75> Thats all I have for tonight
<toddc_> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc_> I have a couple more to add!
<toddc_> 125,000 Ubuntu PCs to land in Pakistani students' laps
<toddc_> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/05/15/punjab_ubuntu_free_laptops_students/
<toddc_> after reading it is not ubuntu but still a cool linux project!
<toddc_> 40,000 XO PCs destroyed in Peru fire
<toddc_> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/03/12/peru_olpc_fire/
<toddc_> Swapless: Disabling Virtual Memory in Ubuntu
<toddc_> http://lowendmac.com/lowendpc/12pc/swapless-ubuntu.html
<toddc_> Ubuntu users get cloud backup for Linux encryption keys
<toddc_> http://news.techworld.com/operating-systems/3357698/ubuntu-users-get-cloud-backup-for-linux-encryption-keys/
<toddc_> TEAM NEWS
<toddc_> We now have 12.04 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 Adrenaline or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc_> JOB LIST
<toddc_> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc_> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc_> Linux Systems Administrator (Phoenix, AZ)
<toddc_> ddg2d-3021417208@job.craigslist.org
<toddc_> NOC Technician (T2)
<toddc_> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit/?id=1458361
<toddc_> Server Provisioning Technician (North Scottsdale)
<toddc_> knbrw-3009525508@job.craigslist.org
<toddc_> Level 1 IT Support Technician
<toddc_> dice@netfusionservices.com
<toddc_> Part or Full-Time Sys Admin for LAMP Stack
<toddc_> j3kgq-3035318792@job.craigslist.org
<toddc_> Linux Systems Administrator
<toddc_> Laura McKee
<toddc_> Technical Recruiter
<toddc_> Office Direct #423-591-7412
<toddc_> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc_> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is June 2  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<toddc_> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc_> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc_> The last several installfests have been very busy so we are also thinking about a room change in the future. The last several events were at or near standing room only.
<toddc_> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc_> Tagose planning and development meeting on June 9 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc_> Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday June 16 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc_> For more info see
<toddc_> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc_> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc_> Ubuntu Training Days
<toddc_> June 23-24 on IRC freenode #ubuntu-classroom or just install Learnid       See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
<toddc_> these are usually real good seessions
<toddc_> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc_> We are planning to attend the LUGY meeting in Prescott on June 11 at 7pm
<toddc_> I am planning on a carpool for those interested leaving at Az Mills Mall at 4PM
<toddc_> I am allowing a bit of extra time to get there but if if you want to go we could
<toddc_> leave a bit later if needed
<toddc_> FernHans are you here?
<toddc_> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc_> Developer Meeting June 7, 7-9pm at University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc_> Plug East side meeting Thursday June 17 7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc_> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday June 16 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc_> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc_> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc_> ubuntu hour in tempe is june24 7pm
<toddc_> is there any other events or projects we can do as a team
<toddc_> ?????
<toddc_> Ubuntu hour is located at Extreame Bean in Tempe
<toddc_> if there is nothing else?
<toddc_> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
