{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 March - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2001%2C%202020%20Meeting
* 05 March - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 2 attendees
* Installed Honey Pi on a Raspberry Pi for penetration testing.
* Troubleshot email issues (AWS does not allow port 25)
* 07 March - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* Data Not Available At This Time.
* 12 March - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees (one new person)
* Most of the discussion revolved around the upcoming Installation Festival scheduled for 04 April.  Should we ask the clients if they want to keep their Windows key (Win7, 8x, 10) should they become disillusioned with the Linux install?  Yes, however, they must understand that we will not re-install Windows for them.
* Discussed whether we need to create a disclaimer for the donated computers that they are used computers and as such we do not warranty or guarantee the hardware.  Hardware does not last forever and will fail at some time.
* Discussed the possibility of a release party in Sierra Vista for Ubuntu 20.04 in early May.
* Discussed the proper procedure for raising problems.  The mailing list is the proper vehicle for that, only after you have tried to help yourself.  The problem has probably been raised and solved before.  Search the Internet with your search engine of choice.
* A member has procured 10 additional laptops that we can install a Linux distro on and then donate to an individual or group.  We should be able to take care of that action at the upcoming installfest.
* 12 March - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Conducted a demonstration of Ubuntu 20.04 beta
* 15 March - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2015%2C%202020%20Meeting
* 21 March - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Because of the Covid-19 virus, the physical meeting was canceled and the event was conducted on line using the Team's Big Blue Button server, https://bbb.azloco.net.
* Discussed the capabilities of Big Blue Button for future Installfests/Linux Workshops and its possible use for presentations not only for the Arizona Team but for Linux User Groups throughout the state.
* Assisted in the update of a VPN for a member.
