{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 June – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees (1 new)
* Conducted a troubleshooting session of open vpn and zentyal issues
* Connected a raspberry pi 5" screen (see pic)
* Discussed router blocking protocols
* Discussed bash shell scripting
* Discussed proxmox updates at midnight
* 03 June – Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 16 attendees
* Conducted a one on one training session on how to use SSH
* Repaired Thunderbird config file for an individual
* Installed a modified LXLE with Firefox as the default browser 
* Installed Nvidia video drivers on a laptop for an individual.
* Conducted a one on one training sessionhow to use the command line, IRC training, and introduction to Linux
* Conducted 4 other installs (2 Ubuntu, Fedora, and CentOS)
* 04 June – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2004%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 11 June – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2011%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 17 June – Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 16 attendees
* Attempted to flash an Open WRT router unsuccessfully
* Installed Proxmox on a server
* Configured a wireless router
* Provided assistance to a person that had Thunderbird email questions
* Conducted 4 Ubuntu installations
* Discussed the Raspberry Pi
* Discussed Open BSD 
* Prepared a bootable DVD for an individual that contained LXLE (32 bit) with Chrome as the default browser
* Repaired a Proxmox server
* Installed Virtual Box for an individual
* Repaired a USB thumb drive with a corrupt file system
* Attempted, unsuccessfully,  to get a bluetooth headset work properly
* Installed an external hard drive to a Raspberry Pi drive 
* Provided assistance to an individual on X to Go Software
* Repaired the PXE server so network installs are once again possible
* 18 June – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2018%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 22 June - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 11 attendees
* Disseminated the upcoming events for the AZLOCO Team and the Cochise Linux User Group.
* Discussed the manning requirements for the upcoming Installation Festival on 15 July to insure that there would be at least 3-4 capable installers present during each of the three 2 hour periods.
* Reviewed the items left to be accomplished before the Install-fest and the items that already have been finished.
* Enjoyed some good food and some non-Linux or FOSS conversation.
* 22 June - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees (one new person)
* Discussed ZFS, ZIL and L2Ark and usb recovery
* 25 June – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 12 attendees (4 new people)
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/June%2025%2C%202017%20Meeting
