{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #117 for the week February 8, February 14, 2010.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Seventeenth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-February 17, 2010
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

* Next meeting: Sunday February 21, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the February 14, 2010 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10February14

scott_ev began with some announcements:

* What Individuals Can Do For Their Lo``Co Team - http://ubuntu-us.org/?q=node/14366

* Ubuntu Unleashed 2010 Edition Review - http://www.thelinuxblog.com/ubuntu-unleased-2010-edition-revie/

* Yahoo Pays Canonical, Now They're The Ubuntu Default - http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzkyNg

* There will be a 10.04 Lucid Lynx release party at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe (http://www.bouldersonbroadway.net/) on the 24th of April. Boulders on Broadway has a room upstairs that we will have all to ourselves.  We'll have wifi access too.  It's going to be a good chance to eat some good grub, have a few drinks or brewski's and meet some of the other Ubu``Geeks that you have only met online.  You're not going to want to miss this.  Ok, that brings up another point:  We need volunteers for a couple of things:  we'll need a few extension cords and power strips.  Someone can pick out new features in 10.04 and present them or concentrate on one for example.  Anything to do with Ubuntu will be OK.  Things like how to navigate Launchpad and report bugs...  Actually, if you have a favorite piece of software that you use you can present that even if it's not in Ubuntu's repos.  Please be thinking about this.  It will only make the Release Party more of a success.  Here is a link to the Lucid Lynx planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/LucidLynx .  Feel free to add to the ideas section or fill in anything that might be missing.  We will be heading there from the monthly installfest at UAT. http://tinyurl.com/yemru26 If you've never been to an installfest at UAT, you may want to consider checking it out.  Our Lo``Co co-sponsors it with PLUG but we are poorly represented.  There's a proposed flyer posted at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1388113 please give us your feedback in the form of a vote with comments if needed.  It's a chance to help another linux user or, better yet, possibly install Linux an a computer that currently is running that other OS.  http://azloco.com/node/120

* March 20 Tempe install fest: need volunteers.  If you live in the valley, please strongly consider helping us with it.  Every Installfest is an opportunity for us to get better at deploying Linux.  I have info posted in my blog about it - http://www.azloco.com/node/128 .  I'll put up another post and bulk email to the mailing list about it.  Installfests are a lot of fun for many reasons.  We get to meet people in person that we only know online, we get to help people learn how to get started with a new OS.  We will also still be doing the ones that we have been doing.

scott_ev then asked xHans for any PLUG and class announcements:

* Both Valley Stammtische are this week - http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

* PLUG planning IRC meeting next Sunday the hour before the LoCo mtg - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2274

* West Side meeting next Wednesday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/346

* PLUG and AZLo``Co Installfest a week from Saturday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/160

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:26 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
