{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 22 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2021/ubuntu-us-az.2021-03-22-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/system76s-amd-only-pangolin-linux-laptop-is-finally-here-pre-order-now   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/brave-privacy-focused-web-browser   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/19/audacity_3/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/21/3/open-practices-executive-leaders   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/how-to-create-symbolic-or-soft-link-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/03/how-to-update-or-upgrade-ubuntu-offline-without-internet/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-telegram-desktop-app-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/21/3/grep-cheat-sheet   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/10-steps-to-secure-linux-server   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/enterprise-wordpress-hosting-automatic-scaling-and-high-availability/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/3-sysadmin-skills   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/17/vivaldi_3_7/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/configure-static-ip-address-in-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/how-to-install-configure-android-studio-on-linux-ubuntu-20-04/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-obs-screen-recording-software-on-debian-10/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/install-and-use-nomachine-on-centos-8/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/check-find-dns-records-of-domain-in-linux-terminal/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://webleit.info/how-to-connect-to-remote-windows-machine-from-lubuntu-linux-using-remmina/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/nslookup-linux-command-explained-with-examples/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-asterisk-on-ubuntu-20-04/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/display-linux-system-information-in-terminal-using-macchina/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-check-or-find-cpu-information-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/create-rust-virtual-environments-using-conda-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/ubuntu-21-04-multi-monitor-support/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/install-ansible-awx-on-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/new-ubuntu-linux-kernel-security-updates-address-six-vulnerabilities-patch-now   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/canonical-says-ubuntu-16-04-enters-extended-security-maintenance-on-april-30th-2021   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-21-04-hirsute-hippo-is-now-powered-by-linux-kernel-5-11   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (59)
* MajB (58)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (2)
* Eleison23 (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:06 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <toddc> yea!!

 04:02 <stephenm> News is all scattered but a couple interesting articles.

 04:02 <stephenm> System76's AMD-Only "Pangolin" Linux Laptop Is Finally Here

 04:02 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/system76s-amd-only-pangolin-linux-laptop-is-finally-here-pre-order-now

 04:02 <stephenm> Some of those laptops/desktops are way over priced though

 04:03 <stephenm> Brave – Privacy-focused Web Browser

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/brave-privacy-focused-web-browser

 04:03 <stephenm> Once you get settings changed ya Brave is pretty much safe for what it's worth

 04:03 <stephenm> The Audacity of it all: Version 3.0 of open-source audio fave boasts new file format, 160+ bug fixes

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/19/audacity_3/

 04:03 <stephenm> "Going out of your way to be open": An important practice for executive leaders

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/21/3/open-practices-executive-leaders

 04:04 <stephenm> Symbolic or Soft Link in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/how-to-create-symbolic-or-soft-link-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Update or Upgrade Ubuntu Offline without Internet

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/2021/03/how-to-update-or-upgrade-ubuntu-offline-without-internet/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install the Telegram Desktop App in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-telegram-desktop-app-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Practice using the Linux grep command

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/21/3/grep-cheat-sheet

 04:04 <stephenm> 10 Steps To Secure Linux Server + {Bonus Tips}

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/10-steps-to-secure-linux-server

 04:04 <stephenm> Enterprise WordPress Hosting: Automatic Scaling and High Availability

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/enterprise-wordpress-hosting-automatic-scaling-and-high-availability/

 04:04 <stephenm> 3 skills that every Linux sysadmin should bring to the table

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/3-sysadmin-skills

 04:05 <stephenm> Faster than a speeding... tab opening? Vivaldi 3.7 is here

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2021/03/17/vivaldi_3_7/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Configure Static IP Address in Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/configure-static-ip-address-in-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install & Configure Android Studio on Linux | Ubuntu 20.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/how-to-install-configure-android-studio-on-linux-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to install OBS Screen Recording Software on Debian 10

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-obs-screen-recording-software-on-debian-10/

 04:05 <stephenm> Install and Use NoMachine Remote Desktop on CentOS 8

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/install-and-use-nomachine-on-centos-8/

 04:05 <stephenm> Three Ways to Check DNS records from Linux Terminal

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/check-find-dns-records-of-domain-in-linux-terminal/

 04:05 <stephenm> Remmina Connects to Remote Windows Machine from Lubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://webleit.info/how-to-connect-to-remote-windows-machine-from-lubuntu-linux-using-remmina/

 04:06 <stephenm> nslookup Linux Command Explained with Examples

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/nslookup-linux-command-explained-with-examples/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Asterisk on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-asterisk-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Display Linux System Information In Terminal Using Macchina

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/display-linux-system-information-in-terminal-using-macchina/

 04:06 <stephenm> Easily Check or Find CPU Information in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-check-or-find-cpu-information-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Create Rust Virtual Environments Using Conda in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/create-rust-virtual-environments-using-conda-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Multi-Monitor and HiDPI Setup Is Looking Better on Ubuntu 21.04: My Experience So Far

 04:06 <stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/ubuntu-21-04-multi-monitor-support/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install Ansible AWX on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechi.com/install-ansible-awx-on-ubuntu/

 04:07 <stephenm> NVMe vs M.2: What's the Difference? https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/nvme-vs-m2

 04:07 <stephenm> PATCH NOW: New Ubuntu Linux Kernel Security Updates Address Six Vulnerabilities

 04:07 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/new-ubuntu-linux-kernel-security-updates-address-six-vulnerabilities-patch-now

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for this week, back to MajB

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> Canonical Says Ubuntu 16.04 Enters Extended Security Maintenance at the End of April

 04:08 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/canonical-says-ubuntu-16-04-enters-extended-security-maintenance-on-april-30th-2021

 04:08 <MajB> Ubuntu 21.04 (Hirsute Hippo) Is Now Powered by Linux Kernel 5.11

 04:08 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/ubuntu-21-04-hirsute-hippo-is-now-powered-by-linux-kernel-5-11

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 137 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 133 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 41 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:11 <MajB> 25 March,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 01 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 03 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:11 <MajB> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 04 April, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB> 08 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 08 April, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 10 April, AZLOCO/CLUG Linux Workshop/Mini-Installfest, 1000-1300, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  We will be reconditioning 4 donated computers with on hand accessories and installing Ubuntu 20.04.2.0 on them so that they may be donated to individuals who are in need of a free computer.

 04:12 <MajB> 17 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:12 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 18 April, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:14 <MajB> 22 April, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour 2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:14 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:16 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 27 March 1300-1500, 143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:16 <MajB> CLUG/AZLOCO Linux Workshop/Mini-Installfest, 10 April 1000-1300, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:17 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:18 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:18 <MajB> Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.

 04:18 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
