{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 02 Sep at 03:59 &mdash; 04:26 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-09-02-03.59.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtogeek.com/733522/docker-for-beginners-everything-you-need-to-know/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/export-desktop-settings-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-nook-plays-animal-crossing-hourly-themes/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/08/emudeck-team-announce-linux-powered-emudeck-machines/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/proton-drive-business/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/keylogging-plugin-discovered-in-pidgin-messaging-app/   (Stephenm, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-incident-response-tools/   (Stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cnx-software.com/2024/08/28/nanopi-r3s-a-low-cost-rockchip-rk3566-sbc-and-dual-gigabit-ethernet-router/   (Stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtogeek.com/these-totally-free-games-are-worth-playing-in-2024/   (Stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/markdown-cheatsheet/   (Stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/free-open-source-nim-web-frameworks/   (Stephenm, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/audiotube-stream-music-youtube/   (Stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/valv/   (Stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtogeek.com/what-is-zorin-os/   (Stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/id-command/   (Stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Airlie-Rust-Linux-Dev-Compare   (Stephenm, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/free-open-source-container-managers/   (Stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-ocaml-static-site-generators/   (Stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/30/mongodb_postgresql/   (Stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-phpmyadmin-with-nginx-on-ubuntu-24-04/   (Stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/journalingfilesystems/   (Stephenm, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/linux-os/linux-ufw-uncomplicated-firewall-configuration-made-easy   (Stephenm, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2024/08/folks-must-not-be-subscribing-to-leo-or-buying-cryptocurrency-because-brave-is-handing-out-pink-slips/   (Stephenm, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/prevent-brute-force-attack-using-fail2ban/   (Stephenm, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://careers.marshmclennan.com/global/en/search-results?keywords=&p=ChIJy3mhUO0SK4cRrBtKNfjHaYw&location=Phoenix,%20AZ,%20USA   (toddc, 04:18)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:18)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:19)
* ''LINK:'' https://runcloud.io/blog/best-linux-distros   (toddc, 04:19)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:24)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (56)
* Stephenm (54)
* MajB (32)
* meetingology (2)
* stephen_laptop_ (1)

=== Full log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started at 03:59:56 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate   -299668.6

 04:01 <toddc> Stardate   -299668.6

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:03 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL BURNT ENDS DAY

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:04 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:04 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <stephen_laptop_> pray I stay online

 04:04 <toddc> I will

 04:07 <Stephenm> OK I'm back, maybe

 04:07 <toddc> np

 04:09 <Stephenm> Did I lose connection again?

 04:09 <MajB> no you are good

 04:10 <Stephenm> OK was wondering since nobody was talking unless it's time for news

 04:10 <MajB> You are up

 04:10 <toddc> wait ing on you

 04:10 <Stephenm> OK then, well news is kinda all over the place, completely forgot today was the 1st Sunday, anyways.

 04:11 <Stephenm> Docker for Beginners: Everything You Need to Know

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://www.howtogeek.com/733522/docker-for-beginners-everything-you-need-to-know/

 04:11 <Stephenm> How to Export Your Desktop Settings in Linux

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/export-desktop-settings-linux/

 04:11 <Stephenm> Linux Candy: nook – plays Animal Crossing hourly themes

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-nook-plays-animal-crossing-hourly-themes/

 04:11 <Stephenm> EmuDeck team announce Linux-powered EmuDeck Machines

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/08/emudeck-team-announce-linux-powered-emudeck-machines/

 04:11 <Stephenm> Proton Takes Another Dig at Google Workspace

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/proton-drive-business/

 04:11 <Stephenm> Security Alert: Keylogging Plugin Discovered in Pidgin Messaging App

 04:11 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/keylogging-plugin-discovered-in-pidgin-messaging-app/

 04:12 <Stephenm> 8 Best Free and Open Source Incident Response Tools

 04:12 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-incident-response-tools/

 04:12 <Stephenm> NanoPi R3S – A low-cost Rockchip RK3566 SBC and dual gigabit Ethernet router

 04:12 <Stephenm> https://www.cnx-software.com/2024/08/28/nanopi-r3s-a-low-cost-rockchip-rk3566-sbc-and-dual-gigabit-ethernet-router/

 04:12 <Stephenm> These Totally Free Games Are Worth Playing in 2024

 04:12 <Stephenm> https://www.howtogeek.com/these-totally-free-games-are-worth-playing-in-2024/

 04:12 <Stephenm> Basic to Extended Markdown Cheat Sheet With Examples

 04:12 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/markdown-cheatsheet/

 04:12 <Stephenm> 8 Top Free and Open Source Nim Web Frameworks

 04:12 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/free-open-source-nim-web-frameworks/

 04:13 <Stephenm> AudioTube – stream music from YouTube

 04:13 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/audiotube-stream-music-youtube/

 04:13 <Stephenm> You Can Create An Encrypted Gallery on Android With 'Valv' App

 04:13 <Stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/valv/

 04:13 <Stephenm> What is Zorin OS? Linux for People Who Don’t Want to Leave Windows

 04:13 <Stephenm> https://www.howtogeek.com/what-is-zorin-os/

 04:13 <Stephenm> Beginners Guide for ID Command in Linux

 04:13 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/id-command/

 04:13 <Stephenm> Rust Linux Developers Compared To Road Builders & Mapmakers

 04:13 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Airlie-Rust-Linux-Dev-Compare

 04:14 <Stephenm> 10 Useful Free and Open Source Container Managers

 04:14 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/free-open-source-container-managers/

 04:14 <Stephenm> 5 Best Free and Open Source OCaml Static Site Generators

 04:14 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-ocaml-static-site-generators/

 04:14 <Stephenm> MongoDB takes a swing at PostgreSQL after claiming wins against rival

 04:14 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/30/mongodb_postgresql/

 04:14 <Stephenm> How to Install PhpMyAdmin with Nginx and Let's Encrypt SSL on Ubuntu 24.04

 04:14 <Stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-phpmyadmin-with-nginx-on-ubuntu-24-04/

 04:14 <Stephenm> Choosing a Journaling File System

 04:14 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/journalingfilesystems/

 04:15 <Stephenm> Linux UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall) Configuration Made Easy

 04:15 <Stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/linux-os/linux-ufw-uncomplicated-firewall-configuration-made-easy

 04:15 <Stephenm> Folks Must Not Be Subscribing to Leo or Buying Cryptocurrency, Because Brave Is Handing Out Pink Slips

 04:15 <Stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2024/08/folks-must-not-be-subscribing-to-leo-or-buying-cryptocurrency-because-brave-is-handing-out-pink-slips/

 04:15 <Stephenm> How to Stop Brute-Force Attack Using Fail2Ban on Ubuntu 24.04

 04:15 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/prevent-brute-force-attack-using-fail2ban/

 04:15 <Stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight

 04:15 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:15 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:16 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:16 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:16 <Stephenm> Welcome toddc and MajB

 04:16 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:16 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:17 <toddc> Linux and Windows were fighting a battle. Soon, Linux won. When Tux was asked how they won so readily, he said "We can customize our Colonels."

 04:17 <toddc> how many MS users does it take to fix a Linux issue?

 04:17 <toddc> I will let you know as soon as I can find Event Viewer

 04:17 <toddc> A boot error:

 04:18 <toddc> The program 'apt-get' is currently not installed. You can install it by typing:

 04:18 <toddc> apt-get install apt

 04:18 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:18 <toddc> https://careers.marshmclennan.com/global/en/search-results?keywords=&p=ChIJy3mhUO0SK4cRrBtKNfjHaYw&location=Phoenix,%20AZ,%20USA

 04:18 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 259

 04:18 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:19 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 55 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:19 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:19 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:19 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:19 <toddc> https://runcloud.io/blog/best-linux-distros

 04:19 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:19 <toddc> Debian 12.7 is out today

 04:20 <toddc> are there any cancelled events?

 04:20 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:21 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:21 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:21 <MajB> 05 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:21 <MajB> 07 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:21 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:22 <MajB> 12 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:22 <MajB> 12 September, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:22 <MajB> 15 September, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:22 <MajB> time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:23 <MajB> 21 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:23 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:23 <MajB> 26 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:24 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:24 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:24 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:24 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:24 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:24 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:24 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 12 September, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:24 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 17 September, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:24 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:24 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:24 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:25 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:25 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 24 September, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:25 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:25 <MajB> That's all I have for tonight

 04:25 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:25 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:25 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:26 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:26 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
