{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 11 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-12-11-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/12/8-holiday-projects-raspberry-pi-and-arduino 
''LINK:'' https://www.geekwire.com/2017/boeing-ceo-dennis-muilenburg-says-hell-beat-spacex-mars-elon-musk-says/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cio.com/article/3239287/careers-staffing/20-ways-to-kill-your-it-career-without-knowing-it.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/12/08/elon_musk_finally_admits_tesla_is_building_its_own_custom_ai_chips/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3240646/linux/linux-then-and-why-you-should-learn-it-now.html 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-deployments-work/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/12/geckolinux-brings-flexibility-and-choice-opensuse 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/practical-ways-improve-open-source-development-impact/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/reactos-now-natively-supports-more-filesystems-than-all-windows-oses-combined-518897.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.datacenterknowledge.com/edge-computing/five-edge-data-center-myths 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/linux-kernel-developer-kees-cook/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxtechlab.com/playing-date-time-rhelcentos/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/wine-3-0-just-around-the-corner-with-direct3d-11-support-for-amd-and-intel-gpus-518900.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linuxtechlab.com/disable-usb-storage-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.hireart.com/jobs/162bcacf/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist#sthash.oN3sUVoI.dpbs 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux-magazine.com/Issues/2018/206/Pi-FM-Radio 
''LINK:'' https://www.viber.com/products/linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/b/118370136707822714534/events/cg6jgsnv89kpercp7a85go860ig 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (54)
* stephenm (36)
* MajB (34)
* xHans (9)
* Dennisk (6)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 11 04:00:26 2017 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Dennisk> No

 04:00 <Dennisk> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95544.77

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News is from simple to more open-source central

 04:03 <stephenm> 8 Holiday Projects with Raspberry Pi and Arduino

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/12/8-holiday-projects-raspberry-pi-and-arduino

 04:03 <stephenm> Boeing’s Dennis Muilenburg says he’ll beat SpaceX to Mars; Elon Musk says ‘Do it’

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.geekwire.com/2017/boeing-ceo-dennis-muilenburg-says-hell-beat-spacex-mars-elon-musk-says/

 04:03 <stephenm> 20 ways to kill your IT career (without knowing it)

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.cio.com/article/3239287/careers-staffing/20-ways-to-kill-your-it-career-without-knowing-it.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Elon Musk finally admits Tesla is building its own custom AI chips

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/12/08/elon_musk_finally_admits_tesla_is_building_its_own_custom_ai_chips/

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux then, and why you should learn it now

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3240646/linux/linux-then-and-why-you-should-learn-it-now.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How Kubernetes Deployments Work

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-deployments-work/

 04:04 <stephenm> GeckoLinux Brings Flexibility and Choice to openSUSE

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/12/geckolinux-brings-flexibility-and-choice-opensuse

 04:04 <stephenm> Practical Ways to Improve Your Open Source Development Impact

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/practical-ways-improve-open-source-development-impact/

 04:04 <stephenm> ReactOS Now Natively Supports More Filesystems Than all Windows OSes Combined

 04:04 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/reactos-now-natively-supports-more-filesystems-than-all-windows-oses-combined-518897.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> Five Edge Data Center Myths

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.datacenterknowledge.com/edge-computing/five-edge-data-center-myths

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Kernel Developer: Kees Cook

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/linux-kernel-developer-kees-cook/

 04:05 <stephenm> Playing with Date & Time in RHEL/CentOS

 04:05 <stephenm> http://linuxtechlab.com/playing-date-time-rhelcentos/

 04:05 <stephenm> Wine 3.0 Just Around the Corner with Direct3D 11 Support for AMD and Intel GPUs

 04:05 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/wine-3-0-just-around-the-corner-with-direct3d-11-support-for-amd-and-intel-gpus-518900.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> How to disable USB storage on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> http://linuxtechlab.com/disable-usb-storage-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:06 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:06 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:07 <toddc> Why did the computer spy quit?

 04:07 <toddc> He couldn???t hack it anymore!

 04:07 <stephenm> ?

 04:08 <toddc> "Real men don't use backups, they post their stuff on a public ftp server and let the rest of the world make copies."?? - Linus Torvalds

 04:08 <MajB> Nooooo

 04:08 <toddc> How can you tell your parents have been using your computer?

 04:08 <toddc> There???s white out on the screen!

 04:08 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:09 <toddc> Administrator, IT Operations work from home

 04:09 <toddc> https://jobs.aa.com/job/Phoenix-Administrator%2C-IT-Operations-AZ-85001/441280000/?locale=en_US

 04:09 <toddc> Canonical has 27 open positions

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <toddc> Autonomous Vehicle Test Engineer

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.hireart.com/jobs/162bcacf/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist#sthash.oN3sUVoI.dpbs

 04:10 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:10 <toddc> Pi FM Radio

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.linux-magazine.com/Issues/2018/206/Pi-FM-Radio

 04:10 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.viber.com/products/linux/

 04:10 <toddc> Viber for Linux lets you send free messages and make free calls to other Viber users on any device and network, in any country.

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:11 <MajB> 11 December,  We are on the agenda of the Ubuntu Local Community Council for approval as a verified Ubuntu Team along with five other Teams.  The meeting is scheduled for 2000 UTC (that would be 1 PM MST) and will be held in #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net.  Attend if you can to support your Team.

 04:11 <MajB> 16 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe. Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:11 <MajB> 28 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 28 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 04 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 06 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your per

 04:12 <MajB> That is all

 04:12 <toddc> Dennisk: did you have any updates from MCC

 04:12 <Dennisk> Yes

 04:13 <Dennisk> As a Red Hat Academy MCC offers discounts on RH cert exams Contact me for details

 04:14 <Dennisk> Dennis.kibbe@mesacc.edu

 04:14 <stephenm> would like assistance on practicing the Linux+ exam

 04:14 <stephenm> though Linux Acdemy is doing fairly well

 04:14 <Dennisk> I saw they are hiring

 04:15 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:15 <stephenm> ya but not sure i'd make more over their then my job right now

 04:15 <xHans> toddc: ja, danke

 04:16 <xHans> December's PLUG security meeting is Tuesday @ 19:00

 04:16 <xHans> Topic will be the 2nd half of Anthony's intro to encryption

 04:16 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/b/118370136707822714534/events/cg6jgsnv89kpercp7a85go860ig

 04:16 <xHans> December's PLUG general meeting is our annual end of year pot luck party

 04:16 <xHans> This Thu at 19:00, Bring family, friends and food

 04:16 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tue, the Tue before Christmas

 04:16 <xHans> We confirmed with Boulders that we will meet in December

 04:16 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:17 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:17 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events and news and events

 04:17 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 December 6-7:30 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 17 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 23 December 1-3;45 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:18 <MajB> http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:19 <toddc> Dennisk how is the MCC security group doing this year?

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 05 January 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:19 <MajB> Thank is all I have

 04:20 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:20 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:20 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:20 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:20 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:20 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:20 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:20 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:20 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:20 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:21 <toddc> Thank you MajB ! great job

 04:21 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:21 <MajB> Please attend tomorrow's meeting if you can to support the Team

 04:21 <toddc> I will

 04:21 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:22 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
