{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 22 Jun at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-06-22-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-enterprise-chromebook-laptops-for-business/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/6/python-tools 
''LINK:'' https://coffeecode.camera/little-backup-box-spring-summer-2020-update/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi-4-chronicling-desktop-experience-desktop-searching/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/6/linux-libraries 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/gnome-3-36-3-desktop-environment-released-with-various-improvements 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/search-for-packages-in-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/epoptes-linux-computer-lab-management-app/ 
''LINK:'' https://pvera.net/posts/apparmor-firejail-sandboxing/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/disable-touchpad-when-mouse-is-connected-to-your-debian-10-syst 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-list-the-contents-of-a-package-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/manage-tasks-in-terminal-with-taskbook/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/disk-space 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-and-use-composer-on-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3562576/how-to-loop-forever-in-bash-on-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/linux-who-command.html 
''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/internet-connection-sharing-networkmana 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://pad.sfconservancy.org/p/seagl_2020.06.22 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (49)
* stephenm (43)
* FLOX_Advocate (8)
* toddc (5)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* programmer317 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun 22 04:00:03 2020 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/

 04:00 <MajB> if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your user name and log in.  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <toddc> do I count as 2 people?

 04:01 <MajB> You are big enough

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> that is the point

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <programmer317> +1

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <MajB> Hi programmer317

 04:02 <stephenm> News is general then gets into Linux.

 04:02 <stephenm> Best Chromebooks for work in 2020: Which high-end laptop is right for your business?

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-enterprise-chromebook-laptops-for-business/

 04:02 <stephenm> As a person in IT, I firmly reject the use of Chromebooks

 04:02 <stephenm> at least as business laptops

 04:03 <stephenm> 4 essential tools to set up your Python environment for success

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/6/python-tools

 04:03 <stephenm> Little Backup Box Spring/Summer 2020 update

 04:03 <stephenm> https://coffeecode.camera/little-backup-box-spring-summer-2020-update/

 04:03 <stephenm> This was an interesting topic, using a PI as a backup controller.

 04:03 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi 4: Chronicling the Desktop Experience – Desktop Searching – Week 34

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi-4-chronicling-desktop-experience-desktop-searching/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to handle dynamic and static libraries in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/6/linux-libraries

 04:04 <stephenm> GNOME 3.36.3 Desktop Environment Released with Various Improvements

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/gnome-3-36-3-desktop-environment-released-with-various-improvements

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Search for Packages in the Terminal with Apt and Apt-Get

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/search-for-packages-in-terminal/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Manage or Monitor a Linux Computer Lab with Epoptes

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/epoptes-linux-computer-lab-management-app/

 04:04 <stephenm> Simple application sandboxing using AppArmor and Firejail

 04:04 <stephenm> https://pvera.net/posts/apparmor-firejail-sandboxing/

 04:05 <stephenm> Kinda interesting, never really use AppArmor even though I've run Ubuntu for a while

 04:05 <stephenm> Disable Touchpad when Mouse is connected to your Debian 10 System

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/disable-touchpad-when-mouse-is-connected-to-your-debian-10-syst

 04:05 <stephenm> How To List The Contents Of A Package In Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-list-the-contents-of-a-package-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Manage Your Tasks in the Terminal with Taskbook

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/manage-tasks-in-terminal-with-taskbook/

 04:05 <stephenm> Kinda reminds me of YAML

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux sysadmins want to know: Where did my disk space go?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/disk-space

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install and Use PHP Composer on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-and-use-composer-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to loop forever in bash on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3562576/how-to-loop-forever-in-bash-on-linux.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Who Command - Display List of Logged In Users

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/linux-who-command.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Internet connection sharing with NetworkManager

 04:06 <stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/internet-connection-sharing-networkmana

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <toddc> great job!!

 04:07 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on https://azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 29 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are 26 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 6 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Many or all of these events may be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 25 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 02 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 04 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:10 <MajB> al projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 09 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 09 July, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 18 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your perso

 04:10 <MajB> nal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:11 <MajB> This is the latest information that we have.  Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site for the latest up to date information on their activities since many of them have canceled events or moved them on line because of the Covid-19 virus situation.

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org.  Check the web site for up to date information and changes based on the Covid-19 situation.  Many if not all of their activities are now being conducted on line.  Any comments FLOX_Advocate

 04:12 <FLOX_Advocate> danke

 04:13 <FLOX_Advocate> In July PLUG will have a presentation on kubernetes and python on Thursday the 9th

 04:13 <FLOX_Advocate> the Free Software Stammtisch will have a job resume review event at 18:00 on Tuesday the 21st

 04:13 <FLOX_Advocate> In August we will have a presentation on cleaning up DNS zones

 04:13 <FLOX_Advocate> SeaGL is having an all hands meeting tomorrow if you would like to help with a nice regional conference

 04:13 <FLOX_Advocate> it's online this year, so even easier access from Arizona :)

 04:14 <FLOX_Advocate> https://pad.sfconservancy.org/p/seagl_2020.06.22

 04:14 <FLOX_Advocate> Thanks again to the loco for building a great community and the cross-group coordination!

 04:14 <MajB> Thank you FLOX_Advocate

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 28 June is canceled.

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 05 June 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave & Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 27 June 1-3:45 pm. Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
