{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<slofgren> lol
<slofgren> +1
<spinrage> +`
<adrenalin> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<spinrage> +1
<isthekid> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> +1
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<adrenalin> I am on bbb right now
<adrenalin> alone :(
<isthekid> That would be me
<adrenalin> Welcome isthekid
<Dazed_75> adrenaline: We don't see you there
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> 4 Days till 12.04
<spinrage> wahoo!
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> The differences between sudo, su, and gksu
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/111479/htg-explains-whats-the-difference-between-sudo-su
<Dazed_75> Sizing Up Canonical's Ubuntu One Service
<Dazed_75> http://www.thevarguy.com/2012/04/17/sizing-up-canonicals-ubuntu-one-service/
<Dazed_75> Easystroke: a Tool to Control Ubuntu Desktop with Mouse Gestures
<Dazed_75> http://ubuntuportal.com/easystroke-easy-tool-to-control-ubuntu-desktop-with-mouse-gestures/
<Dazed_75> Raspberry Pi Review
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/reviews/raspberry-pi-review-the-price-is-right-but-the-software-is-not/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.04 Merchandise Available for Sale
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/ubuntu-12-04-merchandise-goes-on-sale/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu One Indicator Applet Adds New Features
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/ubuntu-one-indicator-applet-adds-new-features/
<Dazed_75> New Lubuntu Icon Set
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/lubuntu-adding-a-new-icon-set/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.04 Adds Support for GNOME App Menus
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/04/ubuntu-12-04-supports-gnome-menus/
<Dazed_75> View and Delete Stored Passwords in Firefox
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/111555/view-and-delete-stored-passwords-in-firefox
<Dazed_75> How to Benchmark Your Linux System
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/111617/how-to-benchmark-your-linux-system-3-open-source-benchmarking-tools
<Dazed_75> How Can Uptime be Used to Trigger an Action?
<Dazed_75> http://superuser.com/questions/413727/how-can-uptime-be-used-to-trigger-an-action
<Dazed_75> Clear Your Browser History Automatically When Firefox Closes
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/111766/clear-your-browser-history-automatically-when-firefox-closes
* rudgan (~rudgan@ip72-208-21-39.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> How to Create Custom Smart Bookmarks Folders in Firefox
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/111820/how-to-create-custom-smart-bookmarks-folders-in-firefox
<Dazed_75> How to Recover Accidentally Deleted Bookmarks in Chrome & Firefox
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/111784/how-to-recover-accidentally-deleted-bookmarks-in-chrome-firefox
<Dazed_75> The Best Tips and Tweaks for Getting the Most Out of Firefox
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/111889/the-best-tips-and-tweaks-for-getting-the-most-out-of-firefox
<rudgan> Hello all - 1st time here
<adrenalin> Having audio issues. I can hear  you but seems my mic is not.
<Dazed_75> Another Raspberry Pi Case
<Dazed_75>     http://www.geek.com/articles/gadgets/modmypi-raspberry-pi-case-offers-5-percent-kickback-to-foundation-20120321/
<toddc> rudgan:  welcome
<Dazed_75> How to Set Up a DHCP Server on Linux Mint 12
<Dazed_75>     http://linux-news.org/index.php/2012/04/22/how-to-set-up-a-dhcp-server-on-linux-mint-12/
<scott_ev> +1, logged outta BBB - I no haz a mic
<Dazed_75> How to Install Takeoff Launcher on Kubuntu 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2012/04/22/how-to-install-takeoff-launcher-on-kubuntu-12-04/
<toddc> scott_ev: np
<Dazed_75> and that's all the news from me.  Todd?
<toddc> thank you Dazed_75 for the news !
<toddc>  How to install Ubuntu using a USB flash drive
<toddc> Read more: http://www.pcadvisor.co.uk/how-to/linux/3351312/how-install-ubuntu-using-usb-flash-drive/#ixzz1sn59ehG1
<toddc> adrenalin that was for you
<toddc> Canonical prepping to launch Ubuntu as smartphone OS?
<toddc> http://www.engadget.com/2012/04/12/canonical-prepping-to-launch-ubuntu-as-smartphone-os/
<toddc> Thanks to Scott_ev for straighting out the email list we now have  100% control of all team services
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> 12.04  cd's  have been ordered and should be here  around may 5th
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> PL/SQL developer needed / Multiple requirements
<toddc> qmpdt-2964459222@job.craigslist.org
<scott_ev> not Ubuntu but still geekie and expensive goodness - http://www.geek.com/articles/gadgets/dunhill-biometric-wallet-claimed-to-be-virtually-indestructible-20120214/
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is April 28  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<xHans> Limelight is looking for several systems engineers http://ur1.ca/90yl4
<xHans> Limelight ( in Tempe ) and another company in Scottsdale are both looking for in
<xHans> terns
<toddc> cool thanks for the add
<scott_ev> I don't know about the rest of you but I'm gonna jump all over a $950 wallett
<toddc> We will be moving several events around as part of changes in the server and regular installfest
<toddc> the next one will be June 2
<toddc> We will also be trying to stream all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<xHans> actually, UAT is across the street from Fry's food stores and down the street from Fry's electronics
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> We are moving several events around and the next server lab event will be May 12
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> With any luck we might have a Raspberry Pi to test
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Thank adrenaline for fixing the the big blue button server again!!!!
<toddc> we plan to upgrade the test.azloco.com Thursday night to 12.04 wish us luck
<toddc> if some one has a few minuets(hehe) and some drupal knowledge need some web redesign
<toddc> please contact adrenaline or myself
<toddc> adrenalin do have anything to add ?
<adrenalin> I wanted to welcome the new people today
<adrenalin> Also I will add some bbb documentation this week hopefully
<toddc> rudgan can you tell us a bit about yourself?
<Dazed_75> xHans: the PLUG calendar has been updated for all Installfest and Tagcose Server events
<xHans> Dazed_75: excellent!
<adrenalin> Rudgan is Rudy from the fest this last weekend
<toddc> ahhh cool and welcome again
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> We have confirmed the date for the Ubuntu hour it will be May 17 at 7:00 pm at Extreme Bean in Tempe. We will need some flyers made any other Ideas?
<rudgan> sorry... stepped away fpr a sec
<toddc> np go ahead
<toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com/loc.php
<rudgan> Yes I am Rudy - I was at the event saturday.  I am a AIX sa and wanting to get more involved with LINUX
<rudgan> I was told about this group via Mike
<toddc> yea mike!!! :)
<toddc> We are planning to attend the LUGY meeting in Prescott on May 8 at 7pm
<toddc> I am planning on a carpool for those interested leaving at Az Mills Mall at 4PM
<toddc> I am allowing a bit of extra time to get there but if if you want to go we could
<scott_ev> toddc: does that place have a separate room or something?  or will we be just joining the rest of the customers?
<toddc> leave a bit later if needed
* xHans fires up smit just to watch the running man fall
<scott_ev> +1 on the LUGY trip
<toddc> joining the rest in the main room but we can use small table top bammers
<toddc> banners
<scott_ev> cool
<toddc> bad kb AGH
<slofgren> http://lugy.net/ is meeting at Rosa's Pizzeria. I have never been there
<toddc> ETA for my raspberry PI is 4/23 and as soon as it shows we will be setting up a few events test/break it in and see what it can do!  Any and all ideas for projects are welcome
<toddc> xHans over to you
<scott_ev> well, it needs to be our new BBB server of course
<Dazed_75> only after rack mounting it Scott
<scott_ev> Dazed_75: aha
<scott_ev> that'll be some mount
<toddc> we had thought to take a photo of the raspberry in a rack running a data center
<scott_ev> definitely
<toddc> xHans here??
<scott_ev> and photoshop it to appear to be a whole data center running on them
<xHans> ja
<xHans> PLUG devel is a week from Thursday
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/day.listevents/2012/04/05/-.html?Itemid=1
<toddc> can you update us on plug events
<xHans> Dazed_75 will be covering Ubuntu 12.04, Precise Pangolin, at PLUG two weeks from
<xHans>  Thursday
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/day.listevents/2012/04/12/-.html?Itemid=1
<xHans> toddc: no :)
<toddc> ok
<xHans> as usual, you already got the various Installfests
<xHans> and that's it from me this week
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<adrenalin> I will be at the Fest on Saturday
* toddcnb has quit (Quit: ChatZilla 0.9.88.2 [Firefox 7.0/20110922153450])
</pre> block.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
