{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


01 October - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* Provided assistance in mounting hardware Raid
* Worked on Christmas light project
02 October - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2002%2C%202022%20Meeting
06 October - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed customizing Ubuntu
* Discussed Snap vs Flatpak
13 October - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 12 attendees (one new person)
* This the 100th consecutive monthly Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour.  It is probably some kind of a record.
* Discussed the release of Ubuntu 2022-10 is scheduled for release on 20 October 2022.  Remember this is only a 9 month release.  We recommend that new users stick with LTS releases.
* Discussed the release of the  6.0 kernel for those who want the latest cutting edge.
* Discussed desktop environments that appear similar to Win 7.  A member’s wife was introduced to Linux but wants it to at least look like the old Windows with a start menu.  Although you can make a Linux OS look similar to Windows, it will not work like Windows.  Linux is not Windows.
* Briefly discussed Feren OS and its exclusion from our 32 bit installation stable
* Discussed Ubuntu Pro beta.
* Discussed future topics for meeting presentations.  (Handbrake and Tweaking your Linux OS)
13 October - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Discussed IPV 6
15 October - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Discussed the Christmas tree project
* Discussed security issues, specifically data transfer from the EU to the US by companies with offices in both locations.
16 October -  AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/October%2016%2C%202022%20Meeting
27 October - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
