{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 03 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:25 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-10-03-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/business/2016/09/amazon-wants-to-challenge-ups-and-fedex-with-its-own-delivery-system/ 
''LINK:'' http://motherboard.vice.com/read/the-un-announced-its-first-ever-space-mission 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/3123821/linux/why-kid-hackers-should-have-a-linux-computer.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-37486372 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/7-ways-linux-users-differ-from-windows-users.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/3124759/security/down-the-rabbit-hole-part-1-making-my-life-private-and-secure.html 
''LINK:'' http://venturebeat.com/2016/09/21/lenovo-confirms-that-linux-wont-work-on-yoga-900-and-900s-laptops/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/3125015/security/down-the-rabbit-hole-part-2-to-ensure-security-and-privacy-open-source-is-required.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/09/gnome-3-22-released-new-features 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-mediawiki-on-an-ubuntu-16-04-vps/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2016/9/10-reasons-why-cios-should-consider-open-source-software 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/9/iot-home-automation-projects 
''LINK:'' http://www.esecurityplanet.com/network-security/lets-encrypt-wants-to-help-improve-the-ca-model.html 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2016/9/cybersecurity-isnt-it-problem-its-business-problem 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/9/what-are-configuration-management-tools 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://goivio.com/2016/09/29/hiring-apply-join-team-developer/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HLSLrzmcXGM&feature=youtu.be&t=1m51s 
''LINK:'' http://www.motorola.com/us/moto-mods 
''LINK:'' https://www.greyhole.net/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/c0bikjafj9q0h5nqivjcl2e8vm0 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/ce4980qo6g3frtvjj4gnmvtbmjk 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (80)
* MajB (48)
* FernHans (15)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* Anselmo (1)
* pirateP (1)
* pavlos (1)
* NullOverflow (1)
* Yorokobi (1)
* MXs_ (1)
* wmack (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct  3 04:00:25 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <Yorokobi> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <pirateP> +1

 04:00 <Anselmo> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 94357.23

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <mark91> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <NullOverflow> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <pavlos> +1

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> MajB: will do the news

 04:02 <MajB> Amazon looking to abandon UPS, FedEx in favor of its own delivery service

 04:02 <MajB> http://arstechnica.com/business/2016/09/amazon-wants-to-challenge-ups-and-fedex-with-its-own-delivery-system/

 04:03 <MajB> The United Nations Will Launch Its First Space Mission In 2021

 04:03 <MajB> http://motherboard.vice.com/read/the-un-announced-its-first-ever-space-mission

 04:03 <MajB> Why kid hackers should have a Linux computer

 04:03 <MajB> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3123821/linux/why-kid-hackers-should-have-a-linux-computer.html

 04:03 <MajB> Elon Musk outlines Mars colony vision

 04:03 <MajB> http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-37486372

 04:04 <MajB> 7 Ways Linux Users Differ from Windows Users

 04:04 <MajB> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/7-ways-linux-users-differ-from-windows-users.html

 04:04 <toddc> Ubuntu Online Summit: 15-16 November 2016 Includes 16.10 release

 04:04 <toddc> summit.ubuntu.com

 04:04 <MajB> Down the rabbit hole, part 1: Making my life private and secure

 04:04 <MajB> http://www.networkworld.com/article/3124759/security/down-the-rabbit-hole-part-1-making-my-life-private-and-secure.html

 04:04 <toddc> Lenovo confirms that Linux won’t work on Yoga 900 and 900S laptops due to raid drivers

 04:04 <toddc> http://venturebeat.com/2016/09/21/lenovo-confirms-that-linux-wont-work-on-yoga-900-and-900s-laptops/

 04:05 <MajB> Down the rabbit hole, part 2: To ensure security and privacy, open source is required

 04:05 <MajB> http://www.networkworld.com/article/3125015/security/down-the-rabbit-hole-part-2-to-ensure-security-and-privacy-open-source-is-required.html

 04:05 <toddc> GNOME 3.22 Released, This Is What’s New

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/09/gnome-3-22-released-new-features

 04:05 <MajB> How to install MediaWiki on an Ubuntu 16.04 VPS

 04:05 <MajB> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-mediawiki-on-an-ubuntu-16-04-vps/

 04:05 <MajB> 10 reasons why CIOs should consider open source software

 04:05 <MajB> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2016/9/10-reasons-why-cios-should-consider-open-source-software

 04:06 <MajB> 10 tips for DIY IoT home automation

 04:06 <MajB> https://opensource.com/life/16/9/iot-home-automation-projects

 04:06 <MajB> Let's Encrypt Wants to Help Improve the CA Model

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.esecurityplanet.com/network-security/lets-encrypt-wants-to-help-improve-the-ca-model.html

 04:06 <MajB> Cybersecurity isn't an IT problem, it's a business problem

 04:06 <MajB> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2016/9/cybersecurity-isnt-it-problem-its-business-problem

 04:06 <MajB> What are configuration management tools?

 04:06 <MajB> https://opensource.com/business/16/9/what-are-configuration-management-tools

 04:07 <MajB> That is all I have el jefe

 04:07 <toddc> Great job on the news MajB! and stephanm for the work! he is under the weather tonight!

 04:07 <MajB> Gracias

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> Thanks to Ron_A for the care package the installfest now has 4 more DDWRT routers

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <Ron_A> You are welcome

 04:09 <toddc> That's what I love about GUIs:

 04:09 <toddc> They make simple tasks easier, and complex tasks impossible.

 04:09 <toddc> -- John William Chambless

 04:09 <toddc> (On the statement print "42 monkeys" + "1 snake":)  By the

 04:09 <toddc> way, both Perl and Python get this wrong.

 04:09 <toddc> Python gives "42 monkeys1 snake", when the answer is clearly

 04:09 <toddc> "41 monkeys and 1 fat snake".

 04:10 <toddc> -- Jim Fulton

 04:10 <toddc> At least one person went to UAT Saturday but we suspect many more did also!

 04:10 <toddc> Based on normal attendance

 04:11 <toddc> MajB  I am still waiting for my nickels!!

 04:11 <toddc> Linux Jobs

 04:11 <toddc> Software Developer and Technical Support Specialist and Java dev

 04:11 <toddc> https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/

 04:11 <toddc> 27 current canonical Jobs today

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <toddc> Software Developer Tempe

 04:11 <toddc> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:12 <toddc> Developer  PHP MySQL CSS JTML5 Javascript dit ubuntu linux bash vagrent

 04:12 <toddc> https://goivio.com/2016/09/29/hiring-apply-join-team-developer/

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> Moto Mods Presents: Create your own Moto Mod with the Moto Mods Developer Kit

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HLSLrzmcXGM&feature=youtu.be&t=1m51s

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.motorola.com/us/moto-mods

 04:13 <toddc> Desktop Picks

 04:13 <toddc> greyhole An application that uses Samba to create a storage pool of all your available hard drives,

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.greyhole.net/

 04:13 <toddc> Thank You to Linux action show for the Runs linux and Picks

 04:13 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:14 <toddc> I am aslo working on the backup server tonight

 04:14 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:14 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:15 <MajB> 06 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 15 October, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:15 <MajB> 27 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <MajB> 27 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 05 November, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 .  Gangplank, 260 S Arizona Avenue, Chandler, AZ.  There is free public parking just across the street next to Circle K.   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer yo

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.

 04:16 <toddc> ubuntu on air

 04:16 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:16 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:17 <toddc> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:17 <toddc> When Tue, October 04 8-9am

 04:17 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:17 <toddc> also be advised they are moving to youtube soon

 04:18 <toddc> FernHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <FernHans> ja, danke

 04:18 <FernHans> Oktober PLUG east side presentations are on KDE and dynamic HA deployments

 04:19 <FernHans> Title: An overview of HashiCorp's opensource tool set and how to get started on using it yourself

 04:19 <FernHans> Speaker: Anthony Kosednar

 04:19 <FernHans> Title: KDE 20 year Celebration My Journey

 04:19 <FernHans> Speaker: Scarlett Clark

 04:19 <FernHans> For November we have dynamic environment creation for security testing and CLI finance tools

 04:19 <FernHans> October is a jobs networking event before Stammtisch

 04:19 <FernHans> jobs networking starts at 18:00

 04:19 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/events/c0bikjafj9q0h5nqivjcl2e8vm0

 04:19 <FernHans> Stammtisch starts at 19:00

 04:19 <FernHans> https://plus.google.com/events/ce4980qo6g3frtvjj4gnmvtbmjk

 04:19 <FernHans> both at Boulders in Southern

 04:19 <FernHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ 85204

 04:20 <FernHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:21 <toddc> Thank you FernHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:21 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 07 October 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 09 October 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:21 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 11 October 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD, Prescott, AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 12 October 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, Room B159, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 12 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 22 October 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 23 October 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 23 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:22 <toddc> Thank you MajB! for the news and event info

 04:23 <Ron_A> Thanks MajB

 04:23 <toddc> pause error checking

 04:23 <toddc> Fact check passed

 04:23 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:24 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:24 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:25 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:25 <MXs_> exit

 04:25 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
