{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 21 Aug at 04:00 &mdash; 04:11 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-08-21-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/freetube/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechmore.com/2023/08/unboxing-and-first-impressions-of-infinitybook-pro-16-gen8.html   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/best-gnome-extensions/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/08/18/opinion_column/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-google-fonts/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.geeksmint.com/best-bittorrent-clients-for-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/debian-turns-30-years-old-happy-birthday   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/speech-note-text-to-speech/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-help-viewer/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-install-seafile-file-sync-server-with-docker/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/thunar-tweaks/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.betasetup.com/count-files-in-a-directory-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.ubuntumint.com/unzip-gzip-file-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-own-linux-vpn/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/08/14/vpn-vulnerabilities-tunnelcrack-attacks/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/linux-at-command/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/install-python-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.ubuntumint.com/find-files-specific-permissions-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-mount-iso-files-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.fosstechi.com/list-all-running-services-with-systemctl-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://tipsonunix.com/2023/08/10/change-runlevel-on-ubuntu-and-linux-mint/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/   (MajB, 04:10)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (54)
* stephenm (47)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:03 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> I will

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  https://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> New is all over the board but hopefully something is useful

 04:02 <stephenm> FreeTube: The Open Source YouTube Player for Linux'

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/freetube/

 04:02 <stephenm> Unboxing and First Impressions of the Linux-Powered InfinityBook Pro 16 Gen8 from TUXEDO Computers

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechmore.com/2023/08/unboxing-and-first-impressions-of-infinitybook-pro-16-gen8.html

 04:02 <stephenm> 20 Best GNOME Extensions for Everyone

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/best-gnome-extensions/

 04:02 <stephenm> A license to trust: Can you rely on 'open source' companies?

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/08/18/opinion_column/

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Google Fonts

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-google-fonts/

 04:03 <stephenm> 8 Best BitTorrent Clients for Linux in 2023

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.geeksmint.com/best-bittorrent-clients-for-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Debian Turns 30 Years Old, Happy Birthday!

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/debian-turns-30-years-old-happy-birthday

 04:03 <stephenm> Speech Note: Text to Speech, Speech to Text App for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/speech-note-text-to-speech/

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Help Viewer

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-help-viewer/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Install Seafile File Sync Server With Docker

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-install-seafile-file-sync-server-with-docker/

 04:04 <stephenm> 7 Tips and Tweaks to Get More Out of Thunar File Manager by Xfce

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/thunar-tweaks/

 04:04 <stephenm> Count Files in a Directory in Linux: 5 Easy Methods

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.betasetup.com/count-files-in-a-directory-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Uncompress a .gz File in Linux With the Gunzip Command

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.ubuntumint.com/unzip-gzip-file-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Create Your Own VPN in Linux With OpenVPN

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-own-linux-vpn/

 04:04 <stephenm> Almost All VPNs Are Vulnerable to Traffic-Leaking TunnelCrack Attacks

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/08/14/vpn-vulnerabilities-tunnelcrack-attacks/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Schedule Tasks Using Linux at Command

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/linux-at-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Latest Python from Source in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/install-python-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Find Files Based on Permissions in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ubuntumint.com/find-files-specific-permissions-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Mount ISO Files on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-mount-iso-files-on-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to List All Running Services Under systemd in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.fosstechi.com/list-all-running-services-with-systemctl-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> The Easy Way to Change Runlevel on Ubuntu, Linux Mint

 04:05 <stephenm> https://tipsonunix.com/2023/08/10/change-runlevel-on-ubuntu-and-linux-mint/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight

 04:06 <stephenm> back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:06 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 198 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <MajB> There are 47 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:07 <MajB> There are 8 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:07 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:08 <MajB> 24 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 02 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:08 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 03 September, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 07 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 14 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:08 <MajB> 14 September, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:08 <MajB> 16 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Brin

 04:08 <MajB> g your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 17 September, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> 28 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS:

 04:09 <MajB> Melissa Marie joined 13 August 2023

 04:09 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:10 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:10 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:10 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 14 September, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:10 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 19 September, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:10 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:10 <MajB> https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:10 <MajB> Monthly meeting 13 September 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:10 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:10 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 22 August 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month), Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:10 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:11 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
