{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<Rich__> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input or questions to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Audio is down tonight in BBB
<toddc> Let's start with the news
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> The Perfect Media Server - Ubuntu 11.10 [Sabnzbd+/Sickbeard/CouchPotato/Headphones/Serviio]
<toddc> http://www.howtoforge.com/the-perfect-media-server-ubuntu-11.10-sabnzbd-sickbeard-couch-potato-headphones-serviio
<toddc> Ubuntu 12.04 LTS Is in Feature Freeze!!
<toddc> Top 5 Ubuntu pre-installed Laptop companies
<toddc> http://www.unixmen.com/top-5-ubuntu-pre-installed-laptop-companies/
<toddc> DNS in Ubuntu 12.04 is changing!
<toddc> http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<toddc> Install VLC 2.0 In Ubuntu 11.10 Oneiric Ocelot
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/install-vlc-20-in-ubuntu-1110-oneiric.html
<toddc> CTL MB40U: http://bit.ly/vZO36u -  CTL makes Ubuntu Laptops!
<toddc> Adobe says Chrome is only future for Flash on Linux
<toddc> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Chrome-only-future-for-Flash-on-Linux-1440104.html
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/adobe-adandons-flash-on-linux/
<toddc> Login Screen, Software Center, Ubuntu One Changes Land in 12.04
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/login-screen-software-center-ubuntu-one-changes-land-in-ubuntu-12-04/
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/ubuntu-one-gets-new-qt-interface-for.html
<toddc> Corebeach - The Best Racing Game on Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/corebreach-the-best-racing-game-on-ubuntu/
<toddc> Ubuntu Mini-PC Concept
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/ubuntu-mini-pc-concept/
<toddc> Ubuntu 12.04 Countdown Banner Contest Opens
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/ubuntu-12-04-countdown-banner-contest-opens/
<toddc> Hungry? New Cooking Lens Puts 4000 Recipes in the Dash
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/hungry-new-cooking-lens-brings-recipefy-to-ubuntu/
<toddc> Dazed_75: are you implying something?
<Dazed_75> LOL
<toddc> Watch Ubuntu for Android in Action
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/watch-ubuntu-for-android-in-action/
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/ubuntu-for-android-announced/
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/ubuntu-for-android-announced-by-mark.html
<toddc>      http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/more-information-about-ubuntu-for.html
<toddc> Calendar Indicator Displays Google Calendar Events on the Ubuntu Panel
<toddc> (w/o Evolution)
<toddc> http://www.webupd8.org/2012/02/calendar-indicator-displays-google.html
<toddc> I just added that and like it soo far
<toddc> Create Desktop Shortcuts in Ubuntu 11.04 and 11.10 (maybe 12.04 ???)
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/106470/create-desktop-shortcuts-in-ubuntu-11.04-and-11.10
<toddc> Add a Taskbar to the Desktop in Ubuntu 11.10
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/106150/how-to-add-a-taskbar-to-the-desktop-in-ubuntu-11.10
<toddc> Rarely Use Maximized Windows? Disable the Global Menu in Ubuntu 11.04
<toddc> and 11.10 (12.04 ?)
<toddc> http://www.howtogeek.com/106009/disable-the-global-menu-appmenu-in-ubuntu-11.04-and-11.10
<toddc> Install a Minimal (and non-Bloated) Ubuntu On Your Old Laptop/Desktop
<toddc>      
<toddc> http://maketecheasier.com/install-a-minimal-ubuntu-on-old-laptop/2012/02/24
<toddc> Ubuntu for Android: Linux desktop on a smartphone
<toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/blog/open-source/ubuntu-for-android-linux-desktop-on-a-smartphone/10402
<toddc> Thank you Dazed-75 for the news tonight!!
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Sr. Systems Analyst
<toddc> pbk49-2866886630@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFEST
<toddc> There will be a schedule change starting in March. The Server installfest will meet twice a month
<toddc> on the first and third Saturday at UAT.  See the calender for more information. Please thank these members for all the hard work in running two events per month.
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> do we have the agenda yet for next week?
<toddc> I assume we will not have it for a few days but it would be nice to add in the meetings
<toddc> in the future
* [R] has quit (Ping timeout: 276 seconds)
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<Dazed_75> We do not but I asked for it 10 minutes ago
<toddc>  Yesterday's installfest went very well. It was not a large turn out but we have a great time and kept busy with several projects and had a very good time talking and testing
<toddc> I did not read the reply yet and will be talking to shubes tomorrow night
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc>  Thanks to Walter Mack Our azloco.com site is now on Drupal 6.2 and is being upgraded to Drupal 7.9 on test.azloco.com and will soon be ready to for the main site. We also cleaned spam and installed a blocked host list so it should be easy to maintain in the future.
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Tucson installfest plans are underway with a preferred date of  April 7 at U of A
<toddc> We had a conflict and and are locating another location NeoNetninja may have more news for us
<toddc> but I have not seen him yet tonight
<toddc> AZLoCo/Plug are hosting a worldwide hackfest of the STACS systems
<toddc> (municipal and military) developed by Solomon courtesy of Dean Franks. You
<toddc> can participate via wan and we will offer 2 Target Prizes for anyone who
<toddc> can successfully provide a file from either device.  I will provide more
<toddc> information as we get closer to March 2nd Saturday including target ip
<toddc> addresses.  The event is hosted by Solomon and MakerBench.com in Tempe.  I
<toddc> will video stream and video the full event including Dean's presentation
<toddc> which will kickoff 4 days of open wan hackfest STACS targeting.
* Rich__ has quit (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
<toddc> I have not heard any other news on the hackfest event so please check before showing up for more info
* Rich__ (adf62322@gateway/web/freenode/ip.173.246.35.34) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> xHans are you available to add Plug and ABLEconf news?
<xHans> soitanly
<xHans> PLUG devel is this Thursday in new room at UAT, 136
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2012/03/01/324/-/developer-meeting.html?Itemid=1
<xHans> PLUG/AZLoCo server installfest is at a new date this Saturday
<xHans> you already covered that, but with the date change I figured stating it again is a good idea
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2012/03/03/2489/-/server-installfest.html?Itemid=1
<toddc> yep
<xHans> also, I see Brian already updated the PLUG calendar
<xHans> PLUG east side is next Thursday
<xHans> Brian will cover a graphics programs such as Inkscape, Blender or the GIMP. der.
<xHans> hans will cover "Paying for Free Software".
<xHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2012/03/08/20/-/plug-east-meeting.html?Itemid=1
<xHans> there will be an ABLEconf conference call Wednesday at 19:00
<xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/Planning
<xHans> we've worked out a way to stay at UAT for ABLEconf this year and will be deciding on Wednesday if that's the course we want to take
<xHans> that's it from me
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and ABLEconf.com
* [R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> xHans: Eric and are working BB and should have it ready this week end for testing
<toddc> BBB
<xHans> excellent!
<toddc> Dazed_75:  do you have any thing to add?
<xHans> thanks for keeping those projects moving!
<Dazed_75> Nothing more from here, just the news items
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<adrenaline> That is a lot of news. sweet!
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
