{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 01 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-10-01-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3308162/linux/why-you-should-try-rust.html 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/open-source-culture-starts-with-programs-and-policies/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/9/how-land-it-job-showcase-your-adaptability 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/9/benefits-company-open-source-programs 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-18-10-cosmic-cuttlefish-beta-released-with-gnome-3-30-and-linux-4-18-522935.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.fossmint.com/best-linux-educational-software-for-kids/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/intro-to-linux/2018/9/netrunner-builds-kde-unique-linux-spin 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/9/swap-space-linux-systems 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/how-github-can-be-most-powerful-ticketing-tool 
''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2018/09/28/open-source-networking-solutions/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/create-ssh-tunneling-port-forwarding-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/site-reliability-engineering-sre-a-simple-overview 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-monitor-network-traffic-with-linux-and-vnstat/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/test-network-throughput-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (69)
* stephenm (35)
* toddc (9)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct  1 04:00:04 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> How can you tell if one computer is faster than another?

 04:01 <toddc> ?

 04:01 <MajB> Drop them both and see which one hits the ground first

 04:01 <stephenm> use top and compare

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 * toddc is going to test that thery

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> I will

 04:03 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> OK news is basic again then gets more technical.

 04:03 <stephenm> Why Linux Users Should Try Rust

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3308162/linux/why-you-should-try-rust.html

 04:03 <MajB> Make sure they are Windows computers

 04:03 <stephenm> Open Source Culture Starts with Programs and Policies

 04:03 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/open-source-culture-starts-with-programs-and-policies/

 04:03 <toddc> use steel toed boots also

 04:04 <stephenm> We don't do Windows here MajB.  It gets chilly at night

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Land an IT Job: Showcase your Adaptability

 04:04 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/9/how-land-it-job-showcase-your-adaptability

 04:04 <stephenm> Top 3 Benefits of Company Open Source Programs

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/9/benefits-company-open-source-programs

 04:04 <MajB> That's what I need, an IT job

 04:04 <stephenm> Ubuntu 18.10 "Cosmic Cuttlefish" Beta Released with GNOME 3.30 and Linux 4.18

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-18-10-cosmic-cuttlefish-beta-released-with-gnome-3-30-and-linux-4-18-522935.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> 10 Best Linux Educational Software for Your Kids

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.fossmint.com/best-linux-educational-software-for-kids/

 04:05 <stephenm> You have an IT job, it just doesn't pay very much.

 04:05 <stephenm> Netrunner Builds on KDE for a Unique Linux Spin

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/intro-to-linux/2018/9/netrunner-builds-kde-unique-linux-spin

 04:05 <stephenm> An Introduction to Swap Space on Linux Systems

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/9/swap-space-linux-systems

 04:05 <stephenm> How Github Can Be The Most Powerful Ticketing Tool

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/how-github-can-be-most-powerful-ticketing-tool

 04:05 <stephenm> Are communications service providers confident in open source networking solutions?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2018/09/28/open-source-networking-solutions/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Create SSH Tunneling or Port Forwarding in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/create-ssh-tunneling-port-forwarding-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Site Reliability Engineering (SRE): A Simple Overview

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/site-reliability-engineering-sre-a-simple-overview

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Monitor Network Traffic with Linux and vnStat

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-monitor-network-traffic-with-linux-and-vnstat/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Test Network Throughput Using iperf3 Tool in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/test-network-throughput-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you MajB.

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> thanks Texas!

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 54 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are a total of 163 Linux administrator jobs, 51 of which are new listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 22 new jobs and a total of 65 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <MajB> 02 October, Intro to Linux Presentation, 1000-1100, Sunsites Branch Library meeting room, 210 N, Ford Rd, Sunsites

 04:09 <MajB> 04 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 06 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:10 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 20 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:10 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 25 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 25 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:11 <toddc> Octoberfest time!!!

 04:11 <MajB> Already occurred

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 11 October 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:12 <MajB> 

 04:12 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 16 October 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thin

 04:12 <MajB> gs tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem...

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG Security Class on 18 October 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:12 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:12 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:12 <MajB> Meetting on 28 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:12 <MajB> Meeting on 05 October 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 10 October 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 10 October 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 27 October7 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:14 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:15 <toddc> I can hear you

 04:15 <MajB> I cannot hear you

 04:15 <toddc> I heard that

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
