{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[IanMcewen]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Team Reports
  a. <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Teams/Education|Education Team]]</nowiki>
  a. <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server|Server Team]]</nowiki>

=== Log ===
This will be posted after the meeting.
<pre>
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:02:22] <johnc4510>	ok, we ready to start ?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:02:34] <tyche>	Yep
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:03:13] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:03:23] <johnc4510>	any new members here?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:03:31] <blaaaaahhh>	i'm a new man!
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:03:35] <johnc4510>	tyche: how haven't we intro'd
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:03:36] <blaaaaahhh>	I'm blaaaaahhh!!!
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:03:40] <johnc4510>	LOL
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:03:53] <johnc4510>	draker: you're a visitor right
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:03:54] <tyche>	draker, Wolf_45
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:04:00] <posingaspopular>	yea they had me take stupid courses
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:04:09] <posingaspopular>	i tested out of computers thankfully
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:04:24] <Wolf_45>	Hey, I was here last week!
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:04:25] <tyche>	Hey, we're an equal opportunity picker.  Make them introduce themselves, too
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:04:37] <draker>	visitor?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:04:38] <johnc4510>	yeah Wolf_45 did it last wk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:04:42] <tyche>	Ah, OK Wolf_45.  You're off the hook.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:01] <draker>	I'm just hangin out..
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:05] <blaaaaahhh>	what about me?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:13] <draker>	This channel is more active that #ubuntu-oregon
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:19] <johnc4510>	draker: well, you still have to intro yourself
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:20] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:29] <johnc4510>	just a line or two about you
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:33] <blaaaaahhh>	I want to introduce me!
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:42] <johnc4510>	team this is blaaaaahhh
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:45] <johnc4510>	happy
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:46] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:50] <johnc4510>	LOL
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:50] <blaaaaahhh>	no.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:52] <tyche>	C'mon draker.  Anyone named Craig can't be all bad.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:57] <blaaaaahhh>	I must introduce me.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:05:57] <Wolf_45>	psssst, tyche.  My week to be in the pickle barrel is in January.  ;-)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:06:08] <johnc4510>	draker: tell us where you are from
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:06:17] <blaaaaahhh>	:D
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:06:27] <draker>	Oregon
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:06:27] 	 * word guesses oregon
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:06:34] <word>	damnit ><
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:06:36] <posingaspopular>	draker: that's because you're never around in ubuntu-oregon
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:06:38] <word>	no i look like an idiot
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:06:41] <posingaspopular>	you haven't said anything all day
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:06:53] 	 * johnc4510 ok, i think draker is from the oregon team and is visiting
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:00] <johnc4510>	so we'll move on
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:01] <tyche>	Welcome, draker.  We really aren't crazy.  We only seem that way.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:06] <blaaaaahhh>	my turn!
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:08] <draker>	posingaspopular, look again.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:11] 	 * word thinks draker already said he was from oregon and visiting :P
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:12] <blaaaaahhh>	Everyone, i am blaaaaahhh.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:14] <johnc4510>	yes, welcome draker
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:16] <blaaaaahhh>	In a past life, I was t00na.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:19] <draker>	Thanks.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:23] <posingaspopular>	oh fine, 4pm.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:23] <blaaaaahhh>	But I moved on...
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:26] <blaaaaahhh>	for a week...
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:28] 	 * word thinks blaaaaahhh is hindu
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:29] <posingaspopular>	let's get this meeting going...
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:36] <blaaaaahhh>	Just one week, then i'm back to t00na
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:39] 	 * blaaaaahhh done
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:42] 	 * johnc4510 ok i have the floor again please
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:44] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:49] <draker>	posingaspopular, I am up all night usually =)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:52] <johnc4510>	next is the server
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:07:54] <johnc4510>	so
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:08:00] <posingaspopular>	yea that sounds like me too
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:08:13] <johnc4510>	tomorrow we should have the domain name up and running
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:08:17] <johnc4510>	azloco.org
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:08:20] <johnc4510>	so
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:08:34] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: can we load the page you have?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:08:41] <johnc4510>	i know it's not done but
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:08:43] <word>	johnc4510: is it propogating?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:08:50] 	 * word just wanted to say propogating
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:08:58] <johnc4510>	i would like to get something up on the server
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:09:51] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: you here? johnc4510 nudges enigmastrat
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:09:55] <enigmastrat>	hey
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:00] <johnc4510>	ehy
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:02] <johnc4510>	hey
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:07] <enigmastrat>	sorry, I was making sure my dog couldn't dig out of my yard
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:17] <johnc4510>	can we can your page loaded on the server?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:25] <enigmastrat>	sure
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:32] <enigmastrat>	you all see it?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:37] <johnc4510>	i'm doing the domain name tomorrow, and i would like to see it up
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:40] <johnc4510>	yes
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:42] <johnc4510>	i did
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:10:53] <johnc4510>	http://home.cypheye.com:8000/azloco/
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:11:04] <johnc4510>	that is the link to the prototype
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:11:26] <johnc4510>	i know some changes could still be made
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:11:32] <enigmastrat>	can I get the server IP?  I have misplacedc it
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:11:47] <johnc4510>	12.159.65.83
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:12:22] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: it's no problem to make changes after it's up on the server is it?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:12:27] <enigmastrat>	nope
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:12:30] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:12:32] <word>	i <3 it
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:12:42] <enigmastrat>	in fact, there will still be tons of changes to be made
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:12:47] <enigmastrat>	right now it;'s still raw HTML
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:12:53] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:13:01] <word>	enigmastrat: thought about making it a template for a CMS?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:13:14] <johnc4510>	so, like out in the right hand side, we can put our links that we want?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:13:16] <word>	would take most of the hard work out of it i'd think
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:13:39] <enigmastrat>	I've never done a CMS template, but I'm willing to learn
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:13:45] <Wolf_45>	raw HTML works for me......for what that's worth. :-)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:13:53] <enigmastrat>	I'd like to do PHP
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:14:19] <tyche>	Do we have PHP on the server?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:14:33] <enigmastrat>	it's easy to setup, I'm not sure if it's there already
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:14:40] <word>	hmm best known CMS's are wordpress and Drupal, i'd reccomend drupal tbh. You can probably download a template and take a look at how it's done, or find some help documentation
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:14:40] <johnc4510>	those are all things we can discuss as we go along.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:14:50] <blaaaaahhh>	do we have Rails on the server?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:15:09] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: so, like out in the right hand side, we can put our links that we want?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:15:19] <johnc4510>	in the brown section
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:15:38] <johnc4510>	or whatever that color is hee hee
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:15:45] <word>	i think it'd look ugly to have links there :-/
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:15:45] <johnc4510>	ubuntu brown i guess
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:15:48] <enigmastrat>	That would be ok, but I've got the menus at the top for that
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:15:53] <word>	it's probably more intended to be centered
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:16:00] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: k, looking
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:16:30] <enigmastrat>	mouse over Team, Ubuntu, and LUGs
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:16:56] <enigmastrat>	I can make them more Menu-esque to be more obvious
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:17:10] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: nice, there not hot yet i see
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:17:12] <johnc4510>	also
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:17:26] <enigmastrat>	right, they don't link to anything
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:17:37] <johnc4510>	one team page is missing at a quick glance, the main team wiki page
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:17:45] <johnc4510>	np
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:17:57] <enigmastrat>	ok, that'll get added to the list when we get all the links in there
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:18:04] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:18:13] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: you've done a great job btw
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:18:14] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:18:15] <johnc4510>	ty
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:18:20] <enigmastrat>	thank you
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:18:21] <blaaaaahhh>	johnc4510: does the server have rails?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:18:53] <johnc4510>	blaaaaahhh: i don't think so yet, ask slofgren next time he's in channel
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:19:09] <johnc4510>	he knows more about what's been installed
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:19:13] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:19:15] <johnc4510>	now
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:19:41] 	 * johnc4510 does anyone have comments or suggestions about the page ??
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:20:15] <tyche>	It had been suggested that we put the Team logo at the top.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:20:22] <johnc4510>	likes, dislikes
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:20:25] <johnc4510>	suggestions
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:20:33] <blaaaaahhh>	RAILS
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:20:43] <enigmastrat>	Why do you want rails?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:20:47] <johnc4510>	kk, blaaaaahhh wants rails
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:20:47] <blaaaaahhh>	SRSLY, PHP is blaaaaahhh
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:21:12] <tyche>	Anything like that takes space on the very small hard drive.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:21:31] <tyche>	We have to work within our limits
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:21:31] <Polygon89>	i dont like the cactus/mesa/mountian thing on the right hand side. why are cacti and mountains growing horizontally? maybe change it so its not a straight vertial line, like a torn page but i dont like what we have now.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:21:46] <blaaaaahhh>	i know, but we'll only have a CMS on it, right?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:21:59] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:22:02] <tyche>	Even that takes space, blaaaaahhh
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:22:15] <blaaaaahhh>	how big is the hard drive?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:22:23] <enigmastrat>	do you know rails?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:22:34] 	 * blaaaaahhh learning it for #tol
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:22:53] <enigmastrat>	the blaaaaahhh is coding it for LoCo
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:22:54] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: would you rather see that blank, or another type of outline
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:23:07] <blaaaaahhh>	yay!
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:23:07] <Polygon89>	like a torn page or something
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:23:15] <Polygon89>	something not like straight vertical line like
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:23:21] <Polygon89>	something uneven
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:23:31] <enigmastrat>	like the rest of the border?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:23:34] <johnc4510>	like a fuzz effect?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:23:49] <Polygon89>	im thinking like a torn page you know
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:23:59] <Polygon89>	you tear a page in half and it like has hills and valleys and stuff
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:24:09] <Polygon89>	or something along those lines
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:24:21] <Polygon89>	like
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:24:22] 	 * johnc4510 ok, lets have some discussion on Polygon89 idea please
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:24:23] <Polygon89>	the left side is
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:24:23] <tyche>	It's called a deckled edge
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:24:30] Join	SlickMcRunfast_G has joined this channel (n=mark@ip72-208-244-134.ph.ph.cox.net).
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:24:32] <Polygon89>	except only like
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:24:35] <Polygon89>	more uneven
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:24:37] <johnc4510>	tyche: what do you think?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:25:13] <tyche>	Declked edge wouldn't be bad.  Likewise silhouet of cacti done vertically.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:25:29] <enigmastrat>	where would that be at?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:25:36] <johnc4510>	SlickMcRunfast_G: hi, we're discussing this page for server:http://home.cypheye.com:8000/azloco/
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:25:36] <tyche>	On the right.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:25:55] <tyche>	Also, I think it should be centered more.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:26:22] <enigmastrat>	centered is easy
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:26:27] 	 * johnc4510 centered more, or the part with the text expanded maybe
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:26:27] <tyche>	kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:26:38] <johnc4510>	it could be wider i think
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:26:39] <tyche>	Yea, maybe that, too.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:26:51] <johnc4510>	to give us more space to text in
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:26:54] <enigmastrat>	right now it accomodates down to 800x600
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:22] 	 * johnc4510 well, most folks have bigger monitors than that don't they
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:28] <johnc4510>	in this day and age
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:28] <tyche>	That explains why it only takes up half my screen.  Hee hee
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:29] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:34] <enigmastrat>	average is 1024 I believe
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:34] <Polygon89>	yeah
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:35] <johnc4510>	mine too
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:45] <tyche>	1440
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:48] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: ok, can we expand it to the avg
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:49] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:27:58] <enigmastrat>	I suppose so
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:19] <johnc4510>	i'm at 1600x1050 and it's pretty small on the screen
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:20] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:31] <enigmastrat>	That's what I'm at too
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:35] <enigmastrat>	and I agree
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:36] <tyche>	johnc4510: showoff.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:44] <johnc4510>	tyche: ty
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:44] <enigmastrat>	1680x1050 actually
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:46] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:51] <johnc4510>	right
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:28:59] <enigmastrat>	don't leave out that 80
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:29:02] <johnc4510>	i stand corrected
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:29:06] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:29:08] <enigmastrat>	it'll feel abandoned
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:29:13] <johnc4510>	sure
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:29:15] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:29:16] <johnc4510>	so
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:29:30] <johnc4510>	we're going to expand the page
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:29:31] <johnc4510>	and
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:29:52] <johnc4510>	possibly change the border to something like Polygon89 wanted
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:30:04] <enigmastrat>	k
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:30:10] <johnc4510>	we can at least look at that and see how it works
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:30:12] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:30:26] 	 * johnc4510 loves it, we are making progress here
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:30:27] <johnc4510>	LOL
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:30:45] <tyche>	Yea, I really think so.  :-)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:30:45] 	 * johnc4510 ok, any other discussion on the page
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:31:10] <enigmastrat>	now it's at http://12.159.65.83/~enigmastrat/azloco
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:31:31] <enigmastrat>	I don't think I have access to root, but it's there for whoever does to copy it
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:31:40] <enigmastrat>	*access to the web root
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:31:47] <johnc4510>	ok, then, enigmastrat thanks for the hard work
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:32:00] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat: kk, i'll talk to slofgren about root for you then
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:32:02] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:32:45] <johnc4510>	ok, next
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:33:03] <johnc4510>	ed team
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:33:15] <johnc4510>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Education
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:33:33] <johnc4510>	ok, tyche and i have done some work on the page yesterday
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:33:34] <johnc4510>	and
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:33:48] <johnc4510>	i would like to go over it and get ideas and suggestions
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:33:51] <johnc4510>	first
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:34:21] <Polygon89>	i dont think my computer is powerful enough for screencasts, all the vidoes im taking are really low fps... like 16
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:34:31] <johnc4510>	under the introduction, i added a gutsy guide
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:34:53] <johnc4510>	btw, this team is for education of new and prospective members
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:35:03] <johnc4510>	that guide is very good
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:35:04] <johnc4510>	and
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:35:12] <johnc4510>	i recommend it to all
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:35:16] <tyche>	http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Gutsy
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:35:29] <johnc4510>	i even learn a few things from it now and then
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:35:33] <johnc4510>	so
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:35:40] <tyche>	The guide, as you notice, is off-site.  But done very well
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:36:14] <johnc4510>	the intro section is pretty well done unless you folks have other suggestions
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:36:17] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:37:06] 	 * johnc4510 k, the next section is Ubuntu and we've add the installation link and the upgrade link
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:37:19] <johnc4510>	the upgrade link is in house ubuntu
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:37:26] <johnc4510>	but the install link isn't
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:37:46] <johnc4510>	but it is a good how to on installing i think
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:37:57] <tyche>	One thing I will add.  johnc4510 and I felt that it was better not to try to re-invent the wheel.  We made use of outside resources where they met or exceeded our expectations.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:38:12] <johnc4510>	right
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:38:37] <johnc4510>	there were items that we could save time on by using an outside source
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:38:38] <johnc4510>	if
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:38:43] <johnc4510>	they were worthy
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:38:43] <Polygon89>	ill add something to that ubuntu guide thing.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:38:48] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:39:08] <word>	i'm at 1024x768 :(
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:39:10] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: what did you have in mind?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:39:13] <johnc4510>	word: kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:39:28] <Polygon89>	in the dvd rip section
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:39:38] <Polygon89>	there is a much easier program then dvd rip (and i think faster too) called handbrake
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:39:45] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:39:53] <Polygon89>	and some guy made a gtk gui out of mono so its even easier to use now instead of having to use the cli options
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:40:34] <tyche>	johnc4510: We may need to create an "add-ons" section in somewhere.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:40:48] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:41:10] <tyche>	Handbrake sounds like a good candidate for that.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:41:16] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: and tyche i think anybody is able to edit that guide
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:41:27] <Polygon89>	cool.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:41:31] <tyche>	Oh, now there's a thought.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:41:43] <tyche>	I didn't look at it that closely
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:41:46] <johnc4510>	there is an edit tab at the top
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:42:03] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:42:18] <johnc4510>	now
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:42:45] <johnc4510>	the installing guide is very good because it's in depth and has a lot of screenshot to go with it
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:43:02] <johnc4510>	it makes it a little easier to follow for new folks
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:43:39] <johnc4510>	k, next is the Installing Software guide
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:43:47] <johnc4510>	it's out sourced too
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:44:04] <johnc4510>	it's one that i have used and recommend to folks for a long time now
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:44:11] <Polygon89>	i wonder if they updated the numlock on startup
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:44:24] <johnc4510>	it goes over all the ways to install
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:44:25] <Polygon89>	why gnome hasnt implemented this already by default is unknown to me..
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:44:44] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: i would have to look at that
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:44:59] <Polygon89>	the feisty guide didnt work as the x11 folder got moved
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:45:00] <Polygon89>	lol
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:45:16] <johnc4510>	i have a written guide i follow at set up and numlock is one of the things
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:45:27] <johnc4510>	oh yeah, it did
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:46:17] <johnc4510>	/etc/gdm/Init/Default
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:46:22] <johnc4510>	that's where it is now
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:46:46] <Polygon89>	well before you had to put it in like
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:46:50] <Polygon89>	xorg.conf or something
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:46:56] <johnc4510>	yep
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:46:56] <Polygon89>	somewhere in the x11 folder
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:47:02] <johnc4510>	yep
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:47:13] <johnc4510>	k, any suggestions so far
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:47:15] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:48:10] <Polygon89>	not really
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:48:19] 	 * johnc4510 in the next sub header, accessibility thru Office, we have listed the apps available at install
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:48:31] <johnc4510>	with links to the home pages of each app
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:48:50] <tyche>	As well as short descriptions
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:48:50] <johnc4510>	you can take a look at accessories, and see what i mean
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:48:59] <johnc4510>	right
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:49:22] <johnc4510>	now, it is our plan to add optional apps below, as we go along
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:49:23] <johnc4510>	but
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:49:35] <johnc4510>	we wanted to get the pages going with the basics
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:49:47] <Polygon89>	also tovid can be used to make video dvds and that site doesnt have it
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:50:17] 	 * johnc4510 does anyone have ideas or suggestions on the basic setup or what we've done so far
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:50:22] <johnc4510>	good or bad
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:50:23] <johnc4510>	np
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:50:24] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:51:38] 	 * johnc4510 k, does everyone think a new or prospective member could follow these items and benefit from them?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:52:13] <johnc4510>	kk, then we will continue on in this manner, but
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:52:20] <Polygon89>	:D
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:52:25] <johnc4510>	anyone having suggestions, just let us know
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:52:26] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:52:29] <johnc4510>	now
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:52:47] 	 * johnc4510 we want to implement a mail support idea
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:53:04] <Polygon89>	oh?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:53:18] <tyche>	Basically, to help people to help themselves
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:53:27] <johnc4510>	this would be a central mail address where they could email a question or problem to an we as a team would try to help them via email
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:53:30] <tyche>	Or to find out where to get help that we can't provide.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:53:38] <johnc4510>	right
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:53:49] <johnc4510>	everyone like that idea
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:53:49] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:53:56] <Polygon89>	sure
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:54:07] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:54:22] <johnc4510>	then, we need to figure out how to do that
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:54:27] <johnc4510>	what service to use
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:54:33] <johnc4510>	and how to implement it
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:54:40] <johnc4510>	now
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:54:46] <tyche>	And still retain our individual privacy.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:55:03] <johnc4510>	the idea i had was to have a gmail account set up to forward to the team mailing list
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:55:08] <johnc4510>	but,
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:55:26] <johnc4510>	i am open to ANY suggestions on this thought
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:55:53] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: any ideas any this?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:56:05] <johnc4510>	or a different way to go about it
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:56:27] <Polygon89>	how would we view the messages?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:56:40] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: if we set it up that way
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:01] <johnc4510>	any team member register for the mailing list would get the email
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:03] <johnc4510>	and then
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:09] <johnc4510>	could respond to it
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:16] <Polygon89>	ah
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:23] <Polygon89>	wouldent that remove our privacy then?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:35] <Polygon89>	if any of us cared about it
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:40] <tyche>	No, because the gmail account would be the filter.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:47] <Polygon89>	but when we respond
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:51] <Polygon89>	they would see our address
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:57:52] <johnc4510>	no, no one can send to the mail list unless registered
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:03] <johnc4510>	they might
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:06] <johnc4510>	:(
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:17] <johnc4510>	so, any other ideas then
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:18] <Polygon89>	when we respond to the email, they would see its from our email to the persn
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:21] <Polygon89>	i dont really care
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:25] <tyche>	Yea, that was a side of it that I didn't think about.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:26] <Polygon89>	but we wont have privacy
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:33] <johnc4510>	tyche: me either
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:37] <johnc4510>	that would be bad
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:38] <Polygon89>	gmail does a good job of spam filtering
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:58:40] <Polygon89>	so its fine
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:59:02] <johnc4510>	then maybe we should just have a gmail account?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:59:26] <tyche>	Or a forum set up somewhere.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:59:28] <johnc4510>	but then how do we get the rest of the team involved in helping out
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:59:39] <Polygon89>	the mailing list idea works
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:59:49] <Polygon89>	its just like with all other mailing lists, you wont be able to hide your email
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [21:59:52] <Polygon89>	i dont think its a prob
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:00:31] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: ok, you seem to know about servers, isn't there an app for setting up an email server?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:01:08] <Polygon89>	mailman
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:01:10] <Polygon89>	i believe
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:01:15] <johnc4510>	enigmastrat:  isn't there an app for setting up an email server?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:01:17] <Polygon89>	is pretty much the standard for mailing lists
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:01:21] <johnc4510>	Polygon89: could be
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:01:32] <johnc4510>	lets see what enigmastrat knows about this
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:01:33] <johnc4510>	too
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:01:45] <enigmastrat>	you mean for sending e-mail?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:00] <Polygon89>	mailing lists
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:07] <johnc4510>	for having a mail server so we can have a support email account
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:13] <enigmastrat>	I haven't messed with mailing lists
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:17] <johnc4510>	to help new and prospective members
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:21] <Wolf_45>	For mailing lists, mailman is pretty much the de facto standard
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:21] <johnc4510>	ah kk
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:27] <johnc4510>	Wolf_45: hi
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:35] <johnc4510>	is that a big app
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:43] <johnc4510>	size wise i mean
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:02:51] <johnc4510>	we are limited on space
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:03:35] <Polygon89>	check it in synaptic
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:03:47] <johnc4510>	is this it?:  http://www.gnu.org/software/mailman/index.html
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:04:05] <Polygon89>	most likely
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:04:47] <johnc4510>	40 mb download size
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:04:55] <johnc4510>	probably bigger once unpacked
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:06] <johnc4510>	maybe we could work with that
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:13] <Polygon89>	check synaptic...i dont think it would be THAT big...
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:20] <Polygon89>	its just a mailing list app...cli...
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:24] <johnc4510>	that is the synaptic size
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:25] <Wolf_45>	Latest tarball (2.1.9) is 7829201 bytes, but that's not dependencies
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:29] <johnc4510>	i looked
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:41] <Polygon89>	maybe all the deps add up to be 40
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:42] <Polygon89>	but like
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:50] <Polygon89>	intensive gui programs are not even 40 mb in size
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:54] <Polygon89>	how could that be
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:05:59] <johnc4510>	true
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:06:22] <johnc4510>	kk, i'll talk with slofgren some this wk and see what he thinks too
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:06:34] <johnc4510>	so, can we table this till next wk?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:06:41] <Polygon89>	sure
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:06:50] <tyche>	I think that's a good idea
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:06:53] <johnc4510>	kk, anything else to talk about?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:07:00] <johnc4510>	anyone
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:07:04] <tyche>	Sharing information?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:07:17] <johnc4510>	tyche: expand please
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:07:26] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:07:35] <tyche>	Since we're linking to other sites, we should offer them the information we've developed on our own
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:07:44] <johnc4510>	true
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:07:49] <johnc4510>	like with the lugs
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:07:51] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:08:08] <blaaaaahhh>	is the meeting over?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:08:14] <tyche>	The lugs, the other sites that we linked to.  Basically anyone who needs it.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:08:25] <tyche>	Even other Teams.  Hee he
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:08:35] <johnc4510>	blaaaaahhh: in a sec
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:08:43] <johnc4510>	good idea tyche
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:08:51] <Wolf_45>	johnc4510, mailman requirements are at http://www.gnu.org/software/mailman/requirements.html  :-)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:08:58] <johnc4510>	Wolf_45: ty
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:09:25] 	 * Wolf_45 told you he'd come in handy for "something"!
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:09:41] <tyche>	:-)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:09:47] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:09:50] <johnc4510>	nice
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:09:57] <johnc4510>	ok, anything else?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:02] <blaaaaahhh>	RAILS!
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:06] <blaaaaahhh>	REBIRTHING!
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:19] <johnc4510>	blaaaaahhh: i've got that down to ask slofgren about
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:20] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:24] <enigmastrat>	useless buzzword
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:29] <blaaaaahhh>	And the rebirthing?
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:32] <Polygon89>	lo
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:37] <blaaaaahhh>	ol
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:42] <tyche>	first you have to be born.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:54] <blaaaaahhh>	I was.
[Sun Nov 18 2007] [22:10:55] <johnc4510>	kk, meeting over, and thanks to all, nicely done
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
