{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 02 May - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees
* Troubleshoot a laptop that was unable to boot only to discover that it had a bad SSD card.
* Demonstation of jackit intercepting wifi, keyboard/mouse.
* Discussed a possible future project: how to build a pxe server
* Discussed the Big Blue Button setup
* Discussed azstrut.org and non-profit donations
* 04 May - AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest
* 14 attendees
* 2 installs (both Xubuntu)
* Required preparations for a dual boot with Microsoft Windows 7 were discussed. 
* Distributed Ubuntu stickers, lanyards, and pins as well as information about Free and Open Source Software, AZLOCO, and the local Linux group.
* 05 May - AZLOCO Team Meeting
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2005%2C%202019%20Meeting 
* 09 May - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees (1 new individual)
* Discussed the lessons learned from the 04 May Installfest After Action Report.
* Discussed the reasons why bad install media can result from a good download.  Members were reminded to check the hash of the download and that DVDs should be burned at the lowest possible speed  to ensure a good burn.
* Discussed the possible reasons for Open Office to malfunction in a Microsoft Windows environment.  The member was reminded that Windows does not automatically update applications that you install. 
* Announced the topics for the future free lectures at the University of Arizona South.  Among them are the Dark Web, Bitcoin, Blockchain, and 5G.
* 19 May – AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/May%2019%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 23 May - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 7 attendees
* Troubleshoot bash script to generate many scripts and execute them in parallel
* Demonstration of micro-controller teensy 3.2
* Find differences between two film scripts (text) and optimize writing to db
* Big Blue Button server is up and running
