{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===

{{{ 
[20:56]	kennymc0	wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/SubPageHeader
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddc	+1
[21:00]	Dazed_75	+1
[21:00]	kennymc0	+1
[21:00]	dennisk	+1
[21:00]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:00]	toddc	Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:00]	Siph0n	+1
[21:00]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me
[21:01]	toddc	Here is new news from ubuntu news:
[21:01]	toddc	Music on your Console why leave the console to play music
[21:01]	toddc	http://www.ubuntugeek.com/moc-music-on-console-console-audio-player-for-linuxunix.html
[21:02]	toddc	Ubuntu soon to be running in your car by joining GENIVI and ubuntu IVI REMIX
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.muktware.com/news/18/2011/1187
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Canonical-joins-GENIVI-creates-Ubuntu-IVI-Remix-1242314.html
[21:02]	toddc	Ubuntu Ocelot 11.10 Alpha 1 is out are you ready?
[21:02]	toddc	http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/06/02/oneiric-ocelot-alpha-1-released/?
[21:02]	toddc	The Linux Action Show sunday at 10.am and 8pm pacific time
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.jupiterbroadcasting.com/8211/bryan-smash-google-las-s16e09/
[21:02]	dennisk	You can play music from within Emacs too with EMMS.
[21:02]	toddc	How to Install firefox5
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.johannes-eva.net/how-to-install-firefox-on-ubuntu-linux
[21:03]	toddc	dennis and emacs no suprise!
[21:03]	dennisk	
[21:03]	toddc	How to run Ubuntu on a Motorola ZOOM thanks to XDA Developer
[21:03]	toddc	http://liliputing.com/2011/05/how-to-run-ubuntu-11-04-on-an-android-tablet.html
[21:04]	toddc	Linux User's Ubuntu column #100 with Mark Shuttleworth
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/opinion/linux-users-ubuntu-column-100-with-mark-shuttleworth/
[21:04]	toddc	Fullcircle has a great review on virtual machines for anyone new to virtulizing
[21:04]	toddc	http://dl.fullcirclemagazine.org/issue49_en.pdf
[21:04]	-->|	SlickMcRunFast (~mark@50.30.218.254) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:04]	toddc	Reveiw on a new ubuntu Thinkpad X220 from lenoveo
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2011/may/17/computing-opensource
[21:04]	toddc	How to compile Python on 11.04
[21:04]	toddc	http://lipyrary.blogspot.com/2011/05/how-to-compile-python-on-ubuntu-1104.html
[21:05]	toddc	Team Status is still in question and has not moved to my knowledge I have updated the azloco site a bit and made some progress on the team wiki but it still needs more updating before we can go before the council
[21:05]	dennisk	I'm running 11.04 on a ThinkPad X100e
[21:05]	toddc	I have not been in contact with john4510 for a while but did email him a couple of weeks ago but no reply as of yet
[21:05]	toddc	I also would like some help copying meeting logs to out team wiki and azloco this would be weekly and should only take a few minutes
[21:06]	toddc	HTC Desire Hacked to run Ubuntu natively
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.pcworld.com/article/228975/htc_desire_hd_hacked_to_run_ubuntu_natively.html
[21:06]	toddc	Bj0 built a eyeos server for me as a test platform if anyone would like to play and give me input
[21:06]	toddc	please try it after the meeting at http://tempe.dyndns-at-home.com:8080/eyeos/
[21:06]	toddc	eyeos is a web browser desktop think of it as a light weight cloud desktop pc---android=google
[21:06]	toddc	The BBB server is working well. I recommend everyone try it at http://azlocobbb.banditti.com and pick a log in name. I think we can start talking about holding meetings there and picking a date to switch. Any thoughts?
[21:07]	toddc	C++ Tutorial
[21:07]	toddc	http://www.learncpp.com/
[21:07]	toddc	Asus will preload ubuntu on three Eee models
[21:07]	toddc	http://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/news/2075819/asus-preload-ubuntu-linux-eee-pcs
[21:07]	toddc	UBUNTU TRAINING
[21:07]	toddc	Q and A with Jamie Strandboge the Ubuntu Security Team Manager friday june 10 on IRC classroom
[21:08]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:08]	toddc	Thanks to [R] for the logs, I have been able to recreate most of the lost meeting logs files to enter into
[21:08]	toddc	our team wiki. There are still a few gaps and I have only had time to review the last year
[21:08]	toddc	this needs to be done if we want to keep active status as a Team we will also need to show events like the installfests and keep up your personal wiki's
[21:08]	toddc	PLUG EVENTS
[21:09]	toddc	Linux Security Hackfest 12-3 Sat AT Gangplank see azloco.com calender for more info
[21:09]	toddc	Plug east side metting thur june 9 MCC 1933 W Southern Ave Mesa AZ Kirk Student Center 7-9 Pm
[21:09]	Dazed_75	what if we do not have or want personal wikis
[21:10]	toddc	they are optional but that is part of what ubuntu bases team involment from
[21:10]	toddc	dennisk do you have anything on classes or ???
[21:10]	kennymc0	thought that was just for going for personal ubuntu membership
[21:11]	toddc	ubuntu has changes lately and is trying to have teams more responsible both team and individuasles
[21:12]	kennymc0	ah
[21:12]	kennymc0	hopefully they dont make too many changes where it requires too much more otherwise they might scare some people away
[21:12]	toddc	they also have several new events planning wikis that I have not had time to figure out yet
[21:12]	Dazed_75	Where would we get that kind of ubuntu news?
[21:13]	xHans	there are summer classes at MCC ( CIS238DL, sysadmin, and CIS126DL, intro )
[21:13]	xHans	in addition to usual classes in the fall there will be a MySQL class at MCC
[21:14]	dennisk	Fall classes at MCC start about 8/23 and I have two Intro classes both on Tues/Thurs from 8-12am and 6-9:40pm. Email me off list for details.
[21:16]	toddc	loco team wiki home page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams but the new ones are not here so I need to find again
[21:17]	toddc	http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ events wiki that we need all events listed in
[21:18]	toddc	Thanks xHans and dennisk for keeping us up to date on Plug events and MCC classes
[21:18]	toddc	any other infor or comments?
[21:19]	toddc	http://ubuntu-news.org/calendars/loco/ need our cal linked to here
[21:19]	toddc	http://ubuntu-news.org/calendars/classroom/ link from here to ours
[21:20]	toddc	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
[21:21]	dennisk	Thanks Todd!
[21:21]	toddc	have a great evening dennisk
[21:24]	toddc	Dazed_ 75 I can hear you
[21:24]	toddc	see BBB chat
[21:49]	-->|	scar (scar@lion.anthrochat.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:53]	|<--	Siph0n has left freenode (Remote host closed the connection)
[21:57]	toddc	https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona
[21:57]	|<--	dennisk has left freenode (Ping timeout: 244 seconds)
[21:59]	toddc	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/
[22:04]	|<--	Dazed_75 has left freenode (Quit: Leaving)
[22:06]	|<--	[R] has left freenode (Quit: Leaving)
[22:18]	scott_ev	+1
[22:22]	-->|	dennisk (~dennisk@ip70-162-80-2.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[22:23]	sloggerkhan	+1, read the chat history, anyway.
}}}
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
