{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 28 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-01-28-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/dockter-image-builder-researchers 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/new-dell-xps-13-laptop-with-ubuntu-is-now-available-in-the-us-europe-and-canada-524664.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://dailylinuxuser.com/2018/12/an-everyday-linux-user-review-of-mx-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/linux/ubuntu-core-18-seeks-make-iot-and-embedded-easier 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/01/fxcast-adds-chromecast-support-to.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-core-doubles-down-on-internet-of-things/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-python-ides/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.chris-shaw.com/blog/using-a-custom-domain-with-google-mail-for-free 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/parrot-4-5-ethical-hacking-os-released-with-metasploit-5-0-drops-32-bit-support-524640.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhandbook.com/ping-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-akaunting-on-ubuntu-1804/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/orpie 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/tar-commands-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-disable-firewall-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/nasty-security-bug-found-and-fixed-in-linux-apt/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-and-use-task-manager-system-monitor-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3335200/linux/how-to-monitor-activity-on-your-linux-server.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/httpie-http-client-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/booting-linux-faster 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://app.smoothhiring.com/apply/ITS0015-5AVR?ps=clp#/job 
''LINK:'' https://www.seclore.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/sof/d/phoenix-hiring-intern-programmer-asap/6794653412.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/state-desktop-linux-2019 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/642/east-valley-meeting/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (64)
* MajB (50)
* stephenm (47)
* xHans (22)
* Ron_A (5)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (2)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan 28 04:00:07 2019 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <stephenm> so two operator?

 04:00 <Ron_A> Hi stephenm

 04:00 <stephenm> hi Ron_A

 04:01 <toddc> yes we have a total of 4 op but only 2 here tonight

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <markthomas> toddc who is oper #4?

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 96674.73

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> markthomas: I thought wmack was

 04:01 <MajB> Yes who is the 4th op

 04:02 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News starts out simple with random stuff and then gets technical.  At least my understanding of technical.

 04:03 <stephenm> Dockter: A container image builder for researchers

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/dockter-image-builder-researchers

 04:03 <stephenm> New Dell XPS 13 Laptop with Ubuntu Is Now Available in the US, Europe and Canada

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/new-dell-xps-13-laptop-with-ubuntu-is-now-available-in-the-us-europe-and-canada-524664.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> An Everyday Linux User Review Of MX Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> http://dailylinuxuser.com/2018/12/an-everyday-linux-user-review-of-mx-linux.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Ubuntu Core 18 Seeks to Make IoT and Embedded Easier

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/linux/ubuntu-core-18-seeks-make-iot-and-embedded-easier

 04:04 <stephenm> fx_cast Adds Chromecast Support To Firefox

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/01/fxcast-adds-chromecast-support-to.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Ubuntu Core doubles down on Internet of Things

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/ubuntu-core-doubles-down-on-internet-of-things/

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Best Python IDEs You Can Get in 2019

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-python-ides/

 04:04 <stephenm> Using A Custom Domain With Google Mail For Free

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.chris-shaw.com/blog/using-a-custom-domain-with-google-mail-for-free

 04:04 <stephenm> Parrot 4.5 Ethical Hacking OS Released with Metasploit 5.0, Drops 32-Bit Support

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/parrot-4-5-ethical-hacking-os-released-with-metasploit-5-0-drops-32-bit-support-524640.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Ping Command Explained with Examples

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxhandbook.com/ping-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to install Akaunting on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-akaunting-on-ubuntu-1804/

 04:05 <stephenm> Orpie: A command-line reverse Polish notation calculator

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/orpie

 04:05 <stephenm> 15 Tar Commands You Should Try in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/tar-commands-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Disable Firewall on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-disable-firewall-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:06 <stephenm> Nasty security bug found and fixed in Linux apt

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/nasty-security-bug-found-and-fixed-in-linux-apt/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install and Use GNOME System Monitor and Task Manager in Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-and-use-task-manager-system-monitor-in-ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to monitor activity on your Linux server

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3335200/linux/how-to-monitor-activity-on-your-linux-server.html

 04:06 <stephenm> HTTPie - A Modern HTTP Client Similar to Curl and Wget Commands

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/httpie-http-client-for-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Booting Linux faster

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/booting-linux-faster

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have, back to you toddc

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome MajB

 04:07 <MajB> How is Texas treating you

 04:07 <Ron_A> Good stuff stephenm thanks

 04:08 <MajB> Any news you want to share with us about the great state of Texas

 04:08 <stephenm> Fine, still need to get moving to another job.  My job doesn't pay a lot.

 04:08 <MajB> Did you look at military contracting

 04:09 <stephenm> eh it's the same if you ever been to Texas.  The only other thing is well politics which for most people is a touche topic

 04:09 <toddc> thank markthomas we now have a telegraham bot to tell if a server is offline!!!

 04:09 <MajB> Thanks markthomas

 04:09 <stephenm> I'm not really encouraged with how the military is run now a days

 04:09 <Ron_A> Thanks markthomas

 04:09 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:09 <MajB> :)

 04:10 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:10 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:10 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> 19 February Installfest/Linux Workshop (Campus wide event – no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:11 <MajB> This is rather short notice

 04:11 <MajB> That is all that i have

 04:11 <toddc> pavlos is working a possible alt but no work as of yet

 04:12 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:12 <MajB> I believe that he has already caneled it

 04:12 <xHans> where would that 19 Feb Installfest have been?

 04:12 <MajB> UAT

 04:12 <xHans> on a Tuesday?

 04:12 <toddc> he was checking a new location in tempe some kind of computer gaming room

 04:12 <MajB> No that should have been 16 February

 04:13 <toddc> UAT canneled at last minute for aall school event

 04:13 <MajB> My error.  Doing this on the fly

 04:13 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:13 <xHans> ok, thought you'd started an Installfest in SV or something :)

 04:13 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:13 <toddc> xHans: there are several there also

 04:14 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:14 <toddc> ready?

 04:14 <xHans> hmm, I should pay better attention

 04:14 <MajB> xHans, I tried to get in touch with Brian but the email got kicked back. Could you inform him please

 04:14 <toddc> Q: An electric train is travaling South and the wind is blowing East. Which way is the smoke blowing?

 04:14 <MajB> No smoke

 04:14 <toddc> A: There is no smoke it's an electric train.

 04:14 <toddc> New customer to Tech Support: ???It says, hit any key and when I do that nothing happens'.

 04:15 <toddc> Tech Support: Can you try again and tell me what happens?

 04:15 <toddc> Customer: 'Tried but nothing???

 04:15 <toddc> Tech Support: ???What key did you hit?

 04:15 <toddc> After a moment and some chick ling sound the customer replied: Well, first I tried my car key and just now my office key.

 04:16 <toddc> "My computer isn`t that nervous...it`s just a bit ANSI.

 04:16 <MajB> xHans, we have an installfest this Saturday in SV 2 Feb

 04:16 <toddc> Terminal glare: A look that kills...

 04:16 <toddc> To iterate is human; to recurse, divine. "

 04:16 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:16 <xHans> MajB: awesome

 04:16 <toddc> Canonical has 54 open positions

 04:16 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:17 <toddc> Senior Systems Engineer

 04:17 <toddc> https://app.smoothhiring.com/apply/ITS0015-5AVR?ps=clp#/job

 04:17 <toddc> Onsite Technical Consultant

 04:17 <toddc> https://www.seclore.com/careers/

 04:17 <toddc> Hiring Intern Programmer

 04:17 <toddc> https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/sof/d/phoenix-hiring-intern-programmer-asap/6794653412.html

 04:17 <xHans> MajB: I'll tell Brian

 04:17 <MajB> Thanks

 04:17 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:17 <toddc> The State of Desktop Linux 2019

 04:18 <toddc> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/state-desktop-linux-2019

 04:18 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:18 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB

 04:18 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:19 <MajB> 02 February, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:19 <MajB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:19 <MajB> 02 February, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500,  Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Dr., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install

 04:19 <MajB> media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:19 <MajB> Check it out folks

 04:19 <MajB> 07 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:19 <MajB> 14 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:20 <MajB> 16 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, CANCELED

 04:20 <MajB> 28 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:20 <MajB> That is all that I have for now

 04:21 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:21 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:21 <xHans> PLUG East side meeting is two weeks from Thursday on the 14th

 04:21 <xHans> Brian's talk is "An introduction to the Hugin Panorama Stitcher"

 04:21 <xHans> Phil's talk is "Krita basics, drawing assistants and G'Mic"

 04:21 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/642/east-valley-meeting/

 04:21 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:22 <xHans> Stammtisch three weeks from Tuesday on the 19th

 04:22 <xHans> Stammtisch starts at 19:00

 04:22 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/

 04:22 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:22 <xHans> Security is three weeks from Thursday

 04:22 <xHans> Aaron will cover "Introduction To Assembly Language - Reverse Engineering Software"

 04:22 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/

 04:22 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:22 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:22 <MajB> Thanks xHans

 04:22 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:22 <xHans> aber bitte

 04:23 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:23 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:23 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:23 <MajB> Meeting on 24 February 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:23 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:23 <MajB> Meeting on 01 February 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:24 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:24 <MajB> Meeting on 13 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:24 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:24 <MajB> CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest on 02 February 1100-1500 p.m. Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Dr. Sierra Vista, AZ.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as ins

 04:24 <MajB> tall media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:24 <MajB> Meeting on 23 February 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:24 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:24 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:25 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:25 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:25 <MajB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:25 <MajB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:25 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:25 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:26 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions assuming my computer works

 04:26 <Ron_A> Night all

 04:26 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
