{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===

<pre>
<Dazed_75> +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.+1
<toddc> +1
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<Thugal> +1
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> Ubuntu may change to a monthly release schedule
<toddc> http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/239804/will_ubuntu_linux_switch_to_a_monthly_release_cycle.html
<Siph0n> +1
<toddc> thanks for showing up guys!  :)
<spinrage> my pleasure.
<toddc> Canonical is attempting to get IBM certified mainframe and cloud
<toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/blog/open-source/mainframe-ubuntu-linux/9491
<toddc> Sun-java6 will be removed from all Linux distro's due to license per Oracle so
<toddc> if you need to the official version you will need to visit  http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/index.html
<toddc> guide to automate your simple back up
<toddc> http://howto.cnet.com/8301-11310_39-20091470-285/how-to-back-up-your-linux-computer/
<toddc> Canonical Targets Embedded Devices with Its Ubuntu Core
<Siph0n> toddc, so if we already have it installed, will it somehow be removed?
<toddc> http://www.thevarguy.com/2011/09/01/canonical-targets-embedded-devices-with-its-ubuntu-core/
<toddc> no
<Dazed_75> No
<Siph0n> ok thx
<toddc>  just when installing from what I read
<toddc> 31 Days till 11.10 will be released on October 13
<toddc> Oneiric 11.10 is now our in Beta 1 for testing and seems stable on my test box
<Dazed_75> Basically, Distros will not be able to include or source it
<toddc> should be able to add it from oracle
<xHans> the GPLd version of Java is now the reference implementation
<Dazed_75> Aye
<xHans> but, there are apparently still a couple of issues
<toddc> copy wright issuses
<toddc> welcome xHans
<toddc> Software freedom Day which was to be joint effort between azloco and plug   is canceled due to lack of involvement from the other groups and was too late for us to take over and finalize the plans.
<sirsquishy> will that affect organizations that use ubuntu and java based applications, to complie with GLP?
<Dazed_75> Probably no impact unless apps include new features Oracle could add
<sirsquishy> ok
<toddc> I now have access to set up azloco.com email address so if you would like one please contact me!
<toddc> At toddc@azloco.com
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> SANDIGITAL
<toddc> Earth 911
<toddc> iAcquire is expanding its IT/Development team and is looking for you!
<toddc> you will need to google those! or go go duck if not google :)
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated.
<toddc>  Thugal is looking at to see what needs to be done
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Server installfest is this weekend at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from
<toddc> Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is Sept 24 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from
<toddc> Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<sirsquishy> where at in frys is the install fest?
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> AT UAT across the street
<sirsquishy> ok
<Dazed_75> and west two blocks
<toddc> No classes this week for ubuntu
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> We are planning a 11.10 Release party for the October installfest stay tuned for more info
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS   xHans would you do the honors?
<Dazed_75> BTW, the PXE server has 11.10 Beta 1 available to bot and test
<xHans> toddc: sure
<xHans> there is an in-person ABLEconf mtg a week from Tuesday at Iguana Macks before the Free Software Stammtisch
<xHans> ABLEconf mtg starts at 18:00
<xHans> FS Stammtisch starts at 19:00
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<xHans> those two are cross-group rather than PLUG :)
<xHans> you already covered the Installfests as those are also from the LoCo
<xHans> that's all I have this week
<toddc> we are loco aren't we :)
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<Dazed_75> Nothing here - Sorry
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
