{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> spinrage: you made it!:)
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<spinrage> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<spinrage> signing in on ubuntu 11.10
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<Siph0n> +1
<toddc> News first so if we have any late arrivals and Siph0n  is here too cool
<toddc> Vodafone launches $188 Ubuntu Webbook for developing countries
<toddc> http://www.geek.com/articles/chips/vodafone-launches-188-ubuntu-webbook-for-developing-countries-20111021/
<toddc> Starting with 12.04 LTS support will go from three years to 5 years due to corporate interest in long term support needs
<toddc> Ubuntu was 7 years old as of oct 20 A lot has happened since then
<toddc> seems like yesterday :)
<toddc> Is Open Source Up to Par? Just Ask DOD
<toddc> http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/228403/is_open_source_up_to_par_just_ask_the_dod.html
<toddc> Broken Windows? Ubuntu Linux Saves the Day
<toddc> http://technorati.com/technology/article/broken-windows-ubuntu-linux-saves-the/
<toddc> Ubuntu One Sync App Released for Windows
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/?p=21165
<toddc> Add a ‘Force Quit’ Applet to Ubuntu’s Unity Launcher
<toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/10/force-quit-applet-unity-launcher/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28OMG%21+Ubuntu%21%29
<toddc> We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
<toddc> if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know? Dennisk is arranging one at
<toddc> the xtream bean in Tempe dates and time to follow
<toddc> We now have 11.10 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> Azloco/plug installfest is Oct 29 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from
<toddc> Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208we have a release party
<toddc> for 11.10 at the installfest and word is Lisa will be holding her security hack fest with us for a while
<toddc> so it should be a great event.
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> We are planning a 11.10 Release party for the October 29 installfest
<toddc> that is about all I have tonight any comments?
<Siph0n> none from me.
<toddc> Dazed_75: do you have any other news?
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<xHans> ABLEconf Call for Participation went out last week
<xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/CfP
<toddc> are we still looking for a location?
<xHans> yeah
<toddc> kk will try to check a few
<xHans> danke
<toddc> are all west side events stopped for the time being?
<xHans> finally heard back from UAT, but haven't yet gotten everything confirmed
<xHans> in any case, Friday at UAT will be iffy at best
<xHans> I have no idea what's going on west side
* Dazed_75 has quit (Read error: Operation timed out)
* wipmonkey has quit (Read error: Operation timed out)
* wipmonkey (~wipmonkey@ip68-231-178-229.tc.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> I hate to keep it on the calender if no one will be there
<xHans> the general meetings have left the old location, but I don't know if they've stopped or just not found a new location
<xHans> go ahead and drop them from the calendar until we have it worked out
<toddc> ok will do
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question I will be here a while
<xHans> have a great week

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
