{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by toddc, 08 Apr at 04:01 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-04-08-04.01.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/xfmpc-graphical-gtk-mpd-client/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/photocollage-make-photo-collage-posters/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/durdraw-ascii-unicode-ansi-art-editor/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/fonttools/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-ascii-art-converter/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/webcam/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/minix-z100-aero-mini-pc-with-2-5gbe-1gbe-ports-and-nvme-ssd-support/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/text-manipulation-linux-awk-vs-sed   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/best-practices-and-strategic-insights-dockerizing-your-linux-applications   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxsecurity.com/news/security-trends/prioritizing-memory-safe-programming-languages   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/ffmpeg-7-0-brings-experimental-vvc-decoder-and-iamf-support/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-use-raspberry-pi-to-monitor-network-traffic   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-test-a-package-without-installing-it-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/add-user-to-multiple-groups-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/alternatives-popular-cli-tools-chmod/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/enable-ssh-root-login-on-debian-linux-server   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-enable-ssh-on-ubuntu-for-20-04-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://fosspost.org/fix-boot-grub-problems-ubuntu-linux/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-metasploit-framework-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechmore.com/2024/04/how-to-update-tuxedo-linux-laptop-bios-ec-firmware.html   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/linux-server-maintenance-checklist/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-laptop/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/zorin-os-17-1-makes-it-even-easier-to-run-your-must-have-windows-apps-on-linux/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (52)
* stephenm (47)
* MajB (27)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:01 <toddc> #startmeeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:01:24 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Stardate   -299267.07

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <MajB> Hello stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> evening all

 04:02 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:03 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:03 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:03 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also #National no housework day AND Beer day too (for those that do)

 04:03 <stephenm> +1

 04:04 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:04 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:04 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:04 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <stephenm> News is all over the place tonight

 04:05 <stephenm> xfmpc – graphical GTK+ MPD client

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/xfmpc-graphical-gtk-mpd-client/

 04:05 <stephenm> PhotoCollage – make your own photo collage posters

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/photocollage-make-photo-collage-posters/

 04:05 <stephenm> Durdraw – ASCII, Unicode and ANSI art editor

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/durdraw-ascii-unicode-ansi-art-editor/

 04:05 <stephenm> 5 Best Free and Open Source Linux Font Renderers

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/fonttools/

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Candy: ASCII Art Converter

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-ascii-art-converter/

 04:06 <stephenm> 13 Best Free and Open Source Linux Webcam Tools

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/webcam/

 04:06 <stephenm> MINIX Z100-AERO Mini PC with 2.5GbE+1GbE ports and NVMe SSD Support

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/minix-z100-aero-mini-pc-with-2-5gbe-1gbe-ports-and-nvme-ssd-support/

 04:06 <stephenm> Text Manipulation in Linux: Awk Vs. Sed

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/text-manipulation-linux-awk-vs-sed

 04:06 <stephenm> Best Practices and Strategic Insights to Dockerizing Your Linux Applications

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/best-practices-and-strategic-insights-dockerizing-your-linux-applications

 04:06 <stephenm> The Critical Importance of Prioritizing Memory Safe Programming Languages

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxsecurity.com/news/security-trends/prioritizing-memory-safe-programming-languages

 04:06 <stephenm> FFmpeg 7.0 Brings Experimental VVC Decoder and IAMF Support

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/ffmpeg-7-0-brings-experimental-vvc-decoder-and-iamf-support/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to use Raspberry Pi to monitor network traffic

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-use-raspberry-pi-to-monitor-network-traffic

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Test A Package Without Installing It Using Nix In Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-test-a-package-without-installing-it-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Add A User To Multiple Groups In Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/add-user-to-multiple-groups-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> Alternatives to popular CLI tools: chmod

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/alternatives-popular-cli-tools-chmod/

 04:07 <stephenm> Enabling SSH Root Login on Ubuntu/Debian Linux Servers

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/enable-ssh-root-login-on-debian-linux-server

 04:07 <stephenm> How to enable SSH on Ubuntu (for 20.04, 22.04)

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-enable-ssh-on-ubuntu-for-20-04-22-04/

 04:08 <stephenm> Fix Boot Problems on Ubuntu with “Boot Repair

 04:08 <stephenm> https://fosspost.org/fix-boot-grub-problems-ubuntu-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install Metasploit Framework on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-metasploit-framework-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Update Your TUXEDO Linux Laptop BIOS & EC Firmware

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechmore.com/2024/04/how-to-update-tuxedo-linux-laptop-bios-ec-firmware.html

 04:08 <stephenm> Daily Linux Server Maintenance Tasks

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxstans.com/linux-server-maintenance-checklist/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <toddc> A Priest, a Minister, and a Rabbit walked into a blood bank.

 04:09 <toddc> The rabbit sayz, "I think I'm a type o."

 04:10 <toddc> The year of the linux desktop is next year,every year. Its??? a temporal anomaly

 04:10 <toddc> Most intruders enter through windows.

 04:10 <toddc> Acting classes for the cloud were cancelled,too many showed up. It was overcast.

 04:11 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:11 <toddc> Linux Systems Administrator TEKsystems Remote See ZipRecuiter

 04:11 <toddc> Linux System Engineer Sr. TriWest Healthcare Alliance remote

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 239

 04:11 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:12 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 46 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:12 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:12 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.zdnet.com/article/best-linux-laptop/

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Zorin OS 17.1 makes it even easier to run your must-have Windows apps on Linux

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.zdnet.com/article/zorin-os-17-1-makes-it-even-easier-to-run-your-must-have-windows-apps-on-linux/

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:13 <MajB> 11 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 11 April, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 20 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:13 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 21 April, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:14 <MajB> 25 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:14 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:14 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:15 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 11 April, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 16 April, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly meeting 10 April, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month),

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 23 April, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:15 <MajB> That's all I have

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:16 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:16 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
