{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 16 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-03-16-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.putorius.net/brute-force-attacks-hydra-rsmangler.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/3/documentation 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-4-starter-kit-costs-77-with-4gb-ram/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/diablo-on-linux-levels-up-again-with-a-new-devilutionx-release.16171 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/20/3/recap-recent-article-series 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-wallpaper-changers-for-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/linux-and-open-source-conferences-list-of-whats-canceled-or-going-virtual/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/debian-linux-was-the-most-vulnerable-operating-system-in-the-last-20-years-529387.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-htop-command-linux-system-performance-resource-monitoring-tool/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-the-nvidia-drivers-on-fedora-31 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/bullet-journaling 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/todo-regular-expressions-in-grep/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/exa-modern-alternative-ls 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/install-and-configure-monitorix-monitoring-server-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/3/kubernetes-traefik 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/tails-4-4-anonymous-os-released-with-tor-browser-9-0-6 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/86557.html 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/firefox-75-enters-development-with-revamped-address-bar 
''LINK:'' https://help.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.36/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/kde-plasma-5-18-3-is-out-with-more-flatpak-improvements-over-60-fixes 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/disable-touchpad-while-typing-in-ubuntu-using-syndaemon/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (68)
* stephenm (38)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar 16 04:00:02 2020 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/

 04:00 <MajB> if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your user name and log in.  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> sorry distracted

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> as long as yoou are not driving distracted is ok

 04:01 <stephenm> nope watching movie

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> News goes from general to Linux specific

 04:02 <stephenm> If I cut out at anytime it's because their is a t-storm in my area but I haven't lost power.

 04:02 <stephenm> just a warning

 04:02 <toddc> yet

 04:02 <stephenm> Brute Force Attacks - Pen Testing Using Hydra and RSMangler

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.putorius.net/brute-force-attacks-hydra-rsmangler.html

 04:02 <stephenm> How to write effective documentation for your open source project

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/3/documentation

 04:03 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi 4 starter kit costs $77 with 4GB RAM

 04:03 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-4-starter-kit-costs-77-with-4gb-ram/

 04:03 <stephenm> Diablo on Linux levels up again with a new devilutionX release

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/diablo-on-linux-levels-up-again-with-a-new-devilutionx-release.16171

 04:03 <stephenm> 13 reads to save for later: An open organization roundup

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/20/3/recap-recent-article-series

 04:03 <stephenm> 5 of the Best Wallpaper Changers for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/best-wallpaper-changers-for-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux and open-source conferences: List of what’s canceled or going virtual

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/linux-and-open-source-conferences-list-of-whats-canceled-or-going-virtual/

 04:04 <stephenm> Debian Linux was the most vulnerable operating system in the last 20 years

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/debian-linux-was-the-most-vulnerable-operating-system-in-the-last-20-years-529387.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> HTOP – A Nifty Tool to Monitor Linux System Performance

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-htop-command-linux-system-performance-resource-monitoring-tool/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to install the NVIDIA drivers on Fedora 31

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-the-nvidia-drivers-on-fedora-31

 04:04 <stephenm> Bullet journaling for sysadmins

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/bullet-journaling

 04:05 <stephenm> Regular Expressions in Grep (Regex)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/todo-regular-expressions-in-grep/

 04:05 <stephenm> Sysadmin tools: exa, a modern alternative to ls in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/exa-modern-alternative-ls

 04:05 <stephenm> Install and Configure Monitorix Monitoring Software on Debian 10

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/install-and-configure-monitorix-monitoring-server-on-debian-10/

 04:05 <stephenm> Directing Kubernetes traffic with Traefik

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/3/kubernetes-traefik

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for this week, back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> I have a few more

 04:06 <MajB> Tails 4.4 Anonymous OS Released with Tor Browser 9.0.6

 04:06 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/tails-4-4-anonymous-os-released-with-tor-browser-9-0-6

 04:06 <MajB> How to Run the Linux KDE Desktop on a Chromebook

 04:06 <MajB> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/86557.html

 04:06 <MajB> Firefox 75 Enters Development with Revamped Address Bar

 04:06 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/firefox-75-enters-development-with-revamped-address-bar

 04:07 <MajB> Introducing GNOME 3.36: “Gresik”

 04:07 <MajB> https://help.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.36/

 04:07 <MajB> KDE Plasma 5.18.3 Is Out with More Flatpak Improvements, over 60 Fixes

 04:07 <MajB> https://9to5linux.com/kde-plasma-5-18-3-is-out-with-more-flatpak-improvements-over-60-fixes

 04:07 <MajB> How To Disable Touchpad While Typing In Ubuntu Using Syndaemon Program

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.ostechnix.com/disable-touchpad-while-typing-in-ubuntu-using-syndaemon/

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> 26 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 72 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 128 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 25 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar

 04:10 <MajB> 21 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, will be conducted via Big Blue Button,  https://bbb.azloco.net/

 04:10 <MajB> 02 April,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 04 April, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as insta

 04:11 <MajB> ll media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:11 <MajB> 04 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bri

 04:11 <MajB> ng your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 09 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 18 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Br

 04:12 <MajB> ing your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FLOX_Advocate would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Plug events for the remainder of March have been canceled

 04:13 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 22 March 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <MajB> 

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 03 April 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave & Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 08 April 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> 04 April, CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest, 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as insta

 04:15 <MajB> ll media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 28 April 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> All AZLOCO and LUG events are subject to change and/or cancellation.  Please check the calendar

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:16 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
