{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 10 Aug at 04:01 &mdash; 04:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2015/ubuntu-us-az.2015-08-10-04.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeamhttps://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/fedora-23-alpha-approved-for-august-11-the-final-version-arrives-on-october-27-488805.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/bq-ubuntu-phones-now-available-in-the-us-488795.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/unity-8-looking-like-a-proper-linux-desktop-gallery-488661.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/843903-how-to-make-your-linux-server-more-secure 
''LINK:'' http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=osx-fedora21-vivid&num=1 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2015/08/more-surprises-for-windows-10-users/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/microsoft-open-sources-its-ios-toolkit-for-building-windows-10-apps/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/red-hat-enterprise-linux-openstack-platform-7-arrives/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/security/black-hat-researchers-hacked-rifles-for-fun.html 
''LINK:'' http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/mozilla-firefox-39-0-3-hotfix-out-now-to-patch-a-critical-issue-in-the-built-in-pdf-viewer-488706.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-14-04-3-lts-trusty-tahr-is-now-available-for-download-here-s-what-s-new-488702.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.computerworld.com/article/2960701/linux/for-linux-supercomputers-r-us.html 
''LINK:'' http://opensource.com/life/15/8/raspberry-jams-bring-pi-enthusiasts-together 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/2956777/security/sdn-switches-arent-hard-to-compromise-researcher-says.html 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/reasons-why-users-don-t-like-ubuntu-software-center-488541.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://people.gnome.org/~michael/blog/2015-08-05-under-the-hood-5-0.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/debian-samba-server/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/check-your-android-device-for-the-stagefright-vulnerability/#ftag=RSSbaffb68 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/dropbox-google-drive-onedrive-files-man-cloud-attack/#ftag=RSSbaffb68 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-mint-17-2-rafaela-kde-released-with-kde-4-14-2-and-linux-kernel-3-16-488766.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-3-2-70-lts-adds-mips-ppc-x86-and-btrfs-improvements-more-488715.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.tasteofhome.com/recipes/dark-chocolate-bacon-cupcakes 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam and http://www.reddit.com/r/arizona/comments/33tjao/calling_ubuntu_users/
''LINK:'' http://localmotors.recruiting.com/dev-ops-engineer-linux-systems-admin/job/5180998 
''LINK:'' http://integrate.com/company/careers/current-openings 
''LINK:'' http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744# verify dates on http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts http://ubuntuonair.com/ http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (117)
* toddc (9)
* MajB (5)
* wmack (4)
* paul_be (3)
* meetingology (3)
* collie (2)
* wipmonkey (2)
* pirateP (1)
* pavlos (1)
* hobbet1 (1)
* hippyjake (1)
* markthomas (1)
* TuxMann (1)
* stephenm (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:01 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug 10 04:01:11 2015 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:01 <meetingology> 

 04:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Ron_A: all yours

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <hobbet1> +1

 04:01 <collie> +1

 04:01 <paul_be> +1

 04:01 <wipmonkey> +1

 04:01 <pavlos> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Join us on http://bbb.azloco.net if using firefox please ask for help to  add flash support to your systemWelcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1 Star Date 93208.33

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:02 <Ron_A> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <wipmonkey> fu flash.

 04:02 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> evil flash yes

 04:02 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <pirateP> +1

 04:03 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <Ron_A> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:03 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeamhttps://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:03 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:04 <Ron_A> lets start with the news!!

 04:04 <Ron_A> LINUX  NEWS

 04:04 <Ron_A> Fedora 23 Alpha Approved for August 11, Final Version to Arrive on October 27

 04:04 <Ron_A> http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/fedora-23-alpha-approved-for-august-11-the-final-version-arrives-on-october-27-488805.shtml

 04:04 <TuxMann> +1

 04:05 <Ron_A> Bq Ubuntu Phones Now Available for US Customers NO 4G

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/bq-ubuntu-phones-now-available-in-the-us-488795.shtml

 04:05 <Ron_A> Unity 8 Looking like a Proper Linux Desktop - Gallery

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/unity-8-looking-like-a-proper-linux-desktop-gallery-488661.shtml

 04:05 <Ron_A> How To Make Your Linux Server More Secure

 04:06 <Ron_A> http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/843903-how-to-make-your-linux-server-more-secure

 04:06 <Ron_A> OS X 10.10 vs. Ubuntu 15.04 vs. Fedora 21 Tests: Linux Sweeps The Board

 04:06 <Ron_A> http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=osx-fedora21-vivid&num=1

 04:06 <Ron_A> More Surprises for Windows 10 Users

 04:06 <Ron_A> http://fossforce.com/2015/08/more-surprises-for-windows-10-users/

 04:07 <Ron_A> Microsoft open sources its iOS toolkit for building Windows 10 apps

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.zdnet.com/article/microsoft-open-sources-its-ios-toolkit-for-building-windows-10-apps/

 04:07 <Ron_A> Red Hat Enterprise Linux OpenStack Platform 7 arrives

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.zdnet.com/article/red-hat-enterprise-linux-openstack-platform-7-arrives/

 04:07 <Ron_A> Black Hat Researchers Hack Rifle for Fun

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.eweek.com/security/black-hat-researchers-hacked-rifles-for-fun.html

 04:08 <Ron_A> Mozilla Firefox 39.0.3 Hotfix Out Now to Patch a Critical Issue in the Built-in PDF Viewer

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/mozilla-firefox-39-0-3-hotfix-out-now-to-patch-a-critical-issue-in-the-built-in-pdf-viewer-488706.shtml

 04:08 <Ron_A> Ubuntu 14.04.3 LTS (Trusty Tahr) Is Now Available for Download, Here's What's New

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-14-04-3-lts-trusty-tahr-is-now-available-for-download-here-s-what-s-new-488702.shtml

 04:09 <Ron_A> For Linux, Supercomputers R Us

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://www.computerworld.com/article/2960701/linux/for-linux-supercomputers-r-us.html

 04:09 <Ron_A> And for toddc

 04:09 <Ron_A> Raspberry Jams bring Pi enthusiasts together

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://opensource.com/life/15/8/raspberry-jams-bring-pi-enthusiasts-together

 04:09 <Ron_A> SDN switches aren't hard to compromise, researcher says

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://www.networkworld.com/article/2956777/security/sdn-switches-arent-hard-to-compromise-researcher-says.html

 04:10 <Ron_A> Reasons Why Users Don't Like Ubuntu Software Center

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/reasons-why-users-don-t-like-ubuntu-software-center-488541.shtml

 04:10 <Ron_A> LibreOffice 5: The best office suite today won't cost you a dime

 04:10 <Ron_A> http://www.zdnet.com/article/libreoffice-5-the-best-office-suite-today-wont-cost-you-a-dime/

 04:10 <Ron_A> https://people.gnome.org/~michael/blog/2015-08-05-under-the-hood-5-0.html

 04:11 <Ron_A> Samba Server Installation on Debian 8 (Jessie)

 04:11 <Ron_A> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/debian-samba-server/

 04:11 <Ron_A> Check your Android device for the Stagefright vulnerability

 04:11 <Ron_A> http://www.zdnet.com/article/check-your-android-device-for-the-stagefright-vulnerability/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:12 <Ron_A> Attackers can access Dropbox, Google Drive, OneDrive files without a user's password

 04:12 <Ron_A> http://www.zdnet.com/article/dropbox-google-drive-onedrive-files-man-cloud-attack/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:12 <Ron_A> Linux Mint 17.2 "Rafaela" KDE Released with KDE 4.14.2 and Linux Kernel 3.16

 04:12 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-mint-17-2-rafaela-kde-released-with-kde-4-14-2-and-linux-kernel-3-16-488766.shtml

 04:12 <Ron_A> Linux Kernel 3.2.70 LTS Adds MIPS, PPC, x86, and Btrfs Improvements, More

 04:12 <hippyjake> +1

 04:13 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-3-2-70-lts-adds-mips-ppc-x86-and-btrfs-improvements-more-488715.shtml

 04:13 <Ron_A> Dark Chocolate Bacon Cupcakes

 04:13 <Ron_A> http://www.tasteofhome.com/recipes/dark-chocolate-bacon-cupcakes

 04:13 <Ron_A> Please invite me over when they are ready.

 04:13 <Ron_A> TEAM NEWS

 04:14 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:14 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:14 <Ron_A> MajB has updated the new members guide on ubuntu foums AZ page thank him please!

 04:14 <Ron_A> He also reached out to New Mexico and California teams to  see if we help each other and tackle some projects together as a group. Or support user that do not have a local ubuntu loco.

 04:14 <collie> thnx MajB

 04:14 <Ron_A> We are looking for volunteers

 04:15 * wmack thank you MajB!!

 04:15 <Ron_A> California Loco has asked if we can assist with Scale 14 on the ubuntu booth.

 04:15 <Ron_A> AZLOCO Re-validation

 04:15 <Ron_A> It is that Time again to get AzLoCo re-approved as a Team again for another two years. MajB has started the renewal application at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Re-validationApplication2015

 04:15 <Ron_A> We must appear before the loco council on or before September 17 2015 to stay as a approved team Please look over the application and help us get all the details correct and add your testimonial at the

 04:15 <Ron_A> bottom. Once we are ready I will setup a meeting with the loco council. The more members that can attend the online meeting the better the chance we have to get reapproved.

 04:16 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam and http://www.reddit.com/r/arizona/comments/33tjao/calling_ubuntu_users/

 04:16 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  If you are working on a project what better to way to document it and let others know about it.  See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:16 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES

 04:16 <Ron_A> There are lots of Linux users who don't care how the kernel works, but only want to use it. That is a tribute to how good Linux is.

 04:17 <Ron_A> Linus Torvalds

 04:17 <Ron_A> JOB list

 04:17 <Ron_A> Senior Middleware Engineer jwhitesides@smci.com

 04:17 <Ron_A> 32 current canonical Jobs today http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:18 <Ron_A> CyberSponse  Sr. Systems Engineer  Senior Web Developer Software Engineer  http://cybersponse.com/careers

 04:18 <Ron_A> 5 Google Fiber jobs in phoenix AZ  https://www.google.com/about/careers/search#t=sq&q=j&li=10&jl=33.4483771%253A-112.0740373%253APhoenix%252C+AZ%252C+USA%253AUS%253AUnited+States%253A33.69549652570098%253ALOCALITY&

 04:18 <Ron_A> Local Motors Chandler Az Dev Ops Engineer (Linux Systems

 04:18 <Ron_A> http://localmotors.recruiting.com/dev-ops-engineer-linux-systems-admin/job/5180998

 04:18 <Ron_A> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data) http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:19 <Ron_A> Many tech Jobs at Aetna https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGWebHost/searchresults.aspx?SID=^PSb5zRhkS2CV_slp_rhc_GQClJFxLarlidMCKIABKIre3iFSYImwMXOSgCxOMPoMZZMZV2AK

 04:19 <toddc> MajB: has a annoucement at the end of the jobs

 04:19 <Ron_A> Sr. .Net Software Engineer,  Digital Media Buyer

 04:19 <Ron_A> http://integrate.com/company/careers/current-openings

 04:19 <Ron_A> Systems Administrator https://practicemax.applicantpool.com/jobs/37325.html

 04:19 <Ron_A> Systems Administrator Scottsdale https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592

 04:20 <Ron_A> Systems Administrator http://stretchinternet.com/careers/

 04:20 <Ron_A> Thank you to the Linux action show for some cool links

 04:20 <Ron_A> TEAM SERVER NEWS  If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:20 <Ron_A> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:21 <Ron_A> West side Ubuntu Hour

 04:21 <Ron_A> Anyone interested in learning more about open source or Linux is invited to an open workshop!   We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer router or all most any device that can run on linux

 04:21 <Ron_A> (you must bring everything needed to use your computer e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, router, server, etc).

 04:21 <Ron_A> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  is Thursday June 27th. 2014 7 MST , 6PM to 7 PM

 04:21 <Ron_A> Schlotzsky's Cafe 3900 East Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista AZ 85635 Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your computer

 04:22 <Ron_A> see http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:22 <Ron_A> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:22 <Ron_A> Thursday August 20 at 7PM is the 2nd Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:22 <Ron_A> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:22 <Ron_A> West side Ubuntu Hour will be September 2nd at 7pm – 9pm at Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA   http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:23 <Ron_A> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find  out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:23 <Ron_A> Any New Members this week?

 04:23 <Ron_A> Linux Training

 04:23 <MajB> The revalidation meeting with the Ubuntu LoCo Council is scheduled for 18 August 1pm #ubuntu-meeting at freenode.net

 04:24 <Ron_A> http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744# verify dates on http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts http://ubuntuonair.com/ http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:24 <Ron_A> xHans  would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:24 <MajB> Congrats to wipmonkey who is the new Education Team Leader

 04:24 <toddc> +1 Thanks wipmonkey

 04:24 <paul_be> grats wipmonkey

 04:24 * wmack Thank you wipmonkey!!

 04:24 <Ron_A> PLUG EVENTS

 04:24 <Ron_A> Plug East side meeting Thursday August 13, 7pm at 9pm  at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226 Misc presentations and chat about linux and open source projects.

 04:25 <Ron_A> Free Software Stammtisch August 18, 7pm at 10pm Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210 7PM till??

 04:25 <Ron_A> Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux. Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.

 04:25 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:26 <Ron_A> OTHER  LUG EVENTS

 04:26 <Ron_A> Lugy (Prescott users group)

 04:26 <Ron_A> Tue, August 11, 6:30pm – 9:30pm   Hungry Monk 218 W Goodwin St Prescott, AZ 928-237-4759

 04:26 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:27 <paul_be> CLUG is having its first meeting on the 20th

 04:27 <MajB> Organizational Meeting for Cochise Linux User Group 20 Aug 4PM down here in SV

 04:27 <toddc> Great Job Ron_A

 04:27 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:28 * wmack Thanks Ron_A   great job!!!

 04:28 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
