{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

(09:00:04 PM) MajB: #startmeeting
(09:00:04 PM) meetingology: MajB: Error: Can't start another meeting, one is in progress.
(09:00:09 PM) az_fox [~user@ip24-251-120-218.ph.ph.cox.net] entered the room.
(09:00:11 PM) toddc: collie: zentyal 5 does not support pppoe
(09:00:15 PM) MajB: I don't care
(09:00:21 PM) collie: poop
(09:00:32 PM) MajB: Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
(09:00:35 PM) collie: +1
(09:00:36 PM) MajB: +1
(09:00:38 PM) toddc: +1
(09:00:41 PM) az_fox: +1
(09:00:43 PM) pavlos_: +1
(09:00:46 PM) stephenm: MajB stop starting multiple meetings
(09:00:47 PM) stephenm: +1
(09:01:05 PM) MajB: Some of us are at http://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.
(09:01:28 PM) MajB: Star Date 94893.48
(09:01:37 PM) wmack: +1
(09:01:51 PM) MajB: Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/ 
(09:01:51 PM) MajB: IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/
(09:02:10 PM) MajB: Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
(09:02:10 PM) MajB: Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
(09:02:27 PM) MajB: Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/
(09:02:27 PM) MajB: The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
(09:02:49 PM) MajB: The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam
(09:02:49 PM) MajB: The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/  Feel free to sign up now.  We will be posting our meetings and events on their as well as the on the Team Portal and our Team calendar.
(09:03:08 PM) MajB: Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
(09:03:26 PM) MajB: LINUX NEWS:
(09:03:44 PM) MajB: First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm
(09:03:51 PM) stephenm: Tonight's new is starting from general to more linux based
(09:04:08 PM) stephenm: KICKSTARTER SANDALS ARE 3D-PRINTED TO PERFECTLY FIT YOUR FEET
(09:04:08 PM) stephenm: http://www.digitaltrends.com/cool-tech/3d-printed-sandal-kickstarter/
(09:04:21 PM) stephenm: this actually looks pretty awesome
(09:04:31 PM) stephenm: I think it's starting at $70
(09:04:42 PM) stephenm: Spacex targets 100% reusable rocket by end of 2018
(09:04:42 PM) stephenm: http://www.nextbigfuture.com/2017/04/spacex-targets-100-reusable-rocket-by-end-of-2018.html
(09:04:55 PM) stephenm: This new solar-powered device can pull water straight from the desert air
(09:04:56 PM) stephenm: http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2017/04/new-solar-powered-device-can-pull-water-straight-desert-air
(09:05:07 PM) stephenm: A Linux-friendly DAC and headphone amplifier for listening to music
(09:05:08 PM) stephenm: https://opensource.com/article/17/4/fun-new-gadget
(09:05:16 PM) stephenm: The Rise of Wind Power in Texas
(09:05:17 PM) stephenm: https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-rise-of-wind-power-in-texas/
(09:05:26 PM) stephenm: Guide To Finding a Home-Based Linux Job
(09:05:26 PM) stephenm: https://www.linuxcareer.com/guide-to-finding-a-home-based-linux-job
(09:05:38 PM) stephenm: Freedom Doesn?t Have to Be Free: Revenue and Open Source
(09:05:38 PM) stephenm: https://www.fossmint.com/freedom-doesnt-have-to-be-free/
(09:05:50 PM) stephenm: The theater of Linux distributions
(09:05:51 PM) stephenm: http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2017/04/the-theater-of-linux-distributions.html
(09:06:01 PM) stephenm: More Unknown Linux Commands
(09:06:01 PM) stephenm: https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/4/more-unknown-linux-commands
(09:06:06 PM) stephenm: how many can you name
(09:06:15 PM) philipballew [~philip@ubuntu/member/philipballew] entered the room.
(09:06:16 PM) stephenm: Why DevOps and cloud are essential to digital transformation
(09:06:16 PM) stephenm: https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2017/4/why-devops-and-cloud-are-essential-digital-transformation
(09:06:25 PM) stephenm: 12 ways to study a new programming language
(09:06:26 PM) stephenm: https://opensource.com/article/17/4/12-ways-study-new-programming-language
(09:06:37 PM) stephenm: Red Hat Updates OpenShift Container Platform
(09:06:37 PM) stephenm: http://www.serverwatch.com/server-news/red-hat-updates-openshift-container-platform.html
(09:06:47 PM) stephenm: How to Make two Ec2 instances connect each other in AWS.
(09:06:48 PM) stephenm: http://linuxroutes.com/make-two-ec2-instances-connect-aws/
(09:06:58 PM) stephenm: How To Setup Backup Server Using Rsnapshot In Linux
(09:06:58 PM) stephenm: https://www.ostechnix.com/setup-backup-server-using-rsnapshot-linux/
(09:07:07 PM) stephenm: Linux Cloud Servers Explained
(09:07:07 PM) stephenm: https://freedompenguin.com/articles/cloud/linux-cloud-servers-explained/
(09:07:18 PM) stephenm: How to set up MariaDB Master-Slave replication with SSL on Ubuntu Linux
(09:07:18 PM) stephenm: https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-set-up-mariadb-master-slave-replication-with-ssl-on-ubuntu-linux/
(09:07:28 PM) stephenm: How to Install and Set Up Rocket Chat, a Self-Hosted Alternative to Slack
(09:07:28 PM) stephenm: https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-set-up-rocket-chat/
(09:07:41 PM) stephenm: That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you MajB
(09:07:43 PM) MajB: Thank you stephenm
(09:07:53 PM) toddc: thank you stephenm
(09:08:05 PM) wmack: thank you stephenm
(09:08:11 PM) stephenm: welcome
(09:08:11 PM) MajB: For those of you that do not already know Ubuntu 17.04 was released last week.
(09:08:29 PM) MajB: TEAM NEWS:
(09:08:53 PM) MajB: The Team Meet-up Account is up and running.  If you are a social media type of person feel free to sign up.  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/
(09:09:09 PM) MajB: Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects
(09:09:09 PM) MajB: If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.
(09:09:25 PM) MajB: We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.
(09:09:42 PM) MajB: LINUX QUOTES AND JOKES:
(09:10:03 PM) MajB: If at first you don’t succeed at installing your OS, try, try again.
(09:10:23 PM) MajB: If it keeps failing on you, ask yourself why you bought that Microsoft product.
(09:10:39 PM) MajB: Microsoft’s logo is its name, in a boring, squarish font. Open Source OSs have cute, curvy, friendly logos.  Which would you rather spend time with?
(09:10:58 PM) MajB: Digital Genesis: In the Beginning, Man created closed Operating Systems, and it was Good, but it came at a terrible price. Later, He created Open Source, and it was Better, plus it was free.
(09:11:20 PM) MajB: To err is human... to really foul up requires the root password.
(09:11:36 PM) MajB: JOB LIST:
(09:11:58 PM) MajB: Web Design and Development Intern - Phoenix
(09:11:58 PM) MajB: https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/web-design-and-development-intern-bKH59A6wSr5OxndG1ZS6tF
(09:12:16 PM) MajB: Software Engineer – Phoenix
(09:12:16 PM) MajB: https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/software-engineer-platform-bbRs0gJimr5y1feMg-44q7
(09:12:38 PM) MajB: Software Engineering Intern - Phoenix
(09:12:38 PM) MajB: https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/software-engineering-intern-clR998ICqr5P2BeMg-44q7
(09:12:57 PM) MajB: Cruise Automation (scottsdale based) IT working with self driving car testing
(09:12:57 PM) MajB: https://jobs.lever.co/cruise/16a42ced-e3f4-49d2-a9b9-7c3b6c8282e5
(09:13:16 PM) MajB: Server Brake Fix Engineer -Tempe
(09:13:16 PM) MajB: http://www.nextstepsystems.com/jobs/sw-tempe-az-jobs-server-break-fix-days.html
(09:13:35 PM) MajB: Software Developer – Tempe
(09:13:35 PM) MajB: https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper
(09:13:53 PM) MajB: There are no canonical Jobs today
(09:14:13 PM) MajB: http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies
(09:14:35 PM) MajB: There are 126 new and a total of 243 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix
(09:14:35 PM) MajB: http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html
(09:14:53 PM) MajB: There are 21 new and a total of 58 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ
(09:14:53 PM) MajB: http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ
(09:15:08 PM) MajB: TEAM SERVER NEWS:
(09:15:34 PM) MajB: If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team administrator.  New Own Cloud accounts are still temporarily on hold.
(09:15:52 PM) MajB: UP COMING TEAM EVENTS: 
(09:16:09 PM) MajB: AZLOCO Events and Activities: 
(09:16:09 PM) MajB: Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28 
(09:16:26 PM) MajB: 27 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires. 
(09:16:45 PM) MajB: 27 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users. 
(09:17:03 PM) MajB: 04 May, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users. 
(09:17:19 PM) MajB: 06 May, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.
(09:17:52 PM) philipballew left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 260 seconds).
(09:18:06 PM) MajB: 20 May, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.
(09:18:35 PM) MajB: PLUGAZ NEWS & EVENTS:
(09:18:49 PM) MajB: xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?
(09:19:00 PM) xHans: si, gracias
(09:19:08 PM) xHans: PLUG's new security class had a great turnout again last week
(09:19:16 PM) xHans: 60 people and a very full room
(09:19:22 PM) xHans: next security meeting is May 9th @ 19:00
(09:19:29 PM) xHans: https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security/
(09:20:12 PM) xHans: next month's PLUG east side meeting will be a CryptoParty
(09:20:19 PM) xHans: we will help people secure their computers and phones
(09:20:27 PM) xHans: jobs networking before Stammtisch this month @ 18:00 on Tuesday
(09:20:34 PM) xHans: we encourage engineers from groups that are hiring and hiring managers to attend. The goal is for prospective candidates to learn about the company and the actual job and for the team to have a chance to meet prospective candidates.
(09:20:42 PM) xHans: https://plus.google.com/events/c52ev775q9mb5tbkje8rublrc1s
(09:20:47 PM) xHans: The Free Software Stammtisch is Tuesday @ 19:00
(09:20:53 PM) xHans: http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
(09:20:58 PM) xHans: https://plus.google.com/events/c1bnor98jm19uei5jan6pvcmk4g
(09:21:04 PM) xHans: Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!
(09:21:15 PM) MajB: nada
(09:21:34 PM) MajB: OTHER AZ LUG ACTIVITIES: 
(09:21:34 PM) MajB: Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225. 
(09:22:17 PM) MajB: Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 22 April, Sierra Vista public library conference room 
(09:22:17 PM) MajB: 1:00-3:45 pm, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/
(09:22:17 PM) MajB: Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 23 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
(09:22:17 PM) MajB: Tucson Linux Meet-up meeting on 02 May 7-8 pm. Cartel Coffee Lab,   2502 North Campbell Ave, Tucson, https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 
(09:22:42 PM) MajB: Phoenix2600 meeting on 05 May 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org 
(09:22:42 PM) MajB: Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 09 May 6:30-9:30 pm. Location TBS See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest information on Location.
(09:23:07 PM) MajB: Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 10 May 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/
(09:23:07 PM) MajB: Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 10 May 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm
(09:23:33 PM) MajB: FUTURE EVENTS:
(09:23:50 PM) MajB: AZLOCO  and the Cochise Linux User Group (CLUG) will be co-sponsoring an information booth at the 12th annual West End Fair on Fry Blvd between Garden and 7th Street in Sierra Vista on 6 May 2017 from 10-5 pm.
(09:24:23 PM) MajB: The will be a Splunk Live conference at the JW Marriott Scottsdale Cambelback Inn Resort and Spa
(09:24:23 PM) MajB: 5402 East Lincoln Drive, Scottsdale, AZ on 25 May 2017 from 9-4:30pm.  http://live.splunk.com/scottsdale
(09:24:53 PM) MajB: Any thoughts on other events or projects???
(09:25:18 PM) MajB: That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?
(09:25:38 PM) MajB: Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions
(09:25:46 PM) toddc: great job MajB !!!!
(09:25:56 PM) MajB: #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
