{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 16 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:27 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-10-16-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/10/week-open-source-news-openmessaging-project-launches-hyperledger-offers-mooc-more 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/10/top-10-open-source-linux-robots 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/10/6-reasons-choose-open-source-software 
''LINK:'' https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2017/10/changes_in_pass.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.nextplatform.com/2017/10/11/intel-takes-first-steps-universal-quantum-computing/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.datamation.com/open-source/why-linux-works.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/rtv-reddit-terminal-viewer-a-simple-terminal-viewer-for-reddit/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.infoworld.com/article/3230462/security/what-is-grafeas-better-auditing-for-containers.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/testing-important-distributed-software/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-and-configure-openlitespeed-with-php-71-on-ubuntu-1604/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/olimex-ships-open-source-linux-laptop-and-tips-new-com-format/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/10/nixos-linux-lets-you-configure-your-os-installing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/basics-consuming-rest-apis/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/10/working-dbas-devops-world 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/pfsense-2-4-bsd-operating-system-debuts-with-new-installer-drops-32-bit-images-518033.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/security-oriented-openbsd-6-2-os-released-with-better-arm-support-improvements-517978.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/watch-sling-tv-with-firefox-on-linux 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/purism-linux-smartphone-makes-its-1-5-million-crowdfunding-goal/ 
''LINK:'' https://kerneltalks.com/tips-tricks/how-to-test-internet-speed-in-linux-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.datamation.com/open-source/linux-mint-inside-the-top-linux-distro.html 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/switch-xorg-wayland/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/kde-celebrates-21st-anniversary-with-new-updates-of-kde-applications-frameworks-518046.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-17-10-artful-aardvark-is-now-in-final-freeze-launches-october-19-518024.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/whats-new-going-to-be-in-fedora-27 
''LINK:'' https://community.ubuntu.com/c/desktop 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#JobsNights 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#east_side 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://my.fsf.org/lp-call-for-sessions 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (100)
* stephenm (35)
* xHans (18)
* meetingology (3)
* eleison23 (3)
* wmack (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 16 04:00:02 2017 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <eleison23> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:03 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> The news is simple to being more advanced

 04:03 <stephenm> This Week in Open Source News: OpenMessaging Project Launches, Hyperledger Offers MOOC & More

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/10/week-open-source-news-openmessaging-project-launches-hyperledger-offers-mooc-more

 04:03 <stephenm> Top 10 Open Source Linux Robots

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/10/top-10-open-source-linux-robots

 04:04 <stephenm> 6 reasons open source is good for business

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/10/6-reasons-choose-open-source-software

 04:04 <stephenm> Changes in Password Best Practices

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2017/10/changes_in_pass.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Intel Takes First Steps To Universal Quantum Computing

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.nextplatform.com/2017/10/11/intel-takes-first-steps-universal-quantum-computing/

 04:04 <stephenm> Why Linux Works

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.datamation.com/open-source/why-linux-works.html

 04:05 <stephenm> RTV (Reddit Terminal Viewer) – A Simple Terminal Viewer For Reddit

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/rtv-reddit-terminal-viewer-a-simple-terminal-viewer-for-reddit/

 04:05 <stephenm> What is Grafeas? Better auditing for containers

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.infoworld.com/article/3230462/security/what-is-grafeas-better-auditing-for-containers.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Why Testing Is Important for Distributed Software

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/testing-important-distributed-software/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install OpenLiteSpeed HTTP Server with PHP 7.1 on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-and-configure-openlitespeed-with-php-71-on-ubuntu-1604/

 04:05 <stephenm> Olimex ships $284 open source Linux laptop kit

 04:05 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/olimex-ships-open-source-linux-laptop-and-tips-new-com-format/

 04:06 <stephenm> NixOS Linux Lets You Configure Your OS Before Installing

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/10/nixos-linux-lets-you-configure-your-os-installing

 04:06 <stephenm> The Basics of Consuming REST APIs

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/basics-consuming-rest-apis/

 04:06 <stephenm> 6 ways to work with database admins in the DevOps world

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/10/working-dbas-devops-world

 04:06 <stephenm> pfSense 2.4 BSD Operating System Debuts with New Installer, Drops 32-Bit Images

 04:06 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/pfsense-2-4-bsd-operating-system-debuts-with-new-installer-drops-32-bit-images-518033.shtml

 04:07 <stephenm> Security-Oriented OpenBSD 6.2 OS Released with Better ARM Support, Improvements

 04:07 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/security-oriented-openbsd-6-2-os-released-with-better-arm-support-improvements-517978.shtml

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have tonight, back to you MajB.  Night AZ I'm out.

 04:07 <MajB> I have a few more news items

 04:08 <MajB> Watch Sling TV With Firefox On Linux

 04:08 <MajB> https://linuxconfig.org/watch-sling-tv-with-firefox-on-linux

 04:08 <MajB> Examining network connections on Linux systems https://www.networkworld.com/article/3230519/linux/examining-network-connections-on-linux-systems.html

 04:08 <MajB> Purism Linux smartphone makes its $1.5 million crowdfunding goal

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.zdnet.com/article/purism-linux-smartphone-makes-its-1-5-million-crowdfunding-goal/

 04:08 <MajB> How to test internet speed in Linux terminal

 04:08 <MajB> https://kerneltalks.com/tips-tricks/how-to-test-internet-speed-in-linux-terminal/

 04:09 <MajB> Linux Mint: Inside the Top Linux Distro

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.datamation.com/open-source/linux-mint-inside-the-top-linux-distro.html

 04:09 <MajB> How to Switch to Xorg from Wayland in Ubuntu 17.10 [Quick Tip]

 04:09 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/switch-xorg-wayland/

 04:09 <MajB> KDE Celebrates 21st Anniversary with New Updates of KDE Applications, Frameworks

 04:09 <MajB> http://news.softpedia.com/news/kde-celebrates-21st-anniversary-with-new-updates-of-kde-applications-frameworks-518046.shtml

 04:10 <MajB> Ubuntu 17.10 (Artful Aardvark) Is Now in Final Freeze, Launches October 19

 04:10 <MajB> http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-17-10-artful-aardvark-is-now-in-final-freeze-launches-october-19-518024.shtml

 04:10 <MajB> What's New Going To Be In Fedora 27

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/whats-new-going-to-be-in-fedora-27

 04:10 <MajB> Ubuntu Community Hub, a site for co-ordination of the Ubuntu project

 04:10 <MajB> https://community.ubuntu.com/c/desktop

 04:11 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:11 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:11 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:11 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:12 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:12 <MajB> There are 31 open canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <MajB> Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:12 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:12 <MajB> There are 90 new and a total of 178 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:12 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:13 <MajB> There are 15 new and a total of 46 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:13 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 21 October,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:14 <MajB> 26 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 26 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 28 October, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Arizona South Learning Resource Center, 1140 N. Colombo Ave. Sierra Vista.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisti

 04:15 <MajB> 02 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 04 November,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, Mesa Center for Higher Education, 245 W. 2nd Street, Mesa .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:16 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:16 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:16 <xHans> oui,  merci

 04:17 <xHans> There is a jobs networking event before Stammtisch on Tuesday, start at 18:00

 04:17 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#JobsNights

 04:18 <xHans> Stammtisch is this Tuesday starting at 19:00

 04:18 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#east_side

 04:18 <xHans> Both are at Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ 85204

 04:18 <xHans> DevOpsDays is Tuesday, October 24th

 04:18 <xHans> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/

 04:19 <xHans> There is a PLUG discount for 10% off, use code "dodmeetup"

 04:19 <xHans> The SCaLE cfp is open

 04:19 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:19 <xHans> SCaLE will be Thur - Sun, March 8th to 11th next year in Pasadena

 04:19 <xHans> The LibrePlanet cfp is open

 04:19 <xHans> https://my.fsf.org/lp-call-for-sessions

 04:19 <xHans> If you would like help submitting a talk to either, I will gladly help

 04:19 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:20 <MajB> Thanks xHans

 04:20 <xHans> DevOps Days is at Galvanize Phoenix, 515 E Grant St, Phoenix, AZ 85004

 04:20 <xHans> bitte

 04:20 <MajB> other AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Linux Meet-up meeting on 17 October 7-8 pm. Location TBA, Tucson.

 04:21 <MajB> https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 28 October 10-4 pm.  Learning Resource Center University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 03 November 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 08 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 08 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 09 November 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:22 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:22 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 14 November 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:22 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.

 04:22 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 19 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:23 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS: conferences

 04:23 <MajB> 24 October 2017

 04:23 <MajB> DevOpsDays Phoenix

 04:23 <MajB> 515 E Grant St,

 04:23 <MajB> Phoenix, AZ 85004

 04:23 <MajB> https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2017-phoenix/

 04:23 <MajB> 09 November 2017

 04:23 <MajB> 3rd Annual Cyber Southwest (CSW) symposium

 04:23 <MajB> Radisson Suites Hotel - Catalina Ballroom

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson, AZ

 04:23 <MajB> https://www.fbcconferences.com/e/CyberSouthwest/

 04:24 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018

 04:24 <MajB> ScaLE

 04:24 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:24 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:24 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:24 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:25 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:25 <eleison23> I have a joke

 04:25 <MajB> Yes.  Let us hear it.

 04:25 <eleison23> "Failure is not an option – it comes bundled with Windows."

 04:26 <MajB> No comments from the Team Leader?

 04:27 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:27 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
