{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<TuxMann> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Star Date 91580.3
<toddc> +1
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<markthomas> +1
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc> lets start with the news!!
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/12/14/steamos-beta-1-0-is-released/
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/gaming/2013/12/everything-you-need-to-know-to-install-steamos-on-your-very-own-computer
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/12/hands-on-steamos-beta
<Dazed_75> http://venturebeat.com/2013/12/13/google-app-ops/
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/12/13/eff_google_for_pulling_android_app_permissions_filter/
<Dazed_75> http://www.raspberrypi.org/archives/5471 Jack the (DVD) Ripper
<Dazed_75> https://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/752708-linux-commands-for-troubleshooting-linux-graphical-apps-for-beginners  Well -- sort of for beginners who want more
<Dazed_75> Response from Synaptics regarding Linux drivers
<Dazed_75>     http://keithcu.com/wordpress/?p=3420
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-flacon-0-9-3-on-ubuntu-13-1013-0412-1012-04-linux-mint-16151413-pear-os-87-and-elementary-os-0-2/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/177790/why-you-cant-use-cpu-clock-speed-to-compare-computer-performance/
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/12/16/dell_red_hat_openstack_team/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2013/12/access-twitter-command-line-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/12/14/grub-customizer-4-released-install-it-on-ubuntu-13-10-and-linux-mint-16/
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/12/16/munich_signs_off_on_open_source_project/
<Dazed_75> TCP wrappers and which services can be secured with them (an advanced topic)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.nextstep4it.com/magazines/nseditions/2013/Nov13_Edition/linux.php
<Dazed_75> Debian 7.3 released http://www.debian.org/News/2013/20131214
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/GNOME-s-File-Manager-Will-Be-More-User-Friendly-409360.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.tecmint.com/chaining-operators-in-linux-with-practical-examples/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/12/new-ubuntu-one-app-mobile
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Ubuntus-Lonely-Road-79637.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxpromagazine.com/Online/Blogs/Productivity-Sauce/Build-Your-Own-Portable-Linux-Distro-with-Porteus
<Dazed_75> http://ask.xmodulo.com/disable-guest-login-ubuntu-desktop.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/173108-researchers-crack-the-worlds-toughest-encryption-by-listening-to-the-tiny-sounds-made-by-your-computers-cpu
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/google-joins-open-invention-network-patent-commons-as-a-full-member-7000024434/
<Dazed_75> http://opensource.com/life/13/12/news-2014-openshot-video-editor
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/12/fedora-20-available-for-download.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.itwire.com/business-it-news/open-source/62692-fedora-20-upgrade-broken
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxfederation.com/things-to-do-after-installing-fedora-20/
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/ferocious-fedora-20-review-cutting-edge-linux-still-as-sharp-as-ever-7000024537/
<Dazed_75> Very clear and simple explanation of controlling high cpu usage programs
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/control-process-cpu-usage-linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/disable-window-effects-in-ubuntu-13-04/ (not for 12.04)
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/regular-expressions-cheat-sheet/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/how-bittorrent-dht-peer-discovery-works/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/177904/androids-permissions-system-is-broken-and-google-just-made-it-worse/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/177915/how-to-restore-access-to-app-ops-in-android-4.4.2/
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/software/396210/install-indicator-lock-keys-utility-ubuntu-1310
<Dazed_75> Mint 16 backports available as an option in Mint 13 LTS
<Dazed_75>     http://blog.linuxmint.com/?p=2524
* TuxMann has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/non-linux-foss-lets-make-music-together
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/software/396195/install-tomboy-notes-indicator-ubuntu-1310-or-linux-mint-16
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.com/news/enterprise/cloud-computing/751156-are-cloud-operating-systems-the-next-big-thing (definitely an advanced user topic)
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/12/one-charger-to-power-nearly-every-laptop-coming-from-standards-group/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/manage-multiple-ssh-connections-with-pac-manager/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Kazam-Screen-Recording-Do-Try-This-at-Home-79657.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/177947/8-things-the-alpha-release-tells-us-about-steamoss-linux-system/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/New-SteamOS-Build-Updates-the-Intel-Graphics-Stack-411556.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.microlinux.fr/mled_xfce.php slackware based micro linux works on older systems
<Dazed_75> kdenlive's future has been revived
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTU0ODk
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/open-source/396459/will-ubuntu-dominate-tablets-2014
<Dazed_75> http://www.eweek.com/mobile/ubuntu-linux-edge-desktop-and-the-wearable-computing-future.html
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/how-to-install-enlightenment-e18-on-ubuntu-13-1013-0412-1012-04-and-linux-mint-16151413/
<Dazed_75> and thats it from AJ - Hope everyone saw something interesting
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 lots of good information in there!
<toddc> I have a few more to add
<toddc> The Ultimate Guide to Open Source Software
<toddc> http://www.datamation.com/applications/the-ultimate-guide-to-open-source-software-1.html
<toddc> Ye Olde SteamOSe steam OS the alternate way!!
<toddc> http://directhex.github.io/steamos-installer/?r2
<toddc> Ubuntu to include torrent search in Dash search
<toddc> http://www.muktware.com/2013/12/ubuntu-include-torrent-search-dash-search/17209
<toddc> JOB list
<toddc> Splunk Consultant traveling up to 80% IT operations and
<toddc> Vmware background.
<toddc> lori.eddlemon@effect-tech.com
<toddc> Careers Working at Canonical
<toddc> http://www.canonical.com/about-canonical/careers
<toddc> Sr. Software Engineer - Big Data, NoSQL, Hadoop
<toddc> lori.eddlemon@effect-tech.com
<toddc> Sr HTML5/Javascript/CSS Engineer
<toddc> lori.eddlemon@effect-tech.com
<toddc> Runs LINUX
<toddc> DARPA Robotics Challenge
<toddc> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V5buFbuvWbk&feature=youtu.be&t=1m45s
<toddc> Linux App of the week
<toddc> Musique a newer music player
<toddc> http://flavio.tordini.org/musique
<toddc> NEW MEMBERS THIS WEEK
<toddc> markthomas say hi to him if you see him around he is here
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST
<markthomas> whoot!
<toddc> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday January 4 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddc> markthomas: nice to have you here!!
<toddc> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> Thanks to adrenaline Archfan89 markthomas and [R] and Dazed-75 for all the help
<toddc> NORTH INSTALL-FEST
<Dazed_75> Hiya markthomas
<toddc> Is on hold for a new date that works for the college expect them to resume the later part of January
<toddc> Paradise Valley Community College 18401 North 32nd Street, Phoenix, AZ 85032, USA
<markthomas> hi Dazed_75
<toddc> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday December 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com should be a lot of new toys to show off!
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Wednesday January 1st  7pm – 9pm
<toddc> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
<toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<toddc> There were 6+1 new people at December's event this has started out as a great event.
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> We got a lot of work done on the new proxmox team server at the installfest but we did not have time to test  uefi dual boot testing
<markthomas> query: what time is the Tempe Ububtu hour on 12/26?
<toddc> 7PM
<markthomas> thx.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> ubuntu on-air
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddc> Jono Bacon Q&A every Wednesday 12:00 Noon
<toddc> I would doubt that there will be a class on dec 25 but it is on the schedle
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news?
<xHans> sure, danke
<xHans> next PLUG east side meeting is two weeks from Thursday: 2014Jan09
<xHans> topic: browser security - How to know if you're visiting a secure site
<xHans> topic: MongoDB
<xHans> hopefully we'll also have a graphics presentation from Brian
<xHans> the browser security talk is the first in a new series of desktop security talks
<xHans> dev meetings should start up again in January as well
<xHans> enjoy the holidays. be safe.
<xHans> and  that's it
<toddc> that is all I have, any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<xHans> oh, Brian said SCaLE hotel is booking up, so get a room if you haven't already or ask about room sharing with AzLoCo or PLUG
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
