{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	soldats	growing from the stump at a good rate
[21:00]	cc11rocks	+1
[21:01]	_ericc	+ยน
[21:01]	Siph0n	+1
[21:01]	soldats	+1
[21:01]	Rich__	+1
[21:01]	corburn	+1
[21:01]	soldats	hey Siph0n
[21:01]	toddc	Team web site http://azloco.com/
[21:01]	toddc	Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[21:01]	Siph0n	hey soldats
[21:01]	-->|	spinrage (~pi@ip24-251-242-254.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:01]	toddc	Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
[21:01]	spinrage	+1
[21:01]	toddc	+1
[21:01]	toddc	+2
[21:01]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	toddc	some of us are in azlocobb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
[21:02]	toddc	Anybody here that is new tonight?
[21:02]	toddc	Linux... better than a sports drink... it doesn't make you crash after an hour.
[21:03]	soldats	http://azlocobb.banditti.com for clickable link
[21:03]	cc11rocks	lol, nice
[21:03]	toddc	thanks
[21:03]	toddc	starting the news again
[21:03]	toddc	Linux... better than a sports drink... it doesn't make you crash after an hour.
[21:03]	toddc	UBUNTU NEWS
[21:03]	-->|	dennisk (~dennisk@ip70-190-210-239.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:04]	toddc	Dazed_75 is on vacaton but still managed to do the news for us tonight
[21:04]	cc11rocks	Go Dazed_75
[21:04]	toddc	Qt's Move Gives FOSS the Jitters
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/75881.html
[21:04]	toddc	How to Install Drupal 7 on Ubuntu Server 12.04
[21:04]	toddc	http://ubuntuserverguide.com/2012/08/how-to-install-drupal-7-on-ubuntu-server-12-04.html
[21:05]	toddc	MacPup Linux - How do you like this Apple?
[21:05]	toddc	http://everydaylinuxuser.blogspot.co.uk/2012/08/macpup-linux-how-do-you-like-this-apple.html
[21:05]	dennisk	+1
[21:05]	toddc	hi dennisk
[21:05]	toddc	Unity 6.2 to Fix Some 91 Bugs (due in 12.10)
[21:05]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/08/unity-6-2-arrives-in-quantal
[21:05]	toddc	Fix Dell XPS 13 Backlight Brightness and Trackpad in 12.04 and 12.10
[21:05]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/08/fix-dell-xps-13-backlight-brightness.html
[21:06]	toddc	Ubuntu One Has a New Referrals Program. Lets you Earn up to 20 Extra GB for Free
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.howtogeek.com/121745/ubuntu-one-has-new-referrals-program-lets-you-earn-up-to-20-gb-extra-storage-for-free
[21:06]	toddc	How to Encrypt Cloud Storage on Linux and Windows with EncFS
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.howtogeek.com/121737/how-to-encrypt-cloud-storage-on-linux-and-windows-with-encfs
[21:06]	dennisk	hi all.
[21:06]	toddc	How to Secure SSH with Google's Two-Factor Authentication
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.howtogeek.com/121650/how-to-secure-ssh-with-google-authenticators-two-factor-authentication
[21:06]	toddc	I want to try that
[21:07]	toddc	Linux Essentials for Windows Admins
[21:07]	toddc	http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/Linux-Essentials-for-Windows-Admins-Part-1
[21:07]	toddc	http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/Linux-Essentials-for-Windows-Admins-Part-2
[21:07]	soldats	seems cool
[21:07]	toddc	Turn Raspberry Pi Into An eBook Server with Calibre
[21:07]	toddc	http://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/Blogs/Productivity-Sauce/Turn-Raspberry-Pi-into-an-Ebook-Server-with-Calibre
[21:07]	toddc	To More Ways to Play Your Old DOS Games in Linux
[21:07]	toddc	http://maketecheasier.com/play-old-dos-games-in-linux/2012/08/14
[21:07]	toddc	Preview of Unity's Coming Feature: Previews
[21:07]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/08/say-hello-to-unitys-newest-feature-previews
[21:08]	toddc	Unity 2D Removed from Ubuntu 12.10
[21:08]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/08/unity-2d-removed-from-ubuntu-12-10
[21:08]	toddc	20 Must-Have Ubuntu Showdown Apps
[21:08]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/08/20-must-have-ubuntu-showdown-apps
[21:08]	toddc	Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
[21:08]	_ericcc	thanks dazed!
[21:09]	toddc	I have a couple more to add!
[21:09]	toddc	Y PPA Manager 0.0.9.0 Released With New Package Installation Feature, More
[21:09]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/08/y-ppa-manager-0090-released-with-new.html
[21:09]	toddc	Google warns of using Adobe Reader - particularly on Linux
[21:09]	toddc	http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Google-warns-of-using-Adobe-Reader-particularly-on-Linux-1668153.html
[21:10]	toddc	Courageous sixth-grade teacher built a 70 computer lab for children equipped with Ubuntu (cost 0$)
[21:10]	toddc	http://www.iloveubuntu.net/courageous-sixth-grade-teacher-built-70-computer-lab-children-equipped-ubuntu-cost-0
[21:10]	toddc	TEAM NEWS
[21:10]	toddc	PLEASE NOTE The September 2 Meeting has been canceled due to the Labor Day week- end Enjoy!!
[21:11]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:11]	toddc	Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
[21:11]	toddc	http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
[21:11]	toddc	Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
[21:11]	toddc	jobs@oneneck.com
[21:11]	toddc	System Administrator
[21:11]	toddc	jobs@oneneck.com
[21:12]	toddc	Senior Systems Engineer SecureNet Payment Systems
[21:12]	toddc	Apply Now: http://1da8803b.lyjob9.com/6abc0d98
[21:12]	toddc	Computer Support Specialist (Chandler, AZ)
[21:12]	toddc	emp@mtitechsolutions.com
[21:12]	toddc	Systems Administrator
[21:12]	toddc	http://purdyrecruiting.catsone.com/careers/index.php?m=portal&a=details&jobOrderID=1513196
[21:13]	toddc	UBUNTU HOUR
[21:13]	toddc	Thursday August 23 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extream Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
[21:13]	toddc	http://xtremebeancoffee.com
[21:13]	toddc	TEMPE INSTALLFEST
[21:14]	toddc	PLEASE NOTE We have moved the September 1 installfest to August 25 so that we may have labor day weekend off
[21:15]	toddc	we will need some extra help this week end as we will have a linux class attending and have up to 18 extra students there to observe and have installs done
[21:15]	_ericc	This Saturday?
[21:16]	dennisk	Chris Lewis' class?
[21:16]	toddc	and Dazed_76 will not be available with the pxe so stop by if you can
[21:16]	toddc	yes this Saturday
[21:16]	toddc	We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/ but until we get organized
[21:16]	toddc	I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
[21:16]	toddc	If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
[21:17]	toddc	TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
[21:17]	toddc	we got a lot last Saturday on the proxmox server and hope to have it up soon
[21:18]	toddc	Tagose planning and development meeting on September 8 10am-4 pm 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
[21:18]	toddc	For more info see
[21:18]	toddc	AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
[21:18]	_ericc	Did the site get switched over?
[21:19]	toddc	not yet if we have time to finish it it may get done this Saturday
[21:19]	cc11rocks	Thank you Dazed_75 and toddc
[21:19]	toddc	I do hope to swap the main site this week
[21:19]	soldats	\0/
[21:19]	toddc	xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:19]	_ericc	Awesome
[21:20]	xHans	toddc: only one thing this week
[21:20]	toddc	cool
[21:20]	xHans	watches toddc faint
[21:20]	xHans	Free Software Stammtisch is this Tuesday at Iguana Macks in Chandler
[21:20]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:20]	toddc	yippeeee!!!!!
[21:21]	toddc	plug server emphasis installfest is September 15 10-4PM at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
[21:21]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:22]	xHans	we have topics for September's east side meeting, but I don't know exact details. I believe one is on using GNU/Linux to talk to your car's onboard computer and the other is on making mosaics
[21:22]	_ericcc	I have a quick comment
[21:22]	toddc	I forgot to mention we two new members this week
[21:22]	xHans	I think we actually have topics for a few months already set
[21:22]	toddc	_ericc your question?
[21:23]	toddc	or comment as the case may be
[21:23]	_ericcc	just a comment.
[21:23]	spinrage	I have a quick comment as well. I used my raspberry pi with raspbian & xchat to join the meeting tonight.
[21:24]	corburn	Cool spinrage
[21:24]	toddc	spinrage: cool I have been wanting to try but scared to drop in the middle of a meeting
[21:24]	toddc	_ericc go ahead with your comment
[21:25]	Jabberwalker	spinrage that's awesome. I want to get my hands on one of those.
[21:25]	_ericcc	I think after the server is up and running and the site is all set. Would people be interested in trying to find a night and discuss some different things, how we can reach out, maybe some different "programs" like maybe a monthly " teaching session" Just actually sit down and talk about some ideas for the future, i guess?
[21:25]	_ericcc	sorry, little bit scattered
[21:26]	toddc	np that would be a great idea we could start it here and then create a event if it becomes too large or long
[21:26]	soldats	or an install fest
[21:26]	toddc	could work there also
[21:27]	_ericcc	okay. awesome, but lets wait till you guys clear up some time in your schedule, I know alot of work/time is being put into the server and such
[21:27]	|<--	_ericc has left freenode (Quit: AndroIRC - Android IRC Client ( http://www.androirc.com ))
[21:28]	toddc	the installfests are large enough that we do want to expand to another location but as of yet we do not have the volunteers to add one say on the west side
[21:28]	toddc	or Tucson
[21:28]	toddc	or Flaggstaff
[21:28]	toddc	or lake havasu----------
[21:29]	toddc	don't you hate when android IRC drops
[21:29]	_ericcc	Yeah, and that would be something we could actually figure out. I'd like to help out with one on the west side, but as of now, i'm only a little basic knowledge
[21:29]	_ericcc	(yes...)
[21:30]	toddc	np
[21:30]	toddc	Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
[21:30]	corburn	Does Encfs support keyfiles or passwords only?
[21:30]	toddc	any other comments or Ideas??
[21:30]	soldats	whats the deal withandroind dropping flash? whats the alternative and is it worth it phone wise?
[21:31]	toddc	adobe has said it will stop all deveopment on flash
[21:31]	soldats	only for phone
[21:31]	soldats	?
[21:31]	toddc	all flash is what I read several weeks ago
[21:31]	soldats	ive been AFK for quite a while
[21:31]	xHans	soldats: it's Google daring Apple to sue them for patent infringement on bogus patents
[21:31]	soldats	oh wow
[21:32]	toddc	it was due to html5
[21:32]	soldats	damn thats seems a little rediculous
[21:32]	soldats	seems so. html5 looks real good
[21:32]	toddc	don't worry flash will live on for years evil as it is
[21:32]	soldats	ha
[21:33]	soldats	xHans: HAHA good one!!
[21:33]	soldats	the iphone was SO 15 years ago
[21:34]	toddc	ok I will end the meeting but will be here for while if anyone needs help or has a question
[21:34]	soldats	with no phone though
[21:34]	rudgan	okay have a good evening and a great week all
[21:34]	soldats	thanks toddc and xHans glad you guys are here to keep it up

</pre> block.
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
