{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 04 Sep at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-09-04-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/tui-snake-game/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/dark-themes-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.geeksmint.com/operating-systems-for-the-internet-of-things/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/best-icon-themes-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/awesome-linux-game-tools-noise-suppression/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/gnome-search/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/grump-cli-audio-player-go/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/linux-commands-alternatives/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.xda-developers.com/kali-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/find-linux-desktop-screen-resolution-from-command-line/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-check-and-tune-power-consumption-with-powertop-on-linux   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/source-command-in-linux-with-examples/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/libreoffice-languagetool/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/08/29/search-engines-cybersecurity-research/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/mount-filesystem-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-set-or-modify-path-variable-linux   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/08/30/rfi-open-source-software-security-video/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/exploring-proc-file-system-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-check-system-reboot-history-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/connect-windows-system-from-linux-commandline/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.sofmen.com/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all?   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/Purism-Launches-a-Mini-PC/(tagID)/133   (toddc, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/ubuntudde-remix-23-04-release/   (toddc, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:17)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (65)
* stephenm (47)
* MajB (24)
* meetingology (2)
* nhasian (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:20 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 101186.28

 04:00 <stephenm> there's toddc

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:01 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.  I will allways make bad co0mment

 04:02 <nhasian> +1

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also National Welsh Rarebit Day ( No Idea what that is)

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> 

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <stephenm> News is short but hopefully good information

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Play The Classic Snake Game In Linux Terminal

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/tui-snake-game/

 04:04 <stephenm> 10 Best Dark Themes for Ubuntu Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/dark-themes-ubuntu/

 04:04 <stephenm> 13 Best Operating Systems for the Internet of Things

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.geeksmint.com/operating-systems-for-the-internet-of-things/

 04:04 <stephenm> 20 Best Icon Themes for Ubuntu and Other Linux Distros

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/best-icon-themes-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Best Free and Open-Source Alternatives to Apple Launchpad

 04:05 <stephenm> linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-launchpad/

 04:05 <stephenm> Awesome Linux Game Tools: noise-suppression-for-voice

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/awesome-linux-game-tools-noise-suppression/

 04:05 <stephenm> 7 Things You Never Knew You Could Do in GNOME’s Activity Search

 04:05 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/gnome-search/

 04:05 <stephenm> grump: CLI Audio Player Written in Go

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/grump-cli-audio-player-go/

 04:05 <stephenm> The Best Modern Linux Commands for Beginners and Experts

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/linux-commands-alternatives/

 04:06 <stephenm> What is Kali Linux? Everything to know about the popular Linux distro

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.xda-developers.com/kali-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Find Linux Desktop Screen Resolution From Command Line

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/find-linux-desktop-screen-resolution-from-command-line/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to check and tune power consumption with Powertop on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-check-and-tune-power-consumption-with-powertop-on-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Use the source Command in Linux and UNIX

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcapable.com/source-command-in-linux-with-examples/

 04:06 <stephenm> Supercharge Grammar Checking in LibreOffice With LanguageTool

 04:06 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/libreoffice-languagetool/

 04:07 <stephenm> 11 Search Engines for Cybersecurity Research You Can Use Now

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/08/29/search-engines-cybersecurity-research/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Mount Local and Network Filesystems in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/mount-filesystem-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Set or Modify the Path Variable in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-set-or-modify-path-variable-linux

 04:07 <stephenm> A Closer Look at the RFI on Open-Source Software Security

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/08/30/rfi-open-source-software-security-video/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Use /proc File System to Monitor Your Linux System

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/exploring-proc-file-system-in-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Check System Reboot History in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-check-system-reboot-history-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Connect Remote Windows System From Linux Command Line

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechi.com/connect-windows-system-from-linux-commandline/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <toddc> Why did the Linux computer contemplate seeking therapy?

 04:10 <toddc> It grappled with an array of terminal-related challenges.

 04:10 <toddc> Why did the Linux user contemplate embracing yoga practice?

 04:11 <toddc> The aspiration to achieve inner ???root??? equilibrium resonated deeply.

 04:11 <toddc> Why did the Linux user entertain the notion of avoiding cruise vacations?

 04:11 <toddc> The possibility of encountering ???port??? conflicts deterred him.

 04:11 <toddc> Why did the Linux user decline an invitation for hide and seek?

 04:12 <toddc> After all, it???s hard to stay hidden when you???re perpetually ???grep???-able!

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:12 <toddc> software dev

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.sofmen.com/

 04:13 <toddc> Canonical has 199 open positions

 04:13 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all?

 04:13 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 547 open jobs many remote some local

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/job_categories/software-development

 04:13 <toddc> Western Semiconductor In Tempe has several it openings dealing with AI development

 04:14 <toddc> WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPER

 04:14 <toddc> ASU Tempe

 04:14 <toddc> ECD Systems LLC in Tempe has several level 2 Data center support lobs

 04:14 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:14 <toddc> Operational Support Associates

 04:14 <toddc> www.pdworkforce.com

 04:15 <toddc> Runs on linux

 04:15 <toddc> The makers of the Librem line of Linux-based laptops have released a mini PC.

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.linux-magazine.com/Online/News/Purism-Launches-a-Mini-PC/(tagID)/133

 04:15 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> UbuntuDDE Remix 23.04 is Here!

 04:15 <toddc> https://news.itsfoss.com/ubuntudde-remix-23-04-release/

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:16 <MajB> 07 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 14 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <MajB> 14 September, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:16 <MajB> 16 September,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your perso

 04:16 <MajB> nal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 17 September,  AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:17 <MajB> 28 September,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:17 <MajB> Many events are being held on line.

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:17 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:17 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 14 September, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:17 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 19 September, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:18 <MajB> Monthly meeting 13 September, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:18 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 26 September, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),  Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:18 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:18 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:18 <toddc> we need some???

 04:19 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:19 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
