{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 17 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:13 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-10-17-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-teams/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/three-new-sparky-2022-10-semi-rolling-special-editions-released/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/5-best-python-ide-code-editor/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2022/10/14/year_of_linux_desktop/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-stocks/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/10/whats-new-gnome-43-linux   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/juno-computers-unveils-a-linux-tablet-powered-by-mobian-linux-and-kde-plasma-mobile   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/fetch-stock-quotes-with-perl-finance-quote-module   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/commandline-torrent-clients-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/system76-cosmic-desktop-ditched-gtk-in-favor-of-iced/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/enable-usb-virtualbox/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2022/10/13/zinc_ubuntu_remix/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/eurolinux-desktop-review/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/make-linux-app-with-flutter/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/wireshark-4-0-released-as-worlds-most-popular-network-protocol-analyzer   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/run-linux-operating-systems-browser/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/learn-use-man-pages-efficiently/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/remove-packages-installed-on-certain-date-time-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/18-tar-command-examples-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/passwordless-shell-scripts-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/deploying-containers-podman/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/how-to-set-up-proxy-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/10/kubernetes-solve-automation-challenges   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtechi.com/command-line-arguments-in-linux-shell-scripting/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/essential-system-tools-greenwithenvy-nvidia-graphics-card-utility/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/ansible-vault/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/restrict-access-linux-servers-using-tcp-wrappers/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* stephenm (58)
* MajB (57)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:05 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> \+1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Guess I will stop bugging him

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> Alright not much of a crowd tonight but I have a odd list anyways.

 04:02 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Microsoft Teams

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-teams/

 04:02 <stephenm> Three New Sparky 2022.10 Semi-Rolling Special Editions Released

 04:02 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/three-new-sparky-2022-10-semi-rolling-special-editions-released/

 04:02 <stephenm> 5 Best Python IDEs and Code Editors

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/5-best-python-ide-code-editor/

 04:02 <stephenm> Laugh all you want. There will be a year of the Linux desktop

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2022/10/14/year_of_linux_desktop/

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Stocks

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-stocks/

 04:03 <stephenm> What’s new in GNOME 43?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/10/whats-new-gnome-43-linux

 04:03 <stephenm> Juno Computers Unveils a Linux Tablet Powered by Mobian Linux and KDE Plasma Mobile

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/juno-computers-unveils-a-linux-tablet-powered-by-mobian-linux-and-kde-plasma-mobile

 04:03 <stephenm> Get stock and crypto price data using shell terminal on Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/fetch-stock-quotes-with-perl-finance-quote-module

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Command Line Torrent Clients for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/commandline-torrent-clients-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> System76’s COSMIC Desktop Ditched GTK in Favor of Iced

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/system76-cosmic-desktop-ditched-gtk-in-favor-of-iced/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Enable and Access USB Drive in VirtualBox

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/enable-usb-virtualbox/

 04:04 <stephenm> Zinc: An Ubuntu remix that dares to be different

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2022/10/13/zinc_ubuntu_remix/

 04:04 <stephenm> EuroLinux Desktop Review: A Worthy Alternative to Ubuntu LTS?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/eurolinux-desktop-review/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Make Your First Linux App With Flutter

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/make-linux-app-with-flutter/

 04:04 <stephenm> Wireshark 4.0 Released: World’s Most Popular Network Protocol Analyzer

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/wireshark-4-0-released-as-worlds-most-popular-network-protocol-analyzer

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Run Linux in Your Browser Using JSLinux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/run-linux-operating-systems-browser/

 04:04 <stephenm> Learn to Use Man Pages Efficiently in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/learn-use-man-pages-efficiently/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Remove Packages Installed on a Certain Date and Time in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/remove-packages-installed-on-certain-date-time-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> [Updated] 21 Tar Command Examples in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/18-tar-command-examples-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Go Passwordless for Shell Scripts in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/passwordless-shell-scripts-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Get Started Deploying Containers with Podman

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/deploying-containers-podman/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Set Up a Proxy on Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxstans.com/how-to-set-up-proxy-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Can Kubernetes help solve automation challenges?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/10/kubernetes-solve-automation-challenges

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Pass Command Line Arguments to Bash Script

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtechi.com/command-line-arguments-in-linux-shell-scripting/

 04:06 <stephenm> Essential System Tools: GreenWithEnvy – NVIDIA graphics card utility

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/essential-system-tools-greenwithenvy-nvidia-graphics-card-utility/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Use Ansible Vault to Protect Sensitive Playbook Data

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/ansible-vault/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Restrict Access To Linux Servers Using TCP Wrappers

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/restrict-access-linux-servers-using-tcp-wrappers/

 04:06 <stephenm> Alright that's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:07 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 214 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are 99 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 19 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 27 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 November,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 05 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:09 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 06 November, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 10 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 10 November, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 19 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:10 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 20 November, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:11 <MajB> 24 November,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour (conflict with Thanksgiving)

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:11 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:11 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 18 October, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 10 November 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:12 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:12 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting 09 November 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 22 October 1300-1500 (fourth Saturday of each month), Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:12 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:12 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022 (virtual)

 04:12 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:13 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
