{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

02 November - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed the Linux news of the week
* Discussed an on-going router project
04 November - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the Linux news of the week
* Discussed the on going router project
* Discussed the Halloween/Christmas projector projects and shared video loops for each
* Discussed UEFI Secure boot with options and benefits of each
05 November - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2005%2C%202023%20Meeting
09 November – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees (2 new people)
* Discussed how to change a forgotten password on a Ubuntu 22.04 install.  A demonstration was conducted on the procedure.
* Discussed how to unlock an Android phone
* Discussed scheduled presentations for the next 5 months.
09 November – Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
18 November – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* Discussed location and activities of the Arizona LUGs
* Discussed upcoming re-verification of the Team
* Discussed ad blocker options
* Discussed various new web browsers
* Received update of a members local weather station which is running on a Raspberry Pi
19 November – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2019%2C%202023%20Meeting
