{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 24 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-10-24-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/723344/US-Army-robots-American-armed-forces-robots-humans-2025 
''LINK:'' http://www.businessinsider.com/apple-eddy-cue-television-2016-10 
''LINK:'' http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/ubuntu-turns-12-happy-birthday-509497.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/all-things-open-interview-gina-linkins-jen-krieger 
''LINK:'' https://www.wired.com/2016/10/internet-outage-ddos-dns-dyn/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/how-incorporate-open-source-computer-science-classes 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/deep-learning-artificial-intelligence 
''LINK:'' http://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-find-and-remove-unused-packages-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/10/all-things-open-interview-dave-stokes 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/the-dirty-cow-linux-security-bug-moos/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/setting-up-xr-crossroads-load-balancer-for-web-servers-on-rhel-centos/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxforum.com/threads/usb-killers-hardware-and-software-options-to-destroy-your-data-or-devices.2194/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/gparted-0-27-0-open-source-partition-editor-is-out-with-grub2-core-img-detection-509469.shtml#ixzz4NhFaB3VI 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/10/effectively-using-openstack-metrics 
''LINK:'' http://www.csoonline.com/article/3133115/security/free-tool-protects-pcs-from-master-boot-record-attacks.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.nojitter.com/post/240172079/iot-at-the-network-edge 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.bds-research.com/aboutus.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://www.reddit.com/r/Ubuntu/comments/575kti/dutch_train_station/ 
''LINK:'' http://idjc.sourceforge.net/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-mate-16-10-hits-the-streets-with-mate-1-16-desktop-and-gtk-plus-3-goodness-509266.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://osem.seagl.org/conference/seagl2016/schedule 
''LINK:'' https://softwarefreedom.org/events/2016/sflc-fall-conference/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/what-do-you-have-to-say-share-it-at-libreplanet-2017 
''LINK:'' http://hubs.ly/H04sBRL0 
''LINK:'' https://lists.debconf.org/lurker/message/20160902.125635.8129251b.en.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddcnb_ (66)
* stephenm (43)
* MajB (29)
* FernHans (17)
* Ron_A (6)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* dwg_ (2)
* pavlos (1)
* `Eric (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddcnb_> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 24 04:00:05 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddcnb_. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddcnb_> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddcnb_> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <`Eric> +1

 04:00 <toddcnb_> Star Date 94414.68

 04:00 <Ron_A> I wasn't as late as I thought

 04:00 <toddcnb_> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddcnb_> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddcnb_> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddcnb_> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddcnb_> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddcnb_> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddcnb_> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddcnb_> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddcnb_> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <dwg_> +1

 04:02 <toddcnb_> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddcnb_> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddcnb_> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddcnb_> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> one second

 04:02 <stephenm> OK news begins from basic news to more techie news take your pick

 04:02 <stephenm> US army ‘will have more ROBOT SOLDIERS than humans’ by 2025

 04:02 <stephenm> http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/723344/US-Army-robots-American-armed-forces-robots-humans-2025

 04:03 <stephenm> Anyone see iRobot this might be the beginning

 04:03 <stephenm> Apple's TV boss: 'Television needs to be reinvented'

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.businessinsider.com/apple-eddy-cue-television-2016-10

 04:03 <stephenm> Ubuntu Turns 12, Happy Birthday!

 04:03 <stephenm> http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/ubuntu-turns-12-happy-birthday-509497.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> Everyone say happy B-day to our much loved system

 04:03 <stephenm> A look inside the 'blinky flashy' world of wearables and open hardware

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/all-things-open-interview-gina-linkins-jen-krieger

 04:04 <MajB> Happy Birthday Ubuntu

 04:04 <stephenm> Think of all the rock concerts you can light up, or because it's so close to Halloween great costume

 04:04 <stephenm> What We Know About Friday’s Massive East Coast Internet Outage

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.wired.com/2016/10/internet-outage-ddos-dns-dyn/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to incorporate open source into computer science classes

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/how-incorporate-open-source-computer-science-classes

 04:04 <stephenm> What is deep learning, and why should you care about it?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/deep-learning-artificial-intelligence

 04:04 <stephenm> How to find and remove unused packages in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-find-and-remove-unused-packages-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> MySQL and database programming for beginners

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/10/all-things-open-interview-dave-stokes

 04:05 <stephenm> The Dirty Cow Linux bug: A silly name for a serious problem

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/the-dirty-cow-linux-security-bug-moos/

 04:05 <stephenm> Setting Up ‘XR’ (Crossroads) Load Balancer for Web Servers on RHEL/CentOS

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/setting-up-xr-crossroads-load-balancer-for-web-servers-on-rhel-centos/

 04:05 <stephenm> USB Killers - Hardware and Software options to destroy your data (or devices)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxforum.com/threads/usb-killers-hardware-and-software-options-to-destroy-your-data-or-devices.2194/

 04:05 <stephenm> GParted 0.27.0 Open-Source Partition Editor Is Out with GRUB2 core.img Detection

 04:05 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/gparted-0-27-0-open-source-partition-editor-is-out-with-grub2-core-img-detection-509469.shtml#ixzz4NhFaB3VI

 04:06 <stephenm> Using metrics effectively in OpenStack development

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/business/16/10/effectively-using-openstack-metrics

 04:06 <stephenm> Free tool protects PCs from master boot record attacks

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.csoonline.com/article/3133115/security/free-tool-protects-pcs-from-master-boot-record-attacks.html

 04:06 <stephenm> IoT at the Network Edge

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.nojitter.com/post/240172079/iot-at-the-network-edge

 04:06 <stephenm> A joke that I found, "Are you sure you want to delete this file? Yes, No, Cancel"

 04:07 <stephenm> Shouldn't there be a "No, but do it anyway" button?

 04:07 <Ron_A> cute

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight folks

 04:07 <Ron_A> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> to toddcnb_

 04:07 <wmack> thank you stephenm!

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:08 <toddcnb_> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <toddcnb_> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <toddcnb_> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddcnb_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <toddcnb_> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddcnb_> See any adminitrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddcnb_> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <toddcnb_> Q: How many programmers does it take to change a light bulb?

 04:09 <toddcnb_> A: None. It’s a hardware problem.

 04:10 <toddcnb_> Man is the best computer we can put aboard a spacecraft… and the only one that can be mass produced with unskilled labor

 04:10 <toddcnb_> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <toddcnb_> Programmer Central & Thomas

 04:10 <toddcnb_> http://www.bds-research.com/aboutus.html

 04:11 <toddcnb_> 31 current canonical Jobs today

 04:11 <toddcnb_> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <toddcnb_> Software Developer Tempe

 04:11 <toddcnb_> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:11 <toddcnb_> thank you to the linux action show for the following links

 04:11 <toddcnb_> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddcnb_> big Ubuntu Spotted at a Dutch Train station

 04:12 <toddcnb_> https://www.reddit.com/r/Ubuntu/comments/575kti/dutch_train_station/

 04:12 <toddcnb_> Desktop Picks

 04:12 <toddcnb_> Internet DJ Console interested in streaming live radio shows over the Internet using Shoutcast or Icecast servers.

 04:12 <toddcnb_> http://idjc.sourceforge.net/

 04:13 <toddcnb_> Spot Light

 04:13 <toddcnb_> Ubuntu MATE 16.10 Hits the Streets with MATE 1.16 Desktop and GTK+ 3 Goodness

 04:13 <toddcnb_> http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-mate-16-10-hits-the-streets-with-mate-1-16-desktop-and-gtk-plus-3-goodness-509266.shtml

 04:13 <toddcnb_> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:14 <toddcnb_> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:14 <toddcnb_> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:15 <MajB> 27 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 27 October, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 03 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 05 November, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 .  Gangplank, 260 S Arizona Avenue, Chandler, AZ.  There is free public parking just across the street next to Circle K.   Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer yo

 04:16 <MajB> 17 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista. *** Notice*** This is a date change because of Thanksgiving.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet

 04:16 <MajB> 17 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.          *** Notice*** This is a date change because of Thanksgiving. Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 19 November, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softw

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have toddc

 04:17 <toddcnb_> ubuntu on air

 04:17 <toddcnb_> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:17 <toddcnb_> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:17 <toddcnb_> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:17 <toddcnb_> When Tue, October 25 8-9am

 04:17 <toddcnb_> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:17 <toddcnb_> also be advised they are moving to you-tube soon

 04:17 <toddcnb_> FernHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <FernHans> November's topics are dynamic environment creation for security testing and CLI finance tools on Thursday the 10th

 04:17 <FernHans> SeaGL 2016 schedule was posted, conference is 2016Nov11-12

 04:18 <FernHans> https://osem.seagl.org/conference/seagl2016/schedule

 04:18 <FernHans> Software Freedom Law Center's fall conference on 2016Oct28 will live stream

 04:18 <FernHans> https://softwarefreedom.org/events/2016/sflc-fall-conference/

 04:18 <FernHans> SCaLE 15x cpf is open until 2016Nov15

 04:18 <FernHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp

 04:18 <FernHans> Next year SCaLE is at the beginning of March

 04:18 <FernHans> LibrePlanet cfp is open until 2016Nov14

 04:18 <FernHans> https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/what-do-you-have-to-say-share-it-at-libreplanet-2017

 04:18 <FernHans> Percona Live cpf is open until 2016Oct31

 04:18 <FernHans> http://hubs.ly/H04sBRL0

 04:18 <FernHans> Debconf 2017 is looking for new speakers

 04:18 <FernHans> https://lists.debconf.org/lurker/message/20160902.125635.8129251b.en.html

 04:19 <FernHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:19 <toddcnb_> Thank you FernHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:20 <FernHans> bitte

 04:20 <toddcnb_> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:20 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Linux Meetup on 01 November 7-8 pm. Raging Sage, 2458 N. Campbell Ave., Tucson, AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> http://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/

 04:20 <MajB> 

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 04 November 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org/

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 06 November 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:21 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 08 November 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD (See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest update on location), Prescott, AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 09 November 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, Room B159, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:21 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 09 November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 20 November 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 26 November 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 27 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:22 <MajB> That is all I have.

 04:22 <toddcnb_> Thank you MajB !

 04:23 <toddcnb_> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <toddcnb_> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:23 <MajB> AZLOCO and CLUG will be co-sponsoring and Installation Festival in Sierra Vista AZ on 28 January 2017, 10-4 pm. University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, Resource Learning Center commons area, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:24 <FernHans> MajB: awesome

 04:24 <toddcnb_> cool

 04:24 <MajB> Moving ahead slowly

 04:25 <toddcnb_> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:25 <dwg_> wow, I had no idea there was so much linux stuff going on in the valley.

 04:25 <toddcnb_> I do plan to carpool the SV installfest

 04:25 <toddcnb_> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:25 <Ron_A> Thank you toddcnb_ , FernHans, and MajB

 04:26 <toddcnb_> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:26 <toddcnb_> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
