{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 20 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-01-20-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/news-january-19 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/core-skills-tech-career 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/organize-email-notmuch 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/what-creative-commons 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/python-journal 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/pinephone-the-149-linux-phone-has-started-shipping-for-the-brave-of-heart-528902.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/open-source-project 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/duckduckgo-bangs-search-directly-on-your-favorite-websites/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/object-oriented-programming-concepts 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/desktop-os-poll 
''LINK:'' https://speedysense.com/bash-if-else-statement/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-synchronize-files-and-directories-using-zaloha-sh/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/1/bash-scripts-git 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-limit-users-access-to-the-linux-system/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/debian-terminal-music-media-player/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/copy-files-folders-linux-cp-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/id-command-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/kubuntu-focus-a-new-top-of-the-line-linux-laptop-arrives/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-check-installed-ram-on-debian/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-and-configure-openlitespeed-with-php-7-4-on-ubuntu-1804/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (54)
* stephenm (43)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan 20 04:00:05 2020 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/html5client/join?sessionToken=a1jzbi8xnklqm2oq

 04:00 <MajB> if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> The news for tonight is common stuff and then gets into Linux stuff

 04:02 <stephenm> Open source fights cancer, Tesla adopts Coreboot, Uber and Lyft release open source machine learning

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/news-january-19

 04:03 <stephenm> 4 core skills to level-up your tech career in 2020

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/core-skills-tech-career

 04:03 <stephenm> Organize your email with Notmuch

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/organize-email-notmuch

 04:03 <stephenm> How and why to use Creative Commons licensed work

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/what-creative-commons

 04:03 <stephenm> Keep a journal of your activities with this Python program

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/python-journal

 04:03 <stephenm> PinePhone, the $149 Linux Phone, Has Started Shipping for the Brave of Heart

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/pinephone-the-149-linux-phone-has-started-shipping-for-the-brave-of-heart-528902.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> 7 things I learned from starting an open source project

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/open-source-project

 04:04 <stephenm> DuckDuckGo Bangs – Search Directly On Your Favorite Websites

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/duckduckgo-bangs-search-directly-on-your-favorite-websites/

 04:04 <stephenm> Object-Oriented Programming Concepts

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/object-oriented-programming-concepts

 04:04 <stephenm> What desktop OS do you use at work?

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/desktop-os-poll

 04:05 <stephenm> Bash if else Statement

 04:05 <stephenm> https://speedysense.com/bash-if-else-statement/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Synchronize Files And Directories Using Zaloha.sh

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-synchronize-files-and-directories-using-zaloha-sh/

 04:05 <stephenm> 6 handy Bash scripts for Git

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/1/bash-scripts-git

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Limit User’s Access To The Linux System

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-limit-users-access-to-the-linux-system/

 04:06 <stephenm> 3 Music Media Players for the Debian 10 Terminal

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/debian-terminal-music-media-player/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Copy Files and Folders on Linux Using the cp Command

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/copy-files-folders-linux-cp-command/

 04:06 <stephenm> Id command in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/id-command-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Kubuntu Focus: A new top-of-the-line Linux laptop arrives

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/kubuntu-focus-a-new-top-of-the-line-linux-laptop-arrives/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to check the installed RAM on Debian 10

 04:06 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-check-installed-ram-on-debian/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install OpenLiteSpeed HTTP Server with PHP on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-and-configure-openlitespeed-with-php-7-4-on-ubuntu-1804/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight. Back to you MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> 01 February AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop.  Canceled because of a campus wide event at UAT and no viable alternative location is currently available.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 71 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are a total of 156 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are a total of 16 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar

 04:10 <MajB> 23 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 01 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  Canceled

 04:10 <MajB> 06 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 13 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 13 February, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 15 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.

 04:11 <MajB> Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 21 January  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thi

 04:13 <MajB> ngs tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 13 February 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 20 February 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:13 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:14 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml Meeting on 26 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 07 February 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave & Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 12 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 25 January 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
