{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 06 Jun at 03:58 &mdash; 04:29 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-06-06-03.58.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/apply-free-training-and-certification-linux-foundations-2016-scholarship-program 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/rise-open-source-professional 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/owncloud-founder-forks-popular-open-source-cloud/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/price-not-driving-factor-cloud-services-biz/2016/06/?utm_source=sdnc_post_top&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=links&utm_content=news 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2016/5/make-technology-transformative-be-willing-sunset-old-business-processes 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/6/tricks-gimp-beginners 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/3077875/linux/containers-101-docker-fundamentals.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/how-enable-pgp-encryption-evolution 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/introducing-the-new-superheroes-of-the-networking-world-no-not-me/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-and-configure-solr-on-ubuntu-1604/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/calibre-2-58-ebook-converter-released-with-improved-qt-5-5-support-on-ubuntu-504835.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2016/06/kickstarter-campaign-isnt-ready-prime-time/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/zfs-finding-its-way-linux-near-you 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/samba-server-ubuntu-16-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/plasma-5-loaded-with-useful-features 
''LINK:'' http://www.thenewip.net/author.asp?section_id=407&doc_id=723769& 
''LINK:'' http://www.techrepublic.com/article/new-coreos-open-source-storage-system-torus-fails-to-impress/ 
''LINK:'' http://siliconangle.com/blog/2016/06/02/ibm-launches-system-for-building-and-managing-data-lakes/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/security/rapid7-ceo-aims-to-secure-the-future.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-mount-your-google-drive-on-linux-with-google-drive-ocamlfuse/ 
''LINK:'' http://xmodulo.com/linux-vs-windows-device-driver-model.html 
''LINK:'' http://thevarguy.com/big-data-technology-solutions-and-information/limitations-nosql-database-storage-why-nosqls-not-perf 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.picmonic.com/pages/careers/software-developer/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.qtsdatacenters.com/company/careers 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GvSQj9aE0FA 
''LINK:'' http://www.etcher.io/ 
''LINK:'' https://pwr.github.io/Solaar/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/u/0/b/118370136707822714534/events/cuicr0ugmvbot0qq76r7r5ctlo4 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (72)
* stephenm (64)
* MajB (28)
* xHans (15)
* wmack (4)
* dennisk (3)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* MXs_ (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:58 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:58 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun  6 03:58:24 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:58 <meetingology> 

 03:58 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <mark91> +1

 04:00 <MXs_> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <dennisk> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 94031.64

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <MajB> Hello wmack

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <wmack> Hello MajB

 04:02 <stephenm> The news starts from all around interesting to some what interesting and only exciting to a select few.

 04:02 <stephenm> mostly because they are the only ones that understand it :D

 04:03 <MajB> Rah

 04:03 <stephenm> Apply for Free Training and Certification With The Linux Foundation’s 2016 Scholarship Program

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/apply-free-training-and-certification-linux-foundations-2016-scholarship-program

 04:03 <stephenm> This is a really good opportunity to look into for new people to experts

 04:03 <stephenm> The Rise of the Open Source Professional

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/rise-open-source-professional

 04:04 <stephenm> OwnCloud founder forks popular open-source cloud

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/owncloud-founder-forks-popular-open-source-cloud/

 04:04 <stephenm> Price Is Not the Driving Factor in the Cloud Services Biz

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/price-not-driving-factor-cloud-services-biz/2016/06/?utm_source=sdnc_post_top&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=links&utm_content=news

 04:04 <stephenm> everyone just loves the cloud

 04:04 <stephenm> To make technology transformative, be willing to sunset old business processes

 04:04 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2016/5/make-technology-transformative-be-willing-sunset-old-business-processes

 04:04 <toddc> where is the cloud?

 04:04 <stephenm> 25 Practical examples of the find commandhttp://www.librebyte.net/en/gnulinux/25-practical-examples-of-the-find-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> ^very important to know

 04:05 <stephenm> Aren't you the cloud toddc?

 04:05 <stephenm> 4 tips for GIMP beginners

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/6/tricks-gimp-beginners

 04:05 <stephenm> Containers 101: Docker fundamentals

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3077875/linux/containers-101-docker-fundamentals.html

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Enable PGP Encryption in Evolution

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/how-enable-pgp-encryption-evolution

 04:05 <stephenm> Introducing the new superheroes of the networking world...no, not me!

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/introducing-the-new-superheroes-of-the-networking-world-no-not-me/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to install and configure Solr 6 on Ubuntu 16.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/how-to-install-and-configure-solr-on-ubuntu-1604/

 04:06 <stephenm> Calibre 2.58 eBook Converter Released with Improved Qt 5.5 Support on Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/calibre-2-58-ebook-converter-released-with-improved-qt-5-5-support-on-ubuntu-504835.shtml

 04:06 <stephenm> If Your Kickstarter Campaign Isn’t Ready for Prime Time

 04:06 <stephenm> http://fossforce.com/2016/06/kickstarter-campaign-isnt-ready-prime-time/

 04:06 <stephenm> ZFS: Finding Its Way to a Linux Near You?

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/zfs-finding-its-way-linux-near-you

 04:06 <stephenm> Samba Server installation on Ubuntu 16.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/samba-server-ubuntu-16-04/

 04:06 <stephenm> Plasma 5: Loaded With Useful Features

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/plasma-5-loaded-with-useful-features

 04:07 <stephenm> Now to the expert stuff

 04:07 <stephenm> CSPs Seek Virtualization Interoperability for All

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.thenewip.net/author.asp?section_id=407&doc_id=723769&

 04:07 <stephenm> New CoreOS open source storage system Torus fails to impress

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.techrepublic.com/article/new-coreos-open-source-storage-system-torus-fails-to-impress/

 04:07 <toddc> MajB: kicks me all the time

 04:07 <stephenm> IBM launches system for building and managing data lakes

 04:07 <stephenm> http://siliconangle.com/blog/2016/06/02/ibm-launches-system-for-building-and-managing-data-lakes/

 04:07 <stephenm> Rapid7 CEO Aims to Secure the Future

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/security/rapid7-ceo-aims-to-secure-the-future.html

 04:07 <stephenm> Didn't know that command worked in here

 04:08 <stephenm> How to mount your Google Drive on Linux with google-drive-ocamlfuse

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-mount-your-google-drive-on-linux-with-google-drive-ocamlfuse/

 04:08 <stephenm> Linux vs. Windows device driver model: architecture, APIs and build environment comparison

 04:08 <stephenm> http://xmodulo.com/linux-vs-windows-device-driver-model.html

 04:08 <stephenm> The Limitations of NoSQL Database Storage: Why NoSQL's Not Perfect

 04:08 <stephenm> http://thevarguy.com/big-data-technology-solutions-and-information/limitations-nosql-database-storage-why-nosqls-not-perf

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for this week

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <toddc> Great job stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> ypu

 04:09 <stephenm> you're all welcome

 04:09 <toddc> Next week I will be replaced by Ron_A

 04:10 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:10 <MajB> That will be something

 04:10 <wmack> thank you stephenm!

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> QUOTES

 04:11 <toddc> "Of all the things I've lost, I miss my mind the most " -- Ozzy Osbourne

 04:11 <toddc> that is for MajB

 04:11 <MajB> That fits

 04:11 <toddc> JOB list

 04:11 <toddc> Software Developer and Technical Support Specialist and Java dev

 04:11 <toddc> https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/

 04:11 <toddc> Sr. Software Developer

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.picmonic.com/pages/careers/software-developer/

 04:12 <toddc> Data Center Technician I (DCO Tech)

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.qtsdatacenters.com/company/careers

 04:12 <toddc> 42 current canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> Fixit Leeds IT shop coop crowd funded

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GvSQj9aE0FA

 04:13 <toddc> uses ubuntu mate for most of its recycled computers

 04:13 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:13 <toddc> the easy way to burn a sd card or hdd image

 04:13 <toddc> http://www.etcher.io/

 04:13 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Solaar is a Linux device manager for Logitech’s Receiver

 04:14 <toddc> peripherals. It is able to pair/unpair devices to the receiver

 04:14 <toddc> https://pwr.github.io/Solaar/

 04:14 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:15 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:15 <MajB> 18 June, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.

 04:15 <MajB> All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking a

 04:16 <MajB> 23 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps interest some of your neighbors in a different operating system for your personal computer.

 04:16 <MajB> 23 June, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:16 <MajB> 02 July, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.

 04:16 <MajB> All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking a

 04:17 <MajB> 07 July, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:17 <MajB> And that is all for now

 04:17 <stephenm> good job MajB

 04:17 <MajB> Thank you

 04:18 <toddc> Linux Training

 04:18 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:18 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:18 <wmack> thanks MajB

 04:18 <toddc> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:19 <toddc> When Tue, June 07 24, 8-9am

 04:19 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:19 <toddc> if you  ever want a answer to why that is the place to ask

 04:19 <toddc> dennisk: do you ave anything from MCC?

 04:19 <dennisk> Come to MCC we have penguins & zombies!

 04:20 <MajB> HooRah

 04:20 <stephenm> cool

 04:20 <stephenm> thanks toddc

 04:21 <dennisk> Registration is open for the fall semester

 04:21 <toddc> I heard there were a few of each at PHXcomicon this week!

 04:21 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:21 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:21 <xHans> PLUG East side meeting is this Thursday night @ 19:00

 04:21 <xHans> this month it's games night @ PLUG

 04:22 <xHans> Todd Millecam: Linux and Gaming Technology

 04:22 <xHans> Aaron Jones: REAL gaming on Linux

 04:22 <xHans> 251 Desert Breeze Blvd W, Chandler, AZ 85226

 04:22 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/b/118370136707822714534/events/cuicr0ugmvbot0qq76r7r5ctlo4

 04:22 <stephenm> I don't get out of work until 8PM and won't make it down there until 8:30.

 04:22 <xHans> next month we have resume writing and software defined radios

 04:22 <stephenm> Will people still be there?

 04:23 <xHans> stephenm: we usually run until at least 21:00

 04:23 <toddc> stephenm: yes till 9

 04:23 <xHans> good topics that will likely get questions this month, so probably run a bit long

 04:23 <toddc> then dinner afterward

 04:23 <xHans> two weeks from Tuesday is this month's Free Software Stammtisch

 04:23 <stephenm> OK cool I would like to see these

 04:23 <xHans> this month we will have a follow up to games night @ PLUG by inviting everyone to bring in Free Software related games for use at Stammtisch

 04:23 <xHans> we will also be having kids night @ Stammtisch starting at 18:00

 04:23 <xHans> please bring the entire family to enjoy and evening at Stammtisch

 04:24 <toddc> sounds like a great idea!

 04:24 <xHans> thanks for the multi-group event promotion

 04:24 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and plug events

 04:24 <toddc> MajB has some news from CLUG and other LUGS

 04:24 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:24 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:25 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 08 June 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista, AZ.

 04:25 <stephenm> thanks xHans

 04:25 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 08 June 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa, AZ.

 04:25 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 14 June 6:30-9:30 pm.  Hungry Monk, 218 W. Goodwin St., Prescott, AZ.

 04:26 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 June 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:26 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 26 June 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:26 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 01 July 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ

 04:26 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:27 <toddc> Thank you MajB  great job! tonight   lots and lots of stuff going on!

 04:27 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:27 <MajB> You are welcome

 04:27 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:28 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:28 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:29 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
