{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 04 Jun at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-06-04-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/5/atari-launches-linux-gaming-box-starting-199 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/compete-in-the-acumos-ai-challenge-for-a-chance-to-win-50000/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/advanced-search-and-replace-kate-text-editor 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/tesla-starts-to-release-its-cars-open-source-linux-software-code/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/gnome-anonymous-donation/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-disable-built-in-webcam-in-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/free-resources-open-source-leadership-ai-networking-and-more 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/5/how-load-or-unload-linux-kernel-module 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/5/what-linux-server 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3276349/linux/copying-and-renaming-files-on-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-setup-minecraft-server-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/5/get-started-snap-packages-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/cncf-host-helm 
''LINK:'' https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/back-to-basics-what-sysadmins-must-know-about-logging-and-monitoring-1805.html#.WxAyQd4roo4.twitter 
''LINK:'' https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/vpnfilter-iot-malware 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (42)
* stephenm (39)
* MajB (27)
* meetingology (3)
* Eleison23 (2)
* toddc (2)
* wmack (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun  4 04:00:07 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <Eleison23> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Star Date   96023.45

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:00 <Ron_A> Team events portal

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:00 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:00 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <Ron_A> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <Ron_A> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:01 <Ron_A> 

 04:01 <Ron_A> lets start with the news

 04:01 <Ron_A> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:01 <toddc> thank you Ron_A

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> News is from easy to more Linux/computer base

 04:01 <stephenm> Atari Launches Linux Gaming Box Starting at $199

 04:01 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/5/atari-launches-linux-gaming-box-starting-199

 04:01 <stephenm> I dpnm

 04:02 <stephenm> I don't know how well this will be.  More of a NES kid than a Atari.

 04:02 <stephenm> Compete in the ACUMOS AI Challenge for a Chance to Win $50,000

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/compete-in-the-acumos-ai-challenge-for-a-chance-to-win-50000/

 04:02 <stephenm> Advanced Search and Replace with the Kate Text Editor

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/advanced-search-and-replace-kate-text-editor

 04:02 <stephenm> Tesla starts to release its cars' open-source Linux software code

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/tesla-starts-to-release-its-cars-open-source-linux-software-code/

 04:02 <stephenm> Old news but seemed interesting

 04:02 <stephenm> Someone Pledged $1 Million to the GNOME Foundation Anonymously

 04:02 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/gnome-anonymous-donation/

 04:03 <stephenm> How To Disable Built-in Webcam In Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-disable-built-in-webcam-in-ubuntu/

 04:03 <stephenm> And it's not with tape

 04:03 <stephenm> Free Resources for Open Source Leadership, AI, Networking, and More

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/free-resources-open-source-leadership-ai-networking-and-more

 04:03 <stephenm> How to load or unload a Linux kernel module

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/5/how-load-or-unload-linux-kernel-module

 04:03 <stephenm> What is a Linux server and why does your business need one?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/5/what-linux-server

 04:04 <stephenm> Copying and renaming files on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3276349/linux/copying-and-renaming-files-on-linux.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How to setup Minecraft server on Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic Beaver Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-setup-minecraft-server-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Get Started with Snap Packages in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/5/get-started-snap-packages-linux

 04:04 <Eleison23> is Kate search-and-replace more advanced than vim??

 04:04 <stephenm> CNCF to Host Helm

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/cncf-host-helm

 04:05 <stephenm> Well it depends who writes it, some people preach Emacs, the most horrible editor out there, except for maybe Ed.  Would be better than VIM also.

 04:05 <stephenm> Back to basics: What sysadmins must know about logging and monitoring

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.hpe.com/us/en/insights/articles/back-to-basics-what-sysadmins-must-know-about-logging-and-monitoring-1805.html#.WxAyQd4roo4.twitter

 04:06 <stephenm> VPNFilter: New Router Malware with Destructive Capabilities

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/vpnfilter-iot-malware

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight.

 04:08 <Ron_A> Great job stephenm!

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <MajB> thanks stephenm

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:09 <Ron_A> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <Ron_A> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <Ron_A> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <Ron_A> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <Ron_A> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <Ron_A> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <Ron_A> "The number of UNIX installations has grown to 10, with more expected..."

 04:10 <Ron_A> - Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thompson, June 1972

 04:10 <Ron_A> A computer without COBOL and Fortran is like a piece of chocolate cake

 04:10 <Ron_A> without ketchup and mustard.

 04:10 <Ron_A> Local linux Jobs

 04:11 <Ron_A> 39 current canonical Jobs today

 04:11 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <Ron_A> Software Developer Tempe

 04:11 <Ron_A> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:11 <Ron_A> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:11 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:12 <MajB> 07 June,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 16 June,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your perso

 04:12 <MajB> 28 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 07 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your perso

 04:13 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 June 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 June 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 14 June 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 19 June 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversa

 04:15 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:16 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 21 June 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:16 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 23 June 1-3:30 p.m. Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St, Sierra Vista

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 24 June 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 July 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:17 <MajB> That is all that I have.

 04:17 <Ron_A> I want to thank MajB for keeping us all updated.

 04:17 <Ron_A> Toddc do you have anything to add?

 04:17 <MajB> Are you kidding

 04:17 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:18 <Ron_A> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:18 <Ron_A> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <Ron_A> Thanks for coming here tonight

 04:18 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
