{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
-ChanServ- [#ubuntu-us-az] "Welcome to #ubuntu-us-az. Please introduce yourself and get to know us!!"
<toddcnb> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qPxXtZw86lc
* dwayne_ has quit (Ping timeout: 246 seconds)
<markthomas> toddc: That looks really interesting. need to find some better headphones, though.
<markthomas> toddcnb: ^
<toddcnb> np giving Dazed_75 a hard time he in the first 30 seconds
<Dazed_75> Toddc: send them to slug.sve@gmail.com
<toddcnb> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddcnb> Star Date 91637.76 check it at http://www.stoacademy.com/tools/stardate.php+1
<toddcnb> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddcnb> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<toddcnb> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddcnb> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az
<wmack> +1
<toddcnb> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/
<toddcnb> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209
<toddcnb> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddcnb> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddcnb> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddcnb> lets start with the news!!
<toddcnb> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> To Windows and back again http://blog.mpshouse.com/?p=905
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/software/398258/install-audio-recorder-linux-mint-16
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/january-2014-issue-linux-journal-security
<Dazed_75> http://linuxg.net/mir-has-been-yet-again-receiving-a-compositor-report-option/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/179089/lock-down-your-wi-fi-network-with-your-routers-wireless-isolation-option/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/179070/how-to-get-access-to-experimental-features-on-your-chromebook-or-just-in-chrome/
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2014/01/how-mail-server-works.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/what-to-expect-from-ubuntu-in-2014-7000024789/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/First-Ubuntu-Phone-Leaked-Images-Spotted-Online-413685.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2014/01/ubuntu-1310-marmite-linux-operating.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2013/09/install-ubuntu-linux-alongside-windows.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/using-zenmap-on-linux/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/175692/3-tips-for-the-mremoteng-remote-connections-manager/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/178721/how-to-create-ebooks-from-wikipedia-articles/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-13-04-Reaches-End-of-Life-on-January-27-Get-Ubuntu-13-10-414247.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/blu-ray-encryption%E2%80%94why-most-people-pirate-movies
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/01/linksys-resurrects-classic-blue-router-with-open-source-and-300-price/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/EasyTAG-2-1-9-Brings-Numerous-Improvements-After-One-Year-of-Development-414132.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://techthrob.com/2014/01/06/swap-devices-explained-do-i-need-one/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/179213/why-browser-plug-ins-are-going-away-and-whats-replacing-them/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/178730/how-to-create-mp3-files-from-wikipedia-articles/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2014/01/08/centos-joins-the-red-hat-family-fedora-gets-a-step-brother/
<gnewbie> +1
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/software/398915/disable-third-party-searches-ubuntu-dash
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/software/398930/install-variety-wallpaper-changer-ubuntu-1310
<Dazed_75> http://www.itworld.com/software/398929/install-variety-wallpaper-changer-linux-mint-16
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/six-reasons-why-android-pcs-can-be-disruptive-7000024845/?s_cid=e539&ttag=e539
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/taking-fractals-page
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/KDE-4-11-5-Officially-Released-Fixes-over-65-Bugs-414560.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/add-alt-tab-functionality-to-firefox/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/01/several-ubuntu-phones-release-2014
<Dazed_75> http://makezine.com/2014/01/07/how-i-built-a-raspberry-pi-tablet
<Dazed_75> IBM to invest $1 billion to create a new business unit for Watson
<Dazed_75>     http://mobile.reuters.com/article/idUSBREA0808U20140109
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/179455/how-to-dual-boot-windows-and-steamos/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/179370/how-to-add-non-steam-games-to-steam-and-apply-custom-icons/
<Dazed_75> http://news.cnet.com/8301-1023_3-57617033-93/how-to-prevent-google-users-from-e-mailing-you/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2014/01/10/google-fixes-a-thousand-bugs-in-ffmpeg/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Replace-GRUB-with-Syslinux-on-Arch-Linux-415394.shtml
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/reviews/linux-music-player-group-test
<Dazed_75> http://www.cmsobserver.com/whats-new-in-drupal-v7-25/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linux.com/news/software/applications/756331-7-great-new-open-source-projects
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/01/mate-desktop-ubuntu-1404
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/01/how-to-dual-boot-android-ubuntu-touch-on-nexus
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/01/chromium-npapi-flash-dropped-april-2014
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/prime-indicator-lets-you-quickly-switch.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/enable-hardware-acceleration-in-chrome.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/get-android-notifications-on-your.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2014/01/install-laptop-mode-tools-164-with.html
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2014/01/11/my-favorite-product-from-ces-2014-wayne/
* dwayne_ (~dwayne@wsip-24-249-177-197.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> http://xmodulo.com/2014/01/check-internet-speed-command-line-linux.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2014/01/08/an-attempt-to-dual-boot-ubuntu-13-10-and-windows-8-on-a-lenovo-ideacenter-k450/
<Dazed_75> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Kali-Linux-1-0-6-Released-With-LUKS-Self-Destruction-Feature-415416.shtml
<Dazed_75> ... and thats it from AJ
<toddcnb> Thank you Dazed_75 lots of good information in there!
<toddcnb> TEAM NEWS
<toddcnb> Dazed_75 will be on vacation for the next several weeks and he does the news for several computer groups. Would anyone out there be
<toddcnb> willing and able to help out while he is gone? Please let Dazed_75 or myself know
<toddcnb> We are still looking for a central Phoenix meeting location for presentations - if anyone has location ideas please let us know!
<toddcnb> We are planing to do more uefi/secure dual boot testing at the next installfest Jan 18
<toddcnb> JOB list
<toddcnb> System Administor
<toddcnb> AIM IT Services http://aimitservices.com
<toddcnb> LimeLight in Tempe is looking for a MySQL DBA remote is OK
<toddcnb> Contact xHans for more info
<toddcnb> Sr. Software Engineer - Big Data, NoSQL, Hadoop
<toddcnb> lori.eddlemon@effect-tech.com
<toddcnb> Sr HTML5/Javascript/CSS Engineer
<toddcnb> lori.eddlemon@effect-tech.com
<toddcnb> Runs LINUX
<toddcnb> Belkin shows Linux powered smart slow cooker at CES 2014
<toddcnb> http://www.muktware.com/2014/01/belkin-shows-linux-powered-smart-slow-cooker-ces-2014/18852
<toddcnb> http://www.linux.com/news/friday-funnies
<toddcnb> Linux App of the week
<toddcnb> Springseed notes with drop Box sync
<toddcnb> http://getspringseed.com/
<toddcnb> Nitri notes
<toddcnb> http://nitrotasks.com/#
<toddcnb> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST
<toddcnb> The next Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday January 18 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<toddcnb> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddcnb> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/
<toddcnb> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddcnb> NORTH INSTALL-FEST
<toddcnb> TuxxMann?? possibly January 25th but this is not confirmed!!
<toddcnb> Is on hold for a new date that works for the college !?!?
<toddcnb> For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<toddcnb> Paradise Valley Community College 18401 North 32nd Street, Phoenix, AZ 85032, USA
<toddcnb> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddcnb> West side ubuntu hour has been moved to Wednesday Febuary 5  7pm – 9pm
<toddcnb> Starbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA , Arizona
<toddcnb> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.
<toddcnb> There were 6+4 new people at January's event this has started out as a great event.
<toddcnb> TEMPE UBUNTU HOUR
<toddcnb> Thursday January 23 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddcnb> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddcnb> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddcnb> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddcnb> we did get the new server installed and will be doing configs over the next several weeks
<toddcnb> 1sec
<toddcnb> we will  plan to do more uefi dual boot testing I  may also do some demos on zoneminder and mythTV at the next events
<toddcnb> I did talk to Ed at the plug east side meeting Thursday and he is starting up the developers class at UAT
<toddcnb> to add features to Gimp, He is also willing to be the local Prescott contact for a Prescott CC installfest but I forgot to get his number so more to follow
<toddcnb> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddcnb> ubuntu on-air
<toddcnb> http://ubuntuonair.com/
<toddcnb> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/
<toddcnb> Core Apps Convergence Brainstorming Wed jan 15 7am local time
<toddcnb> FUTURE EVENTS
<wmack> is that local az time?
<toddcnb> Any thoughts on other events or projects???
<toddcnb> yes az local time
<toddcnb> xHans ???
* gnewbie has quit (Ping timeout: 252 seconds)
<FernHans> moin moin
<FernHans> Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday
<FernHans> February's PLUG east side presentation will be on Salt Stack
<FernHans> and that's it for tonight
<toddcnb> thanks FernHans
<toddcnb> that is all I have, any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddcnb> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
