{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #108 for the week November 30, December 6.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Eighth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-December 9, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday December 13, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the December 6, 2009 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09December6

scott_ev then gave an announcement:

* For those of you that may be wondering; johnc4510 is only on temp leave of absence.  He will return when he can to moderate meetings and to do all those other things he does for us as team leader.

scott_ev then read off the announcement of Lucid Lynx, including the fact that it would be the next Long Term Support release.  A discussion followed concerning a release party.  It was decided that it would be held at Boulders on Broadway after the install fest at UAT, April 24, 2010.  The information was placed on the Team's Google calendar during the meeting.  It was also suggested that we be prepared to do 10.04 installs at UAT before, especially since the party, itself, wouldn't be for the purpose of doing installs.

scot_ev also announced that the latest Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue 171,  had been released, and could be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue171

scott_ev then discussed the possibility of an Ubuntu 10.04 release party.  "I think it would be a good idea to get a jump on organizing a release party for 10.04 whatever it's gonna be called Lucid Lynx or something like that.  Maybe we could do it right after the installfest at UAT in April.  I know we may not have the CDs by then, but installing it isn't the main point of a release party.  We could go over to Boulders on Broadway from the installfest."  Ubuntu 10.04 is an Long Term Support release, and an effort to have CDs available for the release party is important.  Also, scott_ev will be getting in touch with Lenards about the possibility of another install fest in Tucson

scott_ev then asked for PLUG announcements from xHans.

* Prescottians have a gathering on Tuesday.  It's in the middle of Whiskey Row.  http://www.LUGY.net/

* Thursday is the annual end of year party at PLUG in Mesa.  We should have Oma's cheesecake.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/154

* Pnext week are both of the Stammtisch in the Phoenix area

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:17 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
