{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #60 for the week August 11, August 17, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Sixtieth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-August 20, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday August 24, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the August 17, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:02 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08August17

johnc4510 began the meeting by asking new member Paula62 to introduce herself. She responded with, "I am an Appeal Officer by trade.  I process appeals for TRICARE beneficiary's who are denied services or payment for services.  TRICARE is the military health insurance program.  I am a former medical transcriptionist and I am the wife of Tyche."  Paula62 has been using Ubuntu (Gutsy Gibbon) for about 6 months, ever since Ubuntu ate her Microsoft XP.  The team warmly welcomed her.

johnc4510 then announced that "Intrepid Ibex" Alpha-4 released - Alpha 4 is the fourth in a series of milestone CD images that will be released throughout the Intrepid development cycle. The Alpha images are known to be reasonably free of showstopper CD build or installer bugs, while representing a very recent snapshot of Intrepid. You can download it here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2008-August/000470.html.  This should be used only for testing purposes.  One should expect some bugs and crashes.  Please don't use it as your production operating system.

xHans was then asked to make his announcements:

* We have Stammtische this week.  Tuesday in Tempe, Wednesday in Avondale  (http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtische).  The Stammtische are just an excuse to hang out at a restaurant and talk, I think the TFUG mtgs are doing something similar.  Yesterday was Debian Day 2008, so we'll be doing some birthday celebrations at the Tempe Free Software Stammtische.  xHans ordered penguin cookies and is trying to get cake.  Debian is now 15 years old, so in 7 months it will be eligible to drive.

* The conference is starting to ramp up, we'll be announcing a new mailing list for volunteers.  We still have to finalize insurance for ABLEconf, but otherwise it's ready to start rolling.  Please let johnc4510 know if you have contacts with other Free Software groups in Arizona.  The ABLEconf web site will have content this week (http://www.ableconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=Main_Page).

* There are no PLUG events this week, but next week's west side meeting will be going straight to Bertos, see the PLUG event for info once we get it updated (http://plug.phoenix.az.us/event/2010/10/20).

* xHans put together a big list of upcoming Free Software classes in the Phoenix area (http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5604).  Please help us promote the classes, especially the OpenOffice.org class.  There is also has a C++ class looking for students.  I need more students for my shell scripting class that starts a week from tomorrow.  See my page (http://www.lufthans.com/) for more info and please encourage people to support the Free Software classes we do have.  Paula62 suggested Craig's List as a possible place to advertise the classes.  xHans said that he'd look into it.

There was then a discussion about possibly advertising the ABLEConf on Craig's list, and azteech volunteered to look into it.  Paula62 added that she'd be happy to post information, and to just let tyche know what needs to be posted.  In line with that, johnc4510 announced that the Conference Kit had arrived in Phoenix, and should be at his house in the next couple of days.  The contents of the Conference Kit can be seen at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAtConferences where it is listed as "Pack A for Approved Loco Teams".

In an aside, xHans thanked johnc4510, on behalf of Motherboards and Upgrades, for the Ubuntu CDs.  xHans also had cool new Ubuntu stickers show up at PLUG on Thursday.  He had them at the mtg Thu, so he could deliver to the person dropping them off, all of which is helping M and U move to supporting GNU/Linux.  He added, "and the box of CDs almost didn't make it to M and U, but I defended it."

johnc4510 then talked about the banner.  soldats has a contact with a printer.  We could get a 6 foot by 2 foot banner in black and white for free.  johnc4510 estimated that a  color one of that size would cost about $80 to $100.  A number of members stepped up and said that they'd contribute.  azteech suggested that we use the Cafe Press Team items as sale items to raise funds.  The drawback was that the Team would have to buy the items first.  Another thought was to have fliers of the items in the Team store, for sale.

johnc4510 mentioned that the biggest thing we needed at the conference was participation.  Team members have to help out on this.  It would also be good to have fliers directing people to our team and it's resources: wiki page, how to join, irc channel, and etc.  We need to really stress our support that we have to offer.  xHans asked if the AZ Team would sponsor the PLUG InstallFest the weekend after ABLEConf.  johnc4510 felt it was a good idea, but that he'd have to put it out on the mailing list to get the Team's approval.  We have a few weeks before we need to make it official, but he was all for the InstallFest being a multi-group endeavor.

Finally, we need to keep the conference and planning in mind as time is moving along.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:49 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
