{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 15 Jan at 03:59 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-01-15-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/oath-top-5-open-source-goals/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/1/linux-foundation-lfcs-and-lfce-miltos-tsatsakis 
''LINK:'' https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/7-systems-engineering-and-operations-trends-to-watch-in-2018 
''LINK:'' http://www.reallylinux.com/docs/africa.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/1/spdx-clears-confusion-around-software-licenses 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-yes-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://virtualizationreview.com/articles/2018/01/08/predictions-open-source.aspx 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtoday.com/infrastructure/pitalk-gemini-pda-and-eelo-take-different-paths-to-reinventing-the-linux-phone-180111160026.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-redirect-a-domain/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/raspberry-pi-zero-wh-sbcs-are-now-available-with-professionally-soldered-headers-519358.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/amplify-nginx-monitoring-tool/ 
''LINK:'' http://kroah.com/log/blog/2018/01/06/meltdown-status 
''LINK:'' https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2018/01/spectre_and_mel_1.html 
''LINK:'' https://brancz.com/2018/01/05/prometheus-vs-heapster-vs-kubernetes-metrics-apis/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-fixes-ubuntu-16-04-lts-regression-causing-boot-failure-on-some-pcs-519320.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.dakotapro.biz/about-us/careers.html 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-zero-wh-adds-40-pin-gpio-header-to-zero-w/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/1/top-5-firefox-extensions 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/csqcqvr6fk5c04nngkj7at03jls 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/cvr270mpiuqljcalfbt60riv0tc 
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/events/c3u0g7ifuv4cr7lhafhs3h0nppk 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (68)
* MajB (35)
* stephenm (32)
* xHans (12)
* AverageJ0e (3)
* meetingology (3)
* MajB_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan 15 03:59:31 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <toddc> it works! yea

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> toddcnb +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95640.53

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <MajB_> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <stephenm> +1

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight! All the way from TX

 04:03 <stephenm> News starts out easy then gets more complex

 04:03 <stephenm> Oath’s Top 5 Open Source Goals

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/oath-top-5-open-source-goals/

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux Foundation LFCS and LFCE: Miltos Tsatsakis

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/1/linux-foundation-lfcs-and-lfce-miltos-tsatsakis

 04:03 <stephenm> 7 systems engineering and operations trends to watch in 2018

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/7-systems-engineering-and-operations-trends-to-watch-in-2018

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux Key to IT Education and Development in Africa

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.reallylinux.com/docs/africa.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> SPDX clears confusion around software licenses

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/1/spdx-clears-confusion-around-software-licenses

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux yes Command Tutorial for Beginners (with Examples)

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-yes-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> New-Age Networking Predictions for the New Year: Open Source

 04:04 <stephenm> https://virtualizationreview.com/articles/2018/01/08/predictions-open-source.aspx

 04:04 <stephenm> PiTalk, Gemini PDA, and Eelo take different paths to the Linux phone

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxtoday.com/infrastructure/pitalk-gemini-pda-and-eelo-take-different-paths-to-reinventing-the-linux-phone-180111160026.html

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Redirect a Domain

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-redirect-a-domain/

 04:05 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi Zero WH SBCs Are Now Available with Professionally Soldered Headers

 04:05 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/raspberry-pi-zero-wh-sbcs-are-now-available-with-professionally-soldered-headers-519358.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> Amplify – NGINX Monitoring Made Easy

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/amplify-nginx-monitoring-tool/

 04:05 <stephenm> Meltdown and Spectre Linux Kernel Status

 04:05 <stephenm> http://kroah.com/log/blog/2018/01/06/meltdown-status

 04:06 <stephenm> Spectre and Meltdown Attacks Against Microprocessors

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2018/01/spectre_and_mel_1.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Prometheus vs. Heapster vs. Kubernetes Metrics APIs

 04:06 <stephenm> https://brancz.com/2018/01/05/prometheus-vs-heapster-vs-kubernetes-metrics-apis/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have tonight, back to you toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <MajB> Canonical Fixes Ubuntu 16.04 LTS Regression Causing Boot Failure on Some PCs

 04:07 <MajB> http://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-fixes-ubuntu-16-04-lts-regression-causing-boot-failure-on-some-pcs-519320.shtml

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> Two computers in the same LAN chatting one night:

 04:08 <toddc> PC1: I was having a nightmare last night, it was so horrible.

 04:08 <toddc> PC2: Why, what did you dream about ?

 04:08 <toddc> PC1: I was sleeping, dreaming 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 when all of a sudden a 2 popped up!

 04:09 <MajB> Nooo

 04:09 <toddc> yes

 04:09 <toddc> 1 more?

 04:09 <toddc> A psychiatrist had no patients in his office and he was bored. Suddenly , the door opened slowly and a man crept into the room on four legs.

 04:09 <toddc> His mouth was full with pieces of colored plastic. He was holding strange objects in his hands. He was dragging cables along behind himself.

 04:10 <toddc> The doctor was glad because of the visit and exclaimed, "And what do we have here, a little snake? Come to Uncle Doctor, my snake..." The man shook his head.

 04:10 <toddc> "Oh, sorry, I didn't notice your legs. You're a dragon, right?" The man shook his head again angrily.

 04:10 <toddc> "Sorry... a worm?" The visitor spitted out the plastic pieces. And said idiot!

 04:10 <toddc> I'm the system administrator and I came to change your LAN cable!"

 04:11 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:11 <toddc> Linux admin at Wellsfargo

 04:11 <toddc> The recruiter is Bryce Johnson (480) 258-4823

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical has 32 open positions

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <toddc> Network Administrator Tuson

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.dakotapro.biz/about-us/careers.html

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <toddc> Raspberry Pi Zero WH adds 40-pin GPIO header to Zero W

 04:12 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/raspberry-pi-zero-wh-adds-40-pin-gpio-header-to-zero-w/

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Top 5 Firefox extensions to install now

 04:12 <toddc> https://opensource.com/article/18/1/top-5-firefox-extensions

 04:12 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:13 <MajB> 20 January,  AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest,  1000-1600, University of Arizona South Learning Resource Center, 1140 Colombo Ave. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We prov

 04:13 <MajB> 20 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:13 <MajB> 25 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 25 January, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <toddc> welcome MagnusDredd

 04:14 <MajB> 01 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 03 February,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:14 <MajB> That is all.

 04:14 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:14 <MajB> Hello MagnusDredd

 04:14 <toddc> we need some????

 04:15 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:15 <MajB> Lots more

 04:15 <xHans> ja, grazi

 04:15 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is this Tuesday

 04:15 <xHans> there will be a resume review starting at 18:00

 04:15 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/csqcqvr6fk5c04nngkj7at03jls

 04:15 <xHans> the Stammtisch starts at 19:00

 04:15 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/cvr270mpiuqljcalfbt60riv0tc

 04:15 <xHans> PLUG's security meeting has moved to the third Thursday

 04:15 <xHans> it will be this Thursday on the 18th, still at 19:00

 04:16 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/events/c3u0g7ifuv4cr7lhafhs3h0nppk

 04:16 <xHans> SCaLE is coming up at the beginning of March, registration is open

 04:16 <xHans> the hotel block is filling up

 04:16 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:16 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events and news and events

 04:16 <toddc> I need a sammich

 04:16 <toddc> had to

 04:17 <toddc> classes are starting again at MCC this week

 04:17 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:17 <MajB> 20 January,  CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest,  1000-1600, University of Arizona South Learning Resource Center, 1140 Colombo Ave. Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We prov

 04:18 <MajB> Got that one in twice

 04:18 <toddc> np

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 28 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 February 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:18 <MajB> I meant to have it in twice.

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 February 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:19 <MajB> That is all that I have for now

 04:19 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS or new event Ideas?

 04:19 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:19 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:19 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:19 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:19 <AverageJ0e> phx2600 rules

 04:19 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:19 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:19 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:19 <MajB> There he is

 04:20 <MajB> Back to you toddc.

 04:20 <toddc> AverageJ0e: any other news or events we should know about?

 04:21 <AverageJ0e> HOPE is this year. in NYC

 04:21 <AverageJ0e> July 22nd

 04:21 <toddc> keep us updated

 04:22 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:22 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
