{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 01 July – Installfest/Linux workshop
* 14 attendees
* Added a humidity sensor on a WEEWX server
* Installed Kubuntu 16.04.2 in virtual box
* Repaired Cubes OS boot loader
* Installed Linux Mint 18.1
* Fixed Samba server
* MajB forgot donuts and coffee
* 02 July – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2002%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 06 July – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Configured proxmox5 server to boot using raid
* Discussion on pi, Intel Joule, non gui startup, and wi-fi AP
* A short demo on Neural Networks and Machine Learning 
* Asked a local data center for server space
* There was discussion how to capture/kill roof rats – (Not sure how that relates to Ubuntu, Linux, or FOSS but one was caught on camera)
* 09 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2009%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 15 July – Installfest/Linux workshop
* 12 attendees
* A laptop was upgraded from Debian Jesse to Debian Stretch
* A 3.5 touch screen was installed on a Raspberry Pi unit.
* A Raspberry Pi OS was installed on a Raspberry Pi unit.
* Repairs were made to System D  on a laptop.
* Repairs were made to a router that was being used for a wireless access point.
* Training was conducted on how to use dd rescue.
* 15 July – CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest
* 12 attendees
* Prepared a Compaq Presario for Linux installation.  Discovered that it is a lengthy process to replace a CMOS battery on the the 2210 series.  The installation will take place at a future meeting.
* Discussed the possibility of doing mini-installfests at the CLUG meetings and Ubuntu Hours.  We have the room and the equipment to do that mission.
* Discussed the advisability of capturing and consuming rattlesnake for lunch.  We had pizza instead.
* Conducted training on installation and post installation procedures
* 16 July – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2016%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 23 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2023%2C%202017%20Meeting
* 27 July - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 9 attendees
* Discussed the Installfest After Action Report
* We have been asked by Dr John DeLalla to conduct a mini-installfest tomorrow at the UA South starting at 0900 for three individuals.  It will be covered by Rex Bouwense, Greg Christ, and Louie Garcia.
* Discussed the date and time frame for the next installfest in October 2017.
* Discussed the new Debian concept of being able to choose your Desktop Environment at installation.
* Discussed the next point release for Ubuntu 16.04 scheduled for 8 August.  All of the install media has to be updated to reflect the new release, 16.04.3.
* The new Penguin made his inaugural appearance at the Ubuntu Hour
* One of the members inadvertently locked her keys in her car so we spent 30 minutes after the meeting attempting to open the car with wire, cable, a broom, and a few other items.  With 9 people present, there were 9 different solutions because we are group of Linux users who use different distros.   The standard coat hanger was the option that eventually was successful.
* 27 July – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 5 attendees (one new person)
* Discussed updating server options, newer network device ids, pci routing, and how to diagnose network drivers
* 30 July - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2030%2C%202017%20Meeting 
