{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:57:42] <johnc4510>	ok, we ready
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:57:49] <johnc4510>	who's here?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:57:56] <paul928>	who else is here?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:58:05] <tyche>	+1
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:58:07] <soldats>	+1
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:58:13] <paul928>	+1
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:58:22] <johnc4510>	kennymc0: you here   meeting
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:58:36] <paul928>	hi, soldats
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:58:42] <johnc4510>	hey soldats
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:58:42] <soldats>	hey paul928
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:58:51] <soldats>	hello again johnc4510
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:58:57] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:59:06] <paul928>	now, where is everybody else?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:59:10] <johnc4510>	ok, doesn't seem to be a lot of us
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:59:21] <johnc4510>	we'll make it kind of imformal tonight
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:59:22] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:59:31] <tyche>	Isn't it usually?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:59:44] <johnc4510>	more so than ususal then
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:59:50] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [20:59:52] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:00:05] <johnc4510>	tyche and i have been working on a couple of project
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:00:07] <johnc4510>	s
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:00:31] <johnc4510>	1. setting up drupal to play with on our local boxes
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:00:42] <johnc4510>	this is for the team site on the ubuntu servers
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:00:59] <johnc4510>	we get an addy because we are now an approved team
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:01:15] <johnc4510>	http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/2581571693/sizes/l/
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:01:25] <johnc4510>	http://s204.photobucket.com/albums/bb24/johnc4510/?action=view&current=first_go1.png
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:01:43] <johnc4510>	both of those are just a standard theme
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:01:53] <johnc4510>	that can be changed easily
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:02:17] <johnc4510>	we are basically trying to learn site maintenance
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:02:33] <johnc4510>	before getting it installed on the ubuntu server
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:02:51] <paul928>	johnc4510, do you want the database for http://ubuntu-az.nfshost.com/?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:03:01] <paul928>	I can send it to you
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:03:32] <johnc4510>	hmmm, not sure   how could i use it?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:03:49] <paul928>	It's a drupal db
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:04:06] <johnc4510>	ah i see
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:04:08] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:04:32] <paul928>	 you would just install it to the mysql database and you'd have it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:04:38] <johnc4510>	do i need the whole data base, or just the drupal file?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:04:59] <tyche>	paul928: what version of Drupal are you using?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:04:59] <paul928>	the mysql database
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:05:11] <johnc4510>	drupal5 ??
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:05:22] <paul928>	believe that it;'s the latest
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:05:32] <tyche>	The latest is 6
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:05:32] <johnc4510>	6 is the latest i think?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:05:34] <paul928>	I upgraded about a month ago
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:05:50] <johnc4510>	tyche: is yours 6?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:05:58] <tyche>	It wouldn't work with ours, then.  Ours came out of the repos.  Drupal 5.7, I think.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:06:09] <johnc4510>	that's it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:06:25] <paul928>	this is 6.2
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:06:28] <johnc4510>	ah
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:06:39] <tyche>	Yep. Wouldn't work.  They're different.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:06:46] <johnc4510>	i'm not sure what version the ubuntu server is using
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:06:57] <tyche>	But we might pick your brains as to how you got the log-in on the page.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:04] <slofgren>	howdy
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:08] <johnc4510>	paul928: sent it too me anyway and i'll hold it in case
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:14] <johnc4510>	slofgren: hey bud
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:19] <johnc4510>	about time
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:20] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:23] <paul928>	you should really upgrade. 5.x has some security problems
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:29] <johnc4510>	ah
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:45] <johnc4510>	paul928: i'll find out which version the ubuntu server has
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:51] <tyche>	It all depends on what Canonical is running on its servers
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:52] <paul928>	ok
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:07:56] <johnc4510>	paul928: you need my email address?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:05] <paul928>	yes
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:06] <johnc4510>	johnc4510@ubuntu.com
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:12] <paul928>	got it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:18] <johnc4510>	thx
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:19] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:40] <johnc4510>	yours is the same theme only the color has been changed
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:41] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:46] <tyche>	paul928: send him the "site", too.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:51] <johnc4510>	garland i think
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:08:58] <tyche>	He'd need that to access the db
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:09:05] <paul928>	yes, it's garland
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:09:31] <johnc4510>	drupal is pretty easy
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:09:37] <tyche>	Oh.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:09:48] <paul928>	yes it is
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:09:49] <johnc4510>	but i've had some problems with the taxonomy module
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:10:00] <johnc4510>	still trying to figure that out
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:10:34] <johnc4510>	ok
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:11:09] <johnc4510>	so we have a start on that, and maybe this wk we'll get it all figured out and apply for the new site address
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:11:28] <johnc4510>	i'm not sure how long it takes for the admins to set it up
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:12:04] <johnc4510>	it shouldn't take long, but i think they kind of look at it as something that doesn't have priority
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:12:09] <johnc4510>	so we'll see
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:12:12] <johnc4510>	next
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:12:14] <paul928>	you have to getr permission fromcanonical?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:12:28] <tyche>	It would be running on their servers
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:12:37] <johnc4510>	they do the actual setting up of everything
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:12:51] <johnc4510>	we would only have very limited access
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:12:56] <johnc4510>	thru the gui
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:13:00] <johnc4510>	mostly
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:13:14] <johnc4510>	i think we can maybe get limited access to the server
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:13:19] <johnc4510>	if we show a need
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:13:23] <paul928>	with drupal that's probably ok
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:13:29] <johnc4510>	yep
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:13:50] <johnc4510>	they don't want just everyone poking around in it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:13:55] <johnc4510>	which i can understand
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:14:07] <johnc4510>	ok next
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:14:30] <johnc4510>	tyche and i have been working on the flyer for the open source conference
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:14:45] <johnc4510>	i have several links here
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:15:03] <johnc4510>	these are for the ones tyche did
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:15:07] <johnc4510>	http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/2583025550/
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:15:08] <johnc4510>	http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5195033#post5195033
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:15:30] <johnc4510>	these are for mine
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:15:34] <johnc4510>	http://s204.photobucket.com/albums/bb24/johnc4510/?action=view&current=AZ-OSCON.jpg
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:15:37] <johnc4510>	http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5195067#post5195067
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:15:49] <johnc4510>	all are just prototypes
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:15:58] <johnc4510>	mine especially may not fly
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:16:24] <johnc4510>	because i *cough* kind of stole the image and cropped it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:16:26] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:16:41] <johnc4510>	tyche: btw, don't put that in the newsletter please
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:16:43] <johnc4510>	hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:16:52] <tyche>	Oh.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:16:56] <tyche>	Hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:17:00] <johnc4510>	;P
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:17:27] <johnc4510>	we would love to see some more members work on options
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:17:47] <soldats>	ok
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:17:48] <johnc4510>	the one i did actually only took me about 20 mins to create
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:18:00] <paul928>	johnc4510,  that's a pretty logo. Who'd you 'borrow' it from?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:18:08] <johnc4510>	that was cropping it in gimp and creating the flyer
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:18:32] <tyche>	He stole it from a flag.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:18:38] <soldats>	i like the art but its too plain needs more text and whatnot maybe little flyers but something else really needs to be there
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:18:41] <tyche>	But I don't know NOTHING
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:18:42] <johnc4510>	http://www.allstates-flag.com/fotw/images/z/za).jpg
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:18:49] <johnc4510>	that's the original image
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:19:09] <johnc4510>	soldats: agreed
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:19:44] <soldats>	the images would work best smaller on a certain corner with maybe something else on the rest of the body
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:19:50] <johnc4510>	i thought maybe once we get some sponsors we could add their logos around the edges of whatever we decide to go with
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:20:00] <soldats>	yea that would be best
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:20:04] <tyche>	Same with LUGS
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:20:08] <johnc4510>	rigth
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:20:14] <johnc4510>	right
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:20:15] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:20:23] <johnc4510>	fingers are bad tonight
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:20:26] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:20:42] <johnc4510>	yeah, like i said these are just starting points
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:20:53] <johnc4510>	and we would love other ideas
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:21:11] <johnc4510>	tyche: don't put the original link to my image in the newsletter either
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:21:13] <johnc4510>	hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:21:16] <johnc4510>	please
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:21:25] <tyche>	What am I offered?  Hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:21:30] <johnc4510>	i feel like tyche has me now
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:21:34] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:22:00] <johnc4510>	soldats: it would be great if you could throw something together too :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:22:09] <soldats>	lol i will for sure
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:22:11] <johnc4510>	the more ideas the better
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:22:36] <soldats>	ill haev to work quick so can i maybe get some images from you guys for other sponsors if you can get them
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:22:45] <johnc4510>	like i like the way tyche
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:22:50] <soldats>	like any lugs or whatnot
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:23:01] <johnc4510>	tyche's text is shadowed
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:23:01] <tyche>	I've got the lug images, soldats.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:23:11] <soldats>	tyche: send me them please
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:23:49] <tyche>	Sure.  Do I have your address?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:23:57] <soldats>	you have my old one
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:24:02] <soldats>	i rarely use it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:24:03] <tyche>	DUH!  Yes.  It was staring at me.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:24:18] <tyche>	What's your preferred address?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:24:25] <soldats>	new one is gmail instead of hotmail
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:24:34] <soldats>	everything else is the same
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:24:35] <tyche>	Nope.  I've got your new one.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:24:41] <soldats>	ok
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:24:42] <johnc4510>	cool
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:25:04] <soldats>	i got a few weeks to do this for my input so ill give it a go
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:25:12] <johnc4510>	ok, now this next item is a new thing to talk about
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:25:14] <johnc4510>	soldats: great
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:25:40] <johnc4510>	the community is organizing a global bug jam event
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:25:45] <johnc4510>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue95
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:25:58] <johnc4510>	about the second item down in community news
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:26:19] <soldats>	damnit i wish i could just click the link
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:26:31] <soldats>	i hate typing /exec firefox everytime
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:26:33] <johnc4510>	the idea is to have an event where you get together and fix bugs in ubuntu
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:26:37] <johnc4510>	soldats: sorry
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:27:05] <johnc4510>	now, i personally don't have any expertise in working on bugs
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:27:21] <paul928>	cli is good, sometimes :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:27:22] <johnc4510>	wouldn't know where to start or what to do
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:27:59] <johnc4510>	not sure tyche does either?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:28:02] <soldats>	its mostly trying to recreate a certain problem and figuring out fixes
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:28:10] <tyche>	Absolutely NOT.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:28:13] <johnc4510>	exactly
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:28:23] <paul928>	unless a person knows how to write/debug code, that probably isn't relevant
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:28:31] <johnc4510>	now, we could try to work with the lugs on this too
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:28:35] <soldats>	the triaging i think is posting the fixes and registering them as fixed
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:28:38] <johnc4510>	paul928: agreed
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:29:10] <johnc4510>	it's not until august btw
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:29:15] <soldats>	most of the code is fine its normally the config files
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:29:18] <johnc4510>	so we would have some time
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:29:23] <johnc4510>	ah
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:29:37] <soldats>	to practice just read config files all day sometime
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:29:46] <tyche>	zzzzzzzzzz
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:29:50] <johnc4510>	maybe we could talk to plugaz and hans and see if they are interested
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:29:53] <paul928>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:29:55] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:30:07] <johnc4510>	tyche and i are of the same mind on this
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:30:08] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:30:28] <johnc4510>	both of us are already buggy enough
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:30:30] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:30:38] <johnc4510>	but i'm not against it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:30:51] <johnc4510>	just not sure if we could do it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:31:06] <johnc4510>	soldats could probably handle it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:31:23] <soldats>	im not sure either seeing as i may be the only one to ever frequent launchpad bug section
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:31:29] <johnc4510>	he of the linux brainiac crowd
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:31:42] <johnc4510>	i have posted a few bug
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:31:43] <johnc4510>	s
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:31:48] <johnc4510>	but not many
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:31:48] <tyche>	Look out, soldats.  He's buttering you up.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:31:59] <johnc4510>	who me!!??
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:01] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:07] <soldats>	i melted already its 105 in my room
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:10] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:10] <paul928>	duh, I've squished bugs
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:14] <tyche>	Step AWAY from that butter knife.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:36] <johnc4510>	ok, why don't we take this as a "we'll look into it" kind of thing
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:42] <johnc4510>	i can ask hans about it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:43] Join	LuftHans has joined this channel (n=LuftHans@ip68-3-65-49.ph.ph.cox.net).
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:52] <johnc4510>	speak of the devil
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:55] <johnc4510>	hi LuftHans
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:58] <tyche>	Speek of the LuftHans.  Hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:58] <soldats>	if you think its worth our time johnc4510 travel to the ubuntu bug section of launchpad and see how difficult it really is to find bug fixes and bugs themselves
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:59] <paul928>	talk about timing!
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:32:59] <LuftHans>	moin moin
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:33:04] <LuftHans>	sorry about being late
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:33:12] <johnc4510>	np
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:33:18] 	 * LuftHans delegates whatever he was just assigned :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:33:35] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: we were just discussing fixing bugs in launchpad
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:33:56] <soldats>	it seemed like a group get-together event
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:33:58] <johnc4510>	you have any expertise in that
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:34:04] <johnc4510>	soldats: yep
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:34:17] <LuftHans>	launchpad bugs or bugs launchpad has registered such as bug #1?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:34:26] <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 1 in ubuntu "Microsoft has a majority market share" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:34:34] <johnc4510>	launchpad bugs i believe
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:34:52] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue95
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:01] <johnc4510>	it's a global bug jam event
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:04] <tyche>	Actually, I think it's bugs that have been regestered in Launchpad.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:08] <johnc4510>	to include lugs
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:15] <boredandblogging>	LuftHans: what tyche said
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:26] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: most of us have no or little experience in bug fixing
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:28] <tyche>	Hey, boredandblogging.  Evining
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:34] <johnc4510>	boredandblogging: howdy
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:44] <LuftHans>	ok, bugsquashing party
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:49] <johnc4510>	yep
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:51] <tyche>	Yep
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:57] <paul928>	and a big welcome to all
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:35:59] <boredandblogging>	hello folks
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:36:02] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:36:09] <johnc4510>	welcome friend
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:36:12] <LuftHans>	as to fixing, maybe a place to start is to get setup for testing
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:36:25] <johnc4510>	the smoking lamp is on
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:36:35] <boredandblogging>	:-P
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:36:43] <tyche>	(And it's setting off the smoke alarms)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:36:55] <LuftHans>	I just learned about xmacro today
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:36:57] <LuftHans>	xmacro - Record / Play keystrokes and mouse movements in X displays
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:37:00] <tyche>	Well?  You said the lamp was smoking.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:37:14] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: you and the plugaz group interest in something like this?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:37:26] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: definitely, at least for some of us
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:37:32] <johnc4510>	cool
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:37:43] <paul928>	LuftHans, I agree. With the general technical level that most of us have, bug reporting is probably the most indicated
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:37:52] <johnc4510>	well, it's in august
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:38:03] <LuftHans>	we need to get a monthly get together event going in Tucson
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:38:14] <johnc4510>	yep
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:38:18] <soldats>	agreed
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:38:18] 	 * LuftHans suggests a Stammtisch or InstallFest :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:38:34] <johnc4510>	one of our oldtimers showed up today in channel and is going to be around some now
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:38:56] <LuftHans>	the reason I say that is that we could use it, as well as the InstallFest up here, as practice events for the bug jam
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:39:10] <johnc4510>	a good idea
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:39:40] <johnc4510>	ok, to back up here a bit now for LuftHans
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:39:53] <LuftHans>	I will be trying to organize helping people with preparations for the OpenOffice.org class at the InstallFest as well
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:40:06] <LuftHans>	*beep* *beep* *beep*
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:40:11] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:40:24] <tyche>	I need one of those for my wife.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:40:26] <tyche>	Hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:40:30] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:40:54] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: earlier we looked at some images and flyers for the oscon
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:41:15] <johnc4510>	these are from tyche
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:41:17] <johnc4510>	http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/2583025550/
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:41:17] <johnc4510>	http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5195033#post5195033
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:41:34] <johnc4510>	and me
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:41:37] <johnc4510>	http://s204.photobucket.com/albums/bb24/johnc4510/?action=view&current=AZ-OSCON.jpg
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:41:40] <johnc4510>	http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5195067#post5195067
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:41:47] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: these are just demos
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:41:52] <johnc4510>	to play with
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:41:57] <LuftHans>	the second one isn't visible
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:42:08] <johnc4510>	ah
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:42:10] <soldats>	yep see johnc4510 i told youit didnt work
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:42:18] <johnc4510>	you have to be signed into the forums
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:42:23] <tyche>	Click on the thumbnail
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:42:28] <johnc4510>	ignore the second link on both
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:42:33] <LuftHans>	tyche: still have to be signed in
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:42:34] <tyche>	Ah.  Yes, there is that.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:42:52] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: I like yours and my wife, the artist, likes it as well
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:42:56] <soldats>	the photobucket one for be never works
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:43:06] <tyche>	Give me a second
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:43:07] <LuftHans>	tyche: I like yours, but $wife hasn't yet seen it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:43:24] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: k, i kind of stole the image and cropped it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:43:27] <johnc4510>	:/
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:43:39] <johnc4510>	not sure about copywrite problems
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:43:41] <johnc4510>	hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:43:55] <LuftHans>	the problem with tyche's is that the left wing looks like the head and then the light yellow part looks there there's a beak nipple or something going on
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:44:25] <LuftHans>	we want to make sure we have approval to use whatever we use
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:44:32] <johnc4510>	the idea is that once we pick an image then we can add sponsor logo's and lug logo's around the edges
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:44:40] <LuftHans>	cool
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:44:41] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: agreed
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:44:43] <tyche>	johnc4510's:  http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/2583240238/
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:44:51] <LuftHans>	maybe we can just do a flaming tux?  :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:03] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:13] <paul928>	I like the 'flaming tux'
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:13] <tyche>	Mine:  http://www.flickr.com/photos/22090195@N03/2583240236/in/photostream/
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:24] <johnc4510>	tyche can you volunteer to be the flaming tux   i have a camera
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:24] <johnc4510>	?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:38] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:40] <LuftHans>	I would like a different name than oscon
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:47] <tyche>	Somehow I think I'd feel a bit burned up about that.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:53] 	 * LuftHans keeps pointing out that the Ubuntu book spells Free Software wrong :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:45:57] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: ok, that's not a problem
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:03] <tyche>	Cremation is supposed to be AFTER I'm dead.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:14] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: you want FLOSS
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:19] <LuftHans>	yeah, name should be mostly irrelevant now
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:27] 	 * LuftHans hands johnc4510 a brush.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:30] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:31] <paul928>	tyche, or at the same time. :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:35] Join	azteech has joined this channel (n=azteech@0-1pool118-128.nas8.tucson1.az.us.da.qwest.net).
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:42] <johnc4510>	azteech: wb
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:55] <tyche>	paul928: Not if I can help it.  I don't like pain.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:46:59] <johnc4510>	azteech is an old member who has been out of touch for a while
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:02] <johnc4510>	tucson person
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:09] <azteech>	ty Johnc4510 :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:15] <azteech>	evening all ..
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:22] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: what kind of name do you want?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:25] <johnc4510>	also
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:27] <tyche>	Morning, azteech
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:27] <LuftHans>	'nabend azteech
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:35] 	 * johnc4510 greets LuftHans better half
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:37] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:47:51] <azteech>	gut nacht .. lufthans ..
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:48:14] <johnc4510>	azteech: LuftHans is from plugaz
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:48:45] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: dunno for now, but would like it to be something that can be used annually and also be something that'll reach out to the general public rather than just FLOSS enthusiasts
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:48:49] <azteech>	Ah, I see ... happy to see members of other groups come in ...
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:49:00] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: k
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:49:08] <johnc4510>	i'm open to suggestions
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:49:17] <johnc4510>	and annual is gooooood
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:49:17] <LuftHans>	AZ FLOSS con and we'll get lots of dentaly hygienists :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:49:23] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:49:25] <azteech>	lol ...
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:49:34] <LuftHans>	s/aly/al/
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:49:51] <johnc4510>	i like hygienists
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:49:53] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:50:00] <tyche>	LuftHans: I allready pulled that pun in a blog.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:50:06] <johnc4510>	you can tell i'm not married
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:50:22] <azteech>	lol john
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:50:24] <LuftHans>	tyche: ah, bad humorists think alike :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:50:37] <tyche>	Yep.  Great, isn't it.  Hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:50:46] <LuftHans>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:51:07] <LuftHans>	are we ready to start mailing list or whatever for the barcamp?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:51:19] <johnc4510>	well, arizona open source computer conference doesn't sing for me
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:51:42] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: we should probably start one yes
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:51:43] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: mostly likely you'd prefer that most of us don't sing
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:51:49] <azteech>	AZ OSCC?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:51:56] <tyche>	I TOLD you to call it the Phoenix Open.  Hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:52:16] 	 * LuftHans fills tyche's jeep with golf balls.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:52:21] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: i probably sing worse than anyone here
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:52:32] <LuftHans>	the name can wait
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:52:34] <johnc4510>	and then tees off on him
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:52:36] <paul928>	ribbitt
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:52:36] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:52:37] <azteech>	lol .... was thinking more like steel ball-bearings
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:52:51] <LuftHans>	much more important things like when and where and general market than the name
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:53:00] <johnc4510>	right
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:53:03] <tyche>	Well, better than brass on a cold winter day in New York.  Hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:53:15] 	 * LuftHans has seen to many projects get hung up on naming and even been part of the problem a few times :(
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:53:18] <azteech>	lol tyche ...
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:53:23] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:53:37] <johnc4510>	the name can wait
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:53:58] <azteech>	naming, and planning can parallel ....
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:54:08] <LuftHans>	let's build the organizing committee and start figuring out what needs to be done
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:54:15] <johnc4510>	k
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:54:16] <azteech>	don't mean they have to keep pace with one another .... just like I-10 project ... lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:54:22] <LuftHans>	azteech: exactly, naming is one of the tasks the first year
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:54:37] <LuftHans>	those doing it next year are stuck with whatever we come up with :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:54:45] <johnc4510>	hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:54:51] 	 * LuftHans wonders if there are any SCC artichokes here
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:54:52] <azteech>	yep
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:55:17] <paul928>	azoscon?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:55:26] <johnc4510>	scotsdale community college?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:55:28] <tyche>	Phoenix Rising
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:55:34] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: yup
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:55:42] <johnc4510>	not that i know of
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:55:55] <azteech>	why not just make up a commitee .... and have two sub groups .... planning and naming .. make up the group ..
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:56:11] <LuftHans>	azteech: yeah, something like that
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:56:13] <johnc4510>	azteech: yeha
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:56:30] <johnc4510>	need to start with the main commitee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:56:37] <johnc4510>	and branch off from it
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:56:43] <LuftHans>	we can make naming a task for the marketing committee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:56:52] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:56:59] <tyche>	DON'T mention "Marketing Committee"
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:57:00] <azteech>	second that
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:57:15] <johnc4510>	i think tyche just voluteered
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:57:28] <soldats>	agreed good luck tyche
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:57:33] <azteech>	I think so too .. john .... ;-)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:58:01] <LuftHans>	great, now it will be the Phoenix Open :(
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:58:05] <paul928>	actually, tyche should HEAD the "Marketing Commitee"
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:58:26] <soldats>	HA
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:58:28] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: ok we need a mail list, i'm not sure i can get one of ubuntu's mailing lists
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:58:33] 	 * LuftHans figured tyche was some side branch
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:58:37] <paul928>	'GREATER Phownix Open'
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:58:54] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: I can get us a mailing list, I think
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:59:06] <johnc4510>	kk, that would be great
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:59:20] <LuftHans>	actually, I'm certain I could get us mailing lists on several servers just to be confusing :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:59:27] <johnc4510>	once we have an addy we can inform the lugs and take off
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [21:59:37] <LuftHans>	ok
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:00:13] <soldats>	LuftHans: also from earlier xmacro is fun you should also run xeyes its funny and pointless
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:00:13] <johnc4510>	thinking one member from each group on the committee??
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:00:32] <LuftHans>	soldats: yeah, I use that as a demo in my classes
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:00:44] <LuftHans>	I learned in my last class that it's configurable
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:01:17] <soldats>	heh nice
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:01:23] <azteech>	we have to keep in mind the naming ...... there already is an OSCON ... ... so calling it Az-OSCON ... will be like the donkey following the cart ...
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:01:27] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: we can try that, but it comes down to those who'll work should be on the commitee :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:01:34] <johnc4510>	true
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:01:54] <johnc4510>	we'll know that right off by who responds
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:00] <tyche>	I'm retired.  I don't work
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:02] <tyche>	Hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:16] <johnc4510>	^^^^ i can vouch for that
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:17] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:28] 	 * LuftHans assigns tyche to the bingo committee.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:35] <soldats>	i got re-tired today after i woke up
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:38] <johnc4510>	he'd be good at that
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:38] <azteech>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:46] <tyche>	B-4 - - - Aft ter
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:02:52] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:03:12] <johnc4510>	ok, anything else for this wk?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:03:14] <azteech>	in addition, I assign tyche to be official door greeter .... :P
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:03:27] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: do we need to get back to bugsquashing?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:03:37] <tyche>	azteech: You cheat.  You've seen me in action, haven't you?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:03:50] <azteech>	who, mee?? hehe ...
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:04:09] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: i think i need to do some more research about it to get an idea of what we can handle
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:04:19] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: ok
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:04:20] <azteech>	all in jest .. tyche. ...
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:04:33] <johnc4510>	we can discuss it next wk a little better maybe
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:04:50] <johnc4510>	i hate to talk about what i know nothing about
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:04:56] <tyche>	azteech: I know
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:05:13] <tyche>	johnc4510: That never stopped you before.
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:05:15] <azteech>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:05:15] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: we should try to work with a couple of technical schools and do an on campus event, something like a game party, but for bug squashing
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:05:32] <johnc4510>	that sounds interesting
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:05:40] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: ok
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:06:05] <kennymc0>	ok i made it back finally
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:06:16] <azteech>	almost sounds like ... the summer code project .. for who is ... google?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:06:23] <johnc4510>	ok, lets adjourn till next wk, maybe LuftHans might have a mail list going by then?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:06:44] <LuftHans>	johnc4510: I will try
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:06:46] <johnc4510>	and we can discuss bug jam more intelligently
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:06:54] <johnc4510>	LuftHans: thx
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:04] <johnc4510>	all your input is appreciated
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:05] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:08] <LuftHans>	BTW, Stammtische this Tuesday, in both Tempe and Avondale
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:27] <LuftHans>	glad to help and glad to see so many in the LoCo being involved!
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:29] <johnc4510>	make any annoucements you want to
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:42] <johnc4510>	we are trying
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:44] <johnc4510>	:)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:46] <paul928>	Stammtische? translation?
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:49] 	 * LuftHans looks south to see if there are any decent pub/restaurants with wireless :)
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:07:59] <johnc4510>	lol
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:08:19] <tyche>	LuftHans: hold it in johnc4510's house.  Hee hee
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:08:19] <LuftHans>	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:08:26] <azteech>	looking into possible solution for that .. in am ... lufthans ...
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:08:32] <LuftHans>	tyche: that could work
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:08:39] <LuftHans>	azteech: cool, danke
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:08:51] <azteech>	bitte ...
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:08:52] <johnc4510>	ok, adjourned then
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:09:13] <LuftHans>	BTW, a new Stammtisch doesn't have to be the same night and time, but I think it would be cool if it were
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:09:20] <johnc4510>	no problem on location here, but i charge for enterance
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:09:30] <johnc4510>	kk
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:09:31] <tyche>	azteech: So you have some idea, this is me:  https://launchpad.net/~tyche
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:09:36] <paul928>	http://www.toytowngermany.com/wiki/Stammtisch
[Sun Jun 15 2008] [22:09:40] 	 * LuftHans hands johnc4510 some old 486 CPUs
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
