{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 13 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:20 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-11-13-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/11/how-microsoft-contributes-kubernetes 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/minixs-creator-would-have-liked-knowing-intel-was-using-it/ 
''LINK:'' https://freedompenguin.com/articles/how-to/linux-media-server-kodi/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/how-to-run-windows-apps-on-your-chromebook/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/lightweight-alternative-applications-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://kerneltalks.com/tips-tricks/how-to-configure-login-banners-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.admin-magazine.com/HPC/Articles/Small-Tools-for-Managing-HPC 
''LINK:'' https://www.top500.org/news/how-to-measure-hpc/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/11/arduino-create-expands-support-linux-intel-chips 
''LINK:'' https://blog.turbinelabs.io/the-first-step-in-modern-networking-isnt-a-sidecar-ed657db67cd3 
''LINK:'' https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/understanding-tracing 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/firefox-quantum-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2017/11/kubernetes-numbers-10-compelling-stats 
''LINK:'' https://www.xda-developers.com/linux-kernel-long-term-support-google/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/11/openstack-edge-computing?utm_campaign=intrel 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/watch-or-monitor-linux-log-files-in-real-time/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.infinitydentalweb.com/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/11/10/linux_on_galaxy_video_demo/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.itworld.com/article/2827546/enterprise-software/14-of-the-most-useful-linux-websites.htmlY 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (55)
* MajB (38)
* stephenm (37)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack1 (2)
* markthomas (1)
* OceanBlueSteve (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov 13 04:00:16 2017 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <wmack1> +

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <wmack1> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95468.16

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <OceanBlueSteve> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> 

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> THe news starts out somewhat simple and then gets into more technical.

 04:03 <stephenm> How Microsoft Contributes to Kubernetes

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/11/how-microsoft-contributes-kubernetes

 04:03 <stephenm> MINIX's creator would have liked to have known Intel was using it

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/minixs-creator-would-have-liked-knowing-intel-was-using-it/

 04:03 <stephenm> who knew

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux Media Server with Kodi – For The Record

 04:03 <stephenm> https://freedompenguin.com/articles/how-to/linux-media-server-kodi/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to run Windows apps on your Chromebook

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/how-to-run-windows-apps-on-your-chromebook/

 04:04 <stephenm> 9 Lightweight Linux Applications to Speed Up Your System

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/lightweight-alternative-applications-ubuntu/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to configure login banners in Linux (RedHat, Ubuntu, CentOS, Fedora)

 04:04 <stephenm> https://kerneltalks.com/tips-tricks/how-to-configure-login-banners-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> It’s the Little Things

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.admin-magazine.com/HPC/Articles/Small-Tools-for-Managing-HPC

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Measure HPC

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.top500.org/news/how-to-measure-hpc/

 04:05 <stephenm> Arduino Create Expands to Support Linux on Intel Chips

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/11/arduino-create-expands-support-linux-intel-chips

 04:05 <stephenm> The First Step in Modern Networking isn’t a Sidecar

 04:05 <stephenm> https://blog.turbinelabs.io/the-first-step-in-modern-networking-isnt-a-sidecar-ed657db67cd3

 04:05 <stephenm> Understanding tracing

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/understanding-tracing

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Firefox Quantum in Ubuntu Right Now

 04:05 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/firefox-quantum-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Kubernetes by the numbers: 10 compelling stats

 04:05 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2017/11/kubernetes-numbers-10-compelling-stats

 04:06 <stephenm> Project Treble Brings Extended Linux Kernel Security Support to Combat Fragmentation

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.xda-developers.com/linux-kernel-long-term-support-google/

 04:06 <stephenm> Edge Computing Moves the Open Cloud Beyond the Data Center

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/11/openstack-edge-computing?utm_campaign=intrel

 04:06 <stephenm> 4 Ways to Watch or Monitor Log Files in Real Time

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/watch-or-monitor-linux-log-files-in-real-time/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all for tonight, back to you toddc

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> Which way did the computer programmer go?

 04:08 <toddc> He went data way!

 04:08 <toddc> Where are delinquent disk drives sent?

 04:08 <toddc> To boot camp!

 04:09 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:09 <toddc> Administrator, IT Operations work from home

 04:09 <toddc> https://jobs.aa.com/job/Phoenix-Administrator%2C-IT-Operations-AZ-85001/441280000/?locale=en_US

 04:09 <toddc> Canonical has 29 open positions

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <toddc> Web Developer

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.infinitydentalweb.com/

 04:10 <toddc> Network Administrator

 04:10 <toddc> Must represent Myriad Consulting as a diplomatic, people-oriented team player

 04:10 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:10 <toddc> Samsung shows off Linux desktops on Galaxy smartmobes

 04:10 <toddc> Ubuntu ??? all of it ??? running Eclipse on a phone, and a DeX dock

 04:10 <toddc> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/11/10/linux_on_galaxy_video_demo/

 04:11 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:11 <toddc> 14 of the most useful Linux websites

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.itworld.com/article/2827546/enterprise-software/14-of-the-most-useful-linux-websites.htmlY

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:12 <MajB> 16 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 16 November, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 18 November,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your p

 04:13 <MajB> 02 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:13 <MajB> 07 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:15 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 14 November 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:15 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.

 04:15 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 19 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:15 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:15 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 21 November 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conv

 04:15 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 November 1-3;45 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:15 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 01 December 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:16 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 14 December 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:16 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:17 <MajB> That is all that I have

 04:18 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:18 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:18 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:18 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:18 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:18 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:18 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:18 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:18 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:18 <toddc> we need some

 04:19 <toddc> OceanBlueSteve: will be by weeks end

 04:19 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:20 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
