{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>

=== Log ===
<pre>
20:58 < johnc4510> how about a +1 from those here for the meeting please
20:58 < johnc4510> :)
20:58 < br24> +1
20:58 < br24> for once
20:58 < tyche> Multiple people can cause confusion.  It was best to let word try.  _MrApple_ may be back in to get help, though.
20:58 < tyche> +1
20:58 < johnc4510> k
20:59 < tyche> He was actually doing a pretty good job of it.
20:59 < johnc4510> cool
20:59 < tyche> That, BTW was a flat statement, not one of surprise
20:59 < word> tyche: thanks ☺
20:59 < johnc4510> if it's just us, we should just shit the breeze for a bit and catch up maybe ??
20:59 < tyche> NP.  You deserve it.
20:59 < johnc4510> hey word
21:00 < johnc4510> word: what problems is it they are having ?
21:00 < johnc4510> just the right drivers?
21:00 < johnc4510> i think when i spoke with him, envy drivers weren't working
21:00 < word> johnc4510: moving from a multi-head 'Separate X Server' setup to a 'TwinView' setup
21:01 -!- mauricio1 [n=mauricio@ip70-176-175-138.ph.ph.cox.net] has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
21:01 < johnc4510> well, if the drivers are right, nvidia-settings should be working and that lets you enable twin view i think
21:01 < johnc4510> mauricio1: evening
21:01 < mauricio1> Hello, good evening to all
21:02 < br24> greetings mauricio1
21:02 < tyche> Hi, mauricio1
21:02 < word> johnc4510: yah, i was walking her through that but nvidia-settings has it's quirks and wasn't applying things right
21:02 < johnc4510> only 4 here for meeting, so i'll throw up some announcements and then we'll see
21:02 < johnc4510> word: ah ok
21:02 < xHans> johnc4510: I'll have a couple of announcements and not be stepping outside this week
21:02 < johnc4510> i've never set up twin view myself
21:03 < word> i've set it up a few times, it's a bit of a pain, but easier than going through and doing it manually with xrandr or whatever.
21:03 < johnc4510> xHans: if you want to get them over with early...it's ok
21:03 < xHans> johnc4510: not quite ready :)
21:03 < johnc4510> word: nods
21:03 < johnc4510> xHans: k
21:03 < johnc4510> i'll do mine then
21:03 < johnc4510> Ubuntu 8.04.3 LTS has been released for the server, desktop, and alternate installation CDs for the i386 and amd64 architectures. Eighty updates have been integrated including security updates and corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 8.04 LTS. Downloads or CDs are available: http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download
21:04 < johnc4510> just an updated release that takes the updates into consideration
21:04 < johnc4510> .
21:04 < johnc4510> Announcing that Karmic is now open for translation. You can now go to: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+translations to start translating Ubuntu Karmic.
21:05 < johnc4510> .
21:05 < johnc4510> The Ubuntu Java development team is pleased to announce completed certification of OpenJDK 6 for Ubuntu 9.04, continuing Ubuntu's tradition of integrating the latest and greatest open source technologies into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution. This certification means that the OpenJDK 6 package included with Ubuntu 9.04 now passes the rigorous testing of the Java SE Test Compatibility Kit (TCK) and is compatible with the Jav
21:05 < johnc4510> .
21:05 < johnc4510> if you already have java 6 installed there's nothing more to do
21:05 < johnc4510> this just certifies it works with the release
21:06 < johnc4510> .
21:06 < johnc4510> ok, did everyone have a chance to look over my remarks in the last team newsletter?
21:07 < johnc4510> any questions, feel free to ask
21:07 < johnc4510> :)
21:07 < br24> johnc4510: sorry I wasnt at the last meeting
21:08 < johnc4510> ah np
21:08 < br24> I for one would hate to see you step down
21:08 < br24> but family will always come first
21:08 < johnc4510> thx...we're trying to work it out
21:08 < xHans> br24: alternatively, we can arrange for free carwashes for johnc4510 to give him some spare time :)
21:08 < tyche> Well, he'll still be around to keep us in line.
21:09 < johnc4510> lol
21:09 < br24> do what you must, and whenever you're ready to come back, everyone will be ready
21:09  * br24 likes xHans idea
21:09 < johnc4510> nods...thx...we'll see what happens in the next few wks
21:09 < tyche> Yea, so do I.  I'd like to see johnc4510 washed like a car.  HEE HEE
21:10 < johnc4510> bet you would lol
21:10 < br24> Im not scrubbing the headlights
21:10 < tyche> I'm not scrubbing the tail pipe
21:10 < johnc4510> lol
21:11 < johnc4510> you guys are leaving me too many openings...but i'll pass on them
21:11 < johnc4510> hee hee
21:11 < johnc4510> xHans: whenever you're ready just sing out :)
21:11 < tyche> Good thinking.
21:11 < johnc4510> no hurry
21:11 < johnc4510> :)
21:12 < johnc4510> next wk. lets get back to the tucson installfest planning
21:12 < johnc4510> ??
21:12 < xHans> well, I won't sing as that'd be too much for tyche's sensitive ears
21:12 < johnc4510> lol
21:12 < xHans> ABLEconf, Saturday Oktober 24th, 10:00 to 16:00, then over to Boulders
21:12 < xHans> We're considering a FOSS dev day on Friday and a LAN party on Sunday
21:12 < tyche> THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU
21:12 < xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com
21:12 < johnc4510> nice
21:12 < tyche> For not singing
21:13 < johnc4510> but i like gaelic folk music
21:13 < johnc4510> hee hee
21:13 < xHans> we should have a press release ready Monday or Tuesday, so please sign up to help with promo and send out the press release this week
21:13 < xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/wiki/index.php?title=2009Phx/Promotion
21:13 < johnc4510> k
21:13 < word> xHans: what's a FOSS dev day?
21:14 -!- _MrsApple_ [n=apple@64.130.243.10] has joined #ubuntu-us-az
21:14 < xHans> we especially need help outside of Phoenix
21:14 < johnc4510> _MrsApple_: welcome back
21:14 < _MrsApple_> lol
21:14 < johnc4510> xHans: ok
21:14 < br24> wb _MrsApple_
21:14 < xHans> word: http://www.fossdevcamp.org/
21:14 < _MrsApple_> thanks... cant sleep... and am craving hot tamales something fierce :/
21:14  * johnc4510 passing the hot sauce
21:14 < xHans> I'm not certain how they do it, but I'm thinking a barcamp type of thing for the first four hours, then coding after that
21:14 < johnc4510> passes
21:15 < johnc4510> nods
21:15 < xHans> Planning meetings are every Sunday at 20:00 in #ABLEconf, please join if you'd like to help create Arizona's premier free software conference
21:15 < xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch in Tempe is this Tuesday
21:15 < johnc4510> i should be there next wk i hope
21:15 < xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#Tempe
21:16 < _MrsApple_> hi br24
21:16 < xHans> The west side meeting is this Wednesday, we will be at a temporary location
21:16 < _MrsApple_> have any of you ever hacked into a computer before?
21:16 < xHans> PhrkOnLsh will be covering unetbootin
21:16 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/353
21:16 < xHans> PLUG and Ubuntu-US-AZ Installfest this Saturday
21:16 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/127
21:18 < xHans> community college classes start up again in mid-August, so check for Free Software classes at your local community colleges
21:18 < xHans> in Mesa we'll have intro to Linux, shell scripting, OpenOffice.org, C and I think python
21:18 < xHans> Avondale will have intro, sysadmin, shell scripting and more
21:19 < xHans> the OpenOffice.org class is online and can be taken from anywhere in Arizona and probably from anywhere in the world
21:20 < matthewmpp> xHans: I can probably give my presentation on Songbird & Chatzilla this Wednesday if you want. The WSM has had a presentation on FF & T-bird already.
21:20 < br24> xHans: wheres info for the OO class?
21:21 < xHans> br24: it's through MCC's main campus, but it's online
21:21 < br24> just wanted to see additional info
21:21 < br24> thx for the info
21:21 < xHans> I believe in county prices apply for all of Maricopa and Pima counties and a couple of others
21:21 < xHans> br24: pulling up more info
21:22 < matthewmpp> br24: MCC Computer Usage and Applications #BPC110
21:22 < xHans> johnc4510: that's all of my announcements, other than follow up for br24
21:22 < xHans> matthewmpp: ok, that would be awesome
21:22 < br24> thx xHans & matthewmpp
21:22 < matthewmpp> np
21:22 < johnc4510> xHans: thx bud
21:23 < xHans> br24: http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=28977&all_classes=true&terms[]=4096&institutions[]=MCC04&subject_code=any&instructors=&start_hour=any&end_hour=any
21:23 < xHans> that's the OpenOffice.org class even if it doesn't look like it is :)
21:24 < br24> nice URL
21:24 < xHans> she filled the class the first two semesters, if we can fill it again that'll put us in good shape to push for some other free software application classes
21:24 < xHans> br24: yeah :(
21:24 < br24> no worries
21:24 -!- word [n=word@ip98-165-3-120.ph.ph.cox.net] has quit [Remote closed the connection]
21:24 < johnc4510> ok, anyone have anything else before we adjourn??
21:25 -!- word [n=word@ip98-165-3-120.ph.ph.cox.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-az
21:25 < johnc4510> ok, we're done then until next wk...when i want to get back on the tucson installfest
21:26 < johnc4510> :)

 </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
