{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 10 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:30 UTC== Meeting information ==
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 10 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:30 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2014/ubuntu-us-az.2014-11-10-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/open-source/ubuntu-laptop-buying-guide-1.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/2843335/software/15-addictive-video-game-picks-from-the-internet-archive-s-new-arcade.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/cloud/openstack-show-me-the-money.html 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Touch-RTM-Gets-Major-Update-Video-Tour-464075.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/110614/canonical-confirms-involvement-ubuntu-linux-tablet 
''LINK:'' http://tuxtweaks.com/2014/11/linux-network-speed-test/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxtoday.com/upload/ubuntu-mate-14.10-lightweight-and-configurable-141105190009.html 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2014/11/linux-distros-the-except-when-we-dont-syndrome/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/ubuntu-lxd-not-a-docker-replacement-a-docker-enhancement-7000035463/ 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2014/11/facial-recognition-its-hide-your-face-time/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/big-bad-data 
''LINK:'' http://www.tuxarena.com/2014/11/calibre-2-9/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuportal.com/2014/11/xubuntu-14-10-utopic-unicorn.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1428 
''LINK:'' http://www.cyberciti.biz/open-source/awesome-backup-software-for-linux-unix-osx-windows-systems/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/record-ubuntu-desktop-screen-using-avconv/ 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/Massive-20-Improvement-to-Land-in-Intel-s-Mesa-Driver-Thanks-to-Valve-s-Efforts-464233.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://comptechconf.com and have invited PLUG to attend
''LINK:'' http://chandlerepicfest.com/ February 7 2015 in downtown Chandler
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ziprecruiter.com/job/Lead-Devops-Engineer/308b9601 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XwsOgyEjzJs 
''LINK:'' http://www.doremilabs.com/products/cinema-products/dcp-2000/ 
''LINK:'' https://github.com/qwinff/qwinff 
''LINK:'' http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux
''LINK:'' https://plus.google.com/u/0/events/cigo0h9ou6bepkcupsk02h4gn20 
''LINK:'' https://reg.socallinuxexpo.org/reg6/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (146)
* xHans (18)
* meetingology (3)
* pavlos (2)
* chamuco (2)
* wmack (2)
* MajB (1)
* TuxMann (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:01 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <chamuco> evening toddc

 04:01 <TuxMann> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <chamuco> +1

 04:01 <pavlos> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 92461.29

 04:02 <toddc> Some of us are in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:02 <toddc> I could not log into bbb.azloco to night

 04:03 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:03 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:03 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:03 <wmack> bbb.azloco.org has gone off line. Just noticed it right now.

 04:03 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:03 <toddc> np the other server is still up

 04:04 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:04 <toddc> lets start with the news!!

 04:04 <toddc> LINUX  NEWS

 04:04 <toddc> the news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:04 <toddc> Thanks to turbidtux and programmer317 for the news.

 04:05 <toddc> Ubuntu Laptop Buying Guide

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/ubuntu-laptop-buying-guide-1.html

 04:05 <toddc> 15 addictive video game picks from the Internet Archive's new Java-powered arcade

 04:05 <toddc> http://www.networkworld.com/article/2843335/software/15-addictive-video-game-picks-from-the-internet-archive-s-new-arcade.html

 04:05 <toddc> After criticizing it, Cisco joins Open Compute

 04:05 <toddc> tworkworld.com/article/2843474/cisco-subnet/after-criticizing-it-cisco-joins-open-compute.html

 04:06 <toddc> OpenStack: Show Me the Money

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.eweek.com/cloud/openstack-show-me-the-money.html

 04:06 <toddc> Ubuntu Touch RTM Gets Major Update - Video Tour

 04:06 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Touch-RTM-Gets-Major-Update-Video-Tour-464075.shtml

 04:06 <toddc> Canonical Confirms Involvement in Ubuntu Linux Tablet

 04:06 <toddc> http://thevarguy.com/ubuntu/110614/canonical-confirms-involvement-ubuntu-linux-tablet

 04:07 <toddc> Linux Network Speed Test  (Netcat)

 04:07 <toddc> http://tuxtweaks.com/2014/11/linux-network-speed-test/

 04:07 <toddc> Ubuntu MATE 14.10 : Lightweight and Configurable

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.linuxtoday.com/upload/ubuntu-mate-14.10-lightweight-and-configurable-141105190009.html

 04:07 <toddc> Linux Distros & the Except When We Don't Syndrome

 04:07 <toddc> http://fossforce.com/2014/11/linux-distros-the-except-when-we-dont-syndrome/

 04:08 <toddc> Ubuntu LXD: Not a Docker replacement, a Docker enhancement

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.zdnet.com/ubuntu-lxd-not-a-docker-replacement-a-docker-enhancement-7000035463/

 04:08 <toddc> Facial Recognition: It is Hide Your Face Time

 04:08 <toddc> http://fossforce.com/2014/11/facial-recognition-its-hide-your-face-time/

 04:08 <toddc> Big Bad Data

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/big-bad-data

 04:09 <toddc> Calibre 2.9 Ships New Features and Unity Menu Freezing Fix

 04:09 <toddc> http://www.tuxarena.com/2014/11/calibre-2-9/

 04:09 <toddc> Xubuntu 14.10 Utopic Unicorn : Fast and Responsive

 04:09 <toddc> http://ubuntuportal.com/2014/11/xubuntu-14-10-utopic-unicorn.html

 04:09 <toddc> OpenStack on a diet, redux

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1428

 04:10 <toddc> 5 Awesome Open Source Backup Software For Linux and Unix-like Systems

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.cyberciti.biz/open-source/awesome-backup-software-for-linux-unix-osx-windows-systems/

 04:10 <toddc> How to Record Your Desktop Video and Audio Using ???Avconv??? Tool in Ubuntu

 04:10 <toddc> http://www.tecmint.com/record-ubuntu-desktop-screen-using-avconv/

 04:11 <toddc> Massive 20% Improvement to Land in Intel's Mesa Driver Thanks to Valve's Efforts

 04:11 <toddc> http://news.softpedia.com/news/Massive-20-Improvement-to-Land-in-Intel-s-Mesa-Driver-Thanks-to-Valve-s-Efforts-464233.shtml

 04:11 <toddc> TEAM NEWS

 04:11 <toddc> Canceled meetings

 04:11 <toddc> 11/30 (Thanksgiving weekend)

 04:11 <toddc> 12/28 (Christmas weekend)

 04:12 <toddc> Several members are planning to give talks at the Computer Technology Conference. http://comptechconf.com

 04:12 <toddc> February 19 20 invitation also have a installfest that week-end and Scale is that week-end also but If anyone would like to give a talk or presentation or assist let us know.

 04:12 <toddc> We have ordered a ubuntu conf pack so that we will have some swag to hand out and we might be interested in running a booth also.

 04:13 <toddc> http://comptechconf.com and have invited PLUG to attend

 04:13 <toddc> I am requesting money from Ubuntu community to cover booth fees and should know soon on that. Thanks to programmer317 for the assistance with this.

 04:13 <toddc> We may also have a option to hold the installfest at the conference.

 04:13 <toddc> And if we get a booth we will need to staff it Thursday Friday and Saturday.

 04:14 <toddc> For those presenting CTC would like a Picture a topic and a overveiw

 04:14 <toddc> to be used for promoting your presentations. Most time slots are free and first come for best times.

 04:14 <toddc> We also have a invatation to share a booth with Plug at the

 04:14 <toddc> http://chandlerepicfest.com/ February 7 2015 in downtown Chandler

 04:14 <toddc> We have had a donation of 200+dvd's with sleeves so we should be able to make lots of dvd's for all the events ( another project)

 04:15 <toddc> JOB list

 04:15 <toddc> 42 current canonical Jobs today

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:15 <toddc> Multiple jobs at Limelight  Software Engineer (Big Data)

 04:16 <toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/

 04:16 <toddc> Lead Devops Engineer

 04:16 <toddc> https://www.ziprecruiter.com/job/Lead-Devops-Engineer/308b9601

 04:16 <toddc> Linux Systems Administrator @ godaddy.com

 04:16 <toddc> ####https://trueability.com/jobs/5xkfvg7?utm_source=CL-ITP&utm_medium=OINT-#####GoDaddy&utm_campaign=JBFirst

 04:16 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:17 <toddc> Movie theaters run linux Doremi Servers ( a division of Dolby labs)

 04:17 <toddc> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XwsOgyEjzJs

 04:17 <toddc> http://www.doremilabs.com/products/cinema-products/dcp-2000/

 04:17 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:17 <toddc> QWinFF is a GUI for FFmpeg, a powerful media converter. FFmpeg can read audio and video files in various formats and convert them into other formats. QWinFF features an intuitive graphical interface

 04:18 <toddc> and a rich set of presets to help you convert media files within a few clicks. Advanced users can also adjust conversion parameters in detail.

 04:18 <toddc> https://github.com/qwinff/qwinff

 04:18 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:18 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:19 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS

 04:19 <toddc> Ubuntu on line Summit November 12-14 has added a user track and all events will available live on line

 04:19 <toddc> here is your chance to shape and contribute to the future directions ubuntu takes. For more information http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1411/

 04:19 <toddc> Tempe Installfest

 04:19 <toddc> Plug/Loco installfest is Saturday November 15 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 206/207 this month 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the

 04:20 <toddc> MajB: is planning on stopping by fron SV

 04:20 <toddc> front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:20 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour

 04:20 <toddc> Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour  Thursday Nov 20. 2014 17:30 - 18:30 MST , 5:30pm – 6:30pm

 04:20 <toddc> Sierra Vista Public Library (foyer) 2600 East Tacoma St. Sierra Vista, AZ

 04:21 <toddc> Purpose: Come and learn about Ubuntu (a Linux Operating System) for your

 04:21 <toddc> personal computer and the FREE software that is available as an

 04:21 <toddc> alternative to Microsoft Windows and other software that you must buy.

 04:21 <toddc> see https://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/ for more information

 04:21 <toddc> Tempe Ubuntu Hour

 04:21 <toddc> Thursday November 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreame Bean in Tempe at Southern and McClintock

 04:21 <toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux

 04:22 <toddc> and open source. Stop by and say hi!! email toddc@azloco.com for more information or http://www.azloco.org/node/28

 04:22 <toddc> TEMPE INSTALL-FEST #2

 04:22 <toddc> The second Plug/Loco installfest is Saturday Dec 06 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 206/207 this month 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the

 04:22 <toddc> front building.  For more information see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:23 <toddc> WEST SIDE UBUNTU HOUR

 04:23 <toddc> West side Ubuntu hour will be December 03 7pm – 9pmStarbucks Coffee 13472 West Bell Road, Surprise, AZ 85374, USA   http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28, Arizona

 04:23 <toddc> If you are interested in Linux Ubuntu or open source Stop by and say hi to some other users and find

 04:23 <toddc> out who what and where and how. to install use and promote Linux and open source.

 04:23 <toddc> LINUX TRAINING

 04:24 <toddc> ubuntu on-air

 04:24 <toddc> HTTP://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:24 <toddc> HTTP://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/

 04:24 <toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net

 04:24 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:24 <toddc> Tue, November 11, 8am-9am local time

 04:24 <toddc> Speakers: dholbach, mhall119, popey, dpm, balloons

 04:24 <toddc> #ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:24 <toddc> Ubuntu Engineering Live!

 04:24 <toddc> Wed, November 12, 7am local

 04:24 <toddc> #ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:25 <toddc> Juju Charm School - Relationships / Interfaces - How to pass information inbetween charms

 04:25 <toddc> Fri, November 21 noon local time

 04:25 <toddc> #ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:25 <toddc> OTHER EVENTS

 04:25 <toddc> The Sunland Linux Users Group (SLUG) will meet in the SVECC computer lab at 6 PM on Wednesday, November 12.

 04:25 <toddc> Lugy (Precott users group)

 04:25 <toddc> Wed, November 12, 6:30pm – 9:00pm

 04:25 <toddc> Black Hole Beer Company 1590 Swenson Street Prescott, AZ 86303

 04:26 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:26 <xHans> soitanly

 04:26 * xHans breaks his celebrations for the fall of the wall

 04:26 <xHans> November's east side meeting is this Thursday

 04:26 <xHans> Privoxy, a non-caching web proxy with advanced filtering capabilities for enhancing privacy

 04:27 <xHans> We will also have a discussion about sanitizing electronics before donating them

 04:27 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is a week from Tuesday

 04:27 <xHans> https://plus.google.com/u/0/events/cigo0h9ou6bepkcupsk02h4gn20

 04:27 <xHans> December's east side meeting will be our annual end of year party

 04:27 <xHans> this year will be the last cheesecake, Oma has to stop making them

 04:27 <xHans> SCaLE registration is open, use PLUG code for discount

 04:27 <xHans> the conference is 2015Feb19-22, note that is Thu - Sun, in Los Angeles

 04:27 <xHans> reserve your hotel room as well

 04:27 <xHans> https://reg.socallinuxexpo.org/reg6/

 04:27 <xHans> SCaLE cfp is open

 04:28 <xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp

 04:28 <xHans> let me know if you'd like help with a proposal

 04:28 <xHans> that's it, danke

 04:29 <toddc> Seems the redhat users have no events scheduled

 04:29 <toddc> thank you xHans

 04:29 <xHans> yeah, haven't heard anything from them since the last meeting

 04:29 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:29 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:30 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:30 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
