{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 12 Mar at 03:59 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-03-12-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://www.mdpi.com/2075-4434/5/4/71 
''LINK:'' http://www.wlwt.com/article/you-can-now-turn-google-maps-into-mario-kart/19387327 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/contributed/infrastructure-2-0-whatever-were-calling-it-now-its-here/2018/03/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.eejournal.com/article/postage-stamp-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/comparison-three-linux-app-stores 
''LINK:'' https://www.debian.org/News/2018/20180310 
''LINK:'' https://www.cs.columbia.edu/~smb/blog//2018-02/2018-02-23.html 
''LINK:'' http://blog.scoutapp.com/articles/2018/01/15/tutorial-tracing-python-flask-requests-with-opentracing 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhint.com/configure-snort-ids-create-rules/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/3/cla-vs-dco-whats-difference 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/hands-on-learning-at-ons-for-your-sdn-nfv-deployments/ 
''LINK:'' https://share-ng.sandia.gov/news/resources/news_releases/ranking_supercomputers/#.WqKegpM-egT 
''LINK:'' https://www.infoq.com/news/2018/03/cilium-linux-bpf?utm_content=buffer213a2&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://www.virtra.com/careers 
''LINK:'' https://motiontactic.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.radjav.com/en_us/job-board 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://earlywarning.silkroad.com/epostings/index.cfm?fuseaction=app.jobinfo&jobid=1711&company_id=16231&version=1&source=ONLINE&jobOwner=992330&aid=1 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/in-vehicle-panel-pc-has-up-to-10-4-inch-touchscreen/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.wireguard.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (65)
* stephenm (38)
* MajB (37)
* Eniax (7)
* Ron_A (5)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* az_fox_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar 12 03:59:39 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <az_fox_> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95793.63

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <stephenm> The news starts off with basic stuff and then some Linux stuff I guess

 04:01 <Eniax> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> sorry too early

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Hi Eniax

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <Ron_A> welcome Eniax

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <MajB> Welcome to the weekly AZLOCO meeting

 04:02 <Eniax> Hello, I'm new here. Recently moved to AZ and found this through google for other Linux enthusiasts.

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight! All the way from TX with fair weather today

 04:02 <stephenm> The news starts off with basic stuff and then some Linux stuff I guess

 04:02 <stephenm> Electric Currents along Astrophysical Jets

 04:02 <stephenm> http://www.mdpi.com/2075-4434/5/4/71

 04:03 <stephenm> You can now turn Google Maps into Mario Kart

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.wlwt.com/article/you-can-now-turn-google-maps-into-mario-kart/19387327

 04:03 <stephenm> As much as I dislike Google right now they are still entertaining somewhat

 04:03 <toddc> Eniax: feel free to comment anytime we like to have a bit of fun

 04:03 <stephenm> Infrastructure 2.0: Whatever We’re Calling it Now, It’s Here

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/contributed/infrastructure-2-0-whatever-were-calling-it-now-its-here/2018/03/

 04:03 <stephenm> Postage-Stamp Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.eejournal.com/article/postage-stamp-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> A Comparison of Three Linux 'App Stores'

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/3/comparison-three-linux-app-stores

 04:04 <stephenm> Updated Debian 9: 9.4 released

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debian.org/News/2018/20180310

 04:04 <Eniax> how do you address someone directly in irc?

 04:04 <stephenm> It feels like just yesterday they were on Debain 8

 04:04 <stephenm> Usenet, Authentication, and Engineering (or: Early Design Decisions for Usenet)

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.cs.columbia.edu/~smb/blog//2018-02/2018-02-23.html

 04:05 <stephenm> say their name and speak to them

 04:05 <stephenm> unless you are referring to another window

 04:05 <stephenm> Tutorial: Tracing Python Flask requests with OpenTracing

 04:05 <stephenm> http://blog.scoutapp.com/articles/2018/01/15/tutorial-tracing-python-flask-requests-with-opentracing

 04:05 <stephenm> Configure Snort IDS and Create Rules

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxhint.com/configure-snort-ids-create-rules/

 04:05 <Ron_A> Eniax: you just double click on the name

 04:05 <stephenm> CLA vs. DCO: What's the difference?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/3/cla-vs-dco-whats-difference

 04:06 <stephenm> Hands-On Learning at Open Networking Summit for Your SDN/NFV Deployments

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/hands-on-learning-at-ons-for-your-sdn-nfv-deployments/

 04:06 <Ron_A> Hi wmack

 04:06 <stephenm> Supercomputing under a new lens: A Sandia-developed benchmark re-ranks top computers

 04:06 <toddc> welcome wmack

 04:06 <stephenm> evening wmack

 04:06 <wmack> Hello Ron_A

 04:06 <wmack> (and everyone else)

 04:06 <MajB> Hi wmack

 04:06 <stephenm> https://share-ng.sandia.gov/news/resources/news_releases/ranking_supercomputers/#.WqKegpM-egT

 04:06 <stephenm> Cilium 1.0.0-rc4 Released: Transparently Secure Container Network Connectivity Utilising Linux BPF

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.infoq.com/news/2018/03/cilium-linux-bpf?utm_content=buffer213a2&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer

 04:07 <stephenm> That is all the news tonight, I'm going to sleep soon

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <MajB> Eniax, like this

 04:07 <Ron_A> Thanks for staying up late stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> ya

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <Eniax> MajB, there we go

 04:08 <toddc> Canceled meetings and events. In the near future?  MajB

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 01 April 			(Easter)

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:08 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:08 <Eniax> thank you for the welcomes. haven't used ubuntu in some years, but have bene on linux for many years now

 04:09 <toddc> linux is linux all variants are welcome

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <Eniax> currently on gentoo for desktop and centOS for servers

 04:10 <Eniax> what kind of projects?

 04:10 <toddc> hard core

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> An internet maniac boy asks his father: Daddy, why do we have five fingers if the mouse has only two buttons?

 04:11 <toddc> Once upon a time, a computer programmer drowned at sea. Many were on the beach and heard him cry out, ???F1! F1!???, but no one understood.

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:12 <toddc> PYTHON WEB DEVELOPER  (Tempe)

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.virtra.com/careers

 04:12 <toddc> web devoper

 04:12 <toddc> https://motiontactic.com/careers/

 04:12 <toddc> System admin at Crexendo

 04:12 <toddc> Contact us at itjobs2017@gmail.com with any questions of your resume

 04:13 <toddc> Software Developer - work with a blockchain! (Chandler, AZ

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.radjav.com/en_us/job-board

 04:13 <toddc> Canonical has 33 open positions

 04:13 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <toddc> Production Control Analyst III

 04:13 <toddc> https://earlywarning.silkroad.com/epostings/index.cfm?fuseaction=app.jobinfo&jobid=1711&company_id=16231&version=1&source=ONLINE&jobOwner=992330&aid=1

 04:13 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:13 <toddc> In-vehicle panel PC has up to 10.4-inch touchscreen

 04:14 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/in-vehicle-panel-pc-has-up-to-10-4-inch-touchscreen/

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Virtual private networks with WireGuard

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.wireguard.com/

 04:14 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:14 <MajB> 17 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:15 <MajB> 22 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 22 March, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 05 April,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 07 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:16 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:16 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:16 <toddc> we need some?

 04:16 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:17 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:17 <toddc> he may be at scale

 04:17 <toddc> Plug has some great events please check them out

 04:18 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 March 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 March 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:18 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 15 March 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:18 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  We will be discussing how I2P can increase your privacy, enhance your security, and reduce major corporations from being able to track you or use your browsing habits for their profits. We will also be discussi

 04:18 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 March 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the convers

 04:18 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 March 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/   There will be a presentation on Penetration Testing.

 04:19 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 March 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 April 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 April 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:19 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:19 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:19 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:20 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:20 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:20 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:20 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:20 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:21 <toddc> installfest/workshop next

 04:21 <toddc> Saturday 10-4 UAT

 04:21 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:22 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
