{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

02 February – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed general Linux topics
04 February – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 8 attendees
* Discussed the migration of azloco.com to a different server
* Discussed FOSDEM with one of the attendees at the conference
* Discussed ChatGPT
* Discussed Ubuntu community guidance rules reference funds
* Discussed VPN access vs China firewall
05 February – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2005%2C%202023%20Meeting
06 February – Using Thunderbird class conducted by Rex Bouwense
* 6 attendees
* Conducted a class for new Linux users
* Discussed  how to create email accounts on Thunderbird, configuring the calendar, creating and importing contacts, and the Thunderbird settings.
09 February - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* Discussed Gaming and gamers.
* Discussed whether additional classes might be required at the Warrior Healing Center.  Those considered were the use of LibreOffice Writer and LibreOffice Calc.
* Discussed available spare hard drives that we have on hand for desktops and laptops as well as computers ready for donation.
* Discussed virtual machines and their use.
18 February - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees
* Discussed ChatGPT
* Conducted a demonstration of Trace Route
* Discussed the anticipated release of Ubuntu 22.04.2.
19 February - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/February%2019%2C%202023%20Meeting
23 February – Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Conducted a demonstration of some shell commands
* Conducted an un-install of flatpak (remote)
* Conducted a trace-route demonstation
* Attempted to conduct an un-install of vscode which failed because of unknown type of install (deb or flatpack)
