{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 19 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-11-19-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://insights.dice.com/2018/11/13/systems-engineer-salary-rises-even-higher-with-linux-experience/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/11/raspberry-pi-3-model-a-plus-unveiled 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/11/beyond-finding-stuff 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/11/5-easy-tips-linux-web-browser-security 
''LINK:'' https://www.infoworld.com/article/3319786/javascript/what-is-the-mean-stack-javascript-web-applications.html 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/ruby-in-containers/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/11/udev 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/machine-learning-for-operations/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2018/11/a-free-guide-for-setting-your-open-source-strategy/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.opnfv.org/blog/2018/11/13/opnfv-gambia-doing-what-we-do-best-while-advancing-cloud-native 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/6-best-practices-for-high-performance-serverless-engineering/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/virtualizing-clock 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/11/what-s-job-title-which-we-call-devops-engineer 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux_ldap_authentication 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (55)
* stephenm (33)
* xHans (7)
* Ron_A (4)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov 19 04:00:04 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:00 * stephenm signs in with +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <stephenm> hi Ron_A

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Yo Ron_A

 04:01 <Ron_A> hi stephenm

 04:01 <Ron_A> yo MajB

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <Ron_A> +1

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> News starts out small and then more Linux stuff

 04:03 <stephenm> Systems Engineer Salary Rises Even Higher with Linux Experience

 04:03 <stephenm> https://insights.dice.com/2018/11/13/systems-engineer-salary-rises-even-higher-with-linux-experience/

 04:03 <stephenm> New Raspberry Pi 3 Model A+ unveiled

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/11/raspberry-pi-3-model-a-plus-unveiled

 04:03 <stephenm> Beyond Finding Stuff with the Linux find Command

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/11/beyond-finding-stuff

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Easy Tips for Linux Web Browser Security

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/11/5-easy-tips-linux-web-browser-security

 04:04 <stephenm> What Is the MEAN Stack? JavaScript Web Applications

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.infoworld.com/article/3319786/javascript/what-is-the-mean-stack-javascript-web-applications.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Ruby in Containers

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/ruby-in-containers/

 04:04 <stephenm> An Introduction to Udev: The Linux Subsystem for Managing Device Events

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/11/udev

 04:04 <stephenm> Machine Learning for Operations

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/machine-learning-for-operations/

 04:05 <stephenm> A Free Guide for Setting Your Open Source Strategy

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2018/11/a-free-guide-for-setting-your-open-source-strategy/

 04:05 <stephenm> OPNFV Gambia — Doing What We Do Best While Advancing Cloud Native

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.opnfv.org/blog/2018/11/13/opnfv-gambia-doing-what-we-do-best-while-advancing-cloud-native

 04:05 <stephenm> 6 Best Practices for High-Performance Serverless Engineering

 04:05 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/6-best-practices-for-high-performance-serverless-engineering/

 04:05 <stephenm> Virtualizing the Clock

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/virtualizing-clock

 04:05 <stephenm> The Great "DevOps Engineer" Title Debate

 04:05 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/11/what-s-job-title-which-we-call-devops-engineer

 04:06 <stephenm> LDAP Authentication In Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux_ldap_authentication

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to you MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you for the news stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:07 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB> 05 January AZLOCO/PLUG installfest (UAT has a campus wide event and no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 49 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are a total of 167 Linux administrator jobs, 43 of which are new listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 16 new jobs and a total of 94 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <MajB> 29 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 01 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:09 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 06 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 15 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:10 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 27 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 27 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:11 <xHans> ja, merci

 04:12 <xHans> hmm, gimme a sec, focus issue

 04:12 <xHans> Stammtisch is Tuesday night at Boulders on Southern

 04:13 <xHans> Next month's East Side Meeting is our annual end of year pot luck

 04:13 <xHans> There is no December Security Meeting, the Security Meetings will resume in January

 04:13 <xHans> Stammtisch next month is on the 18th

 04:13 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:14 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:14 <MajB> The more places that we advertise the better for everyone.

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:15 <MajB> Meetting on 25 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 07 December 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 12 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 24 November 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 12 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thanks for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else?

 04:17 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:17 <Ron_A> Good work stephenm  and MajB

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
