{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 20 Jun at 04:00 &mdash; 04:31 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-06-20-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' http://www.ted.com/talks/tristan_harris_how_better_tech_could_protect_us_from_distraction 
''LINK:'' http://allrecipes.com/recipe/236517/jalapeno-bacon-cheddar-deviled-eggs/?src=VD_Summary 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/week-linux-news-oss-opportunity-new-grads-why-cloud-foundry-gaining-traction-more 
''LINK:'' http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/do-we-need-more-open-private-decentralized-internet 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/what-devops-michael-ducy-explains 
''LINK:'' http://www.informationweek.com/big-data/software-platforms/9-tech-giants-embracing-the-open-source-revolution/d/d-id/1325872? 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/3-trending-networking-skills-employers-look-open-source-pros 
''LINK:'' http://siliconangle.com/blog/2016/06/17/containers-are-on-fire-as-enterprises-ramp-up-adoption/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/looking-new-devops-gig-take-fast-track-these-training-opportunities 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/lock-your-untrusted-applications-firejail 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/how-control-cnc-machine-your-linux-desktop 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkcomputing.com/data-centers/best-linux-command-line-tools-network-engineers/825641447 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/NEWS/3-REASONS-IBM-PARTICIPATES-LINUX-FOUNDATION-PROJECTS 
''LINK:'' http://k8s.uk/kubectl-vs-http-api.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/3085142/application-development/git-29-improves-submodules-diff-readability.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/devops-students-learn-value-uptime-3-am-calls 
''LINK:'' http://www.securityweek.com/network-security-unknown-unknowns 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/make-peace-your-processes-part-1 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/make-peace-your-processes-part-2 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/3083352/it-management/chefs-habitat-puts-the-automation-in-the-app.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.techrepublic.com/article/5-reasons-why-virtualbox-has-a-place-in-the-data-center/ 
''LINK:'' http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2016/06/the-xps-13-de-dell-continues-to-build-a-reliable-linux-lineage/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/New-Linux-Lite-Is-a-Powerhouse-Distro-in-Disguise-83606.html 
''LINK:'' http://venturebeat.com/2016/06/16/snaproute-apple/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.lever.co/cybersponse/ad3b3eb9-0a2e-47a2-92b3-c37ded9ae85f 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.lever.co/cybersponse/e84059dd-50a0-48e4-bc05-3b64ad8d7742 
''LINK:'' http://newton.newtonsoftware.com/career/JobIntroduction.action?clientId=8a78826751d3645501520f29060908b8&id=8a78844954cc8eca0154d006b6571b31&source= 
''LINK:'' https://theintercept.com/2016/06/17/ex-white-house-officials-criticize-vague-rules-around-disclosure-of-hacking-tools/ 
''LINK:'' http://newton.newtonsoftware.com/career/JobIntroduction.action?clientId=8a78826751d3645501520f29060908b8&id=8a7880ec548eb5df0154a5d9dc6c0e2a&source= 
''LINK:'' https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592 
''LINK:'' http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744# verify dates on http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts http://ubuntuonair.com/ http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/   Where #ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net (map) Juju Office Hours  Where #juju on irc.freenode.net (map) Description Join members of the Juju team during our office hours, where we make ourselves availabl

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Ron_A (74)
* stephenm (41)
* MajB (38)
* toddc (16)
* xHans (10)
* dennisk (8)
* Karatekid (6)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (3)
* billhamm (2)
* Don_G (2)
* mark91 (1)
* Yorokobi (1)
* flakeparadigm (1)
* nhasian (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun 20 04:00:46 2016 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <Ron_A> I want to start by saying that I enjoyed getting to see everyone at the installfest.

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Happy Father’s Day to all the Fathers and those who are a strong paternal influence.

 04:01 <wmack> +1

 04:01 <Yorokobi> +1

 04:01 <Don_G> +1

 04:01 <toddc> we made Ron_A  work

 04:01 <Ron_A> Join us on http://bbb.azloco.net  if using firefox please ask for help to add flash support to your system

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <dennisk> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:02 <Ron_A> Stardate 94069.95

 04:02 <MajB> +1

 04:02 <mark91> +1

 04:02 <Ron_A> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <toddc> time flies

 04:02 <Don_G> +1

 04:02 <Ron_A> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <Ron_A> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <Ron_A> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <Ron_A> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <Ron_A> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:03 <Ron_A> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:04 <Ron_A> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:04 <Ron_A> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:04 <Ron_A> Not open source, but I found some interesting ideas presented here

 04:04 <Ron_A> http://www.ted.com/talks/tristan_harris_how_better_tech_could_protect_us_from_distraction

 04:05 <Ron_A> Let’s start with the news!!

 04:05 <Ron_A> LINUX NEWS

 04:05 <Ron_A> The news is for beginner to expert users pick and choose what to read test and try!

 04:05 <Ron_A> We will start with BACON.

 04:05 <MajB> We want Spam

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://allrecipes.com/recipe/236517/jalapeno-bacon-cheddar-deviled-eggs/?src=VD_Summary

 04:06 <Ron_A> stephenm has some of the news, if would be so kind. The screen is yours.

 04:06 <Ron_A> stephenm:

 04:06 <stephenm> thank you Ron_A

 04:06 <stephenm> This Week in Linux News: OSS Opportunity For New Grads, Why Cloud Foundry is Gaining Traction, & More

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/week-linux-news-oss-opportunity-new-grads-why-cloud-foundry-gaining-traction-more

 04:06 <stephenm> Do We Need a More Open, Private, "Decentralized" Internet?

 04:06 <stephenm> http://thevarguy.com/open-source-application-software-companies/do-we-need-more-open-private-decentralized-internet

 04:06 <stephenm> What is DevOps? Michael Ducy Explains

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/what-devops-michael-ducy-explains

 04:07 <stephenm> 9 Tech Giants Embracing The Open Source Revolution

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.informationweek.com/big-data/software-platforms/9-tech-giants-embracing-the-open-source-revolution/d/d-id/1325872?

 04:07 <stephenm> 3 Trending Networking Skills Employers Look for in Open Source Pros

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/3-trending-networking-skills-employers-look-open-source-pros

 04:07 <stephenm> Containers are on fire as enterprises ramp up adoption

 04:07 <stephenm> http://siliconangle.com/blog/2016/06/17/containers-are-on-fire-as-enterprises-ramp-up-adoption/

 04:07 <stephenm> Looking for a New DevOps Gig? Take the Fast Track with These Training Opportunities

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/looking-new-devops-gig-take-fast-track-these-training-opportunities

 04:07 <stephenm> Lock Up Your Untrusted Applications in Firejail

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/lock-your-untrusted-applications-firejail

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Control a CNC Machine from your Linux Desktop

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/how-control-cnc-machine-your-linux-desktop

 04:08 <stephenm> Best Linux Command-Line Tools For Network Engineers

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.networkcomputing.com/data-centers/best-linux-command-line-tools-network-engineers/825641447

 04:08 <stephenm> 3 Reasons IBM Participates in Linux Foundation Projects

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/NEWS/3-REASONS-IBM-PARTICIPATES-LINUX-FOUNDATION-PROJECTS

 04:08 <stephenm> Kubectl vs HTTP API

 04:08 <stephenm> http://k8s.uk/kubectl-vs-http-api.html

 04:08 <stephenm> Git 2.9 improves submodules, diff readability

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3085142/application-development/git-29-improves-submodules-diff-readability.html

 04:09 <stephenm> DevOps Students Learn the Value of Uptime With 3 a.m. Calls

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/devops-students-learn-value-uptime-3-am-calls

 04:09 <stephenm> Network Security: The Unknown Unknowns

 04:09 <stephenm> http://www.securityweek.com/network-security-unknown-unknowns

 04:09 <stephenm> Make Peace With Your Processes: Part 1

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/make-peace-your-processes-part-1

 04:09 <stephenm> Make Peace With Your Processes: Part 2

 04:09 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/make-peace-your-processes-part-2

 04:09 <stephenm> Chef's Habitat puts the automation in the app

 04:09 <stephenm> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3083352/it-management/chefs-habitat-puts-the-automation-in-the-app.html

 04:09 <stephenm> sorry no comment from me tonight about news articles

 04:10 <Ron_A> Some of those look really interesting Thanks stephenm

 04:10 <toddc> nice stephenm !

 04:10 <stephenm> welcome

 04:10 <Ron_A> 5 reasons why VirtualBox has a place in the data center

 04:10 <MajB> Good job stephenm

 04:11 <Ron_A> http://www.techrepublic.com/article/5-reasons-why-virtualbox-has-a-place-in-the-data-center/

 04:11 <Karatekid> I tried Firejail not long ago. It's very easy to set up but for some reason it wiped out all customizations for Firefox. Had to reinstall all plug-ins, all settings.

 04:11 <stephenm> last data center I was at we just KVM

 04:11 <Ron_A> The XPS 13 DE: Dell continues to build a reliable Linux lineage

 04:11 <Ron_A> http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2016/06/the-xps-13-de-dell-continues-to-build-a-reliable-linux-lineage/

 04:11 <Ron_A> OnePlus 3 to Become an Unofficial Ubuntu Phone, Development Will Start Soon http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/oneplus-3-to-become-an-unofficial-ubuntu-phone-development-will-start-soon-505299.shtml

 04:12 <Ron_A> Linux Lite Is a Powerhouse Distro in Disguise

 04:12 <Karatekid> I'm keeping an eye out for that one! Thx Ron!

 04:12 <Ron_A> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/New-Linux-Lite-Is-a-Powerhouse-Distro-in-Disguise-83606.html

 04:12 <Ron_A> Former Apple Engineers Launch SnapRoute, An Open-source Networking Startup, Out of Stealth

 04:12 <Ron_A> http://venturebeat.com/2016/06/16/snaproute-apple/

 04:12 <dennisk> XPS13 - Great laptop! Bought it from Dell with 14.04 LTS pre-installed.

 04:12 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES

 04:13 <Ron_A> I've run DOOM more in the last few days than I have the last few months. I just love debugging ;-)

 04:13 <Karatekid> Just a heads up: https://www.grahamcluley.com/2016/06/telegram-bug-allows-attackers-crash-devices-jack-phone-bills/

 04:13 <Ron_A> Linus Torvalds

 04:13 <Ron_A> JOB list

 04:13 <toddc> good add Karatekid

 04:13 <Ron_A> 35 current canonical Jobs today

 04:13 <Ron_A> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <Ron_A> IT Ops Admin

 04:14 <Ron_A> https://jobs.lever.co/cybersponse/ad3b3eb9-0a2e-47a2-92b3-c37ded9ae85f

 04:14 <Karatekid> I read a dozen security websites daily. Need to know security vulnerabilities I'm your guy.

 04:14 <Ron_A> Back End Developer

 04:14 <Ron_A> https://jobs.lever.co/cybersponse/e84059dd-50a0-48e4-bc05-3b64ad8d7742

 04:15 <MajB> This guy is a keeper

 04:15 <Ron_A> Software Engineer Integrate (Advertising Technology / Marketing Automation)

 04:15 <Ron_A> http://newton.newtonsoftware.com/career/JobIntroduction.action?clientId=8a78826751d3645501520f29060908b8&id=8a78844954cc8eca0154d006b6571b31&source=

 04:15 <Karatekid> https://theintercept.com/2016/06/17/ex-white-house-officials-criticize-vague-rules-around-disclosure-of-hacking-tools/

 04:15 <Ron_A> Sr. Software Development Engineer Integrate (Advertising Technology / Marketing Automation)

 04:15 <Ron_A> http://newton.newtonsoftware.com/career/JobIntroduction.action?clientId=8a78826751d3645501520f29060908b8&id=8a7880ec548eb5df0154a5d9dc6c0e2a&source=

 04:16 <Ron_A> systems Administrator Scottsdale

 04:16 <Ron_A> https://www.fireapps.com/job-detail/?id=592

 04:16 <Ron_A> Linux Training

 04:16 <Ron_A> http://www.multichannel.com/news/technology/cox-double-ultimate-speeds/391744# verify dates on http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ but often not updated till the event starts http://ubuntuonair.com/ http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/   Where #ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net (map) Juju Office Hours  Where #juju on irc.freenode.net (map) Description Join members of the Juju team during our office hours, where we make ourselves availabl

 04:17 <Ron_A> on what’s going on in the land of Juju, and walk you through anything you might need help for.

 04:17 <Ron_A> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:17 <xHans> Tuesday is this month's Free Software Stammtisch

 04:17 <xHans> we will have a follow up to games night @ PLUG by inviting everyone to bring in Free Software related games for use at Stammtisch

 04:17 <xHans> we will also be having family night @ Stammtisch starting at 18:00

 04:18 <xHans> please bring the entire family to enjoy and evening at Stammtisch

 04:18 <xHans> Family and Gaming Night @ 18:00 - https://plus.google.com/events/clakfrfu00lfedj9jbnla5b7j2s

 04:18 <xHans> Stammtisch @ 19:00 - https://plus.google.com/events/cdnbcpsl2taasnopbon8nkc03h8

 04:18 <xHans> next month's PLUG presentation will be resume writing and software defined networking

 04:18 <xHans> September is cloud computing

 04:18 <xHans> that's it, thanks

 04:18 <toddc> welcome billhamm

 04:18 <Ron_A> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and plug events

 04:18 <MajB> Hi billhamm

 04:18 <dennisk> billhamm: Hi Bill

 04:19 <Ron_A> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:19 <billhamm> Hello everyone

 04:19 <Ron_A> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:19 <Ron_A> Hi billhamm

 04:19 <Ron_A> Rex would you like to do the events now?

 04:19 <toddc> dennisk: may have some news also

 04:19 <MajB> Si

 04:19 <dennisk> I think I have two students here tonight.

 04:19 <toddc> welcome all

 04:19 <Ron_A> billhamm: sign in with a +1

 04:20 <flakeparadigm> +1

 04:20 <nhasian> +1

 04:20 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:20 <billhamm> ok I forgot to do that

 04:20 <MajB> 23 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:20 <MajB> 23 June, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:21 <MajB> 02 July, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  CANCELLED.

 04:21 <toddc> cancwlled

 04:21 <MajB> Notice the CANCELLED

 04:21 <toddc> yes

 04:21 <MajB> 07 July, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:22 <MajB> 16 July, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.

 04:22 <MajB> All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking a

 04:22 <MajB> That will be all of our events

 04:22 <Ron_A> Welcome to the students

 04:22 <Ron_A> Thank you Rex

 04:22 <MajB> Would you like the other LUG events

 04:23 <Ron_A> Does anyone esle have anything?

 04:23 <MajB> Yes

 04:23 <Ron_A> You can do it

 04:23 <MajB> Thank you

 04:24 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:24 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:24 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 June 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:24 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 26 June 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:25 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 01 July 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:25 <MajB> Flagstaff Linux User Group  Denny's 4650 N Highway 89 C-32, Flagstaff, AZ   (I do not have a current meeting date or time for this Group)

 04:25 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 13 July 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista, AZ.

 04:25 <toddc> I think it was a one time only

 04:26 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 13 July 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa, AZ.

 04:26 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 12 July 6:30-9:30 pm.  the Barley Hound, 234 S. Cortez St., Prescott, AZ.

 04:26 <toddc> carpool?

 04:27 <MajB> The Flag Group may have been a one time thing but I will continue to attend to get info

 04:27 <MajB> That is all I have Ron_A

 04:27 <Ron_A> Thank you MajB

 04:27 <wmack> thanks MajB!

 04:27 <Ron_A> Does anyone esle have anything?

 04:27 <dennisk> 3 items - Teaching a basic intro to computers course this summer. Students found themselves in front of Unity and KDE this week. No problem for these newbies.

 04:28 <MajB> Excellent

 04:28 <toddc> good news

 04:28 <dennisk> Good intro to Bitcoin and the Blockchain at http://bitcoinproperly.org/.

 04:28 <toddc> I may need that soon

 04:28 <MajB> :-D

 04:28 <dennisk> Also, turtl.it is an open source replacement for Evernote with encryption.

 04:29 <dennisk> Check it out. very well done.

 04:29 <Ron_A> Great info dennisk thanks

 04:30 <Ron_A> Good meeting, thanks to all that contributed

 04:30 <MajB> No Linux quote or joke from the land of fruits and nuts

 04:30 <wmack> thank you Ron_A for great MC!

 04:30 <Ron_A> you missed it

 04:30 <MajB> Good job Ron_A

 04:30 <toddc> toddc feels not needed!

 04:30 <MajB> I miss a lot

 04:30 <Ron_A> LINUX QUOTES I've run DOOM more in the last few days than I have the last few months. I just love debugging ;-)  Linus Torvalds

 04:31 <Ron_A> There it is again for the slow

 04:31 <Ron_A> thanks wmack

 04:31 <Ron_A> thanks MajB

 04:31 <toddc> thanks everyone great meeting!

 04:31 <Karatekid> toddc I was told that you had spare computers you were either giving away or selling. Was looking for a spare machine to work with.

 04:31 <Ron_A> end meeting please

 

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
