{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


03 November - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
05 November - Virtual Linux Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Assisted 2 users in installing and activating BlueTooth
* Assisted user in cleaning her root partition and repairing her package manager
* Discussed ProxMox and IP Fire
* Assisted user in connecting to his file server using SMB
* Assisted user in repairing his sound problems
* Instructed user on Arp-Scan
* Received an update on a user’s Christmas Light Project
06 November - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd  Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2006%2C%202022%20Meeting
10 November - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees (2 new people)
* Discussed the newbie Linux classes scheduled for the new year at the Warrior Healing Center.
* Discussed the newest computer donations that the were made to individuals and the newest Ubuntu installs.  The total donations are now at 78 and installs at 151.
* Discussed messages that appear during boot on Ubuntu.  They can safely be ignored unless they appear as a warning.
* Distributed information on Linux, Ubuntu, and the local LUG to the new attendees.
* Demonstrated how to install Ubuntu to one of the new attendees.
19 November - Virtual Linux Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Assisted an attendee in the conduct of the preparation for a Ubuntu install on a MAC
* Assisted an attendee in the conduct of the installation of Virtual Box on his machine
* Discussed the various accessibility configurations that are available in Ubuntu
20 November – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 4 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/November%2020%2C%202022%20Meeting
