{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>
<tuxmann> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<adrenaline> lol ya
<Rich__> +1
<adrenaline> +1
<toddc> hi Rich__
<Dazed_75> +1
<tuxmann> +1
<Rich__> hi
<toddc> +.5
<adrenaline> lol toddc
<tuxmann> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<tuxmann> Team Website is http://azloco.org/
<tuxmann> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<tuxmann> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<tuxmann> some of us are in https://azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<tuxmann> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<tuxmann> Please introduce yourself and tell us a bit about your self
<tuxmann> lets start with the news!!
<tuxmann> UBUNTU NEWS
<tuxmann> over to Dazed_75 for the news!
<Dazed_75> NOTE: I am trying something new this week in order to reduce the size of these emails and postings and to lessen the typing to create them.  Historically I list a title for each subject followed by one or more article links indented with a TAB character.  Since most links these days actually list out a fairly readable title for the article(s), I am going to try just listing the link unless the link is totally inscrutable.  Let me know
<Dazed_75>  what you think.
<Dazed_75> 8-way desktop comparison on Ubuntu 13.10 Linux (no, they apparently can't count)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5MzY
<pjdamws> +1
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/android-smartwatch-does-wifi-bluetooth-nfc-gps/
<Dazed_75> http://xpressrazor.wordpress.com/2013/06/21/install-gentoo-using-ubuntu/
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/installing-sublime-text-in-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/smuxi-0-8-11-irc-client-released
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/linux-deepin-review-beautifully-perfect.html
<Dazed_75> http://fossforce.com/2013/06/top-five-best-linux-distros/ (obviously there is no such thing)
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/tutorials/ssh-tunnelling-on-insecure-networks
<Dazed_75> http://www.pendrivelinux.com/multiboot-create-a-multiboot-usb-from-linux/
<Dazed_75> and another very handy alternative is http://liveusb.info/dotclear/ though the site is in French
<Dazed_75> AntiX keeps going for low end computers (it is NOT anti Xorg)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5NDE
<Dazed_75> Schedule your Ubuntu to shutdown at specified time with ComplexShutDown and EasyShutDown
<Dazed_75>     http://www.maketecheasier.com/schedule-ubuntu-shutdown/2013/06/24
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/germany-to-hand-out-free-ubuntu-cds-on-xps-deat
<Dazed_75> http://www.extremetech.com/computing/159677-firefox-22-download-available-now-adds-super-fast-javascript
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/06/25/firefox-22-enables-webrtc-makes-social-apis-easier-to-manage/
<Dazed_75> http://linuxgizmos.com/rugged-multiwireless-multifunction-gps-runs-android/
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/want-a-cloud-where-you-call-the-shots-consider-owncloud-7000017233/
<Dazed_75> XFCE, LXDE, & GNOME are running on Ubuntu XMir
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5NDQ
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/linux-mint-15-xfce-and-kde-editions-released
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/disable-guest-account-ubuntu/2013/06/25
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/web-service-changes-to-ubuntu-accounts
<Dazed_75> ffDiaporama 1.6 released (Tool to create movie clips from photos and videos)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/ffdiaporama-16-released-tool-to-create.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/gufw-firewall-1310-released-with-new.html
<Dazed_75> http://opensource.com/life/13/6/50-community-building-tips
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-add-wikid-two-factor-authentication-to-openvpn-community-on-ubuntu-13.04
<Dazed_75> http://www.datamation.com/open-source/the-best-and-worst-features-of-linux-desktops-1.html
<Dazed_75> DarkDucks own ideals for a Linux distribution
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2013/06/ideal-linux-distribution.html
<Dazed_75> http://mylinuxbook.com/5-linux-commands-to-fetch-complete-linux-host-information/
<Dazed_75> http://www.maketecheasier.com/access-ssh-server-from-the-browser/2013/06/26
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/how-to-install-gtk3-with-broadway-html5.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/SolydXK-New-Kid-on-the-Linux-Block-Delivers-Rock-Solid-Performance-78356.html
<Dazed_75> Sure to confuse some folks :)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/06/how-to-swap-2-columns-in-file-content.html
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/richard-stallman-inducted-into-internet-hall-of-fame
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/06/27/android-threats-grow-as-attackers-follow-the-money/
<Dazed_75> http://betanews.com/2013/06/26/us-government-warns-google-microsoft-and-yahoo/
<Dazed_75> http://www.nextstep4it.com/categories/how-to/rkhunter/
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2013/06/26/how-to-customize-linux-deepin-12-12/
<Dazed_75> http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/06/26/mint_15_freshens_ubuntus_bad_bits/
<Dazed_75> http://www.thepowerbase.com/2013/06/how-to-install-adobe-air-in-ubuntu-13-04/
<Dazed_75> Fedora 20 will have a security/performance change
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5NjQ
<Dazed_75> Canonical is hiring more Mir, Unity developers
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5NjM
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/mir-display-server-to-ship-default-in-ubuntu-13-10
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/2nd-gen-mintbox-shown-off
<Dazed_75> How you can help improve Linux video editor PiTiVi right now
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/pitivi-survey-2013
<Dazed_75> Fedora 19 is go for release on Tuesday July 2
<Dazed_75>     http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/187532/
<Dazed_75> Nvidia releases its ARM Linux graphics driver
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM5NjY
<Dazed_75> http://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/valves-source-sdk-2013-now-supports-linux.2101
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/wimlib-imagex-dism-alternative-to.html (Windows Imaging Format)
<Dazed_75> http://www.webupd8.org/2013/06/xfce4-composite-editor-easily-change.html
<Dazed_75> http://arstechnica.com/security/2013/06/password-complexity-rules-more-annoying-less-effective-than-length-ones/
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/165882/how-to-use-keepass-in-your-browser-across-your-computers-and-on-your-phone/
<Dazed_75> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Avira-says-farewell-to-Linux-1902292.html
<Dazed_75> The first benchmarks of Unity on XMir: There's a performance hit [no s--t Sherlock]
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_xmir_benchmark&num=1
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/06/minitube-adds-account-free-subscription-heads-to-ubuntu-software-centre
<Dazed_75> ... and thats all from Apache Junction.  I hope everyone found SOME piece of news useful
<Dazed_75> Soooo ... does anyone have any opinions on this change in format
<tuxmann> I like the change in format.
<toddc> nice
<tuxmann> Thanks Dazed_75 great news as always!!
<tuxmann> Since Ubuntu/Canonical will no longer make cd/dvd for other than LTS to teams, Tuxmann (myself) will be providing DVDs of the latest version of Ubuntu & Linux Mint as needed at the installfest
<toddc> http://employment.phoenixnap.com/?page_id=44
<tuxmann> JOB LIST
<tuxmann> Current LifeLock Opportunities Available:
<tuxmann> https://www.lifelock.jobs/job-openings/
<toddc> http://www.lanwanprofessional.com/Lan-Wan-Internship-Program-home_idpre-22.html
<tuxmann> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<tuxmann> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> just thru in my 2 cents worth
<tuxmann> Internship sounds great!
<tuxmann> Android App Pick of the week
<tuxmann> Check out ASTRO File Manager / Browser on Google Play! https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.metago.astro
<tuxmann> Linux App of the week
<tuxmann> Wallch (Wallpaper Changer) similar to Windows 7 wallpaper changer feature.
<tuxmann> https://launchpad.net/wallpaper-changer
<tuxmann> The ppa works well for those on Ubuntu 12.04 like myself when the program is launched on startup
<toddc> cool picks!!!!
<tuxmann> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<tuxmann> Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday July 6 and Saturday July 20 at UAT 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4PM Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the rear of the front building.
<tuxmann> For more info see calender at http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28
<tuxmann> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<tuxmann> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<tuxmann> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<tuxmann> UBUNTU HOUR Tempe
<tuxmann> Thursday July 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<tuxmann> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<tuxmann> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<tuxmann> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> i will try to be online for the ubuntu hour
<tuxmann> Plug East side meeting Thursday July 13th  7-10 PM at Desert Breeze Substation  251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226
<toddc> and should be back for the installfest!!
<tuxmann> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday July 16th at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224 http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<tuxmann> July 11th for the for the East meeting.
<Dazed_75> I told him wrong.  PLUG East is 7/11 and Stammtische is 7/16
<tuxmann> xHans do you have anything for us tonight?
<toddc> I hear that it is xhanses Birthday today!!
<Dazed_75> toddc: What was your high temp today?  Was 120 here
<tuxmann> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> 85 and some light rain
<tuxmann> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question.
<toddc> may need  to shave my head before going home
<tuxmann> toddc, we look forward to seeing you again at the installfest!
<toddc> thanks tuxxmann and Dazed-75 for covering for me
<tuxmann> It's no problem at all. I'm signing off for now. have a good night everyone!
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
