{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* 02 March – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 21 attendees (4 new people)
* 4 Ubuntu desktop installs
* 3 Linux Mint installs
* 1 IP fire
* four desktop repairs (drivers and install issues)
* 03 March - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 6 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2003%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 07 March - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 2 attendees
* Discussed LON/LAT for real estate parcels
* 14 March – Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Discussed the upcoming Installfest at Livia’s Coffee on 04 May
* A member discussed a problem that he had with a Western Digital 1 Tb hard drive that he had been using for storage which apparently caused the desktop to freeze. After a hard shutdown, the computer restarted with no apparent damage to anything but the storage hard drive. (After checking the hard drive died and has subsequently been discarded.) Interesting since the hard drive was not that old and was not subject to multiple mounting and unmounting.
* Also discussed was the inability to get an Epson ET-2550 printer to function correctly on a Ubuntu System after doing everything that the Epson website said to do and trying multiple drivers.
* 16 March – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 11 attendees
* 6 installations (2 Ubuntu, 1 Ubuntu Studio, 2 Linux Mint, and 1 Microsoft Windows)
* Repaired/created a VPN on 2 laptops
* Created install media for a guest
* Resolved host name on a laptop
* Upgraded 2 laptops Kernel to 5.0
* 17 March – AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 7  attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2017%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 28 March – Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed bootloader on xp, win10, and Ubuntu
* Discussed azloco.org website features
* Ran a quick test on Big Blue Button server
* Tested openVPN for a remote server
