{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 20 May at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-05-20-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/05/15/picard_offline_digital_assistant/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxgizmos.com/introducing-the-raspberry-pi-m-2-hat-enhanced-connectivity-for-raspberry-pi-5/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/neovim-0-10-terminal-text-editor/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/alternative-way-of-saving-toolboxes-for-later-use/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/7-zip-24-05-file-archiver/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-narrator/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-console-mpd-clients/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-graphical-mastodon-clients/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-continuous-delivery-systems/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/ps-command-not-found/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/traceroute-command/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-final2x-enhance-images-super-resolution/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/what-is-the-bash-shebang/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-use-a-command-line-random-password-generator-pwgen-on-linux   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/05/16/rescuezilla_2_5/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-check-raspberry-pi-java-versions   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-codon/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-gps-tracker-with-ulogger-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-create-a-symlink-on-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/cpuinfo-file-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/using-logwatch-for-basic-security-monitoring-on-linux   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-continuous-integration-systems/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/are-all-linux-vendor-kernels-insecure-a-new-study-says-yes-but-theres-a-fix/#ftag=RSSbaffb68   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-ownership-and-access-control-enhanced-security   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/advanced-firewall-management-with-nftables-transitioning-from-iptables   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/automating-security-audits-with-lynis-on-linux-systems   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/managing-user-storage-limits-linux-disk-quotas   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org   (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/svecc-events/   (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/   (MajB, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (58)
* Stephenm (58)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:12 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> 1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:01 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <Stephenm> News is all over the place but you should be able to pick out something you like.

 04:02 <Stephenm> Meet Pi-CARD: Serving up a digital assistant on Raspberry Pi

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2024/05/15/picard_offline_digital_assistant/

 04:02 <Stephenm> Introducing the Raspberry Pi M.2 HAT+: Enhanced Connectivity for Raspberry Pi 5

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://linuxgizmos.com/introducing-the-raspberry-pi-m-2-hat-enhanced-connectivity-for-raspberry-pi-5/

 04:02 <Stephenm> Neovim 0.10 Text Editor: What’s New and What’s Changed

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/neovim-0-10-terminal-text-editor/

 04:02 <Stephenm> An alternative way of saving toolboxes

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/alternative-way-of-saving-toolboxes-for-later-use/

 04:03 <Stephenm> 7-Zip 24.05 Expands Archive Compatibility

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/7-zip-24-05-file-archiver/

 04:03 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Microsoft Narrator

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-narrator/

 04:03 <Stephenm> 8 Best Free and Open Source Console MPD Clients

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-console-mpd-clients/

 04:03 <Stephenm> 10 Best Free and Open Source Graphical Mastodon Clients

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-graphical-mastodon-clients/

 04:03 <Stephenm> 10 Best Free and Open Source Continuous Delivery Systems

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-continuous-delivery-systems/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Fixing the ‘ps: command not found’ Error in Linux

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/ps-command-not-found/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Fixed “traceroute: command not found” in Linux

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/traceroute-command/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Machine Learning in Linux: Final2x – enhance your images with super-resolution

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/machine-learning-linux-final2x-enhance-images-super-resolution/

 04:04 <Stephenm> What is the Bash Shebang and How to Use it

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/what-is-the-bash-shebang/

 04:04 <Stephenm> How to use a command line random password generator PWGEN on Linux

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-use-a-command-line-random-password-generator-pwgen-on-linux

 04:04 <Stephenm> Put Rescuezilla 2.5 on a bootable key – before you need it

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2024/05/16/rescuezilla_2_5/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to check Raspberry Pi Java versions

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-check-raspberry-pi-java-versions

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Install and Use Codon on Ubuntu (and Other Linux Distros)

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-codon/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Create Your Own GPS Tracker with Ulogger in Linux

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-gps-tracker-with-ulogger-linux/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to create a symlink on Linux

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-create-a-symlink-on-linux/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Understanding the /proc/cpuinfo File in Linux

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/cpuinfo-file-in-linux/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Using Logwatch for Basic Security Monitoring on Linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/using-logwatch-for-basic-security-monitoring-on-linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> 10 Best Free and Open Source Continuous Integration Systems

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-continuous-integration-systems/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Are all Linux vendor kernels insecure? A new study says yes, but there's a fix

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/are-all-linux-vendor-kernels-insecure-a-new-study-says-yes-but-theres-a-fix/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:06 <Stephenm> Understanding Ownership and Access Control for Enhanced Security

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-ownership-and-access-control-enhanced-security

 04:06 <Stephenm> Advanced Firewall Management with nftables: Transitioning from iptables

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/advanced-firewall-management-with-nftables-transitioning-from-iptables

 04:07 <Stephenm> Automating Security Audits with Lynis on Linux Systems

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/automating-security-audits-with-lynis-on-linux-systems

 04:07 <Stephenm> Managing User Storage Limits With Linux Disk Quotas

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/managing-user-storage-limits-linux-disk-quotas

 04:07 <Stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:08 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 257 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are 20 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 6 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 23 May,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 01 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:09 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 02 June, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 06 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 13 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 13 June, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 15 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:11 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 16 June, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> 27 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group

 04:12 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 13 June, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:12 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 18 June, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:12 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:12 <MajB> https://svecc.com/svecc-events/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting 12 June 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month),

 04:12 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group

 04:12 <MajB> https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 28 May 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:12 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:13 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
