{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 28 Nov at 03:59 &mdash; 04:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-11-28-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/3143583/linux/linux-y-things-i-am-thankful-for.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/fdupes-find-and-delete-duplicate-files-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.popularmechanics.com/space/moon-mars/a24016/underground-ice-deposit-on-mars-is-big-as-new-mexico/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.osvr.org/blog/?p=204 
''LINK:'' http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/queensland/biofabrication-institute-announced-for-herston-health-precinct-20161121-gstwux.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/11/2016-open-source-holiday-gift-guide 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/16/11/tools-collecting-analyzing-community-metrics 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/valve-are-looking-towards-flatpak-functionality-for-steam.8582 
''LINK:'' https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/ubuntu-linux-install-pi-hole-with-a-openvpn/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-stop-ssh-session-from-disconnecting-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://tech.shutterstock.com/2016/11/11/5-ways-to-hone-your-production-incident-postmortems/ 
''LINK:'' http://scarybeastsecurity.blogspot.com/2016/11/0day-exploit-advancing-exploitation.html 
''LINK:'' https://dzone.com/articles/git-behind-the-curtain-what-happens-when-you-commit 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/manage-multiple-wordpress-sites-from-a-single-place-using-mainwp/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/16/11/open-source-amazon-echo-projects 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.lever.co/cruise 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.nextstepsystems.com/j_southwest.htm 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2WLEur3M8Yk 
''LINK:'' https://freshrss.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://fossbytes.com/system76-laptop-apple-replacement/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (75)
* stephenm (39)
* MajB (28)
* RioOfTheWind (3)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* mark91 (2)
* Toonces (1)
* pavlos (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov 28 03:59:09 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <mark91> +1

 04:00 <RioOfTheWind> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 94510.56

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <Toonces> +1

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.  except MajB

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News begins has normal, linux stuff, science stuff, then harder stuff

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux-y things I am thankful for

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.networkworld.com/article/3143583/linux/linux-y-things-i-am-thankful-for.html

 04:03 <stephenm> There is a lot of open source to be thankful for

 04:03 <stephenm> like the web

 04:03 <stephenm> fdupes – A Comamndline Tool to Find and Delete Duplicate Files in Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/fdupes-find-and-delete-duplicate-files-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> An Underground Ice Deposit on Mars Is Bigger Than New Mexico

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.popularmechanics.com/space/moon-mars/a24016/underground-ice-deposit-on-mars-is-big-as-new-mexico/

 04:04 <stephenm> I thought this was interesting to find water on Mars

 04:04 <stephenm> OSVR NOW AVAILABLE ON STEAM

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.osvr.org/blog/?p=204

 04:04 <stephenm> Biofabrication Institute announced for Herston Health Precinct

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/queensland/biofabrication-institute-announced-for-herston-health-precinct-20161121-gstwux.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Really interesting project, hope to see more like this in the future

 04:05 <stephenm> 10 holiday gift ideas for open source enthusiasts

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/11/2016-open-source-holiday-gift-guide

 04:05 <stephenm> The vi keyboard just be a real nice gift, wink wink

 04:05 <stephenm> Tools for collecting and analyzing community metrics

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/16/11/tools-collecting-analyzing-community-metrics

 04:05 <stephenm> Valve are looking towards Flatpak functionality for Steam

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/valve-are-looking-towards-flatpak-functionality-for-steam.8582

 04:05 <stephenm> How to pair Pi-hole with an OpenVPN to block ads and increase privacy on Ubuntu / Debian Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/ubuntu-linux-install-pi-hole-with-a-openvpn/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Stop SSH Session From Disconnecting In Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-stop-ssh-session-from-disconnecting-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> 5 ways to hone your production incident postmortems

 04:06 <stephenm> http://tech.shutterstock.com/2016/11/11/5-ways-to-hone-your-production-incident-postmortems/

 04:06 <stephenm> Advancing exploitation: a scriptless 0day exploit against Linux desktops

 04:06 <stephenm> http://scarybeastsecurity.blogspot.com/2016/11/0day-exploit-advancing-exploitation.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Git Behind the Curtain: What Happens When You Commit, Branch, and Merge

 04:06 <stephenm> https://dzone.com/articles/git-behind-the-curtain-what-happens-when-you-commit

 04:06 <stephenm> How to manage multiple WordPress sites from a single place using the MainWP plugin

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/manage-multiple-wordpress-sites-from-a-single-place-using-mainwp/

 04:07 <stephenm> Love the Amazon Echo? Meet these 3 open source projects

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/16/11/open-source-amazon-echo-projects

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight ya'll

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <wmack> thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> Super job as always

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:08 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:08 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> pavlos: just added one

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <toddc> What’s O. J. Simpson’s Internet address?

 04:09 <toddc> ???

 04:09 <toddc> Slash, slash, backslash, slash, slash, escape.

 04:10 <toddc> Q: How many programmers does it take to change a light bulb?

 04:10 <toddc> A: Can't be done. It's a hardware problem.

 04:10 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:10 <toddc> several scottsdale based IT working with self driving car testing

 04:10 <toddc> https://jobs.lever.co/cruise

 04:10 <toddc> wait I want that one!

 04:11 <toddc> 27 current canonical Jobs today

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <toddc> break/fix server engineer Tempe

 04:11 <toddc> http://www.nextstepsystems.com/j_southwest.htm

 04:11 <toddc> Software Developer Tempe

 04:11 <toddc> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:11 <RioOfTheWind> is cruise a start up?

 04:12 <toddc> No

 04:12 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:12 <RioOfTheWind> ?

 04:12 <toddc> Raspberry PI powered Skateboard

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2WLEur3M8Yk

 04:13 <toddc> as in it runs linux!

 04:13 <toddc> Desktop Picks

 04:13 <toddc> A free, self-hostable aggregator

 04:13 <toddc> https://freshrss.org/

 04:13 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Some Disappointed Apple Fans Are Moving To Ubuntu Linux

 04:14 <toddc> Many Apple users are migrating to linux and this has overwhelmed system76 servers

 04:14 <toddc> and sales have tripled.

 04:14 <toddc> https://fossbytes.com/system76-laptop-apple-replacement/

 04:15 <toddc> thank you to the linux action shw for the above links

 04:15 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:16 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:16 <MajB> 01 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 03 December, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software

 04:17 <MajB> 17 December, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software

 04:17 <MajB> 22 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:17 <MajB> 22 December, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.           Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> That is all that i have.

 04:18 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:18 <toddc> please welcome fire22water he is a new member from SV and has been to several

 04:18 <toddc> installfests

 04:18 <toddc> ubuntu on air

 04:18 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar

 04:18 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:19 <toddc> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:19 <toddc> When Tue, November 29 8-9am

 04:19 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:20 <toddc> FernHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:21 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 December 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.  http://phx2600.org/

 04:22 <MajB> Raspberry Pi LED Holiday Party on 3 December 10-5 pm. McClelland Hall 214, UA Campus, Tucson.  Join us Saturday, December 3, 2016, as the Forensics/Infosec, Python, and Linux Meetup groups join forces with the (ISC)2 Tucson Chapter and the UA MIS department to host a holiday LED workshop.  Learn how to assemble an LED light show from a Raspberry Pi and LED light strand – that will make your neighbors jealous. In this workshop, you wi

 04:22 <MajB> http://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 04 December 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 08 December 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:23 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 13 December 6:30-9:30 pm.  Location TBD (See https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/lugy/conversations/messages for latest update on location), Prescott, AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 December 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:23 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 18 December 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:23 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 December 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   http://phxlinux.org/

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 25 December is CANCELLED  because of the Christmas holiday.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:24 <MajB> That is all

 04:24 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:24 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:24 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:24 <MajB> AZLOCO and CLUG will be co-sponsoring an Installation Festival in Sierra Vista AZ on 28 January 2017, 10-4 pm. University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, Resource Learning Center commons area, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.   http://cochiselinux.com/

 04:25 <MajB> SCaLE 15x will be held 2-5 March 2017 at the Pasadena Convention Center, Pasadena CA.  Plan to attend if you can.  More information will be distributed as it becomes available.

 04:25 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:26 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:26 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:26 <mark91> Thank you Stephenm, ToddC and MajB!

 04:26 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
