{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 14 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-01-14-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/linux-philosophy-poll 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/strawberry-audio-player-music-collection-organizer/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2019/01/6-myths-that-scare-away-new-linux-users.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/cheat-sheets 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/buttercup-a-free-secure-and-cross-platform-password-manager/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/kubernetes-dominates-in-it-job-searches/2019/01/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/hacking-math 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/basic-live-video-streaming-server 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/back-basics-sort-and-uniq 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/1/getting-started-pelican 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/boxes-draws-ascii-art-boxes-in-linux-terminal/# 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux-50-filesystems&num=1 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/tiger-linux-security-audit-intrusion-detection-tool/# 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3331199/linux/what-does-aslr-do-for-linux.html 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://advancedreimbursement.us/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.seclore.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.phxlogistics.com/atmp-careers 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Banana-Pi-Possible-24-ARM-Core 
''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/12/vlc-3-0-5-released-with-improved-youtube-support-hdr-support 
''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/12/linux-predictions-for-2019 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (72)
* stephenm (42)
* RexB (32)
* xHans (15)
* meetingology (3)
* pirateP (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jan 14 04:00:36 2019 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <pirateP> +1

 04:00 <RexB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Star Date 96636.43

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/Y

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> News is kinda short but has a few articles to read through that are pretty good.  At least in my option.

 04:02 <stephenm> Is the Linux philosophy still relevant in 2019?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/linux-philosophy-poll

 04:03 <stephenm> It is still important, regardless of what is happening to Linus.

 04:03 <stephenm> stupid PC culture out of control

 04:03 <stephenm> Strawberry - audio player and music collection organizer

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/strawberry-audio-player-music-collection-organizer/

 04:03 <stephenm> Haven't tried this yet but there are so many kinda gets lost in the big open field

 04:04 <stephenm> 6 Myths That Scare Away New Linux Users

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2019/01/6-myths-that-scare-away-new-linux-users.html

 04:05 <stephenm> I can get some of these but it's more driven by people that don't understand computer systems.  You'd think people in the 21st century would be OK with computer systems now.  But no they are concerned about other stuff that seems irrelevant.

 04:05 <stephenm> yes I am going on a rant :p

 04:05 <stephenm> 9 cheat sheets for Linux and open source

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/cheat-sheets

 04:05 <stephenm> Buttercup - A Free, Secure And Cross-platform Password Manager

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/buttercup-a-free-secure-and-cross-platform-password-manager/

 04:05 <stephenm> Haven't tried this so don't know how it compares to Keepass

 04:06 <stephenm> Kubernetes Dominates in IT Job Searches

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/kubernetes-dominates-in-it-job-searches/2019/01/

 04:06 <stephenm> Hacking math education with Python

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/hacking-math

 04:06 <stephenm> This could actually be helpful.  I just need to learn more programming since it is a good skill to have in IT anyways.

 04:07 <stephenm> Create your own video streaming server with Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/basic-live-video-streaming-server

 04:07 <stephenm> Trying to work on this, might just go back to Kodi

 04:07 <stephenm> Back to Basics: Sort and Uniq

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/back-basics-sort-and-uniq

 04:07 <stephenm> Getting started with Pelican: A Python-based static site generator

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/1/getting-started-pelican

 04:07 <stephenm> Boxes Draws ASCII Art Boxes and Shapes in Linux Terminal

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/boxes-draws-ascii-art-boxes-in-linux-terminal/#

 04:08 <stephenm> If you are bored or just a tech, this can be fun.

 04:08 <stephenm> Linux 5.0 File-System Benchmarks: Btrfs vs. EXT4 vs. F2FS vs. XFS

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux-50-filesystems&num=1

 04:08 <stephenm> Tiger - The Unix Security Audit and Intrusion Detection Tool

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/tiger-linux-security-audit-intrusion-detection-tool/#

 04:08 <stephenm> How ASLR protects Linux systems from buffer overflow attacks

 04:08 <toddc> ZFS not listed

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3331199/linux/what-does-aslr-do-for-linux.html

 04:09 <stephenm> blame the person you wrote the article not the person who grabbed it

 04:09 <toddc> np

 04:09 <stephenm> Anyways back to you toddc

 04:09 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:09 <RexB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:09 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:10 <RexB> None

 04:10 <toddc> none no cancelled events

 04:10 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsY

 04:11 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:11 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES  Ready?

 04:11 <toddc> Why is it always login on a computer or logout?

 04:11 <toddc> Why not add the option... Unsure?

 04:12 <toddc> Q: What is a programmer?

 04:12 <toddc> A: Someone who solves a problem you didn???t know you had in a way

 04:12 <toddc> You do not understand.

 04:13 <toddc> Tech Support: "O.K. Bob, let's press the control and escape

 04:13 <toddc> keys at the same time.

 04:13 <toddc> That brings up a task list in the middle

 04:13 <toddc> of the screen. Now type the letter "P" to bring up the Program

 04:13 <toddc> Manager."

 04:13 <toddc> Customer: "I don't have a 'P'."

 04:13 <toddc> Tech: "On your keyboard, Bob."

 04:13 <toddc> Customer: "What do you mean?"

 04:13 <toddc> Tech: "'P' on your keyboard, Bob."

 04:14 <toddc> Customer: "I'm not going to do that!"

 04:14 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:14 <toddc> Canonical has 53 open positions

 04:14 <RexB> Better change the subject

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <toddc> Senior Software Developer Northwest Phoenix

 04:14 <toddc> https://advancedreimbursement.us/careers/

 04:15 <toddc> Onsite Technical Consultant

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.seclore.com/careers/

 04:15 <toddc> many Jobs around Az

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.phxlogistics.com/atmp-careers

 04:15 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:15 <toddc> Banana Pi Might Be Rolling Out A 24-Core ARM Board

 04:15 <toddc> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Banana-Pi-Possible-24-ARM-Core

 04:15 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:16 <toddc> VLC 3.0.5 Released with Improved YouTube, HDR & BluRay Support

 04:16 <toddc> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/12/vlc-3-0-5-released-with-improved-youtube-support-hdr-support

 04:16 <toddc> 5 Linux Predictions for 2019

 04:16 <toddc> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/12/linux-predictions-for-2019

 04:16 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <RexB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:16 <RexB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:17 <RexB> 19 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:17 <RexB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:17 <RexB> 24 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <RexB> 02 February, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Sof

 04:17 <RexB> tware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:18 <RexB> 02 February, AZLOCO/CLUG Installfest, 1100-1500,  Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Dr., Sierra Vista.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class.  We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as install

 04:18 <RexB> media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:18 <RexB> 07 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <RexB> 14 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:18 <RexB> That is all that I have

 04:18 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:19 <xHans> si, gracias

 04:19 <xHans> Stammtisch is Tuesday

 04:19 <xHans> This month we have a resume review event starting at 18:00

 04:19 <xHans> Stammtisch starts at 19:00

 04:19 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/552/floss-stammtisch/

 04:19 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:19 <xHans> Security is Thursday

 04:19 <xHans> Topic: The Blockchain Utility

 04:19 <toddc> in spainsh please?

 04:19 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/562/plug-security/

 04:19 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security.html

 04:20 <xHans> next month's topic: Introduction To Assembly Language - Reverse Engineering Software

 04:20 <xHans> a topic for next month's east side mtg: MySQL for System Administrators

 04:20 <xHans> anybody have a talk accepted for SCaLE that they want to practice next month?

 04:20 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the help and support between our groups

 04:20 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:20 <RexB> Yeah thanks xHans

 04:21 <xHans> bitte

 04:21 <RexB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:21 <RexB> Meeting on 27 January 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:21 <RexB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:21 <RexB> Meeting on 01 February 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:21 <RexB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:21 <RexB> Meeting on 13 February 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:21 <RexB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:21 <RexB> Meeting on 26 January 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:21 <RexB> CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest on 02 February 1100-1500 p.m. Livia's Coffee, 2480 E. Wilcox Dr. Sierra Vista, AZ.  Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free software. We provide power and network connectivity as well as ins

 04:21 <RexB> tall media. You must bring everything needed to use your computer (e.g. monitor, keyboard, cords, etc).

 04:22 <RexB> That is all that I have

 04:22 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:22 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:22 <RexB> CONFERENCES:

 04:22 <RexB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:22 <RexB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:22 <RexB> Pasadena, CA

 04:22 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:23 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:23 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
