{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Meeting  Notes Ethical Hackers ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Groups'''
| 
| '''Ethical Hackers'''
|}

This is the latest update we have from our friends over at the Ethical Hackers. It sounds as though they will be taking off for the summer but we will welcome them back this fall. Have a good summer guys.

So our meeting had a decent turnout. Honestly, I didn't realize until after the meeting was done and everybody was gone that this was the last meeting of the semester. I would have liked to ended with a bang, but I think it ended up being more of a thud. Either way, we did cover some stuff.

So we have a forums up and running right now. I encourage every one of you to register on the forums and try to check it every once in a while. There is an ad-fly ad when you register. That helps to keep the bots out. If you look in the top right corner of your screen when you get that ad, you can skip the ad. That might prove to be a good place to brainstorm and such. I do have a post on the forums about a free class on Machine Learning that is happening now online. It is a 10 week course and it just started on the 22nd. The first homework isn't due for another 2 weeks so some of you might have time to do it. I registered for the class last night. If you finish the course, the instructor will mail you a certificate stating how you did in the course. It might be very cool to put on a resume. There is a short video that describes the course. But if you want to register for the class, you gotta sign up for the forums!

In other news, we are trying to work with the school so they can host the forums and a website for us. I was asked what kind of stuff we should put on our website. I would like to see some sort of calendar on there that people can easily export to their own Google calendar, Thunderbird, etc... Maybe even videos of when we do events. If someone is giving a presentation, we could record that and post it up on the site. Just my thoughts though. We can share our ideas through the forums. At least if we use the forums more, it'll be less of my spam coming to you. There was also talk about putting together an IRC chat room. That might be feasible as well especially for those who can't physically make the meetings. If you're stuck at work or in a class, you could attend that way and at least get your ideas and voices heard when we are talking about this stuff.
As a final note, I hope that you all do well on your finals. There are currently no plans to meet over the summer. As far as a schedule for fall semester, we will be talking about that in the forums. I know that we can’t make the meeting times and days so everyone can attend. There are too many conflicting schedules for that. So we can take a poll or 5 and figure out the best dates and times for our monthly meetings and then our other events where we can have people talk to us or get some hands on practice with something. We will need to hash out the meeting dates and times fairly soon so we can reserve the room on a regular basis.

Ryan

CategoryArizonaTeam CategoryArizonaTeam CategoryGroups
