{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<syn-ack> +1
<Rich_> +1
<toddc> +1
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> How to install AMD Catalyst Legacy Drivers in Ubuntu 12.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.ubuntuvibes.com/2012/10/how-to-install-amd-catalyst-legacy.html
<Dazed_75> Enable [commercial] DVD playback in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/how-to-enable-dvd-playback-in-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Branded Smartphone Speaker
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/the-ubuntu-branded-smartphone-speaker
<Dazed_75> Re-purpose an old Kobo Reader as a weather station
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/127213/repurpose-a-kobo-reader-as-a-weather-station
<Dazed_75>     http://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=194376
<Dazed_75> Eight Ubuntu derivatives with different desktop environments
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/127259/choose-your-ubuntu-8-ubuntu-derivatives-with-different-desktop-environments
<Dazed_75> Beginner's guide to tabbed browsing
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/127318/the-beginners-guide-to-tabbed-browsing
<Dazed_75> How is my computer able to restart itself
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/127323/how-is-my-computer-able-to-restart-itself
<Dazed_75> Lenovo Thinkpad e530 the ideal Ubuntu laptop?
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/lenovo-thinkpad-e530-the-ideal-ubuntu-laptop-review
<Dazed_75> Mark Shuttleworth: "I really screwed up"
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/mark-shuttleworth-admits-i-really-screwed-up
<Dazed_75> Meet the $799 All-in-one Ubuntu PC from System 76
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/meet-the-799-all-in-one-ubuntu-pc-from-system76
<Dazed_75> How to speed up Ubuntu 12.10 Minimize Animation
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/how-to-speed-up-ubuntu-12-10-minimize-animation
<Dazed_75> Insync repository available for Ubuntu, Mint, and Debian users
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/insync-repository-available-for-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> Enable Intel SNA acceleration in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/how-to-enable-intel-sna-acceleration-in.html
<Dazed_75> Lubuntu (w. LXDE) 12.10 - Quick Overview
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/lubuntu-w-lxde-1210-overview.html
<Dazed_75> [More/different] things to do after installing Ubuntu 12.10
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/things-you-do-after-installing-ubuntu.html
<Dazed_75> 'Photo' is a fancy image viewer written in Qt 
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/photo-is-fancy-image-viewer-written-in.html
<Dazed_75> Cairo Dock 3.1 implements more of Unity's functionality
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/cairo-dock-31-released-with-better.html
<Dazed_75> Using wget with ftp to download/move web sites recursively
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/using-wget-with-ftp-to-download-move-web-sites-recursively
<Dazed_75> Getting started with 3-D Printing: the hardware
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/getting-started-3-d-printing-hardware
<Dazed_75> Accessing the "Show Desktop" icon in Ubuntu 12.10
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/accessing-the-show-desktop-icon-in-ubuntu-12-10/2012/10/26
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Nexus 7 installer app released to developers
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/ubuntu-installer-for-nexus-7-tablet-made-available-for-devs
<Dazed_75> Valve to launch "Steam Linux Beta" at UDS (Ubuntu Developer Summit)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/valve-to-launch-steam-linux-beta-at-uds
<Dazed_75> XFCE: Screen tearing fix for some video hardware
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/xfce-sync-to-vblank-support-for-xfwm.html
<Dazed_75> Clementine music player 1.1 available for download
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/clementine-music-player-11-available.html
<Dazed_75> and that's it from AJ
<toddc> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc> Applause for Dazed_75
<toddc> virtual of course!!
<adrenaline_> +1
* Wee_Ericcc claps
<toddc> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.04 (Natty Narwhal) end-of-life reached on October 28, 2012
<toddc> Samsung's ARM-powered Chromebook runs Ubuntu
<toddc> http://www.tgdaily.com/mobility-features/67014-samsungs-arm-powered-chromebook-runs-ubuntu
<toddc> Ubuntu / Debian Linux Server Install Keychain SSH Key Manager For OpenSSH
<toddc> http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/ubuntu-debian-linux-server-install-keychain-apt-get-command/
<toddc> TEAM NEWS
<toddc> 12.10 DVD's have been ordered!!
<toddc> and should be in next week
<toddc> JOB LIST
<adrenaline_> 64B?
<toddc> DVD not sure if 64 or 32
<adrenaline_> kk
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> linux Admin/Engineering Manager
<toddc> eric@aztechfinders.com
<toddc> Xen API implementation
<toddc> tb9qt-3321303707@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> AIX / SAN / TSM Specialist
<toddc> Mail resume to M. Simo, Nestle USA, Inc., 800 North Brand Blvd., Glendale, CA 91203. Reference
<toddc> Job Code ASTS
<toddc> Jr. Network Engineer (Tempe, AZ)
<toddc> https://home.eease.adp.com/recruit2/?id=2544021&t=1
<toddc> ANDROID APP PICK
<toddc> dSploit
<toddc> Android network analysis and penetration suite
<syn-ack> Run it.
<toddc> http://www.dsploit.net/
<toddc> grab your phone
<syn-ack> ?
<toddc> those that do not have it installed
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> Thursday November 22 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc> The Tucson ubuntu hour was cancelled as he no longer had time to organize it
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> UAT is unable to host our Nov 3 installfest and  we have had to cancel it for November
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is December 1  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> The November Tagcose class is canceled
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday November 17 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> Linux Security HackFest
<toddc> 2nd Saturday of each month 11AM to 2PM.  Devry 2149 West Dunlap Avenue
<toddc> Phoenix, AZ
<toddc> FUTURE EVENTS
<toddc> Dec 11 road trip to Prescott for the LUGY meeting
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Deveolper Meeting Thursday November 1
<toddc> University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday November 8  7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday November 20 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<_ericcc> none here thanks toddc
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
