{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 17 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-02-17-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/2/why-developers-code-night 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/2/ssl-demand 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/kubernetes-administration-policy-made-easy-with-brewopa/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/ping-traceroute-netstat 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/check-remote-port-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://devconnected.com/how-to-ping-specific-port-number/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/python-if-else-statement/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ctrl.blog/entry/systemd-opensmtpd-hardening.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/dutree-reclaim-precious-hard-disk-space/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/centos-redhat-rpm-command/ 
''LINK:'' https://dotlayer.com/how-to-encrypt-decrypt-files-from-the-command-line-with-openssl-on-mac-and-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/tails-4-3-anonymous-os-adds-trezor-cryptocurrency-wallet 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/2/linux-desktop-cern-more-industry-trends 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/upgrade-linux-terminal-with-tilix/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/2/trim-solid-state-storage-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/using-bash-automation 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/sudo 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-backup-files-and-folders-in-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-askbot-on-centos-7/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-composer-on-redhat-8 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-python-3-8-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/pigz-compress-and-decompress-files-in-parallel-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://betanews.com/2020/02/04/windows-7-switch-ubuntu-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2020/02/ubuntu-20-04-kernel-5-4-lts 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/install-media-codecs-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (58)
* stephenm (48)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 17 04:00:04 2020 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/

 04:00 <MajB> if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your user name and log in.  Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> News is going to be kinda slow because I'm distracted

 04:02 <toddc> +1

 04:02 <stephenm> Why developers like to code at night

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/2/why-developers-code-night

 04:02 <stephenm> Manage your SSL certificates with the ssl-on-demand script

 04:02 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/2/ssl-demand

 04:03 <stephenm> Kubernetes administration policy made easy with brewOPA

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/kubernetes-administration-policy-made-easy-with-brewopa/

 04:03 <stephenm> Ping, traceroute, and netstat: The network troubleshooting trifecta

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/ping-traceroute-netstat

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Check Remote Ports are Reachable Using nc Command

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/check-remote-port-in-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> How To Ping Specific Port Number

 04:03 <stephenm> https://devconnected.com/how-to-ping-specific-port-number/

 04:04 <stephenm> Python if..else Statement

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/python-if-else-statement/

 04:04 <stephenm> Limit the impact of security compromises with systemd security directives

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.ctrl.blog/entry/systemd-opensmtpd-hardening.html

 04:04 <stephenm> dutree - reclaim precious hard disk space

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/dutree-reclaim-precious-hard-disk-space/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Use the RPM Command (with Examples)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/centos-redhat-rpm-command/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Encrypt & Decrypt Files from the Command Line with OpenSSL on Mac and Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://dotlayer.com/how-to-encrypt-decrypt-files-from-the-command-line-with-openssl-on-mac-and-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Tails 4.3 Anonymous OS Adds Trezor Cryptocurrency Wallet

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/tails-4-3-anonymous-os-adds-trezor-cryptocurrency-wallet

 04:06 <stephenm> Building a Linux desktop, CERN powered by Ceph, and more industry trends

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/2/linux-desktop-cern-more-industry-trends

 04:06 <stephenm> Upgrade Your Linux Terminal with Tilix

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/upgrade-linux-terminal-with-tilix/

 04:06 <stephenm> Extend the life of your SSD drive with fstrim

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/2/trim-solid-state-storage-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> Using Bash for automation

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/using-bash-automation

 04:07 <stephenm> Linux command line basics: sudo

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/sudo

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Backup Files and Folders in Debian 10

 04:07 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-backup-files-and-folders-in-debian-10/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install Askbot on CentOS 7

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-askbot-on-centos-7/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to install composer on RHEL 8

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-composer-on-redhat-8

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install Python 3.8 on CentOS 8

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-python-3-8-on-centos-8/

 04:08 <stephenm> Pigz – Compress And Decompress Files In Parallel In Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/pigz-compress-and-decompress-files-in-parallel-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight

 04:08 <stephenm> back to MajB

 04:09 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:09 <MajB> Switching from Windows 7 to Ubuntu Linux is very easy, so why is Canonical making it seem so hard?

 04:09 <MajB> https://betanews.com/2020/02/04/windows-7-switch-ubuntu-linux/

 04:09 <MajB> Ubuntu 20.04 Confirms Its Kernel Version

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2020/02/ubuntu-20-04-kernel-5-4-lts

 04:10 <MajB> Install All Essential Media Codecs in Ubuntu With This Single Command

 04:10 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/install-media-codecs-ubuntu/

 04:10 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:10 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:10 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:11 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:11 <MajB> There are 79 open canonical Jobs today

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:11 <MajB> There are 50 new and a total of 125 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are 7 new and a total of 17 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar

 04:12 <MajB> 27 February,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 05 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 07 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bri

 04:12 <MajB> ng your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> 12 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 12 March, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 21 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Br

 04:13 <MajB> ing your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 20 February 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:14 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 March 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:14 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 March,  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thin

 04:14 <MajB> gs tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:15 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml Meeting on 23 February 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 06 March 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave & Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 11 March 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 22 February 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
