{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #113 for the week January 11, January 17, 2010.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Thirteenth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 20, 2010
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday January 24, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the January 17, 2010 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10January17

scott_ev began the meeting by reminding everyone that he is only filling in temporarily until johnc4510 can get back.

scot_ev gave calimer the opportunity to talk about Platinum Arts Sandbox Gamemaker:  Platinum Arts Sandbox Free 3D Game Maker is an open source game design program for kids and adults.  Through the ingame and cooperative editing and focus on ease of use the program is easy enough for kids to use but powerful enough for full game projects.  Sandbox includes Save The Princess Gameplay, an RPG Maker, a Sidescoller maker, a Movie Maker aka Machinima, Save The Banana Base Capture, and more!  Sandbox is already being used in many schools and colleges throughout the world and included in game design contests.  If you have a few minutes and would like to throw a vote our way it would be much appreciated:  http://www.moddb.com/games/platinum-arts-sandbox

scott_ev then gave some announcements:

* Ubuntu 10.4 Lucid Lynx Alpha 2 Released
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu)
** http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu Server for UEC and EC2)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu ARM)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Kubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Xubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Mythbuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-2/ (Edubuntu)

Alpha 2 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider testing. Please refer to http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/lucid/alpha2 for information on changes in Ubuntu.

* Plymouth In Ubuntu 10.04 Alpha 2:  This is a Red Hat created splash program that leverages kernel mode-setting to provide a pleasant and flicker-free boot experience while being highly customizable and extensible.  http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Nzg4MQ

* Ubuntu 10.04 Alpha 2 Removes HAL:  http://www.linuxpromagazine.com/Online/News/Ubuntu-10.04-Alpha-2-Removes-HAL

* There will be a 10.04 Lucid Lynx release party at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe (http://www.bouldersonbroadway.net/) on the 24th of April. Boulders on Broadway has a room upstairs that we will have all to ourselves.  We'll have wifi access too.  It's going to be a good chance to eat some good grub, have a few drinks or brewski's and meet some of the other Ubu``Geeks that you have only met online.  We need volunteers for a couple of things:  we'll need a few extension cords and power strips.  Someone can pick out new features in 10.04 and present them or concentrate on one for example.  Anything to do with Ubuntu will be OK.  Things like how to navigate Launchpad and report bugs...  Actually, if you have a favorite piece of software that you use you can present that even if it's not in Ubuntu's repos.  Please be thinking about this.  It will only make the Release Party more of a success.  Here is a link to the Lucid Lynx planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/LucidLynx  Feel free to add to the ideas section or fill in anything that might be missing.  http://azloco.com/node/120

* I finally made contact with a friend in Tucson that has the contacts we need for planning future Installfests at the University.  He will be getting me in contact with the people on campus in the CS department that we coordinated with last time.  So, it's time to start thinking about how we want to organize this event.  I'll need feedback from those of you that attended last time.  And I'm open to input.  We'll need to do a lot of planning so we can put on a good show for all attendees.  Remember that the University called it a Windows Removal Event.  That's because the CS dept has migrated to Ubuntu Linux!  I'd imagine they are wondering where we've been since they wanted us to schedule regular installfests.  This would be a great opportunity to promote Ubuntu Linux to students and the general public in Tucson.  We'll need fliers, etc. etc. We'll need volunteers for a variety of duties so please please spread the word in channel and via email that we are calling for help.  I'll be setting a date pretty soon since I have made contact with the people down there.  Also, I need someone to compose an email and mass mail everyone in our mailing list an announcement about this and the upcoming Release Party.  Anyone that's willing to do this this week?

* I'm proud to announce an Ubucon at SCa``LE8X on Friday, February 19th, 2010. An Ubucon is an organized event for Ubuntu users that's halfway between an unconference and a convention. The main focus is for Ubuntu users to get together and meet others, share ideas, and improve their skills.  You might consider going to SCaLE8X since we live within driving distance.  hutchnate and I have already registered and reserved a room for Friday and Saturday night.  Oh, if you don't know what SCa``LE is, it's the Southern California Linux Exposition.  And Ubucon is part of it.  The Expo is held at the Westin LAX. map: http://tinyurl.com/yacqsst .  I need a volunteer to moderate the meeting on that Sunday night (February 21, 2010)as I won't be home in time to prepare for or attend the meeting.
** Keynote speakers: http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/speakers

http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale8x/

* One of our SCALE 8x speakers, Linux Journal associate editor Shawn Powers suffered a tragedy this morning when he lost his home and family pets due to a house fire.  Many of you may know Shawn from his entertaining Linux Tech Tips as well as informative articles founds both online and in print.  Linux Journal has set up a Chip In site, http://helpshawnpowersfamily.chipin.com/help-shawn-powers-family, where people can donate funds to help Shawn & his family.  Please give what you can.

* Announcing Ubuntu User Day - January 23, 2010:  This will be a very informative one day session geared towards beginner and intermediate Ubuntu users, as well as people who are interested in using Ubuntu. We have 14 classes covering topics ranging from installing Ubuntu, finding help, equivalent programs, using IRC, getting involved in the Ubuntu Community and more.These classes will be taught in #ubuntu-classroom with questions being asked in #ubuntu-classroom-chat on irc.freenode.net. Please visit http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays for a complete class list and schedule of classes.

* Tux takes a bow: Linux makes presence known at CES:  Ars takes a quick look at some of the Linux-powered products that have been announced at CES.  http://tinyurl.com/yc7wl3q

* My Tracks - awesome GPS software that I use on my Droid - http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/map-your-adventures-with-a-free-gps-mobile-tracker-for-android/

* Rogue Phishing App Found in Android Marketplace - http://tinyurl.com/yfpryu3

* Motorola brings Android to your home phone - http://tinyurl.com/yl9ml7l

* Video: Flash 10.1 running on Motorola Droid with 2.0 - http://tinyurl.com/yhnadnf

* Ubuntu v. Macintosh and Windows - http://countrycontemplative.wordpress.com/2010/01/10/1963/

* Canonical, IBM: Ubuntu Will Counter Windows 7 At Lotusphere - http://www.thevarguy.com/2010/01/14/canonical-ibm-ubuntu-will-counter-windows-7-at-lotusphere/

* Restart MythTV via Remote - http://www.baablogic.net/drupal/node/11

* Amarok 2.2.2 Released - http://blog.lydiapintscher.de/2010/01/11/where-is-the-gold/

* Call for testing: Cluster components of Ubuntu 10.04 - http://blog.init.hr/?p=69

* Ubuntu Global Jam coming up.  It's a great way to help Ubuntu get better. - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam

* Make Firefox a Productivity Powerhouse - http://www.linux-mag.com/cache/7672/1.html

* Furious Google throws down gauntlet to China over censorship - http://tinyurl.com/ylpbsrl

* Researchers identify command servers behind Google attack - http://tinyurl.com/y8rcexo

* Tegra 2 supports Ubuntu Linux: Interested in touchscreen technology? - http://soltesza.wordpress.com/2010/01/11/tegra-2-supports-ubuntu-linux/

* Most of the info above came straight out of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter that Johnc4510 and tyche both work on.  You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed.  Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Current . Or subscribe: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-news

scott_ev then asked xHans for any PLUG and class announcements:

* Classes start this week. C++ and intro to GNU/Linux start Tuesday.  Other classes as well.  http://www.LuftHans.com/Classes

* Both Valley Stammtische this week, Tempe on Tuesday - http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#Tempe , Avondale/Goodyear on Wednesday - http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#Avondale

* West Side meeting a week from Wednesday.  Topic is PCI compliance - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/347

* PLUG/Lo``Co Installfest a week from Saturday - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/158

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:43 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
