{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 21 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-11-21-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-planner/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/awesome-linux-game-tools-heroic-games-launcher/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/dxvk-2-0-released-with-major-changes-and-improved-support-for-many-games   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-disk-utility/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/nala/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.faqforge.com/linux/what-is-my-ip-on-ubuntu-linux/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/boost-speaker-volume-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/using-top-du-and-netstat-as-tools-to-monitor-server-resources/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://learnubuntu.com/change-file-ownership/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/disable-ipv6-rhel-rocky-almalinux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-sdiff-command/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/open-source-discord-bots/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxhandbook.com/ssh-alternate-port/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/securely-transfer-files-with-scp-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxteck.com/basic-useful-firewall-cmd-commands-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-portmaster-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/11/17/top-passwords-rdp-attacks/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:11)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (53)
* stephenm (40)
* toddc (3)
* meetingology (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:19 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +me too

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> i will

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> news is simple and sporadic like always

 04:02 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Microsoft Planner

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-planner/

 04:03 <stephenm> Awesome Linux Game Tools: Heroic Games Launcher

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/awesome-linux-game-tools-heroic-games-launcher/

 04:03 <stephenm> DXVK 2.0 Comes With Major Changes, Improved Support for Many Games

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/dxvk-2-0-released-with-major-changes-and-improved-support-for-many-games

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Free and Open-Source Alternatives to Apple Disk Utility

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-disk-utility/

 04:03 <stephenm> Apt++? Nala is Like Apt in Ubuntu but Better

 04:03 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/nala/

 04:03 <stephenm> What is my IP – on Ubuntu Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.faqforge.com/linux/what-is-my-ip-on-ubuntu-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Boost Speaker Volume in Ubuntu and Other Linux Distros

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/boost-speaker-volume-ubuntu/

 04:04 <stephenm> Using Top, Du, and Netstat as Tools to Monitor Server Resources

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/using-top-du-and-netstat-as-tools-to-monitor-server-resources/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Change File Ownership in Ubuntu

 04:04 <stephenm> https://learnubuntu.com/change-file-ownership/

 04:04 <stephenm> 10 Useful mysqladmin Commands for Database Administration

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Disable IPv6 in RHEL, Rocky Linux, and AlmaLinux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/disable-ipv6-rhel-rocky-almalinux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux sdiff Command Tutorial for Beginners

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-sdiff-command/

 04:04 <stephenm> 10 Best Open Source Bots for Your Discord Server

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/open-source-discord-bots/

 04:05 <stephenm> Connect to SSH Server on Alternate Port

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxhandbook.com/ssh-alternate-port/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Securely Transfer Files With SCP in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/securely-transfer-files-with-scp-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> 15 Useful Basic firewall-cmd Commands in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxteck.com/basic-useful-firewall-cmd-commands-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Portmaster in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-portmaster-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Top Passwords Used in RDP Brute-Force Attacks

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/11/17/top-passwords-rdp-attacks/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight back to @MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:07 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 203 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <MajB> There are 89 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 22 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:08 <MajB> 24 November, 1900-200  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 04 December, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> 01 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:09 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 08 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <MajB> 08 December, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 18 December, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 21 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:10 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 22 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:11 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:11 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:11 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 20 December, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 08 December 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:11 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:11 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:11 <MajB> Monthly meeting 14 December 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 22 November 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month), Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:13 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
