{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<toddc> +1
<Eric-A> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc> dennisk will be unavailable tonight
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc> Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself  and tell us a little about yourself?
<toddc> I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
<toddc> News  to start off
<toddc> Social Networking in Ubuntu 11.10
<toddc> http://blogs.gnome.org/kenvandine/2011/10/19/social-networking-in-ubuntu-11-10/
<SlickMcRunFast> +1
<toddc> Dazed_75:  what os are you on?
<Dazed_75> I am in BBB now Todd
<toddc> I see and wish I could
<toddc> Ubuntu has added books both free and for purchase books and music to the software center
<Dazed_75> Toddc: 11.10 here and Win7 for BBB
<toddc> ahh :(
<toddc> Dual-boot Ubuntu 11.10, Windows 7 on a PC with 2 hard drives
<toddc> http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2011/10/27/dual-boot-ubuntu-11-10-windows-7-on-a-pc-with-2-hard-drives/
<toddc> GNOME3 vs Unity on Ubuntu 11.10:
<toddc> http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2011/10/gnome3-vs-unity-on-ubuntu-1110-my-score.html
<toddc> End of support for Ubuntu 10.04 (Lucid Lynx) Netbook and ARM was October 29 so please upgrade
<Eric-A> that sux
<toddc> Team News
<toddc> I will heading to Prescott LUGY for there meeting on Tue November 8 Pleas contact me if Interested
<toddc> Ubuntu 11.10 will not work to adjust flash settings or enable cam or audio :(
<toddc> We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
<toddc> if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know? Dennisk is arranging one at
<toddc> the xtream bean in Tempe dates and time to follow
<Dazed_75> It was interesting last time we went to Prescott.  Unfortunately I can't go so someone should go with Todd :)
<toddc> We now have 11.10 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc> JOB LIST
<Eric-A> can we get a disk at the plug meeting?
<toddc> Affinity Technology is hiring a Network Engineer/Administrator.
<toddc> jobs@atechaz.com
<toddc> yes I will try to make it there if at all possible
<Eric-A> kk
<toddc> Systems Administrator at FuzeBox
<toddc> https://insperity.ats.hrsmart.com/cgi-bin/a/highlightjob.cgi?jobid=70290
<toddc> Systems Administrator at Pitch Black Games
<toddc> job-cch9y-2672319594@craigslist.org
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
<toddc> Current plans are to add BigBlue Button to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page as soon as Drupal is updated.  So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
<toddc> http://test.azloco.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Due to Thanksgiving and Christmas we have a new schedule for November and December
<toddc> There will be one installfest on December 3 at UAT only
<toddc> There will be one Server installfest on November 19 at UAT
<toddc> The last several installfests have been very busy so if you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> No classes this week
<toddc> not a lot of Items this week
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest  Presentation Saturday August 13 3-6pm at makerbench 2010 E University  Tempe AZ
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<LuftHans> a few things
<LuftHans> ABLEconf online meeting Wednesday at 19:00 using AZLoCo's BBB instance
<LuftHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/101
<LuftHans> thanks again to you for letting us use it
<toddc> np :)
<LuftHans> PLUG devel mtg this Thursday
<LuftHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/11/03/623/-/developer-meeting.html
<LuftHans> PLUG east side mtg a week from Thursday
<LuftHans> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/calendar/icalrepeat.detail/2011/11/10/15/-/plug-east-meeting.html
<LuftHans> you already covered the Installfests and the security mtg, danke
<toddc> Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events
<LuftHans> the Free Software Stammtisch will be the normal 3rd Tuesday, which is the 15th
<toddc> Dazed_75:  do you have anything to add?
<Dazed_75> except he said hackfest for August 13 <grin>
<LuftHans> bitte, thanks for working with us
<Dazed_75> not tonight.  Sorry Todd,  next week I will
<LuftHans> Dazed_75: ah, well, what's a month or two in the overall scheme of things :)
<toddc> ahh must double check dates
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<Eric-A> what's the topic for the plug esm?
<Dazed_75> I thin Hackfest is Sat Nov 5 and I believe the one on the 12th has no meeting place yet
<LuftHans> Eric-A: we will have a presentation on Inkscape, the second presentation is still TBD
<Eric-A> kk
<toddc> thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
<LuftHans> also, SCaLE 10x CfP deadline is coming up
<Dazed_75> Hans: Want me to do one on what has changed in ubuntu 11.10?
<LuftHans> 2011Nov17
<LuftHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp/cfp-information
<LuftHans> Dazed_75: that would be an awesome presentation, especially since I'm needing to use it :)
<Dazed_75> :)
<toddc> could be harsh :)
<LuftHans> ABLEconf CfP is out, early bird deadline is 2011Nov20
<LuftHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/CfP
<toddc> LuftHans: any news on a location yrt?
<LuftHans> also, SCaLE announced a kids conference during SCaLE 10x
<LuftHans> http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale10x/events/scale-kids-conference
<LuftHans> toddc: not yet
<toddc> LuftHans: do have a attendance number for last year?
<LuftHans> toddc: I don't remember for either conference ( not sure if you mean ABLEconf or SCaLE )
<LuftHans> I can say ABLEconf did much better when the LoCo was really active :)
<Dazed_75> I think SCALE was something like 1800
<toddc> I will be checking a few places for ABLEconf and need a number to estimate with
<LuftHans> we want to hit 200 this year
<toddc> kk that will give me a place to start
<toddc> I had been talking to Dwayne about it last week
<LuftHans> excellent
<toddc> I will look at a few mesa locations this week
* Eric-A has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
