{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 18 Jun at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-06-18-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3279961/linux/red-hat-reaches-the-summit-a-new-top-scientific-supercomputer.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/facebook-releases-sonar-debugging-tool-to-the-open-source-community/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/event/lc3-china/20176/6/linus-torvalds-explains-how-linux-still-surprises-and-motivates-him 
''LINK:'' https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/posteverything/wp/2018/06/06/why-the-fbi-wants-you-to-reboot-your-router-and-why-that-wont-be-enough-next-time/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.7d35ad9b9834 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/ai-coming-edge-computing-devices 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/debian-gnu-linux-10-buster-artwork-proposals-call-welcomes-talented-artists-521580.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/linus-torvalds-kicks-off-development-of-linux-kernel-4-18-first-rc-is-out-now-521585.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/5-commands-checking-memory-usage-linux 
''LINK:'' https://betanews.com/2018/06/14/google-open-source-gif-cli-terminal/ 
''LINK:'' https://jaxenter.com/cute-corgi-cli-workflow-manager-145459.html 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-releases-ubuntu-18-04-lts-kernel-security-update-for-raspberry-pi-2-521579.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-setup-passwordless-ssh-login/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/easy-ssh-automation 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (59)
* stephenm (34)
* Ron_A (4)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* toddc (1)
* Eleison23 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun 18 04:00:02 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <Eleison23> +1

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> So news is going to be some Linux news and more computing news.

 04:03 <stephenm> Red Hat reaches the Summit – a new top scientific supercomputer

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3279961/linux/red-hat-reaches-the-summit-a-new-top-scientific-supercomputer.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Facebook releases Sonar debugging tool to the open source community

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/facebook-releases-sonar-debugging-tool-to-the-open-source-community/

 04:03 <stephenm> Linus Torvalds Explains How Linux Still Surprises and Motivates Him

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/event/lc3-china/20176/6/linus-torvalds-explains-how-linux-still-surprises-and-motivates-him

 04:03 <stephenm> Why the FBI wants you to reboot your router — and why that won’t be enough next time

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/posteverything/wp/2018/06/06/why-the-fbi-wants-you-to-reboot-your-router-and-why-that-wont-be-enough-next-time/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.7d35ad9b9834

 04:03 <stephenm> AI Is Coming to Edge Computing Devices

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/6/ai-coming-edge-computing-devices

 04:03 <stephenm> Debian GNU/Linux 10 "Buster" Artwork Proposals Call Welcomes Talented Artists

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/debian-gnu-linux-10-buster-artwork-proposals-call-welcomes-talented-artists-521580.shtml

 04:04 <wmack> +1

 04:04 <Ron_A> hi wmack

 04:04 <stephenm> Linus Torvalds Kicks Off Development of Linux Kernel 4.18, First RC Is Out Now

 04:04 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/linus-torvalds-kicks-off-development-of-linux-kernel-4-18-first-rc-is-out-now-521585.shtml

 04:04 <stephenm> evening wmack

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 Commands for Checking Memory Usage in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/5-commands-checking-memory-usage-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Google releases open source 'GIF for CLI' terminal tool on GitHub

 04:04 <stephenm> https://betanews.com/2018/06/14/google-open-source-gif-cli-terminal/

 04:04 <stephenm> Corgi, the CLI workflow manager: Cute *and* useful

 04:04 <stephenm> https://jaxenter.com/cute-corgi-cli-workflow-manager-145459.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Canonical Releases Ubuntu 18.04 LTS Kernel Security Update for Raspberry Pi 2

 04:05 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-releases-ubuntu-18-04-lts-kernel-security-update-for-raspberry-pi-2-521579.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> [How To]: Manage NTFS File System on CentOS 7 / RHEL 7

 04:05 <stephenm> -releases-ubuntu-18-04-lts-kernel-security-update-for-raspberry-pi-2-521579.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Setup Passwordless SSH Login

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-setup-passwordless-ssh-login/

 04:05 <stephenm> Easy SSH Automation

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/easy-ssh-automation

 04:05 <wmack> good evening all

 04:05 <MajB> Evening wmack

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news go tonight, back to you MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:06 <Ron_A> great work stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:06 <stephenm> thanks Ron_a

 04:07 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September (Labor Day week-end)

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November (Veterans Day)

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 44 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are a total of 167 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are a total of 66 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <MajB> 28 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <MajB> 05 July,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 07 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:09 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 21 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwa

 04:10 <MajB> re.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:12 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 19 June 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things

 04:12 <MajB> tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem...

 04:12 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 21 June 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:12 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 23 June 1-3:30 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 24 June 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 July 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 July 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 July 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 July 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:13 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:14 <Ron_A> thanks MajB

 04:14 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
