{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


01 March - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Discussed IP Fire, Virtualization, ProxMox, and Containers.
02 March - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/March%2002%2C%202025%20Meeting
06 March - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
13 March - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed a possible change to the meeting format.
* Since we have so many computers ready to donate if you know of anyone that is in need of one, please contact Rex.
* Discussed the successful result of the Chromebook conversion to Linux.
* Discussed ROKU and Firestick set up with your home WiFi.
* Discussed a printer problem that a member was having with one of his laptop computers.
13 March - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed the upcoming Linux party on the 16th of March
15 March - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Linux Workshop
* 7 attendees
* Upgraded the Team servers from Ubuntu 20.04 to 24.04.
27 March - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole.
* 3 attendees
* Discussed ProxMox presentation to be given 27 May via Big Blue Button
* Assisted attendee in updating his computer operating system
* Discussed IP Fire install questions
