{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 06 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2020/ubuntu-us-az.2020-04-06-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharingY 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/purism-says-its-linux-laptops-aren-t-affected-by-the-latest-intel-vulnerability-529527.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.pcgamer.com/its-surprisingly-easy-to-switch-a-gaming-pc-to-linux-today/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/4/raspberry-pi-sensebreast 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/raspberry-pi-os/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/4/remote-work-productivity-tips 
''LINK:'' https://www.networkworld.com/article/3535808/scheduling-tasks-on-linux-using-the-at-command.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-install-nim-programming-language-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/take-back-your-dotfiles-with-chezmoi/ 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-linux-based-computer-extends-i-o-of-networked-systems/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/how-to-install-openvpn-on-debian-9/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-create-a-montage-from-images-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://peppe8o.com/setup-a-proxy-server-with-raspberry-pi-raspbian-buster-lite-and-squid/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/4/ansible-security-more-industry-trends 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-kanboard-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/20/4/bash-sysadmins-ebook 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/network-packet-captures 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-configure-mattermost-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-set-or-change-timezone-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/the-exciting-new-features-found-in-ubuntu-20-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://www.gouldintelligent.com/job_openings.php 
''LINK:'' https://cxtsoftware.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' https://kfocus.org/order/ 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/microsoft-teams-linux/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (70)
* stephenm (44)
* MajB (23)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Apr  6 04:00:19 2020 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 97862.04

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Don't be scared off by the pictures

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharingY

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> news is kinda short but still have a few items.

 04:03 <stephenm> Purism says its Linux laptops aren't affected by the latest Intel vulnerability

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/purism-says-its-linux-laptops-aren-t-affected-by-the-latest-intel-vulnerability-529527.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> Haven't looked at these but how Purism does fix issue seems nice

 04:04 <stephenm> It’s surprisingly easy to switch a gaming PC to Linux today

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.pcgamer.com/its-surprisingly-easy-to-switch-a-gaming-pc-to-linux-today/

 04:04 <stephenm> no surprise

 04:04 <stephenm> Building a sensing prosthetic with the Raspberry Pi

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/4/raspberry-pi-sensebreast

 04:04 <stephenm> Best Raspberry Pi Operating Systems for Various Purposes

 04:04 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/raspberry-pi-os/

 04:04 <stephenm> Everyone has time to try these

 04:04 <stephenm> How to work from home like a pro

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/4/remote-work-productivity-tips

 04:04 <stephenm> a bit too much right now

 04:05 <stephenm> Scheduling tasks on Linux using the at command

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.networkworld.com/article/3535808/scheduling-tasks-on-linux-using-the-at-command.html

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Install Nim Programming Language On Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-install-nim-programming-language-on-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> Take back your dotfiles with Chezmoi

 04:05 <stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/take-back-your-dotfiles-with-chezmoi/

 04:05 <stephenm> Compact, Linux-based computer extends I/O of networked systems

 04:05 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-linux-based-computer-extends-i-o-of-networked-systems/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install OpenVPN on Debian 9

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcloudvps.com/blog/how-to-install-openvpn-on-debian-9/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Create A Montage From Images In Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-create-a-montage-from-images-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> Setup a proxy server with Raspberry PI, Raspbian Buster Lite and Squid

 04:06 <stephenm> https://peppe8o.com/setup-a-proxy-server-with-raspberry-pi-raspbian-buster-lite-and-squid/

 04:06 <stephenm> Ansible streaming video series, open source security tools, and more industry trends

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/4/ansible-security-more-industry-trends

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Kanboard on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-kanboard-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:06 <stephenm> Get started with Bash scripting for sysadmins

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/20/4/bash-sysadmins-ebook

 04:06 <stephenm> Network troubleshooting with packet captures

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/network-packet-captures

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install and Configure Mattermost on CentOS 8

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-configure-mattermost-on-centos-8/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Set or Change Timezone on Debian 10

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-set-or-change-timezone-on-debian-10/

 04:07 <stephenm> Ok that's all the news I have for tonight.

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/the-exciting-new-features-found-in-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:08 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> Tempe Ubuntu Hour 23 April

 04:08 <toddc> programmer317   has setup a new cafepress store at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:08 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:08 <toddc> are there any questions please ask?  Any other item requests?

 04:08 <toddc> Please thank programmer 317 for her hard  work

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> Most appliances use a Linux based OS

 04:10 <toddc> But washing machines have windows

 04:10 <toddc> Why can't you eliminate Satan from Linux?

 04:10 <toddc> Because 666 isn't executable

 04:10 <toddc> What did the Linux admin say to his racoon friend?

 04:11 <toddc> I am root.

 04:11 <toddc> I think a lot of linux package handling systems are not good enough for the task.

 04:11 <toddc> But the one with Ubuntu is apt.

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 75 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:12 <toddc> Linux System Administrator

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.gouldintelligent.com/job_openings.php

 04:12 <toddc> Devops

 04:13 <toddc> https://cxtsoftware.com/careers/

 04:13 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:13 <toddc> Kubuntu Focus laptop now on sale

 04:13 <toddc> https://kfocus.org/order/

 04:13 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:13 <toddc> Microsoft Teams for linux availible

 04:14 <toddc> https://itsfoss.com/microsoft-teams-linux/

 04:14 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:14 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> 09 April, Virtual Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, https://bbb.azloco.net  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 09 April, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, https://bbb.azloco.net Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:15 <MajB> 18 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop/Release Party, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pe

 04:15 <MajB> rsonal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 23 April,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour - CANCELED

 04:16 <MajB> Back to you

 04:16 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:17 <toddc> The east side general meeting will still be this Thursday at 19:00 using a

 04:17 <toddc> conference video service. The theme will be tech careers. We have a few

 04:17 <toddc> people who scheduled to talk about different topics: negotiating job

 04:17 <toddc> offers, hiring from the company perspective and infosec careers. Thanks to

 04:17 <toddc> our speakers for being flexible and working with us to make it happen.

 04:17 <toddc> The Free Software Stammtisch will be two weeks from Tuesday at 19:00. We

 04:17 <toddc> will have a conference channel, but for those in the neighborhood Boulders

 04:17 <toddc> was planning on doing curb service including growlers for beer and cider.

 04:17 <toddc> I plan on ordering in from a local place for Stammtisch.Y

 04:18 <toddc> There will also be a job networking event before Stammtisch starting at

 04:18 <toddc> 18:00. Another reason for me to order in :).

 04:18 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:18 <MajB> Meeting on 26 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 01 May 6-8 pm.  Changing Hands, 3rd Ave and Camelback, Phoenix, AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 13 May 6-7:30 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:19 <MajB> Meeting on 25 April 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:20 <MajB> Correction the SLUG meeting has been canceled.

 04:20 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:20 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:21 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:21 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
