{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 23 Apr at 03:59 &mdash; 04:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-04-23-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/4/migrating-linux-network-and-system-settings 
''LINK:'' https://engineering.riotgames.com/news/taxonomy-tech-debt 
''LINK:'' https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/linux-taking-over-world/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/rise-of-the-tomb-raider-is-now-officially-available-on-linux-heres-a-look-at-it-with-benchmarks.11576/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-remove-password-from-a-pdf-file-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/how-do-math-linux-command-line-0 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/4/linux-filesystem-explained 
''LINK:'' https://dev.to/imjacobclark/a-quick-look-at-the-git-object-store-290j 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/raspberry-pi-series-part-1-laying-out-the-basics 
''LINK:'' https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-java-was-power9/index.html?ca=drs- 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/opensuse-tumbleweed-is-now-powered-by-linux-kernel-4-16-kde-plasma-5-12-4-520788.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-elastic-jamroom/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/project-safety-back-your-people-not-just-your-data-1 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/event/kubecon/2018/4/cri-second-boom-container-runtimes 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/4/guide-design-microservices 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/tough-modular-embedded-pcs-start-at-875/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-and-configure-nginx-on-debian-9/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-log-io-realtime-log-viewer/ 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://job.listings.cpanel.net/x/apply/a2ldog90oqie/aaa6 
''LINK:'' https://www.hireart.com/jobs/5183be16/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-aircraft-computer-takes-flight-with-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (60)
* stephenm (41)
* MajB (30)
* Ron_A (3)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (2)
* wmack (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Apr 23 03:59:38 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <MajB> I am ignoring risk.

 03:59 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 03:59 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95908.54

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight! All the way from TX

 04:03 <stephenm> Ok the news starts easy or generic and then gets more Linux based,

 04:03 <stephenm> Migrating to Linux: Network and System Settings

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/4/migrating-linux-network-and-system-settings

 04:04 <stephenm> A Taxonomy of Tech Debt

 04:04 <stephenm> https://engineering.riotgames.com/news/taxonomy-tech-debt

 04:04 <stephenm> 8 Ways Linux Is Taking Over the World

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/linux-taking-over-world/

 04:04 <stephenm> Rise of the Tomb Raider is now officially available on Linux, here’s a look at it with benchmarks

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/articles/rise-of-the-tomb-raider-is-now-officially-available-on-linux-heres-a-look-at-it-with-benchmarks.11576/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Remove Password From A PDF File in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/how-to-remove-password-from-a-pdf-file-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Do Math on the Linux Command Line

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/how-do-math-linux-command-line-0

 04:04 <stephenm> The Linux Filesystem Explained

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/4/linux-filesystem-explained

 04:05 <stephenm> A quick look at the git object store

 04:05 <stephenm> https://dev.to/imjacobclark/a-quick-look-at-the-git-object-store-290j

 04:05 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi Series Part 1: Laying Out The Basics

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/raspberry-pi-series-part-1-laying-out-the-basics

 04:05 <wmack> +1

 04:05 <stephenm> Best practices for Java and IBM WebSphere Application Server (WAS) on IBM POWER9

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-java-was-power9/index.html?ca=drs-

 04:05 <stephenm> openSUSE Tumbleweed Is Now Powered by Linux Kernel 4.16, KDE Plasma 5.12.4

 04:05 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/opensuse-tumbleweed-is-now-powered-by-linux-kernel-4-16-kde-plasma-5-12-4-520788.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Elastic Jamroom on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-elastic-jamroom/

 04:06 <stephenm> For Project Safety Back Up Your People, Not Just Your Data

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/project-safety-back-your-people-not-just-your-data-1

 04:06 <stephenm> CRI: The Second Boom of Container Runtimes

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/event/kubecon/2018/4/cri-second-boom-container-runtimes

 04:06 <stephenm> 5 guiding principles you should know before you design a microservice

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/4/guide-design-microservices

 04:06 <stephenm> Tough, modular embedded PCs start at $875

 04:06 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/tough-modular-embedded-pcs-start-at-875/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install and Configure Nginx on Debian 9

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-and-configure-nginx-on-debian-9/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install Log.io Realtime Log Monitoring Tool on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ubuntu-log-io-realtime-log-viewer/

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight folks.

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <Ron_A> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:10 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:10 <stephenm> thanks

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:11 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> Q. What creature has the best aptitude for engineering ?

 04:12 <toddc> A. The spider ??? It has its own website.

 04:12 <toddc> Q: What???s the difference between a car salesman and a computer salesman?

 04:13 <toddc> A: The car salesman can probably drive!

 04:13 <toddc> As most technophiles are aware, there are special programs to run scanners. These programs use a TWAIN driver to perform the scanning. TWAIN, the acronym, stands for ???Technology Without An Interesting Name.???

 04:13 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:14 <toddc> Linux Technical Analyst

 04:14 <toddc> https://job.listings.cpanel.net/x/apply/a2ldog90oqie/aaa6

 04:14 <toddc> Software Engineer

 04:14 <toddc> FireDrum Internet Marketing

 04:14 <toddc> 9903 E. Bell Road Scottsdale, AZ

 04:14 <toddc> 85260 Suite 120

 04:14 <markthomas> +1

 04:14 <toddc> Autonomous Vehicle Test Engineer

 04:14 <markthomas> Sorry I’m late.

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.hireart.com/jobs/5183be16/apply?utm_campaign=CL1&utm_content=plain&utm_medium=post&utm_source=craigslist

 04:14 <toddc> welcome markthomas

 04:15 <toddc> Canonical has 38 open positions

 04:15 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:15 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:15 <toddc> Compact aircraft computer takes flight with Ubuntu

 04:15 <toddc> http://linuxgizmos.com/compact-aircraft-computer-takes-flight-with-ubuntu/

 04:15 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:16 <toddc> Ubuntu Linux 18.04 "Bionic Beaver" is almost here -- it is due on April 26. In the interim, today, the second -- and final -- beta becomes available.

 04:16 <toddc> Bionic Beaver is very significant, as it is an LTS version, meaning "Long Term Support." This is important to those that prefer stability to bleeding edge and don't want to deal with the hassle of upgrades. In other words, you can install 18.04 and be confident that it will be supported for 5 years. In comparison, non-LTS Ubuntu versions get a mere 9 months.

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:17 <MajB> 26 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:17 <MajB> 26 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 28 April, AZLOCO/Cochise Linux User Group Installfest on 1100-1500 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.   Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss fre

 04:17 <MajB> 03 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> 05 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:18 <MajB> 19 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:18 <MajB> Back to you toddc

 04:19 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:20 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:20 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 28 April 1100-1500 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.   Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss free

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 04 May 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 09 May 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 09 May 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 10 May 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:22 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 15 May 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the conversat

 04:22 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:22 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 17 May 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:22 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 27 May 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:23 <MajB> That is all that i have.

 04:23 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:24 <toddc> azloco.com and azloco.org in down for maintaince

 04:25 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:25 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:25 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:25 <Ron_A> thanks toddc and MajB good meeting

 04:26 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:26 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
