{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 01 August - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 4 attendees
* Discussed steam and gaming on Linux
* Project to burn LineageOS on Amazon Fire tablet
* 03 August – AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest
* 18 attendees
* Repaired IPFire on a server
* Updated Linux Mint on a laptop
* Charged and worked on a GPS device
* Conducted a demonstration of PFsense virtual machines
* Built a custom kernel
* Troubleshoot expired GPG keys
* 03 August – AZLOCO/CLUG Computer Repair Worshop/Mini Installfest
* 11 attendees
* 7 installs (1 Ubuntu, 5 Xubuntu, 1 Lubuntu)
* 4 computers are ready to be donated to organizations or individuals
* 04 August – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Ron Ash
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2004%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 08 August - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 10 attendees (1 new individual)
* Discussed the after action report of the Computer Repair/Installfest held on 03 August 2019.
* A question was raised concerning how to install an application that has been downloaded from the Internet (specifically VLC).  It was explained that the way to do that was to use the Software Center or  the Synaptic Package manager to download and install.
* A second question was raised concerning how to make a bootable flash drive for Xubuntu. It was explained to download the ISO http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/18.04/release/ and use Start up Disk Creator to make the flash drive.
* It was also decided to have another Workshop on 07 September.
* Information was provided to the new attendee on Linux, FOSS, and Ubuntu resources.  His questions were also answered.
* 08 August - Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 1 attendee
* Test location and time for a new Ubuntu Hour.
* 17 August - AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 16 attendees
* Corrected a video problem on a laptop
* Installed Linux Mint 19.02 on a laptop
* Replaced a defective WiFi board on a Dell laptop
* Updated the Team Next Cloud server
* Configured a DD-WRT router
* Started work on preparing a laptop for a hard drive transfer
* Built a back up for IPFire
* Configured domain resolution for a business
* Assisted an individual log into the Ubuntu wiki
* Conducted one on one training on Ubuntu for a new individual
* 18 August - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events. 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/August%2018%2C%202019%20Meeting
* 22 August - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis
* 6 attendees
* Troubleshot python TKinter code to display weather data.
* Talked about  JSON parsing of data and online viewers.
* Discussion on complexity measure evaluation (mccabe).
* 26 August – Set up a Linux computer lab for the Warrior Healing Center in Sierra Vista
* 5 attendees
* The project began on 03 August and was completed on 26 August.
* 4 desktop computers were donated, renovated by members of AZLOCO and Cochise Linux User Group, and had Ubuntu 18.04 and Xubuntu 18.04 installed.  They are intended to be used by veterans from the local communities who otherwise have no access to a computer.
* 29 August – Presentation on Introduction to Linux by Rex Bouwense
* 8 attendees
* The presentation was given to individuals at the Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ.
* Information on AZLOCO, CLUG, and Ubuntu were distributed.
