{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 07 Mar at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-03-07-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.makeuseof.com/why-ubuntu-ideal-for-linux-newcomers/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/3/open-source-learn-computer-science   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/17-important-linux-interview-questions-answers   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2022/03/04/solaris_common_build_environments_free/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.makeuseof.com/best-system-cleaning-apps-for-linux/https://www.makeuseof.com/best-system-cleaning-apps-for-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/pc-gaming-using-linux-as-your-os-heres-what-you-need-to-know/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/top-sysadmin-articles-february-2022   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/the-top-1000-open-source-libraries/#ftag=RSSbaffb68   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://thehackernews.com/2022/03/new-linux-kernel-cgroups-vulnerability.html   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-resize-a-qcow2-disk-image-on-linux   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.makeuseof.com/how-to-install-cerebro-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-loop-devices-on-linuxhttps://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-loop-devices-on-linux   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/meet-system-monitoring-center-a-powerful-system-performance-and-usage-monitoring-tool   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://bytexd.com/intro-to-acl-using-getfacl-setfacl-commands/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tomshardware.com/how-to/change-file-directory-permissions-linux   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/how-to-use-suid-and-sgid-in-linux-with-examples/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/web/d/phoenix-junior-full-stack-developer/7393947065.html   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.makeuseof.com/areas-linux-is-easier-than-windows/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (43)
* stephenm (36)
* MajB (33)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:21 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> *1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 99777.36

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Today is also National Frozen Food Day

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> News is kinda small because of a hecktic week

 04:03 <stephenm> 8 Reasons Why Ubuntu Is the Ideal Distro for Linux Newcomers

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.makeuseof.com/why-ubuntu-ideal-for-linux-newcomers/

 04:03 <stephenm> Open source tools to introduce students to computer science

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/3/open-source-learn-computer-science

 04:03 <stephenm> 17 Important Linux Interview Questions with Answers

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/17-important-linux-interview-questions-answers

 04:03 <stephenm> Oracle creates new form of free Solaris

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2022/03/04/solaris_common_build_environments_free/

 04:04 <stephenm> The 5 Best System Cleaning Apps for Your Linux Desktop

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.makeuseof.com/best-system-cleaning-apps-for-linux/https://www.makeuseof.com/best-system-cleaning-apps-for-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> PC Gaming Using Linux As Your OS Here’s What You Need to Know

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/pc-gaming-using-linux-as-your-os-heres-what-you-need-to-know/

 04:04 <stephenm> New Podman features, file sharing with Samba, and more tips for sysadmins

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/top-sysadmin-articles-february-2022

 04:04 <stephenm> The top 1,000 open-source libraries

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/the-top-1000-open-source-libraries/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:04 <stephenm> New Linux Kernel cgroups Vulnerability Could Let Attackers Escape Container

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thehackernews.com/2022/03/new-linux-kernel-cgroups-vulnerability.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How to resize a qcow2 disk image on Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-resize-a-qcow2-disk-image-on-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install and Use Cerebro: A Spotlight Alternative for Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.makeuseof.com/how-to-install-cerebro-on-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to create loop devices on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-loop-devices-on-linuxhttps://linuxconfig.org/how-to-create-loop-devices-on-linux

 04:05 <stephenm> Meet System Monitoring Center, a Powerful System Performance and Usage Monitoring Tool

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/meet-system-monitoring-center-a-powerful-system-performance-and-usage-monitoring-tool

 04:05 <stephenm> Intro to Managing ACLs using the Getfacl and Setfacl Commands

 04:05 <stephenm> https://bytexd.com/intro-to-acl-using-getfacl-setfacl-commands/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Change File or Directory Permissions in Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tomshardware.com/how-to/change-file-directory-permissions-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> How to use SUID and SGID in Linux with examples

 04:06 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/how-to-use-suid-and-sgid-in-linux-with-examples/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all I have for tonight.

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome all

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:07 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:07 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:07 <MajB> 10 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour - 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. Take an hour out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:07 <MajB> 10 March, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour – https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000, Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:08 <MajB> 19 March,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal project

 04:08 <MajB> s, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 20 March, AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az,  2100-2130.

 04:08 <MajB> 24 March, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 02 April, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help

 04:08 <MajB> others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 April, AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az,  2100-2130.

 04:09 <MajB> 07 April, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> That is all I have.  Back to you.

 04:09 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:09 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:10 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:10 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:10 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:11 <toddc> Junior Full Stack Developer (Phoenix AZ)

 04:11 <toddc> https://phoenix.craigslist.org/nph/web/d/phoenix-junior-full-stack-developer/7393947065.html

 04:11 <toddc> Canonical has 144 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> 7 Areas Where Linux Is Easier Than Windows

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.makeuseof.com/areas-linux-is-easier-than-windows/

 04:13 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:13 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:13 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:14 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:14 <MajB> Most events are being held on line.

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:14 <MajB> 10 March PLUG Meeting

 04:14 <MajB> 15 March Stammtisch

 04:14 <MajB> 17 March Security Meeting

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:14 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month, 1800-1930, Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 26 March, 1300-1500,  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:15 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:15 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022

 04:15 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:15 <MajB> If you would like to help send an email to participate@seagl.org or go to #SeaGl , their IRC channel om Liberia.chat and you will receive an invitation to join their organization meetings conducted every other Tuesday at 1800 PST (UTC -7).

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:15 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
