{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* 03 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron_A.
* 11 members present.
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2003%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 07 January - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Paul Kairis.
* 8 attendees – 1 new person
* Discussed upcoming SCALE conference, who's going, travel, and accommodations
* Fixed two laptops that are dual boot ubuntu/win10 and had issues with video
* Discussed Drone technology, its uses in aerial photography and agriculture
* Demoed logic board with MAX V CPLD how to connect gates to make circuits (Walter)
* Discussed how to skip commercials on video using xbmc, kodi and MythTV
* 10 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Ron_A
* 11 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2010%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 16 January - Linux Install-fest co-sponsored by AZLOCO and PLUG.
* 15 attendees
* 2 installs
* Set up server hardware and software for Rex
* pavlos and stephenm configured hostapd
* Proxmox install and test
* 17 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2017%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 24 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 8 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2024%2C%202016%20Meeting
* 28 January - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 7 attendees
* Discussed how to set up a dual boot with Microsoft Windows XP and Ubuntu.
* Discussed the various ways to install Ubuntu to include a USB flash drive and the mediums it can be installed on.
* Discussed when to attend the AZLOCO/PLUG installation festival in Tempe.  Decision was 6 February.
* 28 January - Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 8 attendees
* Discussed zentyal and proxmox with new guest.
* Discussed how to pacify angry spouses of Linux geeks.
* Tried to fix inconsistency between apt and update-manager without success.
* Worked on script to detect pppoe dropouts.
* 31 January - AZLOCO weekly meeting chaired by Todd Cole
* 6 members present
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/January%2031%2C%202016%20Meeting
 
