{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #26 for the week November 26 - December 2, 2007.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Twenty-Sixth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-December 5, 2007
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday December 9, 2007  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the December 2, 2007 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

There were no new members to introduce to the Team.

John began the meeting with the announcement that Hardy Alpha 1 is out.  The Ubuntu developers are moving very quickly to bring you the absolute latest and greatest software the Open Source Community has to offer. The Hardy Heron Tribe 1 is the first alpha release of Ubuntu 8.04, and with this new alpha release comes a whole host of excellent new features. Note: This is still an alpha release. Do not install it on production machines. The final stable version will be released in April 2008.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyHeron/Alpha1.

Next, four new US Teams get approved: New Jersey, Georgia, New Mexico, and Michigan.  Also, two new Ubuntu Sub Forums:  Virtualization - , for questions on VMWare, VirtualBox, Xen, QEMU and other virtualization software. http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=308, and Wine, where you can ask questions about Windows programs under Linux using Wine, including productivity software, games, and anything else. http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=313.

Some of the new Ubuntu Server Ads are:  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vkMlCeDu-0c&feature=related and http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F6L51uZjaZU&feature=related.  Finally: Ubuntu Toolbox Book - A new book called "Ubuntu Linux Toolbox" by Christopher Negus and Francois Caen (Wiley Publishing, 2007) was released this week. The book aims at those aspiring to be power users of Ubuntu or Debian systems. The book shows more than 1000 useful command lines by category.

johnc4510 then offered a free tshirt to the first member to email me at johnc4510-cox@ubuntu.com with the meaning of this acronym  "RIAA". Only one winner!! Decision of the judge is final!!        Hint: It has to do with the recording industry and the illegal download pirated movies!!  And tyche can't play [ed. note:  This was rank discrimination.  He had the rank, and discriminated against me.  Hee hee.].  enigmastrat won the contest by emailing johnc4510 the answer "Recording Industry Association of America".

Next was the Server Team.  enigmastrat has been at work again on the server page, http://12.159.65.83/.  It's 1024 wide now, and centered, and the logo's been added.  He messed with some sides, but hasn't found one he liked yet, so you won't see a change there.

Wolf_45 raised an interesting question.  After the last meeting he was at, he "snagged" the team logo - would there be a problem with him sticking it on one of his own pages, and linking back to the team site?  johnc4510 replied, no problem at all.  In fact, we would appreciate it.  We encourage all members with blogs or web pages to do the same.

Next, johnc4510 brought up the possibility of an Install Fest.  He suggested that we have one in January or February.  Typically, a Team should have Install Fests 2 to 4 times a year.  He asked that we consider this, and that we'll talk about it in the next meeting.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:25 PM

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

