{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
[21:00]<toddc>Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]<toddc>Star Date 64757.8
[21:00]<toddc>Our launch pad site https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona 
[21:00]<toddc>Our web site is azloco.com 
[21:00]<toddc>azlocobbb.banditti.com Big Blue Button sever-- Audio Video Chat with others but still in testing
[21:00]<toddc>+1
[21:01]<toddc>Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:02]<toddc>Anyone here new tonight please introduce yourself and tell us a little about yourself?
[21:02]<toddc>Here is new news from ubuntu news: 
[21:02]<toddc>Commodore 64 Returns with a new computer updated and running ubuntu
[21:02]<toddc>http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2383185,00.asp
[21:02]<toddc> 
[21:02]<toddc>hotssh-Graphical to secure shell
[21:02]<toddc>http://www.ubuntugeek.com/hotssh-graphical-interface-to-secure-shell.html
[21:02]<toddc>The new Ubuntu Desktop:Unity
[21:02]<toddc>http://www.zdnet.com/blog/open-source/the-new-ubuntu-desktop-unity/8584
[21:02]<toddc>ubuntu 11.04 new app will allow you to test new apps be for installing them
[21:02]<toddc>http://www.webupd8.org/2011/03/ubuntu-software-center-lets-you-test.html
[21:03]<toddc>Ubumatic is a tool that build simple scripts to make configuring ubuntu easy for us none coders
[21:03]<toddc>http://www.ubuntugeek.com/ubumatic-simple-script-to-configure-most-basic-activities-on-ubuntu-11-0410-1010-04.html?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=ubumatic-simple-script-to-configure-most-basic-activities-on-ubuntu-11-0410-1010-04
[21:03]<toddc>Q: What did the Ivy League graduate student do after reading a box that said "Windows Vista or better"
[21:03]<toddc>    
[21:03]<toddc>A: He installed Linux!
[21:04]<toddc>Create Firewall Configurations with Gufw on ubuntu
[21:04]<toddc>http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/429427:create-firewall-configurations-easily-with-gufw-on-ubuntu
[21:04]<toddc>NOTICE ubuntu 9.10 end of life april 30
[21:04]<toddc>TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:04]<toddc>I need help updating Drupal for azloco.com if some one has time or willing to figure it out then we should add some content etc afterwards. We have had several uses fail to sign up due to failed captcha.
[21:04]<toddc>I also would like some help copying meeting logs to out team wiki and azloco this would be weekly and should only take a few minutes
[21:04]<toddc>Much Thanks to banditti for the server and help with setup on BBB server
[21:04]<toddc>Thanks also to Syn-ack for all the debugging and setup testing. He spent a lot of time trying to get something up and going
[21:04]<toddc> Future BBB server thoughts are a log in screen and copy chat to IRC and back and syn-ack is writing
[21:04]<toddc>a blog for azloco.com on thoughts after he installed and configured it.
[21:05]<toddc>Azloco/plug installfest is Saturday 4/30 at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
[21:05]<toddc>FUTURE EVENTS
[21:05]<toddc>Are there any interests in doing any other group projects--installfests or server projects?[21:05]<toddc> 
[21:05]<toddc>I have been in contact with john4510 and he will arrange cd and team status to be taken care of
[21:05]<toddc>so thanks John4510
[21:05]<toddc>ASUlugs have asked for help and want to do some events with us they have a hackfest on 4/9
[21:05]<toddc>from 12-3 I will post it on azloco calender also they have a installfest 4\16 9am-5pm that I will post to azloc calender. both events are at ASU
[21:06]<toddc>PLUG EVENTS
[21:06]<toddc>plug east side meeting thursday see azloco.com calender for more info
[21:06]<toddc>Linux Security Hackfest 12-3 Sat AT Gangplank see azloco.com calender for more info
[21:06]<toddc>Sarterday April 23 Server installfest at UAT 9am to 4 pm
[21:06]<toddc>East side free software Stammtisch Tuesday at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
[21:06]<toddc>West side free software Stammtisch Thursday at Sals Tusan Grill 7:00PM 13291 W. McDowell Rd Goodyear AZ 85395
[21:06]<xHans>on April 9th?
[21:06]<xHans>for the ASULUG hackfest
[21:06]<toddc>that is what I got from plugaz calender
[21:07]<xHans>that would be last weekend :)
[21:07]<toddc>was yes I had it in notes larry went and helped but I was out of town
[21:08]<toddc>at least we are in the door at ASU
[21:09]<xHans>yeah, I'm glad to see the LoCo working with ASULUG
[21:10]<toddc>I hope to make it to the next one later this month --needs to check may be this weekend
[21:10]<toddc>they do 2 each semester
[21:11]<xHans>and happy hours
[21:11]<toddc>and use some unusual program acording to larry but I will talk to him in more detail this week
[21:12]<xHans>do you have info for his Installfest Tuesday night?
[21:12]<toddc>no but if someone will email me I will put it on azloco calender 
[21:13]<toddc>I have also updated azloco calender so let me know if I need to add anything or errors
[21:14]<xHans>ok, talk to Larry for details
[21:14]<xHans>Tuesday is also the Free Software Stammtisch
[21:14]<xHans>http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:15]<xHans>after the Stammtisch will be an ABLEconf wrapup
[21:15]<xHans>http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/93
[21:15]<toddc>I may be able to do a presentaion on BBB but waiting on wifes surgery before setting a date
[21:15]<xHans>Stammtisch starts at 19:00, ABLEconf wrap up at 21:00
[21:15]<xHans>ok, take care of family and let me know when you want time
[21:16]<xHans>next month ABLEconf will kick off odd month planning meetings after Stammtisch
[21:16]<toddc>current plan is may 2 then I should have time
[21:17]<xHans>ok
[21:18]<toddc>we have a lot of new members so I will try to keep the calender current I usually copy from plugaz 
[21:18]<xHans>and please post to PLUG discuss about the LoCo's activities
[21:19]-->|Dazed_75 (~larry@173-16-160-52.client.mchsi.com) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:19]<Dazed_75>sorry i am late
[21:19]<toddc>I started to but have been short on time latley hoping to get more help but none as of yet
[21:19]<xHans>hmm, still waiting for the post to the PLUG site about the west side mtg
[21:19]<xHans>Dazed_75: details for your Installfest Tuesday night?
[21:19]<toddc>hey we were talking about ASU
[21:20]<Dazed_75>Todd: Did you get my report on the ASU fest?
[21:21]<toddc>is just the three of us tonight and I read it but do we want to keep going or will we be of no help?
[21:21]<Dazed_75>xHans: the Tuesday night fest is part of a meeting from 6-8pm at Sunland Village East. We usually get 1 or 2 installs, a demo or two and some feature coverage for the next ubuntu release
[21:23]<xHans>for the PLUG wsm Tuna will be covering current state of standardization in HTML and some related stuff
[21:23]<Dazed_75>Todd: I don't think they really need help with installs. Some of the talks might be interesting. And Adam might like some help setting up a source management system where I am far too out of date
[21:24]<toddc>I will follow up with him this week 
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
