{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 19 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-02-19-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2018/feb/16/plyscraper-city-tokyo-tower-wood-w350 
''LINK:'' https://asia.nikkei.com/Tech-Science/Tech/New-AI-model-fills-in-blank-spots-in-photos 
''LINK:'' https://www.engadget.com/2018/02/16/google-911-location-data-emergency/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.adweek.com/digital/linkedin-salary-insights/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/srt-gstreamer 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/2/open-source-community-marketing 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/learning-it-fundamentals 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/2017/7/linux-weather-forecast 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/q4os-makes-linux-easy-everyone 
''LINK:'' http://www.nextgov.com/it-modernization/2018/02/defense-department-relaunches-open-source-software-portal/146061/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/dns-and-dhcp-dnsmasq 
''LINK:'' https://www.cncf.io/blog/2018/02/14/cncf-takes-first-step-towards-serverless-computing/ 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/4-major-tenets-kubernetes-security/ 
''LINK:'' http://searchitoperations.techtarget.com/news/252435210/Enterprises-identify-10-essential-tools-for-DevOps 
''LINK:'' https://blog.xenproject.org/2018/02/14/xen-project-contributor-spotlight-kevin-tian/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/introducing-spyder-scientific-python-development-environment 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/kali-linux-ethical-hacking-os-fixes-meltdown-spectre-with-first-release-in-2018-519816.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/min-an-open-source-web-browser-for-minimalists/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-bootable-ubuntu-usb-windows/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/2/container-security-fundamentals-5-things-know 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/2/how-clone-modify-add-delete-git-files 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/kde-plasma-linux-desktop-is-no-longer-vulnerable-to-usb-attacks-update-now-519767.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://thelinuxcode.com/nintendo-switch-already-runs-linux-thanks-hackers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (80)
* stephenm (41)
* dennisk (8)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* wmack (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 19 04:00:18 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +25

 04:00 <dennisk> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> Evening

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:03 <stephenm> News starts out as global and then gets back to good old Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> Resilient cities Plyscraper city: Tokyo to build 350m tower made of wood

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2018/feb/16/plyscraper-city-tokyo-tower-wood-w350

 04:03 <stephenm> Looking at it I say it would be safe knowing it was made by wood not so much

 04:03 <stephenm> New AI model fills in blank spots in photos

 04:03 <stephenm> https://asia.nikkei.com/Tech-Science/Tech/New-AI-model-fills-in-blank-spots-in-photos

 04:04 <stephenm> Google is making it easier for 911 to find you in an emergency

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.engadget.com/2018/02/16/google-911-location-data-emergency/

 04:04 <stephenm> Ah Google the new big brother

 04:04 <stephenm> LinkedIn Users Will Soon Know What Jobs Pay Before Applying for Them

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.adweek.com/digital/linkedin-salary-insights/

 04:04 <stephenm> Useful

 04:04 <stephenm> SRT in GStreamer

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/srt-gstreamer

 04:04 <stephenm> A better marketing plan for your open source software project

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/18/2/open-source-community-marketing

 04:05 <stephenm> Learning IT Fundamentals

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/learning-it-fundamentals

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Weather Forecast

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/2017/7/linux-weather-forecast

 04:05 <stephenm> Q4OS Makes Linux Easy for Everyone

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/q4os-makes-linux-easy-everyone

 04:05 <stephenm> Defense Department (Re)Launches Open Source Software Portal

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.nextgov.com/it-modernization/2018/02/defense-department-relaunches-open-source-software-portal/146061/

 04:06 <stephenm> DNS and DHCP with Dnsmasq

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/dns-and-dhcp-dnsmasq

 04:06 <stephenm> The CNCF takes steps toward serverless computing

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.cncf.io/blog/2018/02/14/cncf-takes-first-step-towards-serverless-computing/

 04:06 <stephenm> The 4 Major Tenets of Kubernetes Security

 04:06 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/4-major-tenets-kubernetes-security/

 04:06 <stephenm> Enterprises identify 10 essential tools for DevOps

 04:06 <stephenm> http://searchitoperations.techtarget.com/news/252435210/Enterprises-identify-10-essential-tools-for-DevOps

 04:06 <stephenm> Xen Project Contributor Spotlight: Kevin Tian

 04:06 <stephenm> https://blog.xenproject.org/2018/02/14/xen-project-contributor-spotlight-kevin-tian/

 04:07 <stephenm> Introducing Spyder, the Scientific PYthon Development EnviRonment

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/introducing-spyder-scientific-python-development-environment

 04:07 <stephenm> Kali Linux Ethical Hacking OS Getting Fix for Meltdown & Spectre with Linux 4.15

 04:07 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/kali-linux-ethical-hacking-os-fixes-meltdown-spectre-with-first-release-in-2018-519816.shtml

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, turning it back to MajB

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> First a few more items of news

 04:08 <MajB> Canonical Plans to Release Ubuntu 16.04.4 LTS (Xenial Xerus) on March 1, 2018 http://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-plans-to-release-ubuntu-16-04-4-lts-xenial-xerus-on-march-1-2018-519817.shtml

 04:08 <MajB> Min: An Open Source Web Browser for Minimalists

 04:08 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/min-an-open-source-web-browser-for-minimalists/

 04:08 <MajB> How to Create a Bootable Ubuntu USB in Windows

 04:08 <MajB> https://www.maketecheasier.com/create-bootable-ubuntu-usb-windows/

 04:08 <MajB> Container security fundamentals: 5 things to know

 04:08 <MajB> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/2/container-security-fundamentals-5-things-know

 04:09 <MajB> How to clone, modify, add, and delete files in Git

 04:09 <MajB> https://opensource.com/article/18/2/how-clone-modify-add-delete-git-files

 04:09 <MajB> KDE Plasma Linux Desktop Is No Longer Vulnerable to USB Attacks, Update Now

 04:09 <MajB> http://news.softpedia.com/news/kde-plasma-linux-desktop-is-no-longer-vulnerable-to-usb-attacks-update-now-519767.shtml

 04:09 <MajB> Nintendo Switch Runs Linux Thanks To Hackers

 04:09 <MajB> https://thelinuxcode.com/nintendo-switch-already-runs-linux-thanks-hackers/

 04:09 <MajB> Any more news that we missed?

 04:10 <MajB> dennisk has a few announcements

 04:10 <dennisk> Lots happening at MCC

 04:10 <dennisk> Spring late start classes are open for enrollment

 04:11 <dennisk> I have two RHell Sys admin II and Linux security

 04:11 <dennisk> MCC will be part of Startup Week on Thursday which is Blockchain day.

 04:11 <dennisk> and starting in August MCC will offer a new  in blockchain and cryptocurrency.

 04:12 <dennisk> Contect me for details dennis.kibbe@mesacc.edu

 04:12 <dennisk> back to you, MajB

 04:12 <MajB> Thank you dennisk

 04:13 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:13 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:13 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:13 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 01 April 			(Easter)

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:14 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:14 <MajB> There are 39 open canonical Jobs today

 04:14 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <MajB> There are 11 open jobs under "Data Science" at Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:14 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:14 <MajB> There are 92 new and a total of 169 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:14 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:15 <MajB> There are 21 new and a total of 47 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:15 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:15 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:15 <MajB> 22 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 22 February, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 01 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 03 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:16 <MajB> 17 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe . Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:16 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:18 <MajB> OK I will cover them with the other LUG events

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:18 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 February 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 March 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:19 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 08 March 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 March 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:19 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 March 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:20 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 15 March 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:20 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Join the Phoenix Linux Users Group at their Security Session to learn about I2P and why it is not great. We will be discussing how I2P can increase your privacy, enhance your security, and reduce major corporat

 04:20 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 March 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the convers

 04:20 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 March 1-3:45 pm, Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E Tacoma Street, Sierra Vista http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS:

 04:21 <MajB> ScaLE 08-11 March 2018

 04:21 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:21 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:21 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:21 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:22 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:22 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:23 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
