{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #54 for the week June 30, July 6, 2008.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Fifty Fourth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-July 9, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday July 13, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Announcements ====

Hello team! I have been disappointed the last 3 weeks with the attendance at our weekly meetings. I know it's summer and we all like to be out doing fun things on the weekend, me included. I'm hoping that we aren't thinking because we became an approved team that we can sit back and take it easy now.

With the Open Source Conference, we have our hands full. Then there's always planning for the Intrepid release, and we have a demo for a computer club in Prescott. We are still working on a theme for our team branding package we plan to make available. We can't do any of this without the hard work and dedication of our members though.

I'm asking everyone to make an effort to get back into the habit of attending our weekly meetings starting this Sunday. I know I can count on our membership to come through just like they have always come through.

See you Sunday!!

johnc4510

==== Summary of the July 6, 2008 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/08July06

johnc4510 hoped everyone had a safe and happy July 4th weekend.

Radio interview(Gutsy Geeks) that John recorded for the Phoenix radio station is now up on their website, and you can download it here: http://www.gutsygeeks.com/audio/

UWN - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue98.

Intrepid Alpha 2 due out next Thursday.

New Ubuntu teams:

Java: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1563;

Web Presence: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1564.

Ubuntu-UK podcast #9: http://podcast.ubuntu-uk.org/2008/07/03/s01e09-playing-for-keeps/

johnc4510 put up some screenshots of a theme he's been working on for our team branding project. Please feel free to flame him as you see fit! LOL http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=809290

The meeting was adjourned at 9:02 PM.  This was a 2 minute meeting.

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* JohnCrawford
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

