{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #105 for the week August 17, August 23.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Fifth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-August 26, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

* Next meeting: Sunday August 30, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the August 23, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09August16

johnc4510, began with some announcements:

* Announcing the fourth Ubuntu Developer Week! August 31st - September 4th, 2009. Ubuntu Developer Week is the perfect opportunity for you to get involved and get a closer look at what’s happening behind the scenes. Make sure you mark the dates from Monday, 31st August 2009 to Friday, 4th September 2009 in your calendar! Just check out the timetable to learn more about which session is up next. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek .  Ubuntu Developer Week is a fantastic way to learn, get involved, and help make Ubuntu even better. Don't miss out!! https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-August/000604.html

* Karmic Ubuntu Netbook Remix (UNR) packages are now open for translation. You can start translating them straight away from here: https://translations.launchpad.net/unr

* The Ubuntu Global Jam is an incredible opportunity for the Ubuntu community to unite together around the weekend of 2nd - 4th Oct 2009 to work together to improve Ubuntu. Everyone is able to contribute to the Jam, and everyone is welcome and encouraged to get involved. Curious about how to make a real difference to Ubuntu? This is a great chance to make that difference. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam .  We should try to start planning next week and see if we can do something for the JAM.  We never have and i think we should try.

johnc4510 then began a discussion on the Tucson installfest:

* Installfest
* Tucson
* August 29th, 2009
* http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1244718

At johnc4510's request, a number of members indicated that they would be attending, and xHans said that he was still in negotiations.  A certain amount of back and forth concerning ride-sharing also took place, but determinations will occur outside of the meeting.  Team members are requested to check in and make out nametags (we can't tell the players without a scorecard.  Hee hee).  There was also a discussion about going out for something to eat afterward.  A few suggestions were made and a final determination will be made by johnc4510 or during the install fest.  scott_ev mentioned that an announcement was made during class for the CS department at U of A, only "they called a 'windows removal event'.  Apparently installfest isn't aggressive enough for them."

johnc4510 then asked xHans for the PLUG announcements:

* PLUG west side is this Wednesday. It will be a different temporary location.  This month will probably be going straight to food.  The west side meeting will also be moving permanently.  Watch the PLUG site and discuss list for info.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/352

* Phoenix Installfest also this Saturday for those who don't go down to Tucson.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/135

* ABLEconf has added a FOSS dev camp on Friday and a FOSS LAN party on Sunday.  Work on those will start in a few weeks.  The Call For Presentations went out last week. We really need help getting that out.   Early bird proposals are due in two weeks.  Short version for including in emails, etc.:  http://www.ABLEconf.com/node/30 .  Long version when only providing a link:  http://www.ABLEconf.com/2009/Phoenix/cfp

* TEDx is coming to Phoenix and looking for presentation input.  http://www.tedxphoenix.com/2009/08/who-do-you-want-to-see-at-tedxphoenix-2009/

* Software Freedom Day is coming up in a few weeks.  We need to organize events soon if we want to do something.  SFD events can be organized in conjunction with ABLEconf if desired.  http://www.SoftwareFreedomDay.org/

* Mark Shuttleworth was interviewed Monday for Gutsy Geeks.  It should be broadcast two weeks from yesterday [Ed. Note:  That would be 2 weeks from Saturday, August 22, 2009].  http://www.GutsyGeeks.com/

johnc4510 thanked xHans for his announcements.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:46.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
