{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc> +1
<toddc> +2
<Dazed_75> +1
<Flakeparadigm> +1
<toddc> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<Dazed_75> No idea why the audio quit
<Mikeofmany> +1
<toddc> Anybody here that is new tonight?
* SlickMcRunFast (~mark@174-26-13-19.phnx.qwest.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> some of us are in azlocobb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc> Going from DOS to Linux is like trading a glider for an F117.
<toddc> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc> Dazed_75 will do the news tonight
<Dazed_75> Cross-platform Trojan Attacks Windows, Intel Macs, and Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.zdnet.com/cross-platform-trojan-attacks-windows-intel-macs-linux-7000000872/
<Dazed_75> Use the Magic SysRq Key on Linux to Fix Frozen X Servers, Cleanly Reboot, and Run Other Low-Level Commands
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/119127/use-the-magic-sysrq-key-on-linux-to-fix-frozen-x-servers-cleanly-reboot-and-run-other-low-level-commands
<Dazed_75> How to Undo Unity
<Dazed_75> http://www.osnews.com/story/26192/How_to_Undo_Unity
<Dazed_75> Valve Steam for Linux
<Dazed_75> http://blogs.valvesoftware.com/Linux/
<Dazed_75> Linux Certified Adds Device Driver Development Course
<Dazed_75> http://linuxcertified.com/linux_Device_Driver_pr.html
<Dazed_75> SnapChick Gets to Grip With Ubuntu
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/snapchicks-progress-with-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Firefox 14 Coming to an Ubuntu Near You
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/firefox-14-released-with-new-security-features
<Dazed_75> Skype for Linux Bugfix Update
<Dazed_75> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/07/skype-push-out-new-bug-fix-update
<Dazed_75> ntroduction / Overview of Unity in 12.04 (28 minute video)
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/119219/an-introduction-overview-of-unity-in-ubuntu-12.04-for-beginners-video
<Dazed_75> Four Ways to Recover from a Crashed or Frozen X Server on Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/119293/4-ways-to-recover-from-a-crashed-or-frozen-x-server-on-linux
<Dazed_75> Four Ways to Recover from a Crashed or Frozen X Server on Linux
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/119293/4-ways-to-recover-from-a-crashed-or-frozen-x-server-on-linux
<Dazed_75> Install and Use Ubuntu's New (12.10) Web Apps Feature in 12.04
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtogeek.com/119560/how-to-install-and-use-ubuntus-new-web-apps-feature
<Dazed_75> http://liliputing.com/2012/07/ubuntu-web-apps-aim-to-blur-lines-between-desktop-and-web-apps.html
<Dazed_75> How to Benchmark Your System (CPU, File I/O, MySQL) with sysbench
<Dazed_75> http://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-benchmark-your-system-cpu-file-io-mysql-with-sysbench
<Dazed_75> Firefox 15 Reduces Memory Consumption
<Dazed_75> http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Firefox-15-reduces-memory-consumption-1649125.html
<Dazed_75> Talking Linux Gaming on The Linux Action Show
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTE0NDY
<Dazed_75>     http://www.jupiterbroadcasting.com/tag/linux-action-show/
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu's Unity Now Available in Fedora
<Dazed_75>     http://www.unixmen.com/ubuntus-unity-is-now-available-in-fedora/
<Dazed_75> Cinnamon Desktop comes to Fedora 17
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTE0Mzk
<Dazed_75> Five Linux CAD Tools
<Dazed_75> http://www.linuxlinks.com/article/20120721030347887/CADTools.html
<Dazed_75> and thats it from AJ
<toddc> Thank you Dazed_75 for the news tonight!
<toddc> I have a couple more to add!
<toddc> Dell's Ubuntu Laptop Program Enters Beta, 'Blows Away' Expectations
<toddc> http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/259229/dells_ubuntu_laptop_program_enters_beta_blows_away_expectations.html
<toddc> Samsung Galaxy S3 GT-I9300: Setting up and running Ubuntu Linux on your phone
<toddc> http://www.androidauthority.com/galaxy-s3-gt-i9300-ubuntu-linux-99787/
<toddc> JOB LIST
<toddc> Several openings at Limelight Networks in Tempe see
<toddc> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> System Administrator
<toddc> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc> Part time On-call Linux Admin
<toddc> mddz7-3153841919@job.craigslist.org
<toddc> Linux Administration Support
<toddc>  
<toddc>  Michela John ConsultNet
<toddc>  60 Rio Salado Parkway Suite 900
<toddc>  Tempe, Arizona
<toddc>  480.366.5806- Office 602.576.4841- Cell
<toddc> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc> This Thursday July 26 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extream Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is August 4  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd
<toddc> We will also be streaming all events on http://azlocobbb.banditti.com/  but until we get organized
<toddc> I will start as soon as possible after events start but due to setup time I hope to find others to run it  as we get bigger. This will let other's participate and be more active state/world wide but will take time to develop and and get the word out.
<toddc> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc> Sat at the Server installfest we were slammed full and busy from server installs and several new visitors
<toddc> and other projects. Thanks for all the help it went very smooth all thing considered.
<toddc> we also finished the new server Thanks to Dewayne and Justin and Don and Walter
<toddc> we also installed it and started testing it.
<toddc> Tagose planning and development meeting on August 11 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday August 18 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc> we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc> For more info see
<toddc> AzloCo.com calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
<toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc> Yesterday we built and installed a new VM Server using debian with Proxmox and installed it
<toddc> give us a while to get to know it but we will be soon able to issue Virtual Machines to Team members in the near future.
<toddc> Walter Mack attended and spent the day working on updating the AzLoco web site and will continue to work on it till it is done. Please thank him if you see him
<toddc> Also the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info
* Rich_ (c757e5ab@gateway/web/freenode/ip.199.87.229.171) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<toddc> hi Rich_
<Rich_> hello
<toddc> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc> Introduction to being an IRC operator
<toddc> Thursday July 26 10-11 am
<toddc> A Grand Tour of the channels and bots
<toddc> Thursday August 2 6-7
<toddc> #ubuntu-classroom on irc.freenode.net
<toddc> Ubuntu Hour
<toddc> July 26 7:00 PM at Extreame Bean 1707 E. Southern Ave. Tempe, AZ 85282
<toddc> http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28 or http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc> xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
<Yorokobi> +1
<toddc> hi Yorokobi
<toddc> PLUG EVENTS
<toddc> Developer Meeting August 2, 7-9pm at University of Advancing Technology, 2625 West Baseline Road Tempe AZ 85283. This is close to the US 60 and Interstate 10 by Fry's Electronics. Meetings are held in room 245.
<toddc> Plug East side meeting Thursday August 9  7-10 PM  at MCC 1833 W. Southern Ave., Mesa, AZ 85202     Kirk Student Center
<toddc> Linux Security Hackfest has a new home August 14 11-2
<toddc> http://plug.phoenix.az.us/meetings/20-linux-security-hackfest/87-linux-security-hackfest-has-a-new-home.html
<toddc> Free Software Stammtisch Tuesday August 21 at Iguana Macks 7:00PM 1371 N Alma School Rd Chandler AZ 85224
<toddc> http://www.lufthans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
<toddc> plug server emphasis installfest is August 18 10-4PM  at UAT 48st and Baseline road Tempe across from Fry's Electronics  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208
<toddc> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<toddc> all meetings will be posted at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings
<toddc> and emailed to the email list contact myself or Dazed_75 for more info
<toddc> no new ideas?
<toddc> if there is nothing else?
<toddc> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
