{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 04 Nov at 03:59 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-11-04-03.59.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-october-2024-updates/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-pixel-art-editors/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-self-hosted-pastebin-alternatives/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2024/10/29/kentik-cloud-latency-map/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/linux-rolling-release-model/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/we-have-an-official-open-source-ai-definition-now-but-the-fight-is-far-from-over/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/shotcut-24-10-introduces-ai-powered-speech-to-text-feature/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-ttyd/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://dmpop.xyz/article.php?id=2024-10-29_systemd-mount-dev   (stephen_laptop_, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/cpupower-gui-tool-set-cpu-frequency-limits/   (stephen_laptop_, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://jobs.statefarm.com/main/jobs?categories=Technology%20and%20UX   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (53)
* MajB (28)
* stephen_laptop_ (16)
* Stephenm (10)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started at 03:59:54 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> welcome Stephenm

 04:00 <MajB> hello stephenm

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> stardate -298158.9245914288

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also NationalSandwichDay

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> 

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:04 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <Stephenm> New is short this week, thought it was lonnger

 04:04 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Software: October 2024 Updates

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-october-2024-updates/

 04:04 <Stephenm> 11 Best Free and Open Source Pixel Art Editors

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-pixel-art-editors/

 04:04 <Stephenm> 8 Best Free and Open Source Self-Hosted Pastebin Alternatives

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-self-hosted-pastebin-alternatives/

 04:05 <Stephenm> The Cloud Latency Map: Free Tool Measures Latency Across 100+ Cloud Regions

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2024/10/29/kentik-cloud-latency-map/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> sorry about that, power just disconnected me

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> All You Need to Know About the Linux Rolling Release Model

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.maketecheasier.com/linux-rolling-release-model/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> We Have an Official Open-Source AI Definition Now, but the Fight is Far from Over

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.zdnet.com/article/we-have-an-official-open-source-ai-definition-now-but-the-fight-is-far-from-over/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> Shotcut 24.10 Introduces AI-Powered Speech to Text Feature

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxiac.com/shotcut-24-10-introduces-ai-powered-speech-to-text-feature/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> How to Share Your Linux Terminal Over the Web Using Ttyd

 04:07 <stephen_laptop_> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-ttyd/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> Automatically Mount a Storage Device with a systemd Service

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> https://dmpop.xyz/article.php?id=2024-10-29_systemd-mount-dev

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> cpupower-gui – Tool to Set CPU Frequency Limits

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> https://www.linuxlinks.com/cpupower-gui-tool-set-cpu-frequency-limits/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> OK that's all the news I have tonight, back to toddc

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:08 <stephen_laptop_> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks Stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> no power in texas tonight?

 04:09 <stephen_laptop_> not sure what happened but things flickered, exceptfor the lights

 04:09 <toddc> I have a long extention cord

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> The Linux philosophy is 'Laugh in the face of danger'. Oops. Wrong One. 'Do it yourself'. Yes, that's it

 04:10 <toddc> A lot of that momentum comes from the fact that Linux is free.

 04:11 <toddc> I don't have any authority over Linux other than this notion that I know what I'm doing. Linus

 04:11 <toddc> Those who don't understand Linux are doomed to reinvent it, poorly.

 04:11 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:11 <toddc> Digital High Performance Computing Sr. Principal Specialist - ONSITE Tucson AZ

 04:11 <toddc> Raytheon

 04:11 <toddc> Linux System Administrator    TEKsystems in Tucson, AZ

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 266

 04:12 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:12 <toddc> https://jobs.statefarm.com/main/jobs?categories=Technology%20and%20UX

 04:12 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 62 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:12 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:12 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:13 <toddc> The Raspberry Pi project has announced a new version of Raspberry Pi OS

 04:13 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:13 <toddc> VMware Workstation to Switch to KVM on Linux

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB

 04:14 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:14 <MajB> 28 November Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour (Thanksgiving)

 04:14 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:14 <MajB> 07 November,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 14 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 14 November, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 16 November,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:14 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 17 November, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:15 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:15 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:15 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:15 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 14 November, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 19 November, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:15 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:15 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 26 November, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:15 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:16 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:16 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
