{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 18 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-11-18-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/mirantis-acquires-docker-enterprise/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-donates-more-ubuntu-phones-to-ubports-for-ubuntu-touch-development-528158.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/latest-banana-pi-showcases-a-new-quad-a7-soc-with-fpga-extensions/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi-4-chronicling-desktop-experience-web-browsing/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/11/wireshark-for-terminal-termshark-20.html 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-activate-night-light-on-a-debian-gnome-desktop/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/leasing-ips-podman 
''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/edit-images-on-fedora-easily-with-gimp/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/fully-update-upgrade-offline-debian-based-systems/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-find-fan-speed-in-linux-for-cpu-and-gpu/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-host-command-check-find-dns-records-lookup/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/fsck-command-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/11/how-to-hide-mounted-drives-from-dock-on.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-anaconda-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-install-lamp-stack-apache-mysql-mariadb-php-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/11/kubernetes-3-ways-get-started 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/getting-started-ansible 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-expressionengine-cms-on-freebsd-12/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-outs-important-linux-kernel-updates-for-all-supported-ubuntu-releases-528153.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-vs-zombieland-v2-the-security-battle-continues/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (62)
* stephenm (48)
* programmer317 (6)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (2)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Nov 18 04:00:08 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <programmer317> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> hi programmer317

 04:00 <programmer317> hi toddc

 04:01 <MajB> Hi programmer317

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/html5client/join?sessionToken=jd3pzrxm4cl0erow  if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <programmer317> hi MajB

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:03 <stephenm> New is general then more Linux specific

 04:03 <stephenm> Mirantis acquires Docker Enterprise

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/mirantis-acquires-docker-enterprise/

 04:03 <stephenm> Not sure how I feel about this since I've only done a little with Docker

 04:03 <stephenm> Canonical Donates More Ubuntu Phones to UBports and You Can Get One Right Now

 04:03 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-donates-more-ubuntu-phones-to-ubports-for-ubuntu-touch-development-528158.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> Latest Banana Pi showcases a new quad -A7 SoC with FPGA extensions

 04:03 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/latest-banana-pi-showcases-a-new-quad-a7-soc-with-fpga-extensions/

 04:04 <stephenm> Raspberry Pi 4: Chronicling the Desktop Experience – Web Browsing – Week 4

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/raspberry-pi-4-chronicling-desktop-experience-web-browsing/

 04:04 <stephenm> "Wireshark For The Terminal" Termshark 2.0 Adds Stream Reassembly, Piped Input And Dark Mode

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/11/wireshark-for-terminal-termshark-20.html

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Activate Night Light on a Debian GNOME Desktop

 04:04 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-activate-night-light-on-a-debian-gnome-desktop/

 04:04 <stephenm> Leasing routable IP addresses with Podman containers

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/leasing-ips-podman

 04:04 <stephenm> Edit images on Fedora easily with GIMP

 04:04 <stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/edit-images-on-fedora-easily-with-gimp/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Fully Update And Upgrade Offline Debian-based Systems

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/fully-update-upgrade-offline-debian-based-systems/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to find fan speed in Linux for CPU and GPU

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-find-fan-speed-in-linux-for-cpu-and-gpu/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Find DNS (Domain Name Server) Records On Linux Using the Host Command

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-host-command-check-find-dns-records-lookup/

 04:05 <stephenm> Fsck Command in Linux (Repair File System)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/fsck-command-in-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Hide Mounted Drives From The Dock On Ubuntu 19.10 (And Newer)

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxuprising.com/2019/11/how-to-hide-mounted-drives-from-dock-on.html

 04:06 <stephenm> I guess this could be handy, but so can Linux permissions and ACLs

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Anaconda on Debian 10

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-anaconda-on-debian-10/

 04:06 <stephenm> Not sure about this but at least it's not YAML

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install LAMP Stack Apache MySQL/MariaDB PHP on CentOS 8

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/how-to-install-lamp-stack-apache-mysql-mariadb-php-on-centos-8/

 04:06 <stephenm> Kubernetes: 3 ways to get started

 04:06 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/11/kubernetes-3-ways-get-started

 04:07 <stephenm> Much better than docker swarm, just saying

 04:07 <stephenm> Getting started with Ansible

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/getting-started-ansible

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install ExpressionEngine CMS with Nginx on FreeBSD 12

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-expressionengine-cms-on-freebsd-12/

 04:07 <stephenm> Canonical Outs Major Linux Kernel Security Updates for All Supported Ubuntu OSes

 04:07 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/canonical-outs-important-linux-kernel-updates-for-all-supported-ubuntu-releases-528153.shtml

 04:07 <stephenm> Linux vs. Zombieland v2: The security battle continues

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-vs-zombieland-v2-the-security-battle-continues/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you MajB

 04:08 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:08 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:09 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> 28 November 2019 Tempe Ubuntu Hour canceled because of a conflict with Thanksgiving.

 04:10 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:10 <MajB> There are 70 open canonical Jobs today

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB> There are 59 new jobs and a total of 125 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:11 <MajB> There are 4 new jobs and a total of 50 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:11 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> 28 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour CANCELED

 04:12 <MajB> 05 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 07 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:12 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 12 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 12 December, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 21 December,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:13 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 26 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:15 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FernHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:16 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 19 November  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of th

 04:16 <MajB> ings tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:16 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 21 November 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:16 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 12 December 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:16 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:16 <MajB> Meeting on 24 November 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 06 December 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 11 December 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:17 <MajB> Meeting on 23 November 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:18 <MajB> programmer317, were you able to attend the sun city west meeting on Friday?

 04:19 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:19 <programmer317> No MajB.    I was not able to attend.  I will try again on Friday.

 04:20 <MajB> OK I am going to try to get permission to post their info on our web site even though it appears to be a closed group.

 04:21 <programmer317> Why do you think it's a closed group?

 04:21 <MajB> 55+

 04:21 <MajB> Is that not correct?

 04:21 <programmer317> Ah.    Yes.    It is closed in that sense.

 04:22 <MajB> I definitely qualify

 04:22 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
