{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, 26 Feb at 03:59 &mdash; 04:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-02-26-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/ 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/2/12-bad-enterprise-security-habits-break 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/opera-says-its-next-opera-release-will-have-the-fastest-ad-blocker-on-the-block-519916.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/datacenter/att-brings-akraino-networking-project-to-edge-of-the-linux-foundation.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/plasma-mobile-could-give-life-mobile-linux-experience 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Endless-OS-Helps-Tear-Down-Linux-Wall-85152.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Kudos-to-Namib-Linux-for-Making-Arch-Approachable-85128.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=radeon-win10-feb18&num=1 
''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.co.uk/2018/02/23/npm_undoes_patch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/2/how-get-started-using-wsl-windows-10 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/linux-lan-routing-beginners-part-1 
''LINK:'' http://www.zdnet.com/article/how-to-secure-your-website/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxhint.com/install-vmware-tools-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/taking-python-next-level 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/2/how-configure-apache-web-server 
''LINK:'' https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/02/lets-encrypt-hits-50-million-active-certificates-and-counting 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Open-Up-the-Source-Code-to-Lock-Down-Your-Data-85120.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/2/diy-blynk-board-esp8266 
''LINK:'' https://lkml.org/lkml/2018/2/18/188 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/how-to-make-good-use-of-grep-command 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/force-user-to-change-password-next-login-in-linux/# 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://www.virtra.com/careers 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona/+member/adriancardenas694 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp 
''LINK:'' https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (59)
* MajB (37)
* stephenm (37)
* meetingology (3)
* Ron_A (2)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Feb 26 03:59:49 2018 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +2

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 95755.44

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight! All the way from TX

 04:02 <stephenm> I'm going to do this quick because I don't feel good.  News starts easy then gets more hard.

 04:03 <stephenm> 12 bad enterprise security habits to break

 04:03 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/2/12-bad-enterprise-security-habits-break

 04:03 <stephenm> Opera Says Its Next Opera Release Will Have the Fastest Ad Blocker on the Block

 04:03 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/opera-says-its-next-opera-release-will-have-the-fastest-ad-blocker-on-the-block-519916.shtml

 04:03 <stephenm> AT&T Brings Akraino Networking Project to Edge of the Linux Foundation

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/datacenter/att-brings-akraino-networking-project-to-edge-of-the-linux-foundation.html

 04:03 <stephenm> Plasma Mobile Could Give Life to a Mobile Linux Experience

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/plasma-mobile-could-give-life-mobile-linux-experience

 04:03 <stephenm> Endless OS Helps Tear Down Linux Wall

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Endless-OS-Helps-Tear-Down-Linux-Wall-85152.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Kudos to Namib Linux for Making Arch Approachable

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Kudos-to-Namib-Linux-for-Making-Arch-Approachable-85128.html

 04:04 <stephenm> Radeon Linux OpenGL Driver Continues Giving Its Best Against Windows 10

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=radeon-win10-feb18&num=1

 04:04 <stephenm> Unlucky Linux boxes trampled by NPM code update, patch zapped

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.co.uk/2018/02/23/npm_undoes_patch/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Get Started Using WSL in Windows 10

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/2/how-get-started-using-wsl-windows-10

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux LAN Routing for Beginners: Part 1

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/2/linux-lan-routing-beginners-part-1

 04:05 <stephenm> It's HTTPS or bust: How to secure your website

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.zdnet.com/article/how-to-secure-your-website/

 04:05 <stephenm> Install VMWare Tools on Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxhint.com/install-vmware-tools-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Taking Python to the Next Level

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/taking-python-next-level

 04:05 <stephenm> How to configure an Apache web server

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/2/how-configure-apache-web-server

 04:05 <stephenm> Let's Encrypt Hits 50 Million Active Certificates and Counting

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/02/lets-encrypt-hits-50-million-active-certificates-and-counting

 04:06 <stephenm> Open Up the Source Code to Lock Down Your Data

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Open-Up-the-Source-Code-to-Lock-Down-Your-Data-85120.html

 04:06 <toddc> including us!!!!

 04:06 <stephenm> Get started with IoT: How to build a DIY Blynk Board

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/2/diy-blynk-board-esp8266

 04:06 <stephenm> back to you toddc I'm OK

 04:06 <Ron_A> I hope that you get to feeling better stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> Thamks stephenm

 04:06 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:06 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:06 <MajB> Linux 4.16 rc2

 04:06 <MajB> https://lkml.org/lkml/2018/2/18/188

 04:07 <MajB> How To Make Good Use Of 'grep' Command

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/how-to-make-good-use-of-grep-command

 04:07 <MajB> How to Force User to Change Password at Next Login in Linux

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.tecmint.com/force-user-to-change-password-next-login-in-linux/#

 04:07 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:07 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:07 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <toddc> Y

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> "Why do you keep going back to that fishing website?"

 04:09 <toddc> "I can't help it, I'm hooked."

 04:09 <toddc> Q: What did the dentist say to the computer?

 04:09 <toddc> A: This won't hurt a byte

 04:10 <toddc> What do rabbits put in their computers?

 04:10 <toddc> Hoppy disks.

 04:10 <toddc> Doctor, doctor, should I surf the Internet on an empty stomach?

 04:10 <toddc> No, you should do it on a computer.

 04:11 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:11 <toddc> PYTHON WEB DEVELOPER  (Tempe)

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.virtra.com/careers

 04:11 <toddc> Threshold Communications   Consulting Network Engineer / Tier 2 IP NOC

 04:11 <toddc> Phone: (206) 812.6200 Toll Free: (844) 844.1382 Email: info@thresholdcommunications.com

 04:11 <toddc> Linux admin at Wellsfargo

 04:12 <toddc> The recruiter is Bryce Johnson (480) 258-4823

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 33 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:13 <MajB> 01 March,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 03 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:14 <MajB> 03 March,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:14 <MajB> 22 March, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:14 <MajB> 22 March, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <toddc> New Members this week

 04:15 <toddc> we need some

 04:15 <toddc> we have 1

 04:15 <toddc> we are looking for him

 04:16 <MajB> Adrian Cardenas

 04:16 <toddc> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona/+member/adriancardenas694

 04:16 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 March 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 8 March 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 March 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:19 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 March 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:19 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 15 March 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:19 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  We will be discussing how I2P can increase your privacy, enhance your security, and reduce major corporations from being able to track you or use your browsing habits for their profits. We will also be discussi

 04:19 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 March 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the convers

 04:19 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 March 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 March 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:20 <MajB> Back to you toddc.

 04:21 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:21 <toddc> Thank you MajB !

 04:21 <toddc> ny thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:22 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:22 <MajB> FUTURE EVENTS (CONFERENCES):

 04:22 <MajB> 08-11 March 2018, ScaLE

 04:22 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center

 04:22 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:22 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/16x/cfp

 04:22 <MajB> 24-25 March 2018, Libre Planet 2018

 04:22 <MajB> Cambridge, MA

 04:22 <MajB> https://www.libreplanet.org/2018/

 04:23 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:23 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:23 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
