{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #80 for the week February 2, February 8.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Eightieth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-February 11, 2009
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: ["ArizonaTeam"]

* Next meeting: Sunday February 15, 2009  9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the February 8, 2009 meeting ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:01 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/09February08

Johnc4510 began the meeting with some announcements:

* Intrepid Installfest in Tucson this Saturday, Feb 14th, 2009 - 10AM to 4PM on the University of Arizona campus. It will be in the: <<BR>>

  ECE Building (Computer Engineering Building, building #104) <<BR>>
  1230 E. Speedway <<BR>>
  Room 232 <<BR>>

 We need Tucson people and any other start members to come if at all possible. The more the merrier!! Try to get there a half hour early to help get set up. Bring a laptop if you have one, or netbook, or whatever . If you have a router and some patch cables that might be helpful. I'm looking forward to a good turnout so come join in on the fun.
* "Jaunty Jackalope Alpha 4 is out: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-February/000530.html.  Don't forget this is a alpha release.  You could run into problems.
* Rock the Docs Day: What exactly is Lo``Co Docs Day? In a nutshell, it is when the Ubuntu Lo``Co community comes together to refine, add to and otherwise improve our Online Lo``Co Documentation. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams  We already have some excellent documentation, but much of it needs a new lick of paint and a good old fashioned refresh. As such, all the Lo``Co team are invited to come together on Feb. 12th to help make this happen.

johnc4510 then asked scott_ev to introduce himself:  "Name is Scott Gwin 47, live in mesa.  Moved here From Oklahoma City In May 08.. Used Ubuntu for 2 years now."  urugTON was warmly welcomed to the Team.

johnc4510 then stated that the new server is up.  http://ubuntuaz.selfip.com.  This next week we will be changing to drupal and setting up a new webpage.  Stats page moved too:  http://ubuntuaz.selfip.com/~ircstats/.  Also, slofgren is going to donate a second server for us to play with, for those interested.  This is the theme we'll probably be going with for the team page:  http://s204.photobucket.com/albums/bb24/johnc4510/?action=view&current=Events.png.  kennymc0 and tyche volunteered to help become admins for the website  scott_ev said he'd read up on it to see how he could help.  We plan to have the main page with links to canonical, Ubuntu and our team resources, a calendar for events, a blog area for members to use, and anything else we can think of.  Drupal have lots of modules(plugins) to use.

slofgren reported that he's going to rack a new server, tomorrow.  Then we'd have one stable and one test server.   The second server is half what the stable one is in size and power.  It might be best to voice your opinion about the server in the forums.  This is a grpup project so we want your input.

johnc4510 then reminded everyone that as we discuss earlier we are also going to offer hosting to any of the LUG or user groups in AZ.  And the calendar will be one for all the groups to use.  We want the user groups to feel free to add events and meetings to the calendar so it will be a sort of one stop place to find out what's going on in open source in AZ.  We'll leave all the wiki stuff in place on the Canonical servers and link to them.  johnc4510 is going to buy the domain name as soon as Drupal is installed.  If they offer a second at a reduce price he may get it too.

Installfest  Tucson: <<BR>>

 University of Arizona campus <<BR>>
 ECE Building (Computer Engineering Building) <<BR>>
 1230 E. Speedway <<BR>>
 Building #104 <<BR>>
 Room 232 <<BR>>

johnc4510 said that he'd have the flier up tomorrow.  kennymc0 and scott_ev may carpool down to Tucson.  kennymc0 added that if anyone else in phoenix area would liek to get together to carpool to go down that would be awesome.  johnc4510 said that he has everything he thinks we need equipment wise but he'll hit kennymc0 up or anyone else he can if he thinks  of anything.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:56 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* JohnCrawford

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
