{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



{{{
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	-->|	Darth_Pudding (~mevans@174-19-193-222.phnx.qwest.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
[21:00]	Darth_Pudding	+1
[21:00]	toddc	hi
[21:00]	toddc	welcome
[21:00]	toddc	+1
[21:00]	Darth_Pudding	evening! did I do it right?
[21:00]	toddc	yep I was just starting
[21:01]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:01]	Darth_Pudding	rock on!
[21:01]	toddc	Let's start with the news till everyone get's here
[21:01]	toddc	Linux syslog may be on way out
[21:01]	toddc	http://www.itworld.com/it-managementstrategy/227291/linux-syslog-may-be-way-out
[21:02]	toddc	Android has logging file that records and sends every keystroke you make
[21:02]	toddc	http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2011/11/secret-software-logging-video/
[21:02]	toddc	to test your phone install Carrier IQ Detector
[21:02]	toddc	https://market.android.com/details?id=com.lookout.carrieriqdetector
[21:02]	toddc	I had it running and plan to remove it after the meeting tonight
[21:03]	toddc	25 worst passwords of 2011,and mine is on it!
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.itbusiness.ca/it/client/en/home/News.asp?id=65012#.TsxkcKTmBVo.reddit
[21:04]	toddc	Ubuntu tells dumped CouchDB: It's not you, it's me
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/11/25/couchdb_dumped_ubuntu_one/
[21:04]	toddc	ubuntu one will not be included in 12.04
[21:05]	toddc	Firefox faces uncertain future as Google deal apparently ends
[21:05]	toddc	http://www.zdnet.com/blog/bott/firefox-faces-uncertain-future-as-google-deal-apparently-ends/4241
[21:05]	toddc	mozilla is talking with duckduckgo
[21:05]	toddc	I am a user of duckduckgo for a search engine since it has no tracking or bubble see
[21:05]	toddc	http://duckduckgo.com/
[21:06]	toddc	Ubuntu penguins build Linux TV challenge
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/11/28/ubuntu_tv/
[21:06]	toddc	ubuntu version of XBMC good luck
[21:07]	toddc	Installing KVM Guests With virt-install On Ubuntu 11.10 Server
[21:07]	toddc	http://www.howtoforge.com/installing-kvm-guests-with-virt-install-on-ubuntu-11.10-server
[21:07]	toddc	TEAM NEWS
[21:07]	toddc	If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
[21:07]	toddc	We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
[21:07]	toddc	if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know?
[21:08]	toddc	We now have 11.10 cd's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word of Linux/open source and or installfests
[21:08]	Darth_Pudding	Question/Comment if the right time
[21:08]	toddc	go
[21:09]	Darth_Pudding	Create an Account on azloco.com is throwing back errors and seems to be a little non-functional? Is there a status page for the servers?
[21:10]	Darth_Pudding	or a proper feedback loop I should use?
[21:10]	toddc	the site is still on drupal 3 and messed up we just a a drupal 7.9 on test.azloco.com but need to build the site (which I have never done) but I might be able to manually add you
[21:11]	Darth_Pudding	okay, thought it was relevant.
[21:11]	toddc	pm me after the meeting and I will try to add you manually
[21:11]	Darth_Pudding	rock on
[21:11]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:12]	toddc	IT Manager - Cloud Systems (Scottsdale)
[21:12]	toddc	https://recruit.zoho.com/ats/NewData.hr?digest=1Ityqefl2A7y4RQagFTvbBBeRulN2AjQf9euQOG5Tbr0CRRa11OwZQnena1CTqjE&bgrndcolor=b6e9f6&font=Verdana&headercolor=000000
[21:12]	toddc	System Administrator -- Global Systems Administration
[21:12]	toddc	http://phoenix.craigslist.org/cph/sad/2715615836.html
[21:12]	toddc	TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:12]	toddc	the test server is finally running Drupal 7.9 the next step is to figure out how to copy the azloco site
[21:12]	toddc	to it or copy what still works to the test site so If anyone has Ideas please let me know
[21:13]	toddc	dejavo
[21:13]	toddc	Current plans are to add BigBlueButton ver 08-beta-3 to azloco.com also a link to the Ubuntu classroom Training Page now that Drupal is updated. So, if someone has time /skill please let me know
[21:13]	toddc	http://test.azloco.com
[21:14]	toddc	TEMPE INSTALLFEST
[21:14]	toddc	Saturday Dec 3 we had the last instafest of the year not may new users were there but we had a good time and and fixed mayof our own issues----Thanks [R] for lots of great help
[21:14]	toddc	FUTURE EVENTS
[21:14]	toddc	December 25th meeting is canceled due to falling on Dec 25 Merry Xmas
[21:14]	toddc	January 1st meeting will also be canceled due to the new year
[21:15]	toddc	xHans if you are here do you have any news for us?
[21:15]	xHans	a few things
[21:15]	xHans	ABLEconf call for proposals ends a week from today, please get your proposals in
[21:15]	xHans	http://www.ABLEconf.com/2012/Phoenix/CfP
[21:15]	xHans	ABLEconf online meeting Wednesday at 19:00
[21:16]	xHans	Usually using the LoCo's Big Blue Button instance, but will use IRC if BBB is s
[21:16]	xHans	till down
[21:16]	xHans	PLUG east side meeting this Thursday is the annual end of year party
[21:16]	xHans	http://plug.phoenix.az.us/component/jevents/icalrepeat.detail/2011/12/08/17/-/plug-east-meeting?Itemid=1
[21:16]	toddc	BBB should be up by then
[21:16]	xHans	ABLEconf in person meeting is two weeks from Tuesday at 18:00, before the Stammtisch
[21:17]	xHans	Free Software Stammtisch is two weeks from Tuesday at 19:00, after the ABLEconf mtg
[21:17]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:17]	xHans	both are in the meeting room at Iguana Macks
[21:17]	xHans	that's it from me for this week
[21:18]	toddc	Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and ABLEconf.org
[21:18]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:18]	toddc	thanks for coming tonight but I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question

 }}}
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
