{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 20 Nov at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2023/ubuntu-us-az.2023-11-20-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-screen-sharing/   (stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/raddiola-simple-radio-app/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/steam-deck-oled-handheld-gaming-console/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/07/software_testing/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/steam-deck-oled-is-now-available-to-order-with-hdr-display-and-bigger-battery   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-next-wave-desktop-environment-innovations   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/16/canonical_microcloud/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/rust-in-linux-where-we-are-and-where-were-going-next/#ftag=RSSbaffb68   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-google-news/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-monitor-your-system-zabbix   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-foundation-backs-high-performance-and-exascale-computing/#ftag=RSSbaffb68   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/first-look-at-ubuntu-23-10-on-raspberry-pi-5   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/python-message-box/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/hands-on-with-mx-linux-23-on-raspberry-pi-5   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/10/snap_without_ubuntu_tools/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/navigating-linux-textscape-using-vim-and-emacs   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/fido2-for-centrally-managed-users/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/file-sharing-linux-using-nfs-and-samba   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.debugpoint.com/kali-linux-features/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-change-grub-menu-font-size/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/wireshark-4-2-packet-analyzer/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-reset-root-password-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org   (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-8/   (MajB, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/   (MajB, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (58)
* stephenm (50)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:10 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <toddc> +1 for mrubuntu

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:02 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> The news is a mix of things for various platforms of Linux

 04:02 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Screen Sharing

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-screen-sharing/

 04:03 <stephenm> Raddiola – simple radio app

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/raddiola-simple-radio-app/

 04:03 <stephenm> Steam Deck OLED: Valve’s Latest Innovation

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/steam-deck-oled-handheld-gaming-console/

 04:03 <stephenm> Open source work makes me appreciate software testing. It's not an academic exercise

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/07/software_testing/

 04:03 <stephenm> Steam Deck OLED Is Now Available to Order with HDR Display and Bigger Battery

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/steam-deck-oled-is-now-available-to-order-with-hdr-display-and-bigger-battery

 04:03 <stephenm> Understanding the Next Wave of Desktop Environment Innovations

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-next-wave-desktop-environment-innovations

 04:03 <stephenm> Canonical reveals more details about Ubuntu Core Desktophttps://www.theregister.com/2023/11/08/ubuntu_core_desktop_details/

 04:03 <stephenm> Canonical intros Microcloud: Simple, free, on-prem Linux clustering

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/16/canonical_microcloud/

 04:04 <stephenm> Rust in Linux: Where we are and where we're going next

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/rust-in-linux-where-we-are-and-where-were-going-next/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:04 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Google News

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-google-news/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Monitor Your System with Zabbix

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-monitor-your-system-zabbix

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux Foundation backs high-performance and exascale computing

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-foundation-backs-high-performance-and-exascale-computing/#ftag=RSSbaffb68

 04:04 <stephenm> First Look at Ubuntu 23.10 on Raspberry Pi 5

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/first-look-at-ubuntu-23-10-on-raspberry-pi-5

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Create Message Box in Python

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/python-message-box/

 04:05 <stephenm> Hands-On with MX Linux 23 on Raspberry Pi 5

 04:05 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/hands-on-with-mx-linux-23-on-raspberry-pi-5

 04:05 <stephenm> Canonical shows how to use Snaps without the Snap Store

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/10/snap_without_ubuntu_tools/

 04:05 <stephenm> Navigating the Linux Textscape using Vim and Emacs

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/navigating-linux-textscape-using-vim-and-emacs

 04:05 <stephenm> FIDO2 for centrally managed users

 04:05 <stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/fido2-for-centrally-managed-users/

 04:05 <stephenm> File Sharing on Linux Using NFS and Samba

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/file-sharing-linux-using-nfs-and-samba

 04:05 <stephenm> Learn About the Best Features of Kali Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.debugpoint.com/kali-linux-features/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Change GRUB Menu Font Size on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> features/

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-change-grub-menu-font-size/

 04:06 <stephenm> Wireshark 4.2 Packet Analyzer Adds Support For HTTP/3

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/wireshark-4-2-packet-analyzer/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Reset a Forgotten Root Password in Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-reset-root-password-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:07 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 218 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <MajB> There are 35 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 13 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:09 <MajB> 02 December,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:09 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 03 December, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:10 <MajB> 07 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 14 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:10 <MajB> 14 December, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 16 December  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:10 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB> 17 December, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB> 28 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> CANCELED TEAM EVENTS:

 04:11 <MajB> 23 November Tempe Ubuntu Hour is canceled because of a conflict with Thanksgiving.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:11 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:11 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:12 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group

 04:12 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org

 04:12 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:12 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 21 November, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:12 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 14 December, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:12 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:12 <MajB> https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-8/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting 13 December 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month),

 04:12 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa

 04:12 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group

 04:12 <MajB> https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:12 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 28 November 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:12 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:13 <MajB> That is all I have.  Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership? I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
