{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 21 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-10-21-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/shuttleworth-sees-the-linux-desktop-living-on-with-ubuntu-19-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/10/open-source-space-exploration 
''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/stress-relief 
''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/com-offers-9th-or-8th-gen-coffee-lake-with-10gbps-usb-3-2-and-up-to-96gb-ram/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Devs-Engage-in-Soul-Searching-on-Future-of-Open-Source-86282.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Solus-Brightens-Computing-Across-the-Linux-User-Spectrum-86305.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Serious-Linux-Sudo-Bugs-Damage-Potential-Actually-May-Be-Small-86298.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/ArcoLinux-Eases-the-Way-for-the-Arch-Curious-User-86262.html 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/10/big-data-explained-plain-english 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/how-to-install-notepad-editor-on-debian-10/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-kali-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-open-eshop-on-ubuntu-18-04/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Austrumi-Linux-Has-Great-Potential-if-You-Speak-Its-Language-86285.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/centos-8-package-management-with-dnf-on-the-command-line/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-php-on-centos-8/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cloudbooklet.com/install-jira-on-ubuntu-18-04-with-nginx-and-letsencrypt-ssl-google-cloud/ 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/virtualbox-adds-support-for-linux-kernel-5-3-red-hat-enterprise-linux-8-1-beta-527855.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (61)
* stephenm (40)
* toddc (7)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (1)
* programmer317 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 21 04:00:05 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <programmer317> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <toddc> i do

 04:02 <MajB> You do what?

 04:02 <toddc> add comment

 04:02 <toddc> s

 04:03 <MajB> Well we will continue without stephenm for a while

 04:03 <stephenm> sorry computer froze

 04:03 <MajB> You are up

 04:04 <stephenm> should be

 04:04 <stephenm> Shuttleworth sees the Linux desktop living on with Ubuntu 19.10

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/shuttleworth-sees-the-linux-desktop-living-on-with-ubuntu-19-10/

 04:04 <stephenm> To space and beyond with open source

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/10/open-source-space-exploration

 04:04 <stephenm> Top 5 stress reliefs for sysadmins

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/stress-relief

 04:04 <stephenm> And it's not bubble baths

 04:04 <stephenm> COM offers 9th or 8th Gen Coffee Lake with 10Gbps USB 3.2 and up to 96GB RAM

 04:04 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/com-offers-9th-or-8th-gen-coffee-lake-with-10gbps-usb-3-2-and-up-to-96gb-ram/

 04:05 <stephenm> Devs Engage in Soul-Searching on Future of Open Source

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Devs-Engage-in-Soul-Searching-on-Future-of-Open-Source-86282.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Solus Brightens Computing Across the Linux User Spectrum

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Solus-Brightens-Computing-Across-the-Linux-User-Spectrum-86305.html

 04:05 <stephenm> 'Serious' Linux Sudo Bug's Damage Potential Actually May Be Small

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Serious-Linux-Sudo-Bugs-Damage-Potential-Actually-May-Be-Small-86298.html

 04:05 <stephenm> ArcoLinux Eases the Way for the Arch-Curious User

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/ArcoLinux-Eases-the-Way-for-the-Arch-Curious-User-86262.html

 04:05 <stephenm> How to explain big data in plain English

 04:05 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2019/10/big-data-explained-plain-english

 04:05 <stephenm> How to install notepad++ Editor on Debian 10

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/how-to-install-notepad-editor-on-debian-10/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Kali Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-kali-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install Open eShop on Ubuntu 18.04

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-install-open-eshop-on-ubuntu-18-04/

 04:06 <markthomas> +1

 04:06 <stephenm> Austrumi Linux Has Great Potential if You Speak Its Language

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Austrumi-Linux-Has-Great-Potential-if-You-Speak-Its-Language-86285.html

 04:06 <stephenm> CentOS 8 Package Management with DNF on the Command Line

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/centos-8-package-management-with-dnf-on-the-command-line/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Install PHP on CentOS 8

 04:06 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-php-on-centos-8/

 04:06 <stephenm> Install Jira on Ubuntu 18.04 with Nginx and Let’sEncrypt SSL – Google Cloud

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.cloudbooklet.com/install-jira-on-ubuntu-18-04-with-nginx-and-letsencrypt-ssl-google-cloud/

 04:07 <stephenm> Virtualbox adds support for Linux kernel 5.3 Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.1 beta

 04:07 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/virtualbox-adds-support-for-linux-kernel-5-3-red-hat-enterprise-linux-8-1-beta-527855.shtml

 04:07 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight

 04:07 <toddc> thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:07 <stephenm> welcome

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> 02 November 2019 AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop Canceled because of a UAT campus wide event.  No alternative venue is available at this time.

 04:08 <MajB> 28 November 2019 Tempe Ubuntu Hour canceled because of a conflict with Thanksgiving.

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 68 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 64 new jobs and a total of 139 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <MajB> There are 25 new jobs and a total of 62 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:10 <MajB> 24 October,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 02 November, AZLOCO/CLUG Install Fest, 1000-1400, Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista. All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions, or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.

 04:11 <MajB> 07 November,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB> 11 November, Team Re-verification Meeting 1300-1330,  IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting

 04:11 <MajB> 14 November, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 14 November, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB> 16 November,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source So

 04:12 <MajB> ftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  FernHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:13 <toddc> he logged out to avoid talking to you

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 14 November 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:14 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 19 November  7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of th

 04:14 <MajB> ings tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 21 November 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:14 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:14 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 27 October 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 01 November 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 13  November 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 26 October 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> CLUG/AZLOCO Installfest 02 November 10-2 pm., Warrior Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista AZ

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:16 <MajB> Do you have anything to add toddc?

 04:16 <toddc> we need to discus meetup but lets wait till bbb is up

 04:17 <MajB> Roger that.  The certificate is outdated.  That is the problem.  Just let me know.

 04:18 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
