{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 07 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-04-07-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Wayland-Q1-2025   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Intel-Patches-Hide-Turds   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-march-2025-updates/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/newsaggregators/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/subtitleeditors/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/play-wordle-linux-pc/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-restic-front-ends/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/kew-adds-internet-radio-support/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/calibre-8-2-brings-new-kobo-and-kindle-featureses/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/04/02/speech_now_streaming_from_brains/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/products/about-mozilla-connect/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-emacs-like-text-editors/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/shell-upgrade-supercharge-your-terminal-with-zsh-oh-my-zsh   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/how-to-install-and-use-flatpak-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.15-Crypto   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/mastering-linux-file-permissions-and-ownership   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-optimize-database-performance-with-mysqltuner/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/http-406-not-acceptable-status-code/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-progress-chef/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-kemp-loadmaster/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/git-linux-beginners-guide-version-control-and-project-management   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/arttime-clock-timer-time-manager/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/dockerfile-build-best-practices-errors   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/unlock-powerful-monitoring-your-guide-to-prometheus-and-grafana   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/incus-6-11-container-and-virtual-machine-manager-released/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Coreboot-25.03-Released   (toddc, 04:14)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (56)
* Stephenm (54)
* MajB (15)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:09 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> stardate -297737.442541857

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> please sign in in a with a +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/Y

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> I will and always do

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also National Carbonara Day!

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> 

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:04 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <Stephenm> Random Linus news

 04:04 <Stephenm> Wayland Is On Track For A Very Exciting 2025

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Wayland-Q1-2025

 04:04 <Stephenm> Intel Posts New Linux Kernel Patches To "Hide The Disgusting Turds"

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Intel-Patches-Hide-Turds

 04:04 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Software: March 2025 Updates

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-software-march-2025-updates/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 15 Best Free and Open Source Linux News Aggregators

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/newsaggregators/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 10 Best Free and Open Source Subtitle Editors

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/subtitleeditors/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 5 Ways to Play Wordle on your Linux PC

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/play-wordle-linux-pc/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 7 Best Free and Open Source Restic Front-Ends

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-restic-front-ends/

 04:05 <Stephenm> kew adds internet radio support

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/kew-adds-internet-radio-support/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Calibre 8.2 Brings New Kobo and Kindle Features

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/calibre-8-2-brings-new-kobo-and-kindle-featureses/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Speech now streaming from brains in real-time

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2025/04/02/speech_now_streaming_from_brains/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Built together: How Firefox fans help shape the browser

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/products/about-mozilla-connect/

 04:06 <Stephenm> 8 Best Free and Open Source Emacs-Like Text Editors

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-emacs-like-text-editors/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Shell Upgrade: Supercharge Your Terminal with Zsh & Oh My Zsh

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/shell-upgrade-supercharge-your-terminal-with-zsh-oh-my-zsh

 04:07 <Stephenm> How To Install And Use Flatpak In Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/how-to-install-and-use-flatpak-in-linux/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Linux 6.15 Crypto Subsystem Delivers Faster AES-CTR For AMD Zen 5 & Other x86_64 CPUs

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.15-Crypto

 04:07 <Stephenm> Mastering Linux File Permissions and Ownership

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/mastering-linux-file-permissions-and-ownership

 04:08 <Stephenm> How to Optimize Database Performance With MySQLTuner

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-optimize-database-performance-with-mysqltuner/

 04:08 <Stephenm> HTTP 406 Not Acceptable Status Code: What is it and how to fix it?

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/http-406-not-acceptable-status-code/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Progress Chef

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-progress-chef/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Progress Kemp LoadMaster

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-kemp-loadmaster/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Git on Linux: A Beginner’s Guide to Version Control and Project Management

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/git-linux-beginners-guide-version-control-and-project-management

 04:09 <Stephenm> arttime is an intriguing clock, timer, time manager with text art

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/arttime-clock-timer-time-manager/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Dockerfile Build – Best Practices & Errors

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/dockerfile-build-best-practices-errors

 04:09 <Stephenm> Unlock Powerful System Monitoring: Your Guide to Prometheus and Grafana

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/unlock-powerful-monitoring-your-guide-to-prometheus-and-grafana

 04:09 <Stephenm> Incus 6.11 Container & Virtual Machine Manager Released

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/incus-6-11-container-and-virtual-machine-manager-released/

 04:10 <Stephenm> That's all the news I have for today, back to toddc

 04:10 <toddc> WOW Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:10 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:10 <Stephenm> Welcome all

 04:10 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> Q: What's the difference between a Windows PC and a Trampoline ?

 04:11 <toddc> A: You take your boots OFF to jump on a trampoline.

 04:11 <toddc> Why do programmers hate nature?

 04:12 <toddc> It has too many bugs

 04:12 <toddc> Why did the developer go broke?

 04:12 <toddc> Because he used up all his cache.

 04:12 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:12 <toddc> Jr. System Administrator Raytheon Tucson

 04:13 <toddc> Linux Admin - Phoenix, AZ

 04:13 <toddc> hrus@georgiait.com

 04:13 <toddc> Systems Engineer Phoenix

 04:13 <toddc> ARIZONA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE

 04:13 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 253

 04:13 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:13 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 39 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:14 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:14 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:14 <toddc> Coreboot 25.03 Released With Support For 22 More Motherboards

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Coreboot-25.03-Released

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:14 <toddc> Ubuntu 25.04 Beta is out

 04:15 <toddc> MaB has some Canceled meetings and events.

 04:15 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:15 <MajB> 10 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 10 April, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:15 <MajB> 19 April,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring yo

 04:15 <MajB> ur personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 24 April,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 01 May,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000,  On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net, Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 03 May,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your

 04:16 <MajB> personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 04 May. Team Meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az.

 04:16 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:16 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:16 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:17 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:17 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:17 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
