{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 17 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-12-17-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/2018/12/kubecon-cloudnativecon-videos-now-online 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/the-state-of-open-source-in-2018/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.wired.com/story/how-facebook-made-universal-open-source-language-web/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2018/12/new-ebook-offers-comprehensive-guide-to-open-source-compliance/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.cncf.io/blog/2018/12/11/phippy-comes-to-cncf/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/tlp-increase-optimize-linux-laptop-battery-life/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/10-best-native-linux-games 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/12/get-skills-you-need-monitor-systems-and-services-prometheus 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/12/4-unique-terminals-linux 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/12/aliases-diy-shell-commands 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/resolutions-open-source-project-maintainers 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/configuration-management-tools 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/12/linux-toy-cmatrix 
''LINK:'' https://news.softpedia.com/news/vivaldi-2-2-introduces-picture-in-picture-smarter-tab-management-and-navigation-524256.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://techbeacon.com/6-best-practices-highly-available-kubernetes-clusters 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/ppa-guide/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/events/448/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 
''LINK:'' http://ebb.org/bkuhn/blog/2018/12/15/what-debian-does.html 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (57)
* stephenm (35)
* xHans (13)
* trtck09 (6)
* Ron_A (6)
* toddc (5)
* Stu (4)
* meetingology (3)
* pirateP (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Dec 17 04:00:02 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <pirateP> +1

 04:00 <Stu> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <trtck09> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> nice attendance tonight

 04:01 <Ron_A> howdy trtck09 welcome

 04:01 <trtck09> Hi Ron_A

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> News starts out globally then gets more techie.

 04:02 <stephenm> KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Videos Now Online

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/2018/12/kubecon-cloudnativecon-videos-now-online

 04:02 <stephenm> The State of Enterprise Open Source in 2018

 04:02 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/the-state-of-open-source-in-2018/

 04:03 <stephenm> How Facebook Made a Universal Open Source Language for the Web

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.wired.com/story/how-facebook-made-universal-open-source-language-web/

 04:03 <stephenm> New Ebook Offers Comprehensive Guide to Open Source Compliance

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/2018/12/new-ebook-offers-comprehensive-guide-to-open-source-compliance/

 04:03 <stephenm> Phippy + Cloud Native Friends Make CNCF Their Home

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.cncf.io/blog/2018/12/11/phippy-comes-to-cncf/

 04:03 <stephenm> TLP - An Advanced Power Management Tool That Improve Battery Life On Linux Laptop

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/tlp-increase-optimize-linux-laptop-battery-life/

 04:03 <stephenm> 10 Best Native Linux Games

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/10-best-native-linux-games

 04:03 <stephenm> Get the Skills You Need to Monitor Systems and Services with Prometheus

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/12/get-skills-you-need-monitor-systems-and-services-prometheus

 04:04 <stephenm> 4 Unique Terminal Emulators for Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/12/4-unique-terminals-linux

 04:04 <stephenm> Aliases: DIY Shell Commands

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/learn/2018/12/aliases-diy-shell-commands

 04:04 <stephenm> 5 resolutions for open source project maintainers

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/resolutions-open-source-project-maintainers

 04:04 <stephenm> Top 5 configuration management tools

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/configuration-management-tools

 04:04 <stephenm> Patch into The Matrix at the Linux command line

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/12/linux-toy-cmatrix

 04:05 <stephenm> Vivaldi 2.2 Introduces Picture-in-Picture, Smarter Tab Management and Navigation

 04:05 <stephenm> https://news.softpedia.com/news/vivaldi-2-2-introduces-picture-in-picture-smarter-tab-management-and-navigation-524256.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> 6 Best Practices for Highly Available Kubernetes Clusters

 04:05 <stephenm> https://techbeacon.com/6-best-practices-highly-available-kubernetes-clusters

 04:05 <stephenm> Using PPA in Ubuntu Linux [Complete Guide]

 04:05 <stephenm> https://itsfoss.com/ppa-guide/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you MajB.

 04:05 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:06 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page

 04:06 <Ron_A> some good stuff thanks

 04:06 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <MajB> 05 January AZLOCO/PLUG installfest.  UAT has a campus wide event (Winter break maintenance) and no room or alternate venue is available)

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 53 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <MajB> There are 64 new jobs and a total of 168 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:08 <MajB> There are 20 new jobs and a total of 83 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/?q=node/28

 04:09 <MajB> 27 December, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.  Starting with the new year the S

 04:09 <MajB> ierra Vista Ubuntu Hour will move from the fourth Thursday to the second Thursday of each month.  The time and location will remain the same.

 04:09 <MajB> 27 December,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <Stu> uh on

 04:10 <MajB> Got booted off.  That was interesting

 04:10 <Ron_A> welcome back MajB

 04:10 <toddc> where o where

 04:10 <trtck09> >_>

 04:10 <trtck09> wth

 04:10 <MajB> 03 January,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 05 January,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop is canceled.

 04:10 <MajB> 10 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> NEW MEMBERS:  Stu became the 306th official member of the Team.  Welcome him when you see him on line.

 04:11 <Stu> woot woot

 04:11 <MajB> Welcome Stu

 04:11 <trtck09> Congrats, Stu.

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:11 <Ron_A> weclome stu

 04:11 <toddc> yea Stu !!!

 04:12 <xHans> si, gracias

 04:12 <toddc> stand up and take a bow

 04:12 <xHans> Stammtisch is Tuesday at 19:00

 04:12 * xHans bows

 04:12 <Stu> lol

 04:12 <xHans> or was that for someone else :)

 04:12 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/events/448/floss-stammtisch/

 04:12 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:12 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ 85204

 04:12 <xHans> There is no December security meeting, sec mtgs will restart in January

 04:12 <xHans> I also have a news item from yesterday

 04:13 <xHans> http://ebb.org/bkuhn/blog/2018/12/15/what-debian-does.html

 04:13 <xHans> a nice thank you to debian

 04:13 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:14 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://azloco.org/?q=node/225

 04:14 <xHans> bitte

 04:14 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 23 December 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:14 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:14 <MajB> Meeting on 04 January 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 09January 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Meeting on 22 December 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St Sierra Vista AZ

 04:15 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:15 <MajB> SCaLE 17X https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/17X

 04:15 <MajB> 7-10 March 2019 at Pasadena Convention Center

 04:15 <MajB> Pasadena, CA

 04:15 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else?

 04:16 <trtck09> I gotta go early, this cough syrup is some good ass stuff. Goodnight.

 04:16 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:16 <Ron_A> Thanks MajB

 04:17 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
