{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 16 Apr at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2018/ubuntu-us-az.2018-04-16-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.wired.com/story/using-open-source-designs-to-create-more-specialized-chips/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/4/get-started-open-source-project 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/4/submitting-my-first-patch-linux-kernel 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/4/civil-infrastructure-platform-looks-takes-open-source-industrial-scale 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/4/real-world-build-tips-yocto 
''LINK:'' https://www.infoworld.com/article/3267976/python/anaconda-cpython-pypy-and-more-know-your-python-distributions.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/4/microservices-explained 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/4/devops-success-why-continuous-key-word 
''LINK:'' https://thenewstack.io/devops-is-the-secret-ingredient-to-make-microservices-cook/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/tig-a-commandline-browser-for-git-repositories/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/4/redcore-linux-makes-gentoo-easy 
''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-rancher-docker-container-manager-on-ubuntu/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-set-up-ssh-keys/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-is-under-your-hood/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/18/4/how-add-users-group-linux 
''LINK:'' https://itsfoss.com/linux-mint-basic-settings/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (72)
* stephenm (30)
* toddc (4)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* markthomas (1)
* Ron_A (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Apr 16 04:00:09 2018 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly

 04:01 <Ron_A> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:02 <markthomas> +1

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> hi stephenm

 04:02 <stephenm> sorry late again my xchat is not working properly

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> Hello stephenm

 04:02 <MajB> Just in time

 04:03 <stephenm> howdy MajB and toddc

 04:03 <toddc> justin is not here tonight

 04:03 <MajB> Perhaps you should switch to Pidgeon

 04:03 <stephenm> Stories start from simple Linux stuff to more technical.

 04:03 <stephenm> Using Open Source Designs to Create More Specialized Chips

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.wired.com/story/using-open-source-designs-to-create-more-specialized-chips/

 04:03 <stephenm> Make your first contribution to an open source project

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/4/get-started-open-source-project

 04:04 <stephenm> Submitting my first patch to the Linux kernel

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/18/4/submitting-my-first-patch-linux-kernel

 04:04 <stephenm> Civil Infrastructure Platform Takes Open Source to an Industrial Scale

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/4/civil-infrastructure-platform-looks-takes-open-source-industrial-scale

 04:04 <stephenm> Real-World Build Tips for Yocto.

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/4/real-world-build-tips-yocto

 04:04 <stephenm> Anaconda, CPython, PyPy, and more: Know your Python distributions

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.infoworld.com/article/3267976/python/anaconda-cpython-pypy-and-more-know-your-python-distributions.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Microservices Explained

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2018/4/microservices-explained

 04:05 <stephenm> DevOps success: Why continuous is a key word

 04:05 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2018/4/devops-success-why-continuous-key-word

 04:05 <stephenm> DevOps Is the Secret Ingredient to Make Microservices Cook

 04:05 <stephenm> https://thenewstack.io/devops-is-the-secret-ingredient-to-make-microservices-cook/

 04:05 <stephenm> Tig – A Command Line Browser for Git Repositories

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/tig-a-commandline-browser-for-git-repositories/

 04:06 <stephenm> Redcore Linux Makes Gentoo Easy

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2018/4/redcore-linux-makes-gentoo-easy

 04:06 <stephenm> How to install Rancher Docker Container Manager on Ubuntu

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-rancher-docker-container-manager-on-ubuntu/

 04:06 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight folks.

 04:06 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> I have a few more items

 04:06 <toddc> thanks stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:07 <MajB> How To Set Up SSH Keys

 04:07 <MajB> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-set-up-ssh-keys/

 04:07 <wmack> thank you stephenm

 04:07 <MajB> Linux is under your hood

 04:07 <MajB> https://www.zdnet.com/article/linux-is-under-your-hood/

 04:07 <stephenm> you're welcome

 04:07 <MajB> How to add users to a group in Linux

 04:07 <MajB> https://opensource.com/article/18/4/how-add-users-group-linux

 04:07 <MajB> Getting Started with Linux Mint? Focus on These Three Tools

 04:07 <MajB> https://itsfoss.com/linux-mint-basic-settings/

 04:08 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:08 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:08 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:08 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 13 May			(Mothers Day)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 27 May			(Memorial Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 02 September		(Labor Day week-end)

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO meeting 11 November		(Veterans Day)

 04:09 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB> There are 36 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:09 <MajB> There are 13 open jobs under "Data Science" at Pet Smart jobs - Phoenix

 04:09 <MajB> https://jobs.petsmart.com/search-jobs/data%20science/899/1

 04:10 <MajB> There are 88 new and a total of 172 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB> There are 18 new and a total of 40 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:10 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:10 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:11 <MajB> 21 April,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop and Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic Beaver Release party, 1400-1800 at the home of Walter and Ingeborg Mack, 5831 W. Kesler St. Chandler.  The AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest for the same day at the University of Advancing Technology will be relocated to that location also starting at 2 pm. instead of the normal 10 am. Internet will be available, installs will still be conducted and problems will be solved while we celebra

 04:11 <MajB> 26 April, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 April, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 28 April, AZLOCO/Cochise Linux User Group Installfest on 1100-1500 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.   Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss fre

 04:12 <MajB> 03 May,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 05 May,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your person

 04:13 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:13 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:14 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:14 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 17 April 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of things tech, so the convers

 04:14 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org/

 04:14 <MajB> PLUG security Class on 19 April 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:14 <MajB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Join the Phoenix Linux Users Group at their Security Session to learn about Tor and why it is pretty terrible. We will be discussing how Tor can increase your privacy, enhance your security, and reduce major co

 04:14 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 22 April 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.  http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:15 <MajB> 28 April, Cochise Linux User Group/AZLOCO Installfest on 1100-1500 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library Mona Bishop room, 2600 E. Tacoma St. Sierra Vista AZ.   Anyone interested in Linux is welcome. We can just chat or we can install almost any version of Linux on your computer. Fix or learn open source programs in a one on one training class. We can install most Linux distributions. We are also happy to fix problems, answer questions or simply discuss fre

 04:15 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 04 May 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ.  http://phx2600.com/

 04:15 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 09 May 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona South, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.  http://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB> Sunland Linux   User Group (SLUG) meeting on 09 May 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.   http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) meeting on 10 May 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.  http://phxlinux.org/

 04:16 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects?

 04:17 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?

 04:17 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
