{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 01 Aug at 03:59 &mdash; 04:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-08-01-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/7-tips-sysadmins-considering-linux-foundation-training-certification%20%20 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/week-open-source-news-wal-mart-joins-oss-revolution-latest-linux-version-integrated-android 
''LINK:'' http://www.forbes.com/sites/moorinsights/2016/07/26/wal-mart-proves-open-source-is-big-business/#ec9ebba18eee 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/learn-experts-linux-foundations-europe-events 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/7/my-linux-story-carla-schroder 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/apache-software-foundations-two-new-big-data-projects-tackle-science-and-processing 
''LINK:'' http://fossbytes.com/top-50-linux-system-administrator-interview-questions-answers/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/7/dnf-system-upgrade 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-15-10-wily-werewolf-has-reach-end-of-life-upgrade-to-ubuntu-16-04-lts-506701.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-speed-up-apt-get-apt-command-ubuntu-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/install-papirus-icon-theme-on-ubuntu-linux-mint/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/7/perl-tricks-system-administrators 
''LINK:'' http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/pfsense-2-3-2-open-source-bsd-firewall-distro-arrives-with-over-70-improvements-506625.shtml 
''LINK:'' http://www.infoworld.com/article/3099981/virtualization/openvz-70-runs-linux-vms-like-containers.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/find-processes-by-memory-usage-top-batch-mode 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/data-center/why-blockchain-matters.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxplanet.com/news/linux-4.7-debuts-with-improved-security.html 
''LINK:'' http://hokstadconsulting.com/devops/writing-systemd-units 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.picmonic.com/pages/careers/software-developer/ 
''LINK:'' http://i.imgur.com/diKgXXX.jpg 
''LINK:'' http://evpo.net/encryptpad/ 
''LINK:'' https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/simple-docker-ui/jfaelnolkgonnjdlkfokjadedkacbnib 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (85)
* stephenm (43)
* MajB (34)
* Pscion (5)
* meetingology (3)
* nhasian (2)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug  1 03:59:08 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <nhasian> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 94184.86

 04:00 <nhasian> whew I just made it

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <mark91> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> even smart remarks

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> Here tonight beginning with news and then moving onto expert

 04:03 <stephenm> 7 Tips for SysAdmins Considering a Linux Foundation Training Certification

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/7-tips-sysadmins-considering-linux-foundation-training-certification%20%20

 04:03 <stephenm> This Week in Open Source News: Wal-Mart Joins OSS Revolution, Latest Linux Version Integrated Into Android, & More

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/week-open-source-news-wal-mart-joins-oss-revolution-latest-linux-version-integrated-android

 04:03 <stephenm> Wal-Mart Proves Open Source Is Big Business

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.forbes.com/sites/moorinsights/2016/07/26/wal-mart-proves-open-source-is-big-business/#ec9ebba18eee

 04:03 <stephenm> Learn from the Experts at The Linux Foundation’s Europe Events

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/learn-experts-linux-foundations-europe-events

 04:04 <stephenm> I've been Linuxing since before you were born

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/7/my-linux-story-carla-schroder

 04:04 <stephenm> The Apache Software Foundation's Two New Big Data Projects Tackle Science and Processing

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/apache-software-foundations-two-new-big-data-projects-tackle-science-and-processing

 04:04 <stephenm> Top 50 Linux System Administrator Interview Questions

 04:04 <stephenm> http://fossbytes.com/top-50-linux-system-administrator-interview-questions-answers/

 04:04 <stephenm> 3 Unique Takes on the Linux Terminal at Your Command

 04:04 <stephenm> www.linux.com/learn/3-unique-takes-linux-terminal-your-command

 04:04 <stephenm> How to perform a system upgrade with DNF

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/business/16/7/dnf-system-upgrade

 04:05 <stephenm> Ubuntu 15.10 (Wily Werewolf) Reached End of Life, Upgrade to Ubuntu 16.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-15-10-wily-werewolf-has-reach-end-of-life-upgrade-to-ubuntu-16-04-lts-506701.shtml

 04:05 <stephenm> How to use multiple connections to speed up apt-get/apt on Ubuntu Linux 16.04 LTS server

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-speed-up-apt-get-apt-command-ubuntu-linux/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Install Papirus Icon Theme on Ubuntu 16.04 and Linux Mint 18

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/install-papirus-icon-theme-on-ubuntu-linux-mint/

 04:05 <stephenm> Perl tricks for system administrators

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/7/perl-tricks-system-administrators

 04:06 <stephenm> sorry slight delay

 04:06 <stephenm> pfSense 2.3.2 Open Source BSD Firewall Distro Arrives with over 70 Improvements

 04:06 <stephenm> http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/pfsense-2-3-2-open-source-bsd-firewall-distro-arrives-with-over-70-improvements-506625.shtml

 04:06 <stephenm> OpenVZ 7.0 runs Linux VMs like containers

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.infoworld.com/article/3099981/virtualization/openvz-70-runs-linux-vms-like-containers.html

 04:06 <stephenm> Find Top 15 Processes by Memory Usage with ‘top’ in Batch Mode

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/find-processes-by-memory-usage-top-batch-mode

 04:06 <stephenm> Why Blockchain Matters

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.datamation.com/data-center/why-blockchain-matters.html

 04:07 <stephenm> Linux 4.7 Debuts with Improved Security

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.linuxplanet.com/news/linux-4.7-debuts-with-improved-security.html

 04:07 <stephenm> Writing systemd Units

 04:07 <stephenm> http://hokstadconsulting.com/devops/writing-systemd-units

 04:07 <stephenm> that is all the news I have for tonight everyone

 04:07 <MajB> Good job stephenm

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:08 <toddc> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:08 <toddc> November  05 2016 UAT has all school event so we will need to locate another place

 04:08 <MajB> And that place is?

 04:08 <toddc> September 03 2016 labor day installfest

 04:08 <toddc> September 04 2016 meeting

 04:09 <stephenm> todd's house

 04:09 <toddc> yes we still need to find a location for the nov 11 installfest

 04:09 <Pscion> Ask Nasser

 04:09 <toddc> MajB do we have a overveiw of the Lubuntu Bug day Q&A ?

 04:09 <Pscion> nhasian, want to host an Installfest? :P

 04:10 <toddc> Pscion: ok

 04:10 <MajB> No we no not.  I tuned in late.

 04:10 <toddc> np

 04:10 <toddc> Pscion  do you have any updates on your install logging project and do you still need some help with it?

 04:10 <Pscion> Bring some work benches and we can do it upstairs, there's plenty of room.

 04:11 <Pscion> Still need to log onto the vpn and troubleshoot the web serving

 04:11 <toddc> Pscion: noted

 04:11 <toddc> noted for the installfest and server

 04:11 <Pscion> For the record, it's showing the front page, but no links or any redirects are working.

 04:11 <MajB> That is a start.

 04:11 <toddc> is the vpn working?

 04:12 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:12 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:12 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:12 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:12 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:12 <toddc> brought to us from dennisk

 04:13 <toddc> A penguin and a polar bear walk into a bar the bartender asked the polar bear what he would like and then turns to the Penguin and ask the same.

 04:13 <toddc> Bartender gets no response. Polar bear leans over and tells the bartender you'll have to forgive my friend he's hard of herring.

 04:13 <MajB> Nooooo

 04:13 <toddc> local Jobs

 04:14 <toddc> PayPal is looking to hire an Information Security Engineer.

 04:14 <toddc> Top 3 requirements: Splunk Experience, SysLog-NG experience, Linux experience.

 04:14 <toddc> Aldini, Nicholas <naldini@teksystems.com>

 04:14 <toddc> Software Developer and Technical Support Specialist and Java dev

 04:14 <toddc> https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/

 04:14 <toddc> 32 current canonical Jobs today

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:14 <toddc> Sr. Software Developer

 04:14 <toddc> http://www.picmonic.com/pages/careers/software-developer/

 04:14 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:15 <toddc> Walmart runs linux

 04:15 <toddc> http://i.imgur.com/diKgXXX.jpg

 04:15 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:15 <toddc> EncryptPad is an application for viewing and editing symmetrically encrypted text.

 04:15 <toddc> http://evpo.net/encryptpad/

 04:15 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> Simple Docker UI is an unofficial developer tool for monitoring and managing Docker containers.

 04:15 <toddc> https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/simple-docker-ui/jfaelnolkgonnjdlkfokjadedkacbnib

 04:16 <toddc> TEAM SERVER NEWS

 04:16 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:17 <MajB> 04 August, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 06 August, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwar

 04:17 <MajB> 20 August, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Softwar

 04:18 <MajB> 25 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:18 <MajB> 25 August, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> That is it for August

 04:18 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:18 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:19 <toddc> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:19 <toddc> When Tue, August 02, 8-9am

 04:19 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:19 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:20 <toddc> PLUG East Meeting

 04:20 <toddc> Thu, August 11, 2016, 7pm – 9pm

 04:20 <toddc> Various topics ranging form beginner's to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:20 <toddc> Where:Desert Breeze Substation: 251 North Desert Breeze Blvd, Chandler, AZ 85226

 04:20 <toddc> Free Software Stammtisch

 04:21 <toddc> Tuesday, August 16, 2016, 07:00pm - 10:00pm

 04:21 <toddc> Boulders on Southern,  1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa, Arizona 85210

 04:21 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 05 August 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 09 August 6:30-9:30 pm.  Barbudos Dos,  3250 Gateway Blvd, Suite 516, Prescott, AZ

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 10 August 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 10 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 27 August 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 28 August 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> That's all folks

 04:23 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:24 <MajB> Do you want a report on the TFUG meeting?

 04:24 <toddc> yes

 04:24 <MajB> Three of us from Sierra Vista drove up to Tucson to attend an “unofficial” Tucson Free Unix Group meeting at Cafe Luce in Main Gate Square outside of the University of Arizona.  There were four Tucson residents there who were interested in starting physical meetings for the group.

 04:24 <MajB> We provided them with POCs for both AZLOCO and the Cochise Linux User Group in Sierra Vista and some basic information on communication between members and some requirements for holding Installation Festivals/Linux Workshops.

 04:25 <MajB> They want to meet twice a month but no one was willing to step up to be the group driver.  We recommended that that position be occupied by several people to prevent the loss of continuity if that person should lose interest, move away from the community, or otherwise absent himself.

 04:25 <MajB> We also expressed a willingness to provide assistance in the way of advice or lessons learned from the establishment and early months of the CLUG.  They have been provided with four email addresses of possible previous admins or organizers and the information on their domain name.  We will now await further activity on their part.

 04:25 <MajB> That is all for now.

 04:25 <toddc> Turbixtux is working on a radio spot that would help us get some pr locally

 04:25 <MajB> Nice

 04:26 <toddc> more as we get more info

 04:26 <MajB> We are looking at that in SV as well.

 04:26 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:26 <MajB> But the group leader has been dragging his feet.

 04:27 <toddc> me?

 04:27 <MajB> Me

 04:27 <toddc> great meeting tonight thank you MajB

 04:28 <toddc> I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:28 <MajB> I think we we have a TFUG member present, seanw

 04:28 <toddc> cool and welcome

 04:28 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
