{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Wiki Updats
# PLUG Announcements
# Announcements
# Discussion

If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with johnc4510 or scott_ev.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:02:21] <scott_ev> OK, good evening everyone, I'm glad you have decided to join us for our Ubuntu Arizona Local Community Team Weekly IRC Planning Meeting.  Tonight is the first time we have met at 7:00pm so please pass the word in channel, etc. if you will.  Please let us know you are here by putting up a '+1' for us.
[19:02:36] <scott_ev> Also, if this is your first time here or if you haven't been to a meeting with us in a few or several months, please let us know and intrtoduce yourself and let us know a little about you.
[19:02:42] <jawee> +1
[19:02:44] <quietstorm> +1
[19:02:44] <SlickMcRunFast> +1
[19:02:45] <fuzzyvader> +1
[19:02:49] <br24> +1
[19:02:58] <doorman352> +1 - Havenb't been around in a while....
[19:03:12] <Ricksna> +1
[19:03:30] <scott_ev> OK, I don't have nearly as many news items this week as normal since the UWN wasn't finished and we need to focuc on something else tonight
[19:03:32] <toddc> +1
[19:03:40] <scott_ev> doorman352: tell us about yourself
[19:04:16] <scott_ev> jawee, will you log the meeeting and email it to me and flake?
[19:04:28] 	 * doorman352 is working for APS at present, but have 13+ years in IT and telecommunications..... with Linux about a year
[19:04:29] <Flakeparadigm> I've got it loging, don't worry
[19:04:41] <scott_ev> ok, +1 flake
[19:04:56] <scott_ev> tinight first thing I want to tackle is the wiki
[19:04:58] <Flakeparadigm> I'm not exactly here, but it's logging
[19:05:19] <jawee> scott_ev: set it on in irssi from this point on..
[19:05:27] <scott_ev> we have 3 pages on the wiki that need to be worked on
[19:05:35] <jawee> so if you need a backup I got that
[19:05:43] <scott_ev> thanks jawee
[19:05:46] <scott_ev> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Education
[19:05:46] <scott_ev> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Membership
[19:05:46] <scott_ev> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Newsletter
[19:06:03] <quietstorm> I never got the info on the woki
[19:06:08] <quietstorm> wiki
[19:06:27] <scott_ev> quietstorm: what do you need to know?
[19:06:39] <scott_ev> about our wiki or making your own?
[19:06:58] <scott_ev> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams
[19:07:01] <br24> scott_ev: those pages are pretty old
[19:07:08] <scott_ev> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[19:07:13] <br24> we havent worked on those in probably a couples yrs
[19:07:13] <quietstorm> I need to retrieve my login and info on the work required and how to do it
[19:07:30] <scott_ev> br24: that's my point, we need people to volunteer to work on those pages
[19:07:49] Join	K-Rich has joined this channel (~K-Rich@blender/artist/K-Rich).
[19:07:59] <scott_ev> quietstorm: when would you be available to learn about working on the wiki?
[19:08:03] <br24> I think some of that info may be better put on the website
[19:08:27] <K-Rich> Hello all
[19:08:30] 	 * doorman352 would be willing to be learned on updating/creating wiki pages.....
[19:08:31] <scott_ev> br24: agreed, but we may need to duplicate the info too
[19:08:34] <quietstorm> i am pretty much open except the 28th
[19:08:46] <K-Rich> Anyone else here from The White Mountains ?
[19:09:11] <Flakeparadigm> dont think so
[19:09:12] <scott_ev> doorman352: quietstorm lets get together this week here to discuss getting those things up to date
[19:09:25] <scott_ev> I'm always here or nearly so, so just find me
[19:09:30] <doorman352> roger
[19:09:33] <quietstorm> I now have a permanent phone so it will make it easy to contact me
[19:09:41] <scott_ev> K-Rich: not that I know
[19:09:53] <scott_ev> K-Rich: is this your first time here in the meeting?
[19:09:54] <quietstorm> besides xchat
[19:10:07] <scott_ev> quietstorm: cool, let's talk after the meeting
[19:10:10] <K-Rich> didn't know it was a meeting my bad, and yes it is
[19:10:18] <scott_ev> nice, and welcome
[19:10:29] <quietstorm> cool brb
[19:10:31] <scott_ev> why not tell us a litle bit about yourself
[19:11:13] <scott_ev> K-Rich: www,azloco.com is our website and from there you can find links to Ubuntu and Linix all over AZ
[19:11:23] <scott_ev> our wiki is linked there also
[19:12:00] <scott_ev> doorman, take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Education
[19:12:11] <scott_ev> that's what you and I will be working on
[19:12:12] <doorman352> yep see it....
[19:12:16] <K-Rich> Okay, My name is Rich, i'm 36. I've been using linux since slackware 3.5. Switched do debian then to ubuntu with warty. I live east of Show Low, and i'm i single dad of 4 girls
[19:12:32] <scott_ev> K-Rich: are you going to introduce yourself to us, please?
[19:12:36] <scott_ev> duh
[19:12:53] <K-Rich> hehe
[19:12:56] <scott_ev> nice, it's god to have you here
[19:12:57] <xHans> uh oh, scott_ev's stuck in a time anomoly again :)
[19:12:59] <scott_ev> good tpp
[19:13:05] <scott_ev> too
[19:13:06] <quietstorm> np happens to the best of us LOL
[19:13:10] 	 * scott_ev can type well
[19:13:58] <scott_ev> we have weekly mneetings now at 7 every sunday and at 8 in #plugaz or $ableconf we have meetings at 8
[19:14:25] <scott_ev> that's pheonix linux users group and ABLE conference planing committee
[19:14:50] <quietstorm> quick question?
[19:14:55] <scott_ev> yes
[19:15:08] <scott_ev> K-Rich: you'll find us a great little group
[19:15:18] <scott_ev> nearly no one will ever say RTFM
[19:15:24] <scott_ev> or STFU
[19:15:30] <scott_ev> except me.....
[19:15:32] <scott_ev> maybe
[19:15:33] <quietstorm> any plans to welcome in 10.10 whne it comes final
[19:15:34] <K-Rich> lol
[19:15:42] <doorman352> RTFM
[19:15:58] <scott_ev> quietstorm: yes, we decided to start planning a 10.10 release party
[19:16:03] <doorman352> Ready To Free Martians.....
[19:16:04] <Flakeparadigm> scott_ev only says that to teenagers Ã‚:P
[19:16:10] <scott_ev> we'll start that planning next month
[19:16:23] <doorman352> or was it morons..... ohwell
[19:16:26] <quietstorm> coolies
[19:16:29] <scott_ev> same thing
[19:16:40] 	 * doorman352 resembles that
[19:16:59] <quietstorm> really tight foot messagers?
[19:17:02] <scott_ev> quietstorm: you and I will be working on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Membership
[19:17:12] <K-Rich> so it's cool if i stick around, maybe pick up a thig or 2 and offer advise if i can?
[19:17:29] <scott_ev> that leaves the weekly team newsletter that tyche used to do
[19:17:30] <quietstorm> the more the merrier
[19:17:44] <scott_ev> is there anyone willing to work with me on that one?
[19:17:46] <K-Rich> cool
[19:17:55] <quietstorm> is tyche gone for good?
[19:18:00] <scott_ev> yes
[19:18:07] <xHans> :)
[19:18:10] <scott_ev> resigned his membership and everythign
[19:18:10] <xHans> er, :(
[19:18:13] <xHans> bah
[19:18:15] <Flakeparadigm> the new letter would be fun but I lack time as school starts again
[19:18:28] <scott_ev> Flakeparadigm: understood
[19:18:33] 	 * doorman352 needs to take baby steps.......
[19:18:41] <scott_ev> jsut foing the meeting page is realy nice of you and good job
[19:18:57] <quietstorm> would the letter be posted to the wiki or is there a mailing list
[19:19:03] <scott_ev> doorman352: true, we'll tackle the education page first
[19:19:17] <scott_ev> there's a mailing list too
[19:19:26] 	 * doorman352 needs edumakating
[19:19:32] <br24> hehe
[19:19:47] <scott_ev> but posting things to our team wiki is the main way Ubuntu can know if we should be allowed to keep our team status
[19:19:50] <br24> well I could tell you a little bit about that page
[19:20:24] <scott_ev> br24: is there any chance you'll be making meetings regularily again now that it's at 7?
[19:20:27] <quietstorm> I only have one day of college a week, that would give me some time to handle extra
[19:20:28] <br24> since that was the one I was working on that long ago
[19:20:46] <br24> well I made this one just because I promised ya
[19:21:10] <br24> Ive really been out of this group in a long time
[19:21:12] <scott_ev> no pressure, I was just wondering
[19:21:29] <br24> its a better possiblity now
[19:21:46] <scott_ev> k, you're welcome any time, you know that
[19:22:02] <br24> so what would you like to know about the Education page?
[19:22:22] <scott_ev> uhh...well, I think it's pretty self-explanatory
[19:22:51] <doorman352> are there more How-Tos to get us newbies up to spped that could be posted?
[19:22:58] <scott_ev> There's another wiki thing that we need to discuss
[19:23:02] <scott_ev> doorman352: yes
[19:23:03] <br24> that was the original intention
[19:23:33] <doorman352> cool, seems to my best way of learning ATM
[19:23:35] <scott_ev> we'll be looking for and incorporating articles and tutorials into that wiki
[19:23:40] <quietstorm> sugestion?
[19:23:43] <scott_ev> yes
[19:24:28] <quietstorm> create a you tube account and product videos linked to the wiki to do some tasks
[19:24:41] <br24> scott_ev: the original idea I had was to put the more popular apps for each category and give a brief description
[19:24:56] <br24> I did have some screencasts for some of them
[19:25:11] <Flakeparadigm> i can make video tutorials easy/nicely
[19:25:13] <scott_ev> br24: we need to update that to include the pre-instaled apps
[19:25:23] <Flakeparadigm> I have one. somewhere...
[19:25:32] <scott_ev> flake then you and quietstorm and I can work on that this week
[19:25:34] <quietstorm> osometimes it's better to see the process than write it down
[19:25:42] <doorman352> I would certainly recant my struggle with Linux in the beginning and the tools and resources that helped me.... ( i was a MS clone for many years)
[19:25:44] <scott_ev> on the main page on the right, there's a grey section showing the next team meeting.  Will someone please volunteerr to keep that up to date?  You can update it right after the meeting each week.
[19:26:01] <scott_ev> ok, those are all good suggestions
[19:26:48] <scott_ev> anyone that doesn't already have a job? please...
[19:26:54] <scott_ev> it's not much
[19:26:59] <doorman352> I'll do it after training...
[19:27:03] <scott_ev> kk
[19:27:08] <scott_ev> good enough
[19:27:25] <doorman352> is there a wiki to update the wiki?
[19:27:30] <scott_ev> doorman352: quietstorm we may start with creating ubuntu wikis for each of you
[19:27:43] <doorman352> :)
[19:27:50] <scott_ev> that way you'll learn a little about how this kind of wiki works
[19:27:56] <quietstorm> heard that LOL
[19:28:00] <scott_ev> it's pretty simple once you get the hang of it
[19:28:32] <scott_ev> OK, for anyone that's here in the valley there's an installfest this coming Saturday
[19:29:02] <scott_ev> we do these in cooperation with PLUG at the Universityu of Advancing Technologies in Tempe
[19:29:09] <quietstorm> would love to go, transportation is an issue, any takers?
[19:29:13] <scott_ev> it's from 10 - 4
[19:29:21] <scott_ev> quietstorm: where do you live?
[19:29:43] <quietstorm> 71st AVE and Indian School Rd.
[19:29:56] <scott_ev> wow, way out west
[19:30:09] 	 * doorman352 is at 35th Ave/Dunlap
[19:30:19] <scott_ev> get with me after the meeting to get me an address and I'll come get you sat morning
[19:30:26] <scott_ev> ah, even better
[19:30:32] <xHans> quietstorm: Avondale Free Software Stammtisch is the closest thing to you
[19:30:44] <quietstorm> where at?
[19:30:50] <xHans> quietstorm: after that would be the PLUG west side mtg at I-17 and Dunlap
[19:30:52] 	 * doorman352 gotta check if I can get a kitchen pass.... so mark me tentative.
[19:31:30] <xHans> quietstorm: http://www.LuftHans.com/Stammtisch#Avondale
[19:31:33] <scott_ev> quietstorm: email me at j.scott.gwin at ubuntu dot com
[19:31:54] <xHans> oops, looks like I messed up that page
[19:32:09] <doorman352> get a rope......
[19:32:38] <quietstorm> got the email thks scott
[19:32:42] <xHans> quietstorm: http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/event/2010/08/18/day
[19:32:47] <scott_ev> OK, also, I emaqiled the list about having 10.04 disks
[19:32:58] <xHans> quietstorm: Buffalo Wings & Rings, 2935 N Dysart road, Avondale
[19:33:07] <scott_ev> just come to any team or plug event and.or email me
[19:33:37] <quietstorm> plug?
[19:33:56] <xHans> quietstorm: Phoenix Linux User Group
[19:34:13] <xHans> PLUG and the LoCo work together
[19:34:21] 	 * xHans is the chairman of PLUG :)
[19:34:29] <scott_ev> phowenix linux ysers group
[19:35:11] <scott_ev> quietstorm: we'll be having xHans introduce himself in a few min and that will clear some things up
[19:35:24] <quietstorm> ok, my bad
[19:35:57] <scott_ev> as  a matter of fact, xHans are you ready?
[19:35:58] <xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#Avondale
[19:36:05] <xHans> that's the page I was looking for :)
[19:36:09] <scott_ev> cool
[19:36:11] <xHans> still recovering from vacation...
[19:36:30] <xHans> quietstorm: nothing bad, you just didn't know :)
[19:36:33] <xHans> scott_ev: yup
[19:36:40] 	 * doorman352 wishes he was recovering from vacation.....
[19:36:44] <xHans> the next ABLEconf IRC planning meeting is at 20:00 in #ABLEconf
[19:36:45] <scott_ev> great, you have the channel....
[19:36:53] <xHans> ABLEconf is an annual Free Software conference
[19:36:56] <xHans> http://www.ABLEconf.com/
[19:37:02] <xHans> PLUG west side meeting is this Wednesday at 19:00
[19:37:08] <xHans> The topic is installing Linux on a Soekris appliance
[19:37:16] <xHans> pizza and drinks will be provided
[19:37:30] <xHans> doorman352 will have Ubuntu 10:04 CDs
[19:37:41] <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/341
[19:37:46] <xHans> PLUG/LoCo Installfest is this Saturday
[19:37:51] <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/188
[19:37:52] <doorman352> mine mine mine.......
[19:37:56] <xHans> PLUG devel meeting is a week from Thursday
[19:38:01] <xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/547
[19:38:10] <xHans> that's the announcements
[19:38:39] <xHans> if you want to help Free Software in AZ, especially in a business environment, please help out with ABLEconf
[19:39:08] <xHans> our goal is to be the best Free Software for Free Enterprise conference out there
[19:39:34] <quietstorm> if it's free, it's for me LOL
[19:39:35] <xHans> scott_ev: that's it, thanks as always for giving me room for announcements
[19:39:41] <xHans> ooh, forgot somethign
[19:39:45] <scott_ev> kk
[19:40:03] <xHans> Software Freedom Day signup just opened up
[19:40:17] <xHans> we will be discussing that in ABLEconf's mtg tonight
[19:40:39] <scott_ev> OK, thanks for catching us up xHans.  We always appreciate your anmnouncements and comments.
[19:41:16] <scott_ev> fuzzyvader: will you be trying to come down this wekend?
[19:42:28] <scott_ev> OK< let's recap:  quietstorm and I will be working on his wiki then on a page for the team wiki
[19:42:36] <scott_ev> doorman352: same thing
[19:42:39] <quietstorm> got it
[19:42:49] <scott_ev> flake will keep doing the meeting page
[19:43:02] <jawee> -1
[19:43:07] <doorman352> Welcome
[19:43:15] <scott_ev> we still need spomeone to help me with  getting the team newsletter back online
[19:43:25] <quietstorm> question?
[19:43:29] <scott_ev> yes
[19:43:50] <scott_ev> quietstorm: do you happen to be on verizon?
[19:44:06] <quietstorm> qwest
[19:44:12] <scott_ev> dang
[19:44:47] <scott_ev> what is the question sir?
[19:44:49] <quietstorm> what would I need to load 10.04 into my box on sat?
[19:45:01] <Flakeparadigm> scott_ev:?
[19:45:05] <scott_ev> pc or laptop?
[19:45:09] <quietstorm> pc
[19:45:11] <doorman352> one of the disks I'm holding or and ISO
[19:45:11] <scott_ev> yes Flakeparadigm
[19:45:22] <scott_ev> the pc, monitor, etc
[19:45:24] <Flakeparadigm> scott_ev: okay. I was just getting into it though :P
[19:45:28] <scott_ev> pretty much everythign
[19:46:06] <quietstorm> if you pick me up scott, would you have room for that in your vehicle?
[19:46:23] <Flakeparadigm> scott_ev: oh, I totally missread that. I thought you said flake I will keep... but I imagined it
[19:46:28] <doorman352> scott rides a 10 speed
[19:46:39] <scott_ev> quietstorm: there's room in my 4door truck for everything or if doorman brings you he'll have room
[19:46:50] <scott_ev> 27 speed
[19:47:10] <doorman352> Yikes! Do you need a CDL for it too?
[19:47:12] <scott_ev> does anyone have anything to bring up or any questions?
[19:47:19] <quietstorm> I have win7 64 bit for right now, wish to install 10.04
[19:47:29] <scott_ev> quietstorm: no problem
[19:47:52] <scott_ev> you'll jsut need to bring everything as we don't have monitors etc there
[19:48:05] <quietstorm> np problem
[19:48:36] Quit	jawee has left this server (Ping timeout: 265 seconds).
[19:48:43] <scott_ev> K-Rich: come check us out in chanel any time it's not too busy so you can actually chat
[19:49:08] <scott_ev> and get on our mailing list
[19:49:09] <doorman352> scott_ev: My car has No worki =ng AC, so if I can pry my wife's minivan from her Sat, I can P/U quietstorm
[19:49:17] <scott_ev> kk
[19:49:34] <scott_ev> what's her number?  I'll malke it happen
[19:49:40] <scott_ev> make*
[19:49:55] <doorman352> she wont have her droid x til after 8/4.....
[19:50:10] <scott_ev> If there's nothing else gents, let's call it a meeting
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
