{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 22 Aug at 03:59 &mdash; 04:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-08-22-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://www.daedtech.com/human-cost-tech-debt/ 
''LINK:'' https://iot-analytics.com/top-10-iot-project-application-areas-q3-2016/ 
''LINK:'' https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2016/8/weather-company-cio-competitive-value-taking-risks-earlier 
''LINK:'' http://understandsolar.com/solar-shingles/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/life/16/8/3-command-line-music-players-linux 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/whatsie-install-use-whatsapp-in-linux 
''LINK:'' http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-do-i-permanently-erase-hard-disk/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.datamation.com/careers/how-to-become-a-devops-engineer.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/full-metal-backup-using-dd-command 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/open-source-rtos-iot-gains-support-linaro 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/business/16/8/top-5-open-source-web-servers 
''LINK:'' http://www.tecmint.com/linux-centos-ubuntu-disk-cloning-backup-using-clonezilla/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/linux-foundation-conquers-world-becomes-influential-sdn-nfv/2016/08/?utm_source=sdnc_slider&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=links 
''LINK:'' http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/DDoS-protection-in-the-cloud 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/security/linux-foundation-offering-new-online-security-course.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/arch-linux-take-your-linux-knowledge-to-next-level-review 
''LINK:'' http://www.ostechnix.com/install-gns3-graphical-network-simulator-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.2daygeek.com/install-monit-linux-system-performance-monitoring-tool-on-centos-fedora-ubuntu-debian-opensuse-arch-linux/# 
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects 
''LINK:'' https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://careers-redhat.icims.com/jobs/53652/senior-software-engineer/job?mobile=false&width=900&height=500&bga=true&needsRedirect=false&jan1offset=-420&jun1offset=-420 
''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iaSpX-ITxUE&feature=youtu.be 
''LINK:'' https://www.vanheusden.com/httping/ 
''LINK:'' https://rg3.github.io/youtube-dl/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (69)
* stephenm (47)
* MajB (20)
* xHans (12)
* BobTucson (6)
* meetingology (3)
* wmack (2)
* Pscion (1)
* markthomas (1)
* mark91 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug 22 03:59:26 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <wmack> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 94242.32

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:00 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <BobTucson> +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:01 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:02 <stephenm> The news like always starts from beginning to expert but you take your pick.

 04:02 <mark91> +1

 04:02 <stephenm> The Human Cost of Tech Debt

 04:02 <stephenm> http://www.daedtech.com/human-cost-tech-debt/

 04:02 <stephenm> very interesting read

 04:02 <stephenm> The top 10 IoT application areas – based on real IoT projects

 04:02 <stephenm> https://iot-analytics.com/top-10-iot-project-application-areas-q3-2016/

 04:02 <stephenm> Weather Company CIO: The competitive value of taking risks earlier

 04:03 <stephenm> https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2016/8/weather-company-cio-competitive-value-taking-risks-earlier

 04:03 <stephenm> Solar Shingles: Elon Musk Takes on the Roofing Industry

 04:03 <stephenm> http://understandsolar.com/solar-shingles/

 04:03 <stephenm> I think ELon is trying to copy Telsa

 04:03 <stephenm> 3 command-line music players for Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/life/16/8/3-command-line-music-players-linux

 04:03 <stephenm> Whatsie - Install & Use Whatsapp In Linux﻿

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/whatsie-install-use-whatsapp-in-linux

 04:03 <stephenm> only works on debain systems as for as I can tell

 04:03 <stephenm> How do I permanently erase hard disk?

 04:03 <stephenm> http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-do-i-permanently-erase-hard-disk/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Become a DevOps Engineer

 04:04 <stephenm> http://www.datamation.com/careers/how-to-become-a-devops-engineer.html

 04:04 <toddc> hammer

 04:04 <MajB> ,45

 04:04 <stephenm> This is a interesting article, don't know how many ppl could be DevOps though

 04:04 <stephenm> Full Metal Backup Using the dd Command

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/full-metal-backup-using-dd-command

 04:04 <stephenm> Open Source RTOS for IoT Gains Support from Linaro

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/open-source-rtos-iot-gains-support-linaro

 04:04 <stephenm> Top 5 open source web servers

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/business/16/8/top-5-open-source-web-servers

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Clone or Backup Linux Disk Using Clonezilla

 04:05 <stephenm> http://www.tecmint.com/linux-centos-ubuntu-disk-cloning-backup-using-clonezilla/

 04:05 <stephenm> DIdn't get through all this but seems interesting to backup to a cloud

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux Foundation Conquers the World, or at Least Becomes Quite Influential in SDN & NFV

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/linux-foundation-conquers-world-becomes-influential-sdn-nfv/2016/08/?utm_source=sdnc_slider&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=links

 04:05 <BobTucson> I have hardware clone machines in tucson

 04:05 <stephenm> DDoS protection in the cloud

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/DDoS-protection-in-the-cloud

 04:06 <stephenm> Sysadmins have it so hard

 04:06 <stephenm> Linux Foundation Offering New Online Security Course

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.eweek.com/security/linux-foundation-offering-new-online-security-course.html

 04:06 <stephenm> After I'm done with LInuxAcademy might check them out again LF that is

 04:06 <stephenm> Arch Linux Take Your Linux Knowledge To Next Level

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/arch-linux-take-your-linux-knowledge-to-next-level-review

 04:06 <stephenm> Install GNS3 (Graphical Network Simulator) On Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.ostechnix.com/install-gns3-graphical-network-simulator-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> very helpful for those taking networking or Cisco exams

 04:07 <stephenm> Monit is not limited to Monitor Linux system performance, also doing auto repair action for dead services

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.2daygeek.com/install-monit-linux-system-performance-monitoring-tool-on-centos-fedora-ubuntu-debian-opensuse-arch-linux/#

 04:07 <stephenm> OK that's all the news and comments I have for tonight

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm!

 04:07 <toddc> Canceled meetings and events.

 04:07 <MajB> Good job stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> November  05 2016 UAT has all school event so we will need to locate another place

 04:08 <wmack> thank you stephenm!

 04:08 <toddc> September 03 2016 labor day installfest

 04:08 <toddc> September 04 2016 meeting

 04:08 <toddc> Pscion  do you have any updates on your install logging project and do you still need some help with it?

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:09 <toddc> "Help Microsoft fight software piracy: Give Linux to a friend today!"

 04:09 <Pscion> No updates so far, toddc.

 04:10 <toddc> thanks Pscion

 04:10 <toddc> echo "$((`date +%Y` + 1)) is the year of the linux desktop"

 04:11 <toddc> 2017

 04:11 <toddc> 2017 is the year of the linux desktop

 04:11 <toddc> Local Jobs

 04:11 <toddc> PayPal is looking to hire an Information Security Engineer.

 04:12 <toddc> Top 3 requirements: Splunk Experience, SysLog-NG experience, Linux experience.

 04:12 <toddc> Aldini, Nicholas <naldini@teksystems.com>

 04:12 <xHans> echo $(date -d"+1 year" +%Y) is the year of the desktop

 04:12 <toddc> Software Developer and Technical Support Specialist and Java dev

 04:12 <toddc> https://clareitysecurity.com/careers/

 04:12 <toddc> 29 current canonical Jobs today

 04:12 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <toddc> Want to make Linux run better on laptops?

 04:13 <toddc> https://careers-redhat.icims.com/jobs/53652/senior-software-engineer/job?mobile=false&width=900&height=500&bga=true&needsRedirect=false&jan1offset=-420&jun1offset=-420

 04:13 <toddc> Red Hat

 04:13 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:13 <toddc> The World's First All-Machine Hacking Tournament

 04:13 <toddc> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iaSpX-ITxUE&feature=youtu.be

 04:14 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:14 <toddc> Httping is like ‘ping‘ but for http-requests.Give it an url, and it'll show you how long it takes to connect, send a request and retrieve the reply (only the headers).

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.vanheusden.com/httping/

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> youtube-dl is a command-line program to download videos from YouTube.com and a few more sites.

 04:15 <toddc> https://rg3.github.io/youtube-dl/

 04:15 <toddc> Thank you to Linux action show for the above Items

 04:15 <toddc> If you would like a Owncloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:16 <BobTucson> Don

 04:16 <MajB> 25 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <MajB> 25 August, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 01 September, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <BobTucson> Don't forget to default libre office to the ms formats when you do an install.  docx, pptx o ppts, xlsx

 04:17 <MajB> 03 September, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, CANCELLED

 04:17 <MajB> 17 September, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:17 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:17 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:17 <toddc> Ubuntu Community Team Q&A

 04:17 <toddc> When Tue, August 23, 8-9am

 04:17 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:17 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:18 <xHans> ja, danke

 04:18 <xHans> September is Someone Else's Problem month

 04:18 <xHans> PLUG will have two cloud computing topics

 04:18 <xHans> Title: dynamically allocating virtual infrastructure

 04:18 <xHans> Title: Intro to OpenStack

 04:18 <xHans> SCaLE 15x will be March 2-5 next year and again in Pasadena

 04:18 <xHans> Are you interested in helping with some youth activities at SCaLE?

 04:18 <xHans> If so, please let me know

 04:18 <xHans> cfp is open: https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/15x/cfp

 04:19 <xHans> that's it, thanks for the cross-group cooperation

 04:19 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and all the plug events

 04:19 <xHans> toddc: bitte!

 04:19 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:20 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 27 August 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Free Unix Group meeting on 28 August 2:30-3:30, Cafe Luce,  Main Gate Square, 943 E University Blvd #191, Tucson AZ .

 04:20 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 28 August 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 02 September 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 13 September 6:30-9:30 pm.  Barbudos Dos,  3250 Gateway Blvd, Suite 516, Prescott, AZ.

 04:20 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 September 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 September 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> That's all folks

 04:21 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:21 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:22 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else to bring up?

 04:22 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:22 <BobTucson> Don't forget to uninstall adobe flash when you do an install.

 04:22 <BobTucson> Don't forget to activate the firewall when you do an install.

 04:23 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:23 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
