{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 19 Aug at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-08-19-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://linuxgizmos.com/tiny-type-10-module-serves-up-apollo-lake-with-16gb-ddr4/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/office-365-alternative-consider-libreoffice-for-your-next-pc-office-suite/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/8/cloud-native-projects 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechmore.blogspot.com/2019/08/the-beast-of-3d-editors-version-280-is.html 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/19/8/record-screencasts-gnome3 
''LINK:'' https://linuxconcept.com/install-mysql-on-centos-7-operating-system/ 
''LINK:'' https://vitux.com/convert-filenames-to-lowercase-through-ubuntu-command-line/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-netbox-on-ubuntu-1804/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/sslh-share-port-https-ssh/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-os-installation-date-time/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxtechmore.blogspot.com/2019/08/the-lightweight-desktop-environments.html 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-user-to-sudoers-in-centos/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2019/08/xfce-4-14 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (55)
* stephenm (30)
* toddc (8)
* xHans (6)
* meetingology (3)
* markthomas (2)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug 19 04:00:59 2019 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:01 <markthomas> +1

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <toddc> markthomas: verify I have no current log in?

 04:01 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <markthomas> toddc you need to set TOTP 2fa on your account.

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <toddc> I have not done that so we should be ok

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:03 <toddc> I shall make random comments

 04:03 <MajB> Excellent

 04:03 <stephenm> The news is general topics and linux news and toddc is narrating

 04:03 <stephenm> Tiny Type 10 module serves up Apollo Lake with 16GB DDR4

 04:03 <stephenm> http://linuxgizmos.com/tiny-type-10-module-serves-up-apollo-lake-with-16gb-ddr4/

 04:03 <MajB> Oops

 04:03 <stephenm> Office 365 alternative: Consider LibreOffice for your next PC office suite

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/office-365-alternative-consider-libreoffice-for-your-next-pc-office-suite/

 04:04 <stephenm> 9 open source cloud native projects to consider

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/8/cloud-native-projects

 04:04 <stephenm> The beast of 3D editors version 2.80 is free in the wild !

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxtechmore.blogspot.com/2019/08/the-beast-of-3d-editors-version-280-is.html

 04:04 <stephenm> I actually so this at the Linux Fest in July, pretty awesome

 04:04 <stephenm> How to record screencasts in GNOME 3

 04:04 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/19/8/record-screencasts-gnome3

 04:05 <stephenm> Install MySQL on CentOS 7 Operating System

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxconcept.com/install-mysql-on-centos-7-operating-system/

 04:05 <stephenm> Convert Filenames to Lowercase through Ubuntu Command Line

 04:05 <stephenm> https://vitux.com/convert-filenames-to-lowercase-through-ubuntu-command-line/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to install NetBox Network Documentation and Management Tool on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-netbox-on-ubuntu-1804/

 04:05 <stephenm> SSLH – Share A Same Port For HTTPS And SSH

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/sslh-share-port-https-ssh/

 04:05 <stephenm> How To Find Out Linux Operating System (OS) Installation Date And Time?

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.2daygeek.com/linux-os-installation-date-time/

 04:05 <stephenm> The lightweight desktop environments champion

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxtechmore.blogspot.com/2019/08/the-lightweight-desktop-environments.html

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Add User to Sudoers in CentOS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-user-to-sudoers-in-centos/

 04:06 <stephenm> Sorry list was shorter than I thought

 04:06 <toddc> np thank you stephenm

 04:06 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> Xfce 4.14 Desktop Officially Released, This is What’s New

 04:06 <MajB> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2019/08/xfce-4-14

 04:06 <toddc> I have converted 2/3 of my customers to libreoffice already

 04:07 <MajB> Thanks stephenm.  I just had to throw that one in

 04:07 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:07 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:07 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <stephenm> that's PL

 04:07 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:08 <MajB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:08 <MajB> 02 November 2019 AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop Canceled because of a UAT campus wide event.  No alternative venue is available at this time.

 04:08 <MajB> 28 November 2019 Tempe Ubuntu Hour canceled because of a conflict with Thanksgiving.

 04:08 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:08 <MajB> There are 59 open canonical Jobs today

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:08 <MajB> There are 46 new jobs and a total of 119 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:08 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:09 <toddc> There is no place like ~

 04:09 <MajB> There are 11 new jobs and a total of 50 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:09 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:09 <toddc> Thou shalt not kill -9

 04:09 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:09 <MajB> 22 August,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 29 August, Introduction to Linux Presentation, 1730-1830, Warrior healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  A presentation on Linux aimed primarily at the Microsoft users to introduce them to a free computer operating system for their personal computers. A brief history and notable differences will be covered. Everyone is welcome.

 04:10 <MajB> 05 September  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB> 07 September,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source S

 04:10 <MajB> oftware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:10 <MajB> 07 September, AZLOCO/CLUG Computer Repair and Installation Workshop, 1000-1400, Verterans Healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.  The Group will repair donated computers with parts that are on hand, install a Linux operating system on them in preparation for donation to individuals or groups requiring or desiring a computer with a LInux operating system installed.  All are welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 September, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:11 <MajB> 12 September, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:11 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:11 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:12 <xHans> oui, merci

 04:12 <xHans> The Free Software Stammtisch is Tuesday

 04:12 <xHans> Boulders on Southern, 1010 W Southern Ave, Mesa

 04:12 <xHans> https://gettogether.community/series/14/floss-stammtisch/

 04:12 <xHans> https://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch

 04:12 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:12 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:13 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 25 August 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 06 September 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 11 September 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:13 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <MajB> Meeting on 24 August 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.  There will be a presentation on After Installation Activities, (things that you should or can do after installation of Ubuntu on your computer.)

 04:13 <MajB> Introduction to Linux Presentation on 29 August 1730-1830, Warrior healing Center, 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista, AZ.  A presentation on Linux aimed primarily at the Microsoft users to introduce them to a free computer operating system for their personal computers. A brief history and notable differences will be covered. Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
