{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 20 Jun at 04:00 &mdash; 04:14 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-06-20-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-vlc-media-player-on-linux-mint-20/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/share-and-control-terminals-in-real-time-from-web-browser/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-corel-videostudio-mydvd/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/choose-your-first-linux-distro/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/display-public-ip-address-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/install-vsftpd-with-ssl-tls-on-ubuntu-20-04/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/history-command-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tipsonunix.com/2022/06/how-to-install-wireshark-3-6-6-on-ubuntu-almalinux-fedora-systems/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/ventoy-now-supports-more-than-900-isos-enables-secure-boot-by-default   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/socat-command-examples/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-secure-phpmyadmin-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/difference-between-vi-and-vim-editors/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/nginx-bandwidth-limit/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxshelltips.com/fix-cannot-open-shared-object-file-error-ubuntu/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/06/13/metasploit-6-2-0-released/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB, 04:12)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (57)
* stephenm (33)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)
* markthomas (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:57 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:01 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:01 <MajB> +1

 04:01 <toddc> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:01 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:02 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:02 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:02 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:02 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:02 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:03 <stephenm> Ok sorry for disappearing for a long time but I have news setup now.

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Install VLC Media Player on Linux Mint 20

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxcapable.com/how-to-install-vlc-media-player-on-linux-mint-20/

 04:03 <stephenm> Share And Control Terminals In Real Time From Web Browser

 04:03 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/share-and-control-terminals-in-real-time-from-web-browser/

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Corel VideoStudio MyDVD

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-corel-videostudio-mydvd/

 04:03 <stephenm> Best Approaches to Choosing Your First Linux Distro (Beginner’s Guide)

 04:03 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/choose-your-first-linux-distro/

 04:04 <stephenm> Display Public IP Address Using the Command Line in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/display-public-ip-address-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> Install Vsftpd with SSL/TLS on Ubuntu 20.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/install-vsftpd-with-ssl-tls-on-ubuntu-20-04/

 04:04 <stephenm> Linux History Command with Advanced Examples

 04:04 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/history-command-in-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How To Install Wireshark 3.6.6 on Ubuntu, AlmaLinux, and Fedora Systems

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.tipsonunix.com/2022/06/how-to-install-wireshark-3-6-6-on-ubuntu-almalinux-fedora-systems/

 04:04 <stephenm> Ventoy Now Supports More Than 900 ISOs, Enables Secure Boot by Default

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/ventoy-now-supports-more-than-900-isos-enables-secure-boot-by-default

 04:04 <stephenm> Learn the Socat Command Examples in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/socat-command-examples/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Install phpMyAdmin with Free Let’s Encrypt SSL on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-and-secure-phpmyadmin-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:05 <stephenm> What’s the Difference Between Vi and Vim Editors

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/difference-between-vi-and-vim-editors/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Limit Network Bandwidth in NGINX Web Server

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/nginx-bandwidth-limit/

 04:05 <stephenm> How to Fix “cannot open shared object file” Error in Ubuntu

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linuxshelltips.com/fix-cannot-open-shared-object-file-error-ubuntu/

 04:05 <stephenm> Metasploit 6.2.0 Comes with 138 New Modules, 148 Enhancements and Features

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2022/06/13/metasploit-6-2-0-released/

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news for this week, back to MajB

 04:05 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:06 <MajB> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:06 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:06 <MajB> There are 189 open canonical Jobs today

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:06 <MajB> There are 92 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:06 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:07 <MajB> There are 25 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:07 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:07 <MajB> 23 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:07 <MajB> 02 July,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:07 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:07 <markthomas> +1

 04:07 <MajB> 03 July, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 07 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 14 July, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:08 <MajB> 14 July, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:08 <MajB> 16 July,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:08 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 17 July, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 28 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:09 <MajB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  LuftHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:10 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:10 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:10 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 21 Tuesday 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:10 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 14 July 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:11 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:11 <MajB> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:11 <MajB> Monthly meeting 13 July 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:11 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:11 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 25 June 1300-1500 (fouth Saturday of each month), Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:12 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:12 <MajB> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022 (virtual)

 04:12 <MajB> https://seagl.org/

 04:12 <MajB> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:12 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:14 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

=== Log ===
<pre>

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
