{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #121 for the week March 8, march 14, 2010.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* One Hundred Twenty First Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-March 17, 2010
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

* Next meeting: Sunday March 21, 2010 9:00 PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-us-az

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the March 14, 2010 meeting ====

scott_ev called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/10March14

scott_ev began with some announcements:

* The new Ubuntu Branding - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Brand

* Ubuntu 10.04 beta 1 freeze now in effect - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidReleaseSchedule

* Alan Pope: Why (I think) Ubuntu is Better Than Windows - http://popey.com/blog/2010/03/11/why-ubuntu-is-better-than-windows/

* The Linux Desktop Will Have Its Day: Q&A With Canonical Founder Mark Shuttleworth - http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/69444.html

* Redesigning Ubuntu – behind the scenes on 10.04 - http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/redesigning-ubuntu-behind-the-scenes-on-10-04/

* Ubuntu, The Ultimate Linux Distribution - http://www.daniweb.com/news/story265826.html#

* Ubuntu goin' gray, like the Mac OS way? - http://www.junauza.com/2010/02/ubuntu-goin-gray-like-mac-os-way.html

* There will be an Installfest this coming Sat. the 20th at the Tempe Escalante Center.  (http://tinyurl.com/yzdv42e) Like the installfests at UAT, this one will be from 10 - 4.  We could really use your help as the new installfests we ahve scheduled at the Escalante Center have been advertised in several Tempe Centers like the Library, etc.  We are expecting a big turn-out of people needing your help.  So the schedule for installfests will be as follows for the next few months:
** Feb 27th - UAT
** Mar 20 - Escalante
** Mar 27 - UAT
** April 10 Escalante
** April 24 - UAT,
** April 24 - Licid Release Party - Boulders
** May 8 - Escalante
** May 22 - UAT
 http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1399585
 http://www.azloco.com/node/128

* There will be a 10.04 Lucid Lynx release party at Boulders on Broadway in Tempe (http://www.bouldersonbroadway.net/) on the 24th of April. Boulders on Broadway has a room upstairs that we will have all to ourselves.We'll have wifi access too.  It's going to be a good chance to eat some good grub, have a few drinks or brewski's and meet some of the other Ubu``Geek``TODDs that you have only met online. You're not going to want to miss this.  Someone can pick out new features in 10.04 and present them or concentrate on one for example.  Anything to do with Ubuntu will be OK.  Things like how to navigate Launchpad and report bugs.  Actually, if you have a favorite piece of software that you use you can present that even if it's not in Ubuntu's repos.  Please be thinking about this.  It will only make the Release Party more of a success.  Here is a link to the Lucid Lynx planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/LucidLynx  Feel free to add to the ideas section or fill in anything that might be missing.  We will be heading there from the monthly installfest at UAT. http://tinyurl.com/yemru26 If you've never been to an installfest at UAT, you may want to consider checking it out.  Our Lo``Co co-sponsors it with PLUG but we are poorly represented.  There's a proposed flyer posted at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1388113 please give us your feedback in the form of a vote with coments if needed.  It's a chance to help another linux user or, better yet, possibly install Linux an a computer that currently is running that other OS.  http://azloco.com/node/120

scott_ev then asked xHans for any PLUG and class announcements:

* Both Valley Stammtische this week:
** Tempe on Tue - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/422
** Avondale/Goodyear on Wed - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/590

* New Installfest@Escallante this Saturday - http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1399585 and http://www.azloco.com/node/128

* Next PLUG planning IRC meeting is one week from tonight.  It's the hour before the LoCo meeting and in #PLUGaz - http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/2276

* PLUG west side meeting a week from Wednesday.  Topic: Dave Walker will do a basic demo on the history of Asterisk, demo install of FreePBX and setup a couple of extensions.  http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/345

* Installfest@UAT a week from Saturday - http://plug.phoenix.az.us/node/169

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:27 PM.

=== Credits ===
* CraigAEddy
* scott_ev

----
'''Parent pages:''' ["ArizonaTeam"] ["ArizonaTeam"]
----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryArizonaTeam
