{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB1, 18 Jul at 04:02 &mdash; 04:17 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-07-18-04.02.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/10th-annual-jobs-report-skill-up-for-the-summer-and-your-next-open-source-gig/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/7/learn-c-linux   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/system76-teases-the-launch-lite-open-source-configurable-keyboard-coming-july-14th   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://buildvirtual.net/bash-scripting-if-else-if-else-tutorial/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/7/c-linux-mp3   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/termux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/7/garbage-collection-java   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/echo-command   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-nfs-server-and-client-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/install-a-graphical-desktop-environment-on-ubuntu-or-debian/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/how-to-test-your-website-speed-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-rm-command-linux/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/rsync-command-in-linux-with-example/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/start-and-stop-monitor-mode-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/metasploit-gui-on-linux/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxopsys.com/topics/check-ports-in-use-in-linux   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-dns-server-with-bind-on-ubuntu-22-04/   (stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB1, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB1, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB1, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB1, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/groups/linux   (MajB1, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://seagl.org/   (MajB1, 04:15)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB1 (58)
* stephenm (43)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:02 <MajB1> #startmeeting

 04:02 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:02:18 UTC.  The chair is MajB1.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:02 <MajB1> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:03 <stephenm> +1

 04:03 <MajB1> +1

 04:03 <MajB1> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:04 <MajB1> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/ if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back

 04:04 <MajB1> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:04 <MajB1> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:04 <MajB1> IRC stats are at:  http://ph.from-az.net:8084/

 04:04 <MajB1> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:04 <MajB1> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:04 <MajB1> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:04 <MajB1> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:05 <MajB1> LINUX NEWS:

 04:05 <MajB1> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:05 <stephenm> News is random so take your pick.

 04:05 <stephenm> 10th Annual Jobs Report: Skill up for the summer and your next open source gig

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/10th-annual-jobs-report-skill-up-for-the-summer-and-your-next-open-source-gig/

 04:05 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Maps

 04:05 <stephenm> linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-maps/

 04:05 <stephenm> Google map isn't one of them

 04:05 <stephenm> 5 ways to learn C programming on Linux

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/7/learn-c-linux

 04:06 <stephenm> System76 Teases the Launch Lite Open-Source Configurable Keyboard, Coming July 14th [Updated]

 04:06 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/system76-teases-the-launch-lite-open-source-configurable-keyboard-coming-july-14th

 04:06 <stephenm> BASH SCRIPTING – IF, ELSE IF, ELSE TUTORIAL

 04:06 <stephenm> https://buildvirtual.net/bash-scripting-if-else-if-else-tutorial/

 04:06 <stephenm> How I create music playlists on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/7/c-linux-mp3

 04:06 <stephenm> What is Termux & How to use the Linux Command on Android with Termux?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/termux/

 04:06 <stephenm> 7 kinds of garbage collection for Java

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/7/garbage-collection-java

 04:06 <stephenm> Connect to Remote Servers Using SSH on Your Chromebook

 04:06 <stephenm> makeuseof.com/use-ssh-on-chromebook/

 04:07 <stephenm> The Echo Command

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/echo-command

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install NFS Server and Client on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-nfs-server-and-client-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to install a Graphical Desktop Environment on Ubuntu or Debian

 04:07 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/install-a-graphical-desktop-environment-on-ubuntu-or-debian/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Test Your Website Speed on Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxstans.com/how-to-test-your-website-speed-on-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Use Rm Command in Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/use-rm-command-linux/

 04:07 <stephenm> Rsync Command in Linux with Practical Example

 04:07 <stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/rsync-command-in-linux-with-example/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Start and Stop Monitor mode in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/start-and-stop-monitor-mode-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Install Metasploit Framework with GUI Method on Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/metasploit-gui-on-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Check Ports in Use in Linux (Listening Ports)

 04:08 <stephenm> https://linuxopsys.com/topics/check-ports-in-use-in-linux

 04:08 <stephenm> How to Setup DNS Server with BIND on Ubuntu 22.04

 04:08 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-dns-server-with-bind-on-ubuntu-22-04/

 04:08 <stephenm> Kinda sort list but you get the gist, back to MajB

 04:09 <MajB1> Thanks stephenm

 04:09 <toddc> +1

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <MajB1> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB1> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:09 <MajB1> 

 04:09 <MajB1> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:09 <MajB1> The AZLOCO Team Cafe Press page is located at https://www.cafepress.com/azloco.  You can purchase items with the AZLOCO logo on them such as shirts, caps, glasses, magnets, and stickers.

 04:09 <MajB1> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:09 <MajB1> There are 197 open canonical Jobs today

 04:09 <MajB1> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:10 <MajB1> There are 85 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:10 <MajB1> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:10 <MajB1> There are 17 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:10 <MajB1> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:10 <MajB1> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:10 <MajB1> 28 July,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:10 <MajB1> 04 August,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:11 <MajB1> 06 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:11 <MajB1> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:11 <MajB1> 07 August, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:11 <MajB1> 11 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB1> 11 August, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:12 <MajB1> 20 August,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring y

 04:12 <MajB1> our personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:12 <MajB1> 21 August, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:12 <MajB1> 25 August, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB1> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:12 <MajB1> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:12 <MajB1> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB1> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  LuftHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:14 <MajB1> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:14 <MajB1> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:14 <MajB1> Free Software Stammtisch 19 July, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB1> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 11 August 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:15 <MajB1> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:15 <MajB1> https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:15 <MajB1> Monthly meeting 10 August 1800-1930 (second Wednesday of each month), Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab.

 04:15 <MajB1> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:15 <MajB1> Monthly meeting on 23 July 1300-1500 (fouth Saturday of each month), Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista.

 04:15 <MajB1> CONFERENCES:

 04:15 <MajB1> SeaGL 4-5 November 2022 (virtual)

 04:15 <MajB1> https://seagl.org/

 04:16 <MajB1> That is all I have, but I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:16 <MajB1> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:17 <MajB1> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
