{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


01 December - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
03 December - Virtual Linux Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 11 attendees
* Assisted an attendee in downloading Balena Etcher and using it to create a bootable flash drive with Ubuntu 22.04.1 which in turn can be used to install the ISO to a MAC computer.
* Discussed the public availability of an ISO that is already STEM capable.
* Assisted in the installation of Ubuntu 22.04.1 on a virtual machine in Virtual Box.
04 December - AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Todd  Cole
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2004%2C%202022%20Meeting
08 December - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* A member wanted to know why Firefox always opened with multiple tabs. He was told to check in Firefox Preferences under Home where he may have multiple tabs listed for his Home page. 
* Discussed the upcoming classes that will be given at the Warrior Healing Center for those new to Linux. 
* Discussed the availability of computers to donate to individuals and or groups.
08 December - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 4 attendees
17 December - Virtual Linux Installfest/Linux Workshop
* Canceled because of Big Blue Button failure
18 December - AZLOCO Team meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG event.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/December%2018%2C%202022%20Meeting
22 December - Virtual Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed Firewall routing 
