{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc2> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<Rich_> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc2> +1
<Yorokobi> +1
<toddc2> Team web site http://azloco.com/
<toddc2> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc2> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc2> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc2> some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc2> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc2> let's start with the news
<Rich_> No, very old.
<toddc2> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu adds new donation page
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/ubuntu-adds-new-donations-page
<_ericcc> +1
<Dazed_75> Camdesk for Linux adds "Webcam Window" to the desktop
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/camdesk-for-linux-adds-webcam-window-to-the-desktop
<Dazed_75> Web browser, maps embedded into Unity's Dash
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/browser-in-the-dash
<Dazed_75> Keep your desktop fresh with variety wallpaper changer
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/keep-yout-desktop-fresh-with-variety.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu Tweak 0.8.0 gets new "Apps" Feature
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/ubuntu-tweak-080-gets-new-apps-feature.html
<xHans> keep yout?
<Dazed_75> Installing Joomla 3.0 CMS on Ubuntu Server 12.04
<Dazed_75>     http://ubuntuserverguide.com/2012/10/how-to-installing-cms-joomla-3-0-on-ubuntu-server-12-04.html
<Dazed_75> Linux Foundation comes up with a SecureBoot plan
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTIwNDM
<Dazed_75> xHans: that was the link, sorry
<Dazed_75> Linux native task management (able to sync via Dropbox or Ubuntu One)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/linux-native-task-management-check
<Dazed_75>     http://nitrotasks.com/#
<xHans> Dazed_75: ok :)
<Dazed_75> Dual-boot Windows 7 and Ubuntu 12.04 on a PC with UEFI, SSD and HDD
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2012/10/10/dual-boot-windows-7-and-ubuntu-12-04-on-a-pc-with-uefi-board-ssd-and-hdd/
<Dazed_75> Microsoft is still working on Hyper-v Linux drivers
<Dazed_75>     http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTIwNDA
<Dazed_75> KDE4 Plasma Active
<Dazed_75>     http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/174817/
<Dazed_75> 5 new RPG games for Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://linuxaria.com/article/5-new-rpg-games-for-linux?lang=en
<Dazed_75> How to automate mouse clicks in Linux (don't ask, I don't get it)
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/automate-mouse-clicks-in-linux/2012/10/10
<Dazed_75> Official Ubuntu One App for Mac enters Beta
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/official-ubuntu-one-client-for-mac-enters-beta
<Dazed_75> Gorgeous (?) new weather app Stormcloud arrives on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/gorgeous-new-weather-app-stormcloud-arrives-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Y PPA Manager 0.0.9.2 released with new features
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/y-ppa-manager-0092-released-with-new.html
<Dazed_75> Get Ubuntu NotifyOSD to show up on active monitor in multi-screen Environments
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/get-ubuntu-notifyosd-notifications-to.html
<Dazed_75> Twitter joins the Linux Foundation
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/10/twitter-joins-linux-foundation-another.html
<Dazed_75> You will be able to install Linux on a Windows 8 computer
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2012/10/you-will-be-able-to-install-linux-on.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxfoundation.org/news-media/blogs/browse/2012/10/linux-foundation-uefi-secure-boot-system-open-source
<Dazed_75> Decentralized BitTorrent client 'Triber' gets a new UI
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/decentralized-bittorrent-client-tribler.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu multi-monitor tweaks (full screen Flash, wallpaper, and more)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/ubuntu-multi-monitor-tweaks-full-screen.html
<Dazed_75> Canonical work to improve gaming on Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/canonical-work-to-improve-gaming-on-ubuntu
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu: WUBI installs vs VirtualBox
<Dazed_75>     http://www.everydaylinuxuser.com/2012/10/ubuntu-wubi-installs-vs-virtual-box.html
<Dazed_75> Ubuntu 12.10 Stuff
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/alternative-youtube-video-lens-updated.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/does-ubuntus-amazon-lens-break-eu-law
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/get-movie-information-and-play-trailers.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/get-movie-information-and-play-trailers.html
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/ubuntu-12-10-disc-artwork-revealed
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/10/ubuntu-add-legal-disclaimer-to-unity-dash
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/10-things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu-12-10/2012/10/12
<Dazed_75> and that is it from AJ
<toddc2> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc2> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc2> Ubuntu's New DNS: Unknown Host
<toddc2> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/ubuntus-new-dns-unknown-host
<toddc2> Install Ubuntu and contribute to Canonical
<toddc2> http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/install-ubuntu-and-contribute-to-canonical
<toddc2> Using GeoIP With Nginx On Ubuntu 12.04
<toddc2> http://www.howtoforge.com/using-geoip-with-nginx-on-ubuntu-12.04
<toddc2> Ubuntu's Jono Bacon Talks Open-Source Community Management
<toddc2> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/ubuntus-jono-bacon-talks-open-source-community-management/
<toddc2> Ubuntu's Jono Bacon Talks Open-Source Community Management
<toddc2> http://www.eweek.com/enterprise-apps/ubuntus-jono-bacon-talks-open-source-community-management/
<toddc2> Is This The World’s Smallest Linux Laptop?
<toddc2> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/the-ben-nanonote-the-worlds-smallest-linux-laptop
<toddc2> JOB LIST
<toddc2> xHans would you like to talk about the job stammtish
<toddc2> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc2> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc2> Customer Service Engineer
<toddc2> mike@nextstepsystems.com
<toddc2> linux Admin/Engineering Manager
<toddc2> eric@aztechfinders.com
<toddc2> Xen API implementation
<toddc2> tb9qt-3321303707@job.craigslist.org
<toddc2> Computer Technician
<toddc2> http://www.datadoctors.com/jobs/index.cfm?JobID=41
<xHans> toddc2: yes
<toddc2> kk
<xHans> ready?
<toddc2> yes
* WeeEriccc has quit (Read error: Operation timed out)
* repsol has quit (Write error: Broken pipe)
<xHans> ok
<xHans> Job Night @ Stammtisch this Tuesday
<xHans> the Free Software Stammtisch meets at Iguana Macks from 19:00 - 22:00 or later
<xHans> the job night will be from 19:00 to 20:00
<xHans> I am expecting some job seekers to show up late after class, so we will try to have info for them
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/node/5689
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch
<xHans> http://linkd.in/ReuVCJ
* repsol__ has quit (Ping timeout: 245 seconds)
<xHans> also, a team at work is looking for a webdev intern, needs to know jquery
* adrenaline has quit (Ping timeout: 265 seconds)
<xHans> Earlier in the day GoDaddy is having a job fair and claims to have 200 openings
<xHans> it runs 16:00 - 19:00 in Mesa, see the Job Night @ Stammtisch page for more info
<xHans> eboCom is looking for a GNU/Linux system administrator http://plug.phoenix.az.us/job-postings/92-ebocom-seeks-system-admin.html
* syn-ack (~Matt@ip70-176-127-9.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
* syn-ack has quit (Changing host)
* syn-ack (~Matt@unaffiliated/syn-ack) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<xHans> BestIT is also looking for a GNU/Linux sysadmin http://plug.phoenix.az.us/job-postings/93-bestit-is-looking-for-a-linux-system-admin-direct-hire.html
<toddc2> hi syn-ack
<xHans> and that's it from me on jobs tonight
<toddc2> cool I have a few more
<toddc2> Sys Admin for LAMP Stack
<toddc2> rfbkg-3336301777@job.craigslist.org
<toddc2> AIX / SAN / TSM Specialist
<toddc2> Mail resume to M. Simo, Nestle USA, Inc., 800 North Brand Blvd., Glendale, CA 91203. Reference Job Code ASTS
<toddc2> Systems Administrator
<toddc2> 7kjfw-3324666671@job.craigslist.org
<toddc2> Senior System Support Engineer
<toddc2> 9jfz-3332397104@joqb.craigslist.org
<syn-ack> Good evening, Toddc
<toddc2> is there a pattern hare with linux related jobs??
<toddc2> here
<toddc2> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc2> Thursday October 25 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc2> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc2> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<syn-ack> Anything here in Tucson?
<toddc2> syn-ack: soon we are working on a ubuntu hour theat should start in a week or two
<toddc2> it is planned for a weekly event
<syn-ack> Keep me posted.
<syn-ack> I'll rebuild my Virtual Machine.
<toddc2> get with me after the meeting for more details and contacts
<syn-ack> Good deal.
<toddc2> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<syn-ack> You want me to call or IRC?
<syn-ack> Anyway, later.. heh
<toddc2> IRC or
* spinrage has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<toddc2> UAT is unable to host our Nov 3 installfest and  we have had to cancel it for november
<toddc2> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is December 1  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc2> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc2> any mew members here tonight?
<toddc2> new
<Dazed_75> correction: room 245
<toddc2> ahh note to edit
<toddc2> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc2> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday October 20 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc2> TEAM SERVER NEWS
<toddc2> the test server is ready to to go so if you want to test you skills or program please let us know
<toddc2> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server for more info and should be able to issue VM real soon in the new server
<toddc2> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc2> Ubuntu offers free online training several time a year
<toddc2> use the program Lernid or #ubuntu-clasroom in IRC freenode
<toddc2> October 18 Ubuntu Women Career Days
<toddc2> Ubuntu Open Week will be October 24-26 stay tuned for more info
<toddc2> We will do a 12.10 Release party  October 20th at the server installfest!!!!
<toddc2> xHans would like to tell us about the PLUg events!!
<xHans> yes, yes he would :)
<xHans> as said earlier, the Free Software Stammtisch meets at Iguana Macks Tuesday
<xHans> it runs from 19:00 - 22:00 or later
<xHans> this month we're having a Job Night @ Stammtisch from 19:00 to 20:00
<xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch
<xHans> GNU/Linux classes at Mesa Community College start Monday and Tuesday
<xHans> other CCs such as Estrella Mountain, Scottsdale and Paradise Valley might also have 8 week classes
<xHans> http://ur1.ca/ajmfo
<xHans> SCaLE's call for presentations is open https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/cfp
<xHans> that's it for tonight
<toddc2> xHans Thanks for keeping up to date on plug/training events and classes at local Colleges
<xHans> bitte
<toddc2> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<xHans> thanks for letting me
<toddc2> we welcome the help and input!!
<xHans> with putting dns info into the interfaces file, does that mean each interface could have it's own dns config?
<toddc2> I did not have time to fully read it yet
<toddc2> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/ubuntus-new-dns-unknown-host
<syn-ack> xHans: in Theory, you could, however, that to me seems to be an ugly hack.. Who's doing that?
<toddc2> Ubuntu's New DNS: Unknown Host 12.04 syn-ack
<syn-ack> Ugh
<syn-ack> Comment reserved.
<Dazed_75> The article is not clear on being able to set different DNS for each interface.
<Dazed_75> Seems like you should be ABLE to do that but the syntax is not clear about it
<Dazed_75> He does complain in the article that they have not put good comments in the interfaces file
<toddc2> if there is nothing else?
<toddc2> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
