{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoco meeting, 02 May at 03:59 &mdash; 04:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2016/ubuntu-us-az.2016-05-02-03.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az 
''LINK:'' http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209 
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam 
''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam 
''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing 
''LINK:'' http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-4-1-23-lts-has-pa-risc-and-ext4-improvements-updated-drivers-503523.shtml 
''LINK:'' https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1101 
''LINK:'' http://www.eweek.com/cloud/slideshows/openstack-summit-returns-to-austin-with-much-fanfare.html 
''LINK:'' https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1100 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' https://phoenix.jobing.com/choice-hotels-international/intern-unix-administrator 
''LINK:'' http://www.networkworld.com/article/3062031/open-source-tools/almost-two-thirds-of-software-companies-contributing-to-open-source.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.geek.com/chips/mele-introduces-a-70-ubuntu-stick-pc-1653525/ 
''LINK:'' http://ask.xmodulo.com/disable-mac-learning-linux-bridge.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/04/can-now-install-snappy-apps-software-center 
''LINK:'' https://desktop.telegram.org/ 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2016/04/duckduckgo-wants-answers-linux-questions/ 
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts
''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/ 
''LINK:'' http://fossforce.com/2016/04/mozilla-step-closer-thunderbird-decision/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tacc.utexas.edu/-/podcast-docker-for-science 
''LINK:'' http://www.cactuscon.com/ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (63)
* MajB (27)
* Ron_A (22)
* xHans (8)
* markthomas (6)
* dennisk (4)
* meetingology (3)
* pavlos (2)
* MXs_ (2)
* wmack (2)
* collie (1)
* mark91 (1)
* BobTucson (1)

=== Full Log ===

 03:59 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoco meeting

 03:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon May  2 03:59:33 2016 UTC.  The chair is toddc. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 03:59 <meetingology> 

 03:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 03:59 <Ron_A> Hello toddc

 03:59 <Ron_A> +1

 03:59 <pavlos> +1

 03:59 <MXs_> +1

 04:00 <markthomas> +1

 04:00 <toddc> I just started the bot 1 sec

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <collie> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <MXs_> +1

 04:00 <dennisk> +1

 04:00 <pavlos> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Star Date 93935.88

 04:01 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/category-definition-for-ubuntu-arizona/1209

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> ho mark91

 04:02 <mark91> +1

 04:02 <toddc> hi

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <toddc> or not?

 04:03 <Ron_A> Hi Walter

 04:03 <wmack> +1

 04:04 <markthomas> He seems to be missing.

 04:04 <wmack> Hello Ron_A

 04:04 <toddc> ok we will come back to the news

 04:04 <markthomas> And that's tonight's news. What's next?

 04:04 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:05 <toddc> See any team member for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:05 <BobTucson> +1

 04:05 <Ron_A> http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-4-1-23-lts-has-pa-risc-and-ext4-improvements-updated-drivers-503523.shtml

 04:05 <MajB> We don't need no stinkin news

 04:05 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:05 <Ron_A> Linux Kernel 4.1.23 LTS Has PA-RISC and EXT4 Improvements, Updated Drivers  Read more: http://news.softpedia.com/news/linux-kernel-4-1-23-lts-has-pa-risc-and-ext4-improvements-updated-drivers-503523.shtml#ixzz47T4o176F

 04:05 <toddc> Programming today is a race between software engineers striving to build bigger and better idiot-proof programs, and the Universe trying to produce bigger and better idiots. So far, the Universe is winning.

 04:06 <toddc> JOB list

 04:06 <toddc> Tech Support Engineer

 04:06 <Ron_A> OpenStack Summit Returns to Austin With Much Fanfare

 04:06 <toddc> https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1101

 04:06 <Ron_A> http://www.eweek.com/cloud/slideshows/openstack-summit-returns-to-austin-with-much-fanfare.html

 04:06 <toddc> Software Engineer - Cloud

 04:06 <toddc> https://ldd.tbe.taleo.net/ldd03/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=CANONICAL&cws=1&rid=1100

 04:06 <toddc> 48 current canonical Jobs today

 04:06 <toddc> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:06 <toddc> Job: INTERN - UNIX Administrator

 04:06 <toddc> https://phoenix.jobing.com/choice-hotels-international/intern-unix-administrator

 04:07 <Ron_A> Almost two-thirds of software companies contributing to open source

 04:07 <toddc> Runs LINUX

 04:07 <Ron_A> http://www.networkworld.com/article/3062031/open-source-tools/almost-two-thirds-of-software-companies-contributing-to-open-source.html

 04:07 <toddc> Mele introduces a $70 Ubuntu stick PC

 04:07 <toddc> http://www.geek.com/chips/mele-introduces-a-70-ubuntu-stick-pc-1653525/

 04:07 <toddc> Weekly Desktop app Pick

 04:07 <markthomas> Anyone who applies for the tech support engineer position, ping me after you apply. Preference may be given to mountain and pacific time zones and I'll make sure they flag yours as such.

 04:07 <MajB> I am getting confused.

 04:07 <Ron_A> How to disable MAC learning in a Linux bridge

 04:08 <toddc> and?

 04:08 <MajB> That is a normal situation though

 04:08 <Ron_A> http://ask.xmodulo.com/disable-mac-learning-linux-bridge.html

 04:08 <xHans> MajB: they cross the timestreams

 04:08 <toddc> You Can Now Install Snappy Apps through the Software app on Ubuntu 16.04

 04:08 <toddc> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/04/can-now-install-snappy-apps-software-center

 04:08 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:08 <Ron_A> GNOME Builder 3.20.2 Arrives with LLVM 3.8, FreeBSD and OpenBSD Support  Read more: http://news.softpedia.com/news/gnome-builder-3-20-2-arrives-with-llvm-3-8-freebsd-and-openbsd-support-503533.shtml#ixzz47T5aMFh2

 04:08 <toddc> Telegram is a messaging app with a focus on speed and security, it’s super-fast, simple and free

 04:08 <toddc> https://desktop.telegram.org/

 04:08 <markthomas> Love telegram.

 04:09 <Ron_A> DuckDuckGo Wants Answers to Linux Questions

 04:09 <Ron_A> http://fossforce.com/2016/04/duckduckgo-wants-answers-linux-questions/

 04:09 <toddc> UP COMMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:09 <MajB> Yes

 04:09 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:09 <Ron_A> Fedora 24 Linux's Launch Will Be Delayed by a Week, the OS Arrives on June 14  Read more: http://news.softpedia.com/news/fedora-24-linux-s-launch-will-be-delayed-by-a-week-arrives-on-june-14-2016-503528.shtml#ixzz47T5sC2Ff

 04:09 <markthomas> Spelling errors brought to us by toddc.

 04:10 <MajB> Are you guys done?

 04:10 <Ron_A> Oracle Releases VirtualBox 5.0.20 with Fixes for Linux Kernel 4.5, Small Changes  Read more: http://news.softpedia.com/news/oracle-releases-virtualbox-5-0-20-with-fixes-for-linux-kernel-4-5-small-changes-503525.shtml#ixzz47T60V9DE

 04:10 <Ron_A> now iI am

 04:10 <MajB> 05 May, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2100, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:11 <MajB> 07 May, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend.

 04:11 <MajB> All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking a

 04:11 <toddc> VB .20 is a big fix for 16.04 vm users

 04:11 <MajB> 07 May, 11th Annual West End Fair information booth, 1000-1700 Sierra Vista.   We will be co-sponsoring an information booth with the Cochise Linux User Group in an effort to provide the public with information on Linux, Ubuntu, and Free and Open Source Software.  The location will be on Fry Blvd between Garden and North Streets,   Sierra Vista.

 04:11 <MajB> 14  May, Xenial Xerus (Ubuntu 16.04 LTS) Release Party, (1400-until it is over) 5831 W. Kesler St., Chandler.   While intended primarily as a social event there will be wireless internet available to install the new release.  If you have already installed it, bring your laptop to show it off.  Hamburgers/hot dogs and the appropriate condiments as well as soda will be provided by our hosts.  Please RSVP to questions@azloco.com with n

 04:12 <MajB> 21 May, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe.  Anyone can attend. All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, raspberry pi's or almost anything running that linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 May, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps interest some of your neighbors in a different operating system for your personal computer.

 04:12 <MajB> 26 May, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users!

 04:12 <MajB> That is it.

 04:12 <toddc> Linux Training

 04:13 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar but often not updated till the event starts

 04:13 <toddc> http://ubuntuonair.com/

 04:13 <toddc> Community Team Q&A

 04:13 <toddc> When Tue, May 03, 8-9am

 04:13 <toddc> Where#ubuntu-on-air on irc.freenode.net

 04:13 <Ron_A> Mozilla a Step Closer to Thunderbird Decision

 04:14 <Ron_A> http://fossforce.com/2016/04/mozilla-step-closer-thunderbird-decision/

 04:14 <Ron_A> DOCKER FOR SCIENCE

 04:14 <Ron_A> https://www.tacc.utexas.edu/-/podcast-docker-for-science

 04:14 <toddc> xHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:15 <xHans> ja. danke

 04:15 <xHans> CactusCon is this Friday and Saturday

 04:15 <xHans> http://www.cactuscon.com/

 04:15 <xHans> it's two days this year and has moved to the Phoenix Convention Center

 04:16 <xHans> PLUG east side meeting is a week from Thursday

 04:16 <xHans> and that's it for this week

 04:16 <toddc> Thank you xHans for all the assistance and plug events

 04:16 <xHans> bitte

 04:17 <toddc> dennisk: do you anything to add?

 04:17 <dennisk> yes, <typing>

 04:18 <dennisk> While not Linux related MCC just hosted an automotive competetion for Arizona HS seniors. $1,200 in scholarships and jobs for the winning teams.

 04:18 <dennisk> ABC Nissin provided a dozen sentras for the challange.

 04:21 <toddc> MajB has some news from CLUG and other LUGS

 04:21 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:21 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225

 04:21 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 06 May 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Mesa AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> Linux User Group of Yavapai Countu (LUGY) (social gathering) on 10 May 6:30-9:30 pm.  Park Plaza Liquor & Deli, 402 W. Goodwin St., Prescott, AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 11 May 2015 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, room C165A, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista, AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 11 May 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa, AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 28 May 2-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library, conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 22 May 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ.

 04:23 <MajB> That's all for now.

 04:23 <MajB> I am on 16.04

 04:23 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:23 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:23 <toddc> that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:24 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:24 <toddc> #endmeeting

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
