{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 07 Feb at 04:00 &mdash; 04:18 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2022/ubuntu-us-az.2022-02-07-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://fossforce.com/2022/01/learn-about-blender-and-maybe-get-a-free-book-whats-not-to-like/   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/full-64-bit-official-raspberry-pi-os-now-generally-available   (stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/steam-deck-to-launch-officially-on-february-25th-2022   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.makeuseof.com/reasons-why-people-quit-linux-for-windows-and-why-theyre-wrong/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-compressor/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.esecurityplanet.com/threats/pwnkit-linux-flaw-hits-all-distributions/   (stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/what-is-install-doas/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/faster-ansible-playbook-execution   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://ispprotect.com/malware-log-analysis-dont-let-the-http-code-fool-you/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-add-host-to-monitor-to-librenms/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://buildvirtual.net/linux-uptime-command-examples/   (stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/attempt-to-shake-down-linux-users-for-netfilter-code-use-resolved/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/convert-pdf-to-epub-in-linux/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-fix-error-404-not-found-on-wordpress/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/22/1/open-source-cloud-computing   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/learn-about-virtual-memory-statistics-using-vmstat/   (stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://draculaservers.com/tutorials/how-to-install-configure-cyberpanel-and-create-a-wordpress-website/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2022/02/02/bash_wordle/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/samba-file-sharing   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://trendoceans.com/how-to-extract-and-disassemble-vmlinuz-file/   (stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/raspberry-pi-os-64-bit/   (toddc, 04:12)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:16)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/19X   (MajB, 04:17)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (49)
* stephenm (46)
* MajB (33)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:18 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate 99700.75

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime. i will eitherway make comments

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL FROZEN YOGURT DAY

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <stephenm> to cold

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GWAvccPcqzG3CqhAyQ-7LmQ-lIy5F2taNPpxuAVIrzk/edit?usp=sharing

 04:02 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:02 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <stephenm> the news is scattered but some good stuff to look into.

 04:03 <stephenm> Learn About Blender and Maybe Get a Free Book – What’s Not to Like?

 04:03 <stephenm> https://fossforce.com/2022/01/learn-about-blender-and-maybe-get-a-free-book-whats-not-to-like/

 04:03 <stephenm> seems interesting what they are proposing

 04:03 <stephenm> Full 64-bit Official Raspberry Pi OS Now Generally Available

 04:03 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/full-64-bit-official-raspberry-pi-os-now-generally-available

 04:04 <stephenm> Steam Deck to Launch Officially on February 25th, 2022

 04:04 <stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/steam-deck-to-launch-officially-on-february-25th-2022

 04:04 <stephenm> 10 Reasons Why People Quit Linux for Windows and Why They're Wrong

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.makeuseof.com/reasons-why-people-quit-linux-for-windows-and-why-theyre-wrong/

 04:04 <stephenm> Knew someone that went from Wins to Linux, they tried Gentoo first and went back to Wins

 04:04 <stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Compressor

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-compressor/

 04:04 <stephenm> Easily Exploitable Linux Flaw Exposes All Distributions: Qualys

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.esecurityplanet.com/threats/pwnkit-linux-flaw-hits-all-distributions/

 04:05 <stephenm> What Is Doas and How to Install It

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/what-is-install-doas/

 04:05 <stephenm> 8 ways to speed up your Ansible playbooks

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/faster-ansible-playbook-execution

 04:05 <stephenm> Malware Log Analysis: Don’t Let the HTTP Code Fool You

 04:05 <stephenm> https://ispprotect.com/malware-log-analysis-dont-let-the-http-code-fool-you/

 04:05 <stephenm> Adding a Host to Monitor to LibreNMS

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-add-host-to-monitor-to-librenms/

 04:05 <stephenm> LINUX UPTIME COMMAND EXAMPLES

 04:05 <stephenm> https://buildvirtual.net/linux-uptime-command-examples/

 04:06 <stephenm> Attempt to Shake Down Linux users for Netfilter Code use Resolved

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/attempt-to-shake-down-linux-users-for-netfilter-code-use-resolved/

 04:06 <stephenm> How To Convert PDF Files To EPUB Format Using Calibre In Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/convert-pdf-to-epub-in-linux/

 04:06 <stephenm> How to Fix Error 404 Not Found on WordPress

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-fix-error-404-not-found-on-wordpress/

 04:06 <stephenm> How are open source and cloud computing compatible?

 04:06 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/22/1/open-source-cloud-computing

 04:06 <stephenm> Learn about Virtual memory statistics using vmstat

 04:06 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/learn-about-virtual-memory-statistics-using-vmstat/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to Install & Configure CyberPanel and Create a WordPress Website

 04:07 <stephenm> https://draculaservers.com/tutorials/how-to-install-configure-cyberpanel-and-create-a-wordpress-website/

 04:07 <stephenm> 50 lines of Bash to bring a Wordle fan out of their shell

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2022/02/02/bash_wordle/

 04:07 <stephenm> How to share files with Samba

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/samba-file-sharing

 04:07 <stephenm> How to extract and disassemble vmlinuz file

 04:07 <stephenm> https://trendoceans.com/how-to-extract-and-disassemble-vmlinuz-file/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:08 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:08 <MajB> Thanks stephenm

 04:08 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:08 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:08 <toddc> Lots of new items have been added and we ???Azloco??? get 20% after the first 100.00

 04:09 <toddc> are there any questions please ask?  Any other item requests?

 04:09 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:09 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:09 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:09 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:09 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:09 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:10 <toddc> GNU/Linux can't run Photoshop

 04:10 <toddc> unless you offer it WINE.

 04:10 <toddc> Else you will remain stuck with a GIMPed system.

 04:11 <toddc> What???s the magic word to get what you want?

 04:11 <MajB> sudo

 04:11 <toddc> sudo

 04:11 <toddc> Local Linux jobs

 04:11 <MajB> or su for some

 04:11 <toddc> Junior Full Stack Developer (Phoenix AZ)

 04:12 <toddc> Canonical has 144 open positions

 04:12 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers

 04:12 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:12 <toddc> Raspberry Pi's Raspbian OS Finally Spins 64-bit Version Beta

 04:12 <toddc> https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/raspberry-pi-os-64-bit/

 04:12 <toddc> If you would like a NextCloud account on the team server contact any team admin

 04:13 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:13 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many if not all events are being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:13 <MajB> 10 February, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour - 1800-1900,  Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. Fry Blvd. Sierra Vista. Take an hour out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:13 <MajB> 10 February, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour – https://bbb.azloco.net, 1900-2000, Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:14 <MajB> 19 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal proj

 04:14 <MajB> ects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:14 <MajB> 20 February, AZLOCO Team meeting on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az,  2100-2130.

 04:14 <MajB> 24 February, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:14 <MajB> 03 March, Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour - https://bbb.azloco.net , 1900-2000.  Meet us, ask questions, learn abouLinux and open source software, or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:15 <MajB> 06 March, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  https://bbb.azloco.net .  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your personal projects, help

 04:15 <MajB> others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:15 <MajB> That's all I have

 04:15 <toddc> LuftHans would you like to do the Plug news and events?

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Activities.

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:16 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:16 <MajB> Most events are being held on line.

 04:16 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:16 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:16 <MajB> 10 February PLUG Meeting

 04:16 <MajB> 15 February Stammtisch

 04:16 <MajB> 17 February Security Meeting

 04:16 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/groups/linux

 04:16 <MajB> Meets monthly on the second Wednesday of each month, 1800-1930, Location:  Sunland Village East Computer Lab

 04:16 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:16 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 26 February, 1300-1500,  Location:  143 Street Tacos, 80 S. Carmichael Ave., Sierra Vista

 04:17 <toddc> OTHER LUG EVENTS

 04:17 <MajB> CONFERENCES:

 04:17 <MajB> SCALE 19X 3-6 March

 04:17 <MajB> Pasadena Convention Center, CA

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/19X

 04:17 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS

 04:18 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:18 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
