{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by MajB, 16 Dec at 04:00 &mdash; 04:11 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-12-16-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/gnu-shepherd-service-manager-1-0/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/bottles-51-16-update-brings-new-features-and-bug-fixes/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-lossless-audio-codec/   (Stephenm, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/ed-command/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/alternativestotop/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/free-open-source-rust-frontend-web-frameworks/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/rosary-music-internet-radio-player/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://dmpop.xyz/article.php?id=2024-12-03_geeqie   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/linux-tldr-command/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/arch-linux-beginner-commands/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/effortless-gpu-switching-on-opensuse-with-switcherooctl/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/fwupd-2-0-3-brings-dell-dock-speed-boost/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/encrypt-hard-disk-in-ubuntu/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/systemd-257-linux-service-manager-released/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/linux-commands-for-machine-learning/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/install-rquickshare-on-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ   (MajB, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.  (MajB, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' http://phxlinux.org   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://svecc.com/svecc-events/   (MajB, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/   (MajB, 04:10)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (62)
* Stephenm (40)
* meetingology (2)
* toddc (1)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:05 UTC.  The chair is MajB.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.  Merely enter your name or nick and log in.   There is nothing to install.  Please use a headset to prevent audio feed-back.

 04:00 <MajB> Team Website is at:  https://www.azloco.org/

 04:00 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:00 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:00 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <Stephenm> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Team events can be found on our calendar:  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:01 <MajB> or at https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeamTeam membership information is at:  https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:01 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:01 <Stephenm> News is short tonight, thought I had more

 04:02 <Stephenm> 21 Years Later, GNU Shepherd Service Manager Hits v1.0

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/gnu-shepherd-service-manager-1-0/

 04:02 <Stephenm> Raspberry Pi 500 Brings All-in-One PC Power to Your Desk for Just $90

 04:02 <Stephenm> vhttps://linuxiac.com/raspberry-pi-500-announced/

 04:02 <Stephenm> Bottles 51.16 Update Brings New Features and Bug Fixes

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/bottles-51-16-update-brings-new-features-and-bug-fixes/

 04:02 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Apple Lossless Audio Codec

 04:02 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-lossless-audio-codec/

 04:03 <Stephenm> How to Use ed (Standard Line Editor) on Unix/Linux

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/ed-command/

 04:03 <Stephenm> 19 Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to the Top Utility

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/alternativestotop/

 04:03 <Stephenm> 18 Top Free and Open Source Rust Frontend Web Frameworks

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/free-open-source-rust-frontend-web-frameworks/

 04:03 <Stephenm> Rosary Music – internet radio player

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/rosary-music-internet-radio-player/

 04:03 <Stephenm> Geeqie: An Unsung Hero of Linux Photography Tools

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://dmpop.xyz/article.php?id=2024-12-03_geeqie

 04:04 <Stephenm> man vs tldr: Why The tldr Command is Better And How You Can Use It

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/linux-tldr-command/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Arch Linux Cheat Sheet: Essential Commands for New Users

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/arch-linux-beginner-commands/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Say Goodbye to Legacy Tools: openSUSE Recommends switcherooctl for Multi-GPU Systems

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/effortless-gpu-switching-on-opensuse-with-switcherooctl/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Fwupd 2.0.3 Brings Dell Dock Speed Boost

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/fwupd-2-0-3-brings-dell-dock-speed-boost/

 04:04 <Stephenm> How to Encrypt Your Hard Disk in Ubuntu

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/encrypt-hard-disk-in-ubuntu/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Systemd 257 Released, Here’s What’s New

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/systemd-257-linux-service-manager-released/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 40+ Linux Commands for a Better Machine Learning Workflow

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/linux-commands-for-machine-learning/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Install RQuickShare (NearbyShare/QuickShare) on Linux

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/install-rquickshare-on-linux/

 04:05 <Stephenm> That's all the news I have tonight, back to MajB

 04:06 <MajB> thank you stephenm

 04:06 <Stephenm> MajB

 04:06 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <MajB> This will be the last meeting conducted on the 3rd Sunday of the month.  As of January 2025, AZLOCO will be moving to one regular team meeting per month.  It will occur on the 1st Sunday of each month from 2100-2130 (9-9:30 pm) on this channel (#ubuntu-us-az).  Of course should additional team meetings be required they will be scheduled.  The meetings that were to take place on the 3rd Sunday have been officially canceled.

 04:06 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects.  If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:07 <MajB> If you would like to post an article on the team blog https://www.azloco.org/ and do not have access, see any team administrator to get that access.

 04:07 <MajB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <MajB> There are 260 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <MajB> There are 252 Linux administrator jobs listed on indeed.com that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:07 <MajB> There are 59 Linux administrator jobs listed on indeed.com that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:07 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar.  Most of these events will be conducted on line using Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:08 <MajB> 26 December,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 02 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <MajB> 04 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:08 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:08 <MajB> 05 January, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:08 <MajB> 09 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:08 <MajB> 09 January, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:09 <MajB> 18 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:09 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with

 04:09 <MajB> theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 23 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:09 <MajB> 01 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:09 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with

 04:09 <MajB> theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <MajB> 02 February, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:09 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:09 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:09 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and/or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  Most of the activities are being held on line.

 04:10 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group

 04:10 <MajB> http://phxlinux.org

 04:10 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.

 04:10 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 17 December, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:10 <MajB> PLUG East Monthly Meeting 09 January 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:10 <MajB> Sunland Village East Computer Club (Linux Special Interest Group)

 04:10 <MajB> https://svecc.com/svecc-events/

 04:10 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 08 January, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month)

 04:10 <MajB> Location:  Computer Lab, 2145 S. Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:10 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group

 04:10 <MajB> https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:10 <MajB> Monthly meeting on 17 December, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:10 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista.

 04:11 <MajB> That is all I have.

 04:11 <MajB> Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?

 04:11 <MajB> I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:11 <Stephenm> nightall\

 04:11 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
