{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ meeting, started by toddc, 03 Jun at 04:00 &mdash; 04:16 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-06-03-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-dvd-player/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/rawtools/   (Stephenm, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-linux-application-launchers/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/gnome-46-2-desktop-environment-released/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/wayland-1-23-released/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://9to5linux.com/transmission-4-0-6-open-source-bittorrent-client-released-with-various-fixes   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/w-command/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/haproxy-3-0-load-balancer-and-proxy-released/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/understanding-of-ls-command-with-a-long-listing-format-output-with-permission-bits   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/system-insights-with-command-line-tools-lscpu-and-lsusb/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxstans.com/linux-restart-command/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/gstreamer-1-24-4-multimedia-framework/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2024/05/24/opinion_column_terraform/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-superfile/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/resource-library/downloads/how-to-manage-file-and-folder-permissions-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxtoday.com/developer/how-to-change-dockers-default-data-directory/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/nethsecurity-8-0-open-source-linux-firewall-released/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/coreboot-24-05-debuts-with-enhanced-64-bit-support/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/how-to-change-shell-in-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-create-a-symlink-on-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/check-the-user-login-shutdown-and-reboot-logs/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:11)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:13)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (49)
* Stephenm (46)
* MajB (27)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:07 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <Stephenm> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate   -299334.35

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Some of us are in http://bbb.azloco.net if you want to see us or talk to us

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:01 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also national rotisserie chicken day

 04:02 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:02 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <Stephenm> News is a mix of things

 04:03 <Stephenm> Best Free and Open-Source Alternatives to Apple DVD Player

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-apple-dvd-player/

 04:03 <Stephenm> 13 Best Free and Open-Source RAW Processing Tools

 04:03 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/rawtools/

 04:04 <Stephenm> 22 Best Free and Open Source Linux Application Launchers

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-linux-application-launchers/

 04:04 <Stephenm> GNOME 46.2 Released, Here’s What’s New

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/gnome-46-2-desktop-environment-released/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Wayland 1.23 Released, Here’s What’s New

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/wayland-1-23-released/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Transmission 4.0.6 Open-Source BitTorrent Client Released With Various Fixes

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://9to5linux.com/transmission-4-0-6-open-source-bittorrent-client-released-with-various-fixes

 04:04 <Stephenm> How to List Logged-in Users Using w Command in Linux

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/w-command/

 04:05 <Stephenm> HAProxy 3.0 Introduces New Features and Improved Flexibility

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/haproxy-3-0-load-balancer-and-proxy-released/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Understanding the ls Command with a Long Listing Format Output and Permission Bits

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/understanding-of-ls-command-with-a-long-listing-format-output-with-permission-bits

 04:05 <Stephenm> System insights with command-line tools: lscpu and lsusb

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://fedoramagazine.org/system-insights-with-command-line-tools-lscpu-and-lsusb/

 04:05 <Stephenm> How to Restart Linux with a Command

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxstans.com/linux-restart-command/

 04:05 <Stephenm> GStreamer 1.24.4 Rolls Out with a Focus on Bug Fixes

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/gstreamer-1-24-4-multimedia-framework/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Where Do Terraform and OpenTofu Go From Here?

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.theregister.com/2024/05/24/opinion_column_terraform/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Superfile: A Modern Terminal File Manager for Linux and macOS

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-superfile/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Manage File and Folder Permissions in Linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.techrepublic.com/resource-library/downloads/how-to-manage-file-and-folder-permissions-in-linux/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Change Docker’s Default Data Directory

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxtoday.com/developer/how-to-change-dockers-default-data-directory/

 04:06 <Stephenm> NethSecurity 8.0 Open-Source Linux Firewall Released

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/nethsecurity-8-0-open-source-linux-firewall-released/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Coreboot 24.05 Debuts With Enhanced 64-bit Support

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/coreboot-24-05-debuts-with-enhanced-64-bit-support/

 04:07 <Stephenm> How to Change Shell in Linux: A Practical Approach

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://linuxiac.com/how-to-change-shell-in-linux/

 04:07 <Stephenm> How to Create a Symlink on Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/how-to-create-a-symlink-on-linux/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Check the User Login, Shutdown, and Reboot Logs on Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/check-the-user-login-shutdown-and-reboot-logs/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Ok that's all the news I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:07 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:08 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:08 <MajB> thanks stephenm

 04:08 <Stephenm> welcome MajB

 04:08 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:08 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:08 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:08 <toddc> Windows - The best $199 solitaire game you can buy!

 04:09 <toddc> Windows is true multitasking... it can bootup and crash at the same time!

 04:09 <toddc> Micro$oft broke Volkswagen's world record: Volkswagen only made 22 million bugs!

 04:09 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:09 <toddc> Linux Administrator  Diverse Lynx   Chandler, AZ

 04:09 <toddc> Linux Admin  krg technology inc  Phoenix, AZ

 04:10 <toddc> Linux Systems Administrator  TEKsystems   remote

 04:10 <toddc> Senior Principal Linux Systems Administrator RTX  Tucson, AZ

 04:10 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 262

 04:10 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:10 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 60 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:11 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:11 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:11 <toddc> LibreOffice 24.2.3 Office Suite Is Now Available for Download with 79 Bug Fixes

 04:11 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:12 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:12 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:12 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:12 <MajB> 06 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:12 <MajB> 13 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:12 <MajB> 13 June, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:13 <MajB> 15 June,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring you

 04:13 <MajB> r personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:13 <MajB> 16 June, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:13 <MajB> 27 June,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:13 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:13 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:13 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:13 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:13 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:13 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:13 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 13 June, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:13 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 18 June, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:14 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:14 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:14 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:14 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:14 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 25 June, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:14 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:15 <MajB> Back to you Todd

 04:15 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:15 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:15 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:15 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:16 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
