{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


01 July - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* 2 attendees
* Discussed routers, switches, and automating updates
03 July - Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 6 attendees, 1 new person
* Discussed Landscape
* Installed a Bitcoin wallet
* Configured a Mac virtual box network
* Conducted a ProxMox demonstration
08 July - Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour hosted by Rex Bouwense
* 3 attendees
* Linux Mint 20.2 has been released.  Our install media have been updated.
* The three AC adapters for the Lenovo laptops are finally on hand so we can begin the installation of an OS on them.
* The Internet connectivity in the Warrior Healing Center computer lab had to be repaired which was accomplished on 02 July.
* We discussed exactly how much the Group should get involved with Mike’s project in Naco, AZ.  A decision on further donations was postponed until additional information was received.
08 July - Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* DATA NOT AVAILABLE
17 July – Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop
* 9 attendees
* Changed Java versions on a computer with 2 versions installed on the same computer
* Configured a Canon printer
* Tested hdd full issue trace recommended replacement
* RFid scanning
18 July – AZLOCO Team Meeting chaired by Rex Bouwense
* 5 attendees
* Disseminated Linux news links and information on Linux job opportunities and future AZLOCO and state LUG events.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/Meetings/July%2018%2C%202021%20Meeting
22 July - Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour hosted by Todd Cole
* DATA NOT AVAILABLE 
