{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 06 Jan at 04:00 &mdash; 04:19 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2025/ubuntu-us-az.2025-01-06-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeamY   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsnp   (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/keep-your-linux-system-awake-with-keep-alive/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/if-youre-ready-for-something-different-i-recommend-this-linux-distro-to-newbies-and-experts-alike/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-text-based-spotify-clients/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/the-latest-mx-linux-turns-xfce-into-a-desktop-anyone-can-use/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.xda-developers.com/reasons-linux-best-alternative-windows-gamers/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/web-hosting-for-small-business/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/arch-based-distros-dominate-the-linux-gaming-scene/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/5-lightweight-linux-distributions-with-very-low-system-requirements/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Mesa-25-Better-UVD-VCE-Radeon   (stephen_laptop__, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.theregister.com/2025/01/03/reevaluating_basics_legacy/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/6-reasons-why-google-should-switch-chromebooks-from-android-to-linux/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/systemd-Git-Stats-EOY-2024   (stephen_laptop__, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.xda-developers.com/install-adb-windows-macos-linux/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/nerdfetch-fetch-script-nerdfonts/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-cisco-packet-tracer/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.neowin.net/news/eset-recommends-installing-linux-if-your-unsupported-windows-11-pc-cant-update-from-10/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-disk-cleanup/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-set-change-recover-mysql-root-password/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2025/01/refine-advanced-tweak-tool-for-gnome   (stephen_laptop__, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/alternatives-popular-cli-tools-history/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://fedoramagazine.org/system-insights-command-line-lslogins-lsmod/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-use-secure-copy-with-ssh-key-authentication/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://maketecheasier.com/best-system-monitors-linux/   (stephen_laptop__, 04:10)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:13)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxiac.com/home-assistant-launches-new-voice-assistant-hardware/   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://obsproject.com/Y   (toddc, 04:15)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:17)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (60)
* stephen_laptop__ (53)
* MajB (29)
* meetingology (2)
* stephen_laptop_ (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:20 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> stardate -21319010.27397

 04:00 <toddc> please sign in in a with a +1

 04:01 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeamY

 04:02 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:02 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <stephen_laptop_> sorry about that, Internet went down

 04:02 <stephen_laptop_> +1

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsnp

 04:02 <toddc> np

 04:03 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:03 <toddc> Today is also NATIONAL WHIPPED CREAM DAY

 04:03 <toddc> I had mine today

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> 

 04:04 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:04 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:04 <toddc> maybe

 04:04 <stephen_laptop__> OK should be fine now, damn weather

 04:04 <MajB> your up stephenm

 04:05 <stephen_laptop__> OK so news is sparatic today so pick and choose what looks interesting

 04:05 <stephen_laptop__> How To Keep Your Linux System Awake With Keep-Alive

 04:05 <stephen_laptop__> https://ostechnix.com/keep-your-linux-system-awake-with-keep-alive/

 04:05 <stephen_laptop__> If you're ready for something different, I recommend this Linux distro to newbies and experts alike

 04:05 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.zdnet.com/article/if-youre-ready-for-something-different-i-recommend-this-linux-distro-to-newbies-and-experts-alike/

 04:05 <toddc> weather all we have here is dry cool dry

 04:06 <stephen_laptop__> 7 Best Free and Open Source Text-Based Spotify Clients

 04:06 <stephen_laptop__> https://linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-text-based-spotify-clients/

 04:06 <stephen_laptop__> is it in the 30s or lower, and windy

 04:06 <stephen_laptop__> The latest MX Linux turns Xfce into a desktop anyone can use

 04:06 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.zdnet.com/article/the-latest-mx-linux-turns-xfce-into-a-desktop-anyone-can-use/

 04:06 <toddc> 80 yesterday

 04:06 <stephen_laptop__> 3 reasons Linux is the best alternative to Windows for gamers

 04:06 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.xda-developers.com/reasons-linux-best-alternative-windows-gamers/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> Best Web Hosting for Small Business

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/web-hosting-for-small-business/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> Arch-Based Distros Dominate the Linux Gaming Scene

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> https://linuxiac.com/arch-based-distros-dominate-the-linux-gaming-scene/

 04:07 <toddc> nights get down to lower 40's

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> 5 lightweight Linux distributions with very low system requirements

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.zdnet.com/article/5-lightweight-linux-distributions-with-very-low-system-requirements/

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> New Linux Patches Enhance AMD Radeon Video Encode/Decode For Older GPUs

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Mesa-25-Better-UVD-VCE-Radeon

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> How a good business deal made us underestimate BASIC

 04:07 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.theregister.com/2025/01/03/reevaluating_basics_legacy/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> 6 reasons why Google should switch Chromebooks from Android to Linux

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.zdnet.com/article/6-reasons-why-google-should-switch-chromebooks-from-android-to-linux/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> systemd Saw A Record Number Of Commits In 2024

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.phoronix.com/news/systemd-Git-Stats-EOY-2024

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> How to install ADB on Windows, macOS, and Linux

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.xda-developers.com/install-adb-windows-macos-linux/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> NerdFetch – fetch script using Nerdfonts

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.linuxlinks.com/nerdfetch-fetch-script-nerdfonts/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Cisco Packet Tracer

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-cisco-packet-tracer/

 04:08 <stephen_laptop__> ESET recommends installing Linux if your unsupported Windows 11 PC can't update from 10

 04:09 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.neowin.net/news/eset-recommends-installing-linux-if-your-unsupported-windows-11-pc-cant-update-from-10/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop__> Best Free and Open Source Alternatives to Microsoft Disk Cleanup

 04:09 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-open-source-alternatives-microsoft-disk-cleanup/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop__> How To Set, Change, and Recover Your MySQL Root Password

 04:09 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-set-change-recover-mysql-root-password/

 04:09 <stephen_laptop__> Want to Tweak Advanced Settings in GNOME? Try Refine

 04:09 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2025/01/refine-advanced-tweak-tool-for-gnome

 04:09 <stephen_laptop__> Alternatives to popular CLI tools: history

 04:09 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.linuxlinks.com/alternatives-popular-cli-tools-history/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop__> System insights with command-line tools: lslogins and lsmod

 04:10 <stephen_laptop__> https://fedoramagazine.org/system-insights-command-line-lslogins-lsmod/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop__> How To Use SCP (Secure Copy) With SSH Key Authentication

 04:10 <stephen_laptop__> https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-use-secure-copy-with-ssh-key-authentication/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop__> 5 of the Best System Monitoring Tools in Linux

 04:10 <stephen_laptop__> https://maketecheasier.com/best-system-monitors-linux/

 04:10 <stephen_laptop__> Alright, that's all the news I have for tonight.

 04:10 <stephen_laptop__> back to MajB

 04:10 <MajB> thanks

 04:10 <stephen_laptop__> welcome

 04:10 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:11 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:11 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:11 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <stephen_laptop__> welcome toddc

 04:11 <toddc> Why was the mobile phone wearing glasses?... Because it lost its contacts.

 04:12 <toddc> What was the spider doing on the computer?... He was making a web-site!

 04:12 <toddc> What shoes do computers love the most?... Re-boots!

 04:12 <toddc> Why did the computer go to the dentist?... To get his Bluetooth checked.

 04:12 <toddc> What is the biggest lie anyone can tell?... "I have read and agreed to all the terms and conditions.??

 04:13 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:13 <toddc> Desktop Support Linux Technician in Tucson, Arizona

 04:13 <toddc> VSO Tucson

 04:13 <toddc> Linux Engineer

 04:13 <toddc> Sira Consulting Phoenix az

 04:13 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 257

 04:13 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:14 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 62 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:14 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:14 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:14 <toddc> Home Assistant Launches New Voice Assistant Hardware

 04:14 <toddc> https://linuxiac.com/home-assistant-launches-new-voice-assistant-hardware/

 04:14 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> Free and open source software for video recording and live streaming.

 04:15 <toddc> https://obsproject.com/Y

 04:15 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:15 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:15 <MajB> 09 January, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:15 <MajB> 09 January. Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:16 <MajB> 18 January,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:16 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 23 January,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:16 <MajB> 01 February,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:16 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:16 <MajB> 02 February, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:16 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:17 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:17 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:17 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:17 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:17 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 09 January, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:17 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 21 January, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:17 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/locations/computer-lab/

 04:17 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 08 January, 1800-1900 (second Wednesday of each month)

 04:17 <MajB> Location:  Computer Lab, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:17 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:17 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 28 January, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:17 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:17 <MajB> That is all I have

 04:17 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:18 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:18 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:18 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:19 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
