{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 22 Jul at 04:00 &mdash; 04:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2019/ubuntu-us-az.2019-07-22-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://www.lfedge.org/2019/07/17/fujitsu-and-ge-research-join-lf-edge-as-premier-members-to-propel-open-source-innovation-at-the-edge/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.theouterhaven.net/2019/07/epic-games-awards-open-source-3d-creation-tool-blender-with-1-2-million/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.archdaily.com/920962/london-launches-open-source-app-for-homebuilding 
''LINK:'' https://www.zdnet.com/article/facebook-just-released-a-new-open-source-javascript-engine/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/build-diy-wireless-printer-raspberry-pi/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/gamemode-a-tool-to-improve-gaming-performance-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.notebookcheck.net/Kali-Linux-now-available-for-Raspberry-Pi-4.427225.0.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.lfenergy.org/blog/2019/07/16/linux-foundation-energy-member-tennet-open-sources-their-open-source-strategy/ 
''LINK:'' https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/coreos@lists.fedoraproject.org/thread/3HTW5SLUY6X2Y5SFXJSE4BWEDNJ2J5SL/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.maketecheasier.com/du-disk-usage-commands-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-check-if-string-contains-substring-in-bash/ 
''LINK:'' https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/announcing-the-release-of-oracle-linux-8 
''LINK:'' https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/vmware-gobbles-up-ai-ml-accelerator-bitfusion/2019/07/ 
''LINK:'' https://thehackernews.com/2019/07/ransomware-nas-devices.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.tomshardware.com/news/linux-kernel-intel-hyperthreading-cpus-security,39855.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* RexB (56)
* stephenm (34)
* meetingology (3)
* toddc (3)
* Ron_A (2)
* markthomas (1)
* programmer317 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <RexB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul 22 04:00:10 2019 UTC.  The chair is RexB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <RexB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <RexB> Some of us are at https://bbb.azloco.net/b/rex-ukj-yfp if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:00 <Ron_A> +1

 04:00 <programmer317> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:00 <RexB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +2

 04:01 <RexB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:01 <RexB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <RexB> IRC stats are at:  http://phx.from-az.net:8084/

 04:01 <RexB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <RexB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <RexB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:01 <RexB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <RexB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <RexB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:02 <RexB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm.

 04:02 <stephenm> News is general to more Linux based.

 04:02 <stephenm> Fujitsu and GE Research join LF Edge

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.lfedge.org/2019/07/17/fujitsu-and-ge-research-join-lf-edge-as-premier-members-to-propel-open-source-innovation-at-the-edge/

 04:02 <stephenm> Epic Games Awards Open Source 3D Creation Tool Blender With $1.2 Million

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.theouterhaven.net/2019/07/epic-games-awards-open-source-3d-creation-tool-blender-with-1-2-million/

 04:02 <stephenm> London Launches Open Source App for Homebuilding

 04:02 <stephenm> https://www.archdaily.com/920962/london-launches-open-source-app-for-homebuilding

 04:03 <stephenm> A New Open Source JavaScript engine by Facebook

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.zdnet.com/article/facebook-just-released-a-new-open-source-javascript-engine/

 04:03 <stephenm> How to Build a DIY Wireless Printer with a Raspberry Pi

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/build-diy-wireless-printer-raspberry-pi/

 04:03 <stephenm> GameMode – A Tool To Improve Gaming Performance On Linux

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/gamemode-a-tool-to-improve-gaming-performance-on-linux/

 04:03 <stephenm> Kali Linux now available for Raspberry Pi 4

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.notebookcheck.net/Kali-Linux-now-available-for-Raspberry-Pi-4.427225.0.html

 04:03 <markthomas> +1

 04:03 <stephenm> Linux Foundation Energy member TenneT “open sources” their open source strategy

 04:03 <stephenm> https://www.lfenergy.org/blog/2019/07/16/linux-foundation-energy-member-tennet-open-sources-their-open-source-strategy/

 04:03 <Ron_A> hello markthomas

 04:03 <stephenm> First Preview Release Of Fedora CoreOS'

 04:03 <stephenm> https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/coreos@lists.fedoraproject.org/thread/3HTW5SLUY6X2Y5SFXJSE4BWEDNJ2J5SL/

 04:04 <stephenm> The Most Handy du (Disk Usage) Commands in Linux

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.maketecheasier.com/du-disk-usage-commands-linux/

 04:04 <stephenm> How to Check if a String Contains a Substring in Bash

 04:04 <stephenm> https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-check-if-string-contains-substring-in-bash/

 04:04 <stephenm> Oracle Linux 8 Released

 04:04 <stephenm> https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/announcing-the-release-of-oracle-linux-8

 04:04 <stephenm> VMware To Acquire AI, ML Accelerator Bitfusion

 04:04 <stephenm> https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/vmware-gobbles-up-ai-ml-accelerator-bitfusion/2019/07/

 04:04 <stephenm> A new ransomware targeting Linux-based (NAS) devices

 04:04 <stephenm> https://thehackernews.com/2019/07/ransomware-nas-devices.html

 04:05 <stephenm> Linux May Gain Protection Against Hyper-Threading Attacks

 04:05 <stephenm> https://www.tomshardware.com/news/linux-kernel-intel-hyperthreading-cpus-security,39855.html

 04:05 <stephenm> That's all the news for tonight, back to you RexB

 04:05 <RexB> Thank you stephenm

 04:05 <toddc> thank you stephenm

 04:05 <stephenm> welcome

 04:06 <RexB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:06 <RexB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:06 <RexB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and your name will be added to the the project.

 04:06 <RexB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:06 <RexB> CANCELED MEETINGS/EVENTS:

 04:06 <RexB> 02 November AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop – No room available at UAT because of a campus wide event.

 04:07 <RexB> LINUX JOB LIST:

 04:07 <RexB> There are 59 open canonical Jobs today

 04:07 <RexB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:07 <RexB> There are 48 new jobs and a total of 145 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:07 <RexB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:07 <RexB> There are 1 new jobs and a total of 55 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:07 <RexB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:08 <RexB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES:  Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/

 04:08 <RexB> 25 July,  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <RexB> 01 August  Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:08 <RexB> 03 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:08 <RexB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <RexB> 08 August, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:09 <RexB> 08 August, Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, The Last Stop Bar & Grill, 3558 W. Northern Ave., Phoenix.  Meet with Linux users over some food and a beverage. Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with them. Everyone is welcome.

 04:09 <RexB> 17 August,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600,  University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Soft

 04:09 <RexB> ware.  Bring your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:09 <RexB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:   Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at  https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/

 04:10 <RexB> PLUG NEWS & EVENTS:  xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:11 <RexB> Phoenix Linux User Group  http://phxlinux.org

 04:11 <RexB> Meeting on 08 August 7-10 pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N. Desert Breeze Blvd., Chandler AZ.   Various topics ranging form beginners to advanced, user to administrator.

 04:11 <RexB> PLUG Security Class on 15 August 7pm.  Desert Breeze Substation, 251 N Desert Breeze Blvd

 04:11 <RexB> Chandler, AZ.  Shopping safely and protecting your accounts.  You are invited to attend this event if you are interested in cyber security and wish to have an opportunity to learn about digital security as well as related hardware and software.  Hope to see you there!

 04:11 <toddc> today is natinal ice cream day!

 04:12 <RexB> Free Software Stammtisch – East Valley – PLUG social gathering on 20 August 7-10 pm.  Boulders on Southern, 1010 W. Southern Ave., Mesa AZ.   Please come and join us for some good conversation over good food and drinks, which are both optional... Friends and family are all welcome.  Come see where the conversation leads this time, it doesn't just stick exclusively with Linux.  Us Linux geeks are interested in all sorts of thing

 04:12 <RexB> s tech, so the conversation always leads to a good time.  If you have any problems, feel free to bring in your machine and we'll see what we can do to fix your problem…

 04:12 <RexB> Rah ice cream

 04:12 <RexB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml

 04:12 <RexB> Meeting on 28 July 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson, AZ

 04:12 <RexB> Phoenix 2600 http://phx2600.com/

 04:12 <RexB> Meeting on 02 August 6-9 pm.  Lux Coffee, 4400 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ

 04:13 <RexB> Sunland Linux User Group http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 14 August 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr., Mesa AZ

 04:13 <RexB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar/

 04:13 <RexB> Meeting on 27 July 1-3:45 pm.  Sierra Vista Public Library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St., Sierra Vista AZ

 04:13 <RexB> That is all I have.  Thank you for attending the meeting tonight.    Does anyone have anything else that they would like to share with the membership?  I will be here for a while if you have any questions.

 04:15 <RexB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
