{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu-Arizona Weekly Newsletter, Issue #30 for the week December 24 - December 30.

* Arizona Loco Newsletter
* Thirtieth Edition
* Powered by Ubuntu
* Wednesday-January 2, 2008
* Arizona Loco Team Wiki: <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Next meeting: Sunday January 6, 2008  9:00PM
* Server: Freenode: IRC Channel #ubuntu-arizona

=== Newsletter ===

==== Summary of the December 30, 2007 meeting: HAPPY NEW YEAR, EVERYONE! ====

johnc4510 called the meeting to order at 9:00 PM

This week, the Team had a New Year's party as it's meeting.  Short, very informal, and very off topic.

The meeting began with johnc4510 picking on tyche, and tyche picking on johnc4510, and others joining in to gang up on tyche.  Discussions ranged from "how to avoid drunk drivers", through "relatives who come to visit, and stay" and "relatives who have gone elsewhere for the holidays", and "what degree in BS do you have".

jameswf-home invited anyone who used Asterisk to check out http://phoenixaug.org/.  (Asterisk is an Open Source PBX and telephony toolkit)  Phoenix Asterisk User Group, sponsored by jameswf-home's employer, is a user group founded by jameswf-home for the purpose of helping people with Asterisk.  The group currently has about 2 dozen people signed up.  jameswf-home is interested in moving the servers where he works to Ubuntu.  Anyone with information or questions is invited to contact him at jfinstrom[at]rhinoequipment[dot]com.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:30 PM

=== Credits ===
* <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Johnc4510]]</nowiki>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Newsletters]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam

