{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>

=== Meeting information ===
* #Ubuntu-US-AZ Meeting, 05 Jun at 04:00 &mdash; 04:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2017/ubuntu-us-az.2017-06-05-04.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://arstechnica.com/science/2017/06/rover-finds-evidence-of-a-long-period-of-warm-watery-conditions-on-mars/ 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/article/17/6/open-source-tools-university-student 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/6/week-open-source-new-toyota-camry-powered-agl-sudo-vulnerability-patches-more 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/news/survey/2017/6/choose-your-favorite-linux-hacker-sbcs-and-enter-win-free-board 
''LINK:'' http://www.click4infos.com/how-to-install-yandex-browser-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.tecmint.com/cron-vs-anacron-schedule-jobs-using-anacron-on-linux/ 
''LINK:'' https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/6/what-nosql 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/improving-linux-security-devsecops 
''LINK:'' https://opensource.com/open-organization/17/6/working-open-and-gsd 
''LINK:'' https://insights.hpe.com/articles/the-first-5-things-to-do-when-your-linux-server-keels-over-1705.html 
''LINK:'' https://www.ostechnix.com/monitor-file-changes-using-fswatch-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/get-hardware-details-in-linux-with-dmidecode 
''LINK:'' https://kerneltalks.com/networking/network-routes-in-linux/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/BitKey-Unlocks-Mysteries-of-the-Bitcoin-Universe-84575.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-protect-samba-from-the-likes-of-the-sambacry-exploit/ 
''LINK:'' https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/devops-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF 
''LINK:'' https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/software-engineer-platform-bbRs0gJimr5y1feMg-44q7 
''LINK:'' https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/software-engineering-intern-bfFrX6aHar46UVeJe7cNAE 
''LINK:'' http://www.nextstepsystems.com/jobs/sw-tempe-az-jobs-server-break-fix-days.html 
''LINK:'' https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper 
''LINK:'' http://employment.phoenixnap.com/?page_id=120 
''LINK:'' https://www.datadoghq.com/careers/detail/?gh_jid=88569 
''LINK:'' http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ 
''LINK:'' https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html 
''LINK:'' http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley 
''LINK:'' https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/ 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm 
''LINK:'' http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/ 
''LINK:'' http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml. 

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* MajB (82)
* stephenm (35)
* toddc (22)
* xHans (13)
* superfly (5)
* markthomas (4)
* wmack_ (3)
* meetingology (3)
* long_time_newbie (1)

=== Full Log ===

 04:00 <MajB> #startmeeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jun  5 04:00:09 2017 UTC.  The chair is MajB. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 04:00 <meetingology> 

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 04:00 <toddc> Join us on https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:00 <MajB> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <stephenm> +1

 04:01 <long_time_newbie> +1

 04:01 <MajB> Some of us are at http://bbb.azloco.net if you wish to see and/or talk to us directly.

 04:01 <toddc> https MajB

 04:01 <MajB> Star Date  95027.55

 04:02 <MajB> BBB is now https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:02 <toddc> wmack: add a ssl cert to bbb so it is now https://bbb.azloco.net

 04:02 <toddc> added

 04:02 <MajB> Team Website is at:  http://azloco.org/

 04:02 <MajB> IRC stats are at:  http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:02 <toddc> please thank him

 04:03 <MajB> Team membership information is at:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:03 <MajB> Team mailing list information is at:  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:03 <MajB> Thank you wmack

 04:03 <MajB> Great job except my camera doesn't work now :-D

 04:03 <MajB> Team events portal is at:  http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-arizona/

 04:03 <MajB> The Team wiki page is at:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:04 <toddc> blame it on homeland?

 04:04 <MajB> The Team Facebook page is at:  https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:04 <MajB> The Team Meet-up page is at:  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:04 <MajB> They are probably behind it somehow.

 04:04 <MajB> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:04 <toddc> they may have a copy of it!

 04:04 <MajB> LINUX NEWS:

 04:05 <MajB> First the the Linux and Open Source news of the week which will be brought to you by stephenm

 04:05 <markthomas> +1

 04:05 <toddc> hi markthomas

 04:05 <stephenm> Thank you MajB, the news is light to more expert

 04:05 <MajB> hello markthomas

 04:05 <stephenm> Curiosity rover finds its crater was habitable for 700 million years

 04:05 <markthomas> Sorry I'm late.

 04:05 <stephenm> https://arstechnica.com/science/2017/06/rover-finds-evidence-of-a-long-period-of-warm-watery-conditions-on-mars/

 04:05 <stephenm> A list of open source tools for college

 04:05 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/article/17/6/open-source-tools-university-student

 04:06 <stephenm> This Week in Open Source: New Toyota Camry Powered AGL, Sudo Vulnerability Patches & More

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/blog/2017/6/week-open-source-new-toyota-camry-powered-agl-sudo-vulnerability-patches-more

 04:06 <stephenm> haven't read it yet but sounds interesting

 04:06 <stephenm> Choose Your Favorite Linux Hacker SBCs and Enter to Win a Free Board

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/news/survey/2017/6/choose-your-favorite-linux-hacker-sbcs-and-enter-win-free-board

 04:06 <toddc> ugh

 04:06 <stephenm> How to install Yandex Browser on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> http://www.click4infos.com/how-to-install-yandex-browser-on-linux/

 04:06 <toddc> thank you wmack

 04:06 <wmack_> +1

 04:06 <stephenm> Cron Vs Anacron: How to Schedule Jobs Using Anacron on Linux

 04:06 <stephenm> https://www.tecmint.com/cron-vs-anacron-schedule-jobs-using-anacron-on-linux/

 04:06 <toddc> the ssl

 04:07 <stephenm> What Is NoSQL?

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.linux.com/learn/intro-to-linux/2017/6/what-nosql

 04:07 <stephenm> Improving Linux Security with DevSecOps

 04:07 <stephenm> http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/improving-linux-security-devsecops

 04:07 <stephenm> Why working openly is hard when you just want to get stuff done

 04:07 <stephenm> https://opensource.com/open-organization/17/6/working-open-and-gsd

 04:07 <wmack_> calling in from Intel lab...

 04:07 <stephenm> The first 5 things to do when your Linux server keels over

 04:07 <stephenm> https://insights.hpe.com/articles/the-first-5-things-to-do-when-your-linux-server-keels-over-1705.html

 04:07 <stephenm> How To Monitor File Changes Using fswatch In Linux

 04:07 <stephenm> https://www.ostechnix.com/monitor-file-changes-using-fswatch-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> Get Hardware Details In Linux With 'dmidecode'

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.linuxandubuntu.com/home/get-hardware-details-in-linux-with-dmidecode

 04:08 <stephenm> Network routes in Linux

 04:08 <stephenm> https://kerneltalks.com/networking/network-routes-in-linux/

 04:08 <stephenm> BitKey Unlocks Mysteries of the Bitcoin Universe

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/BitKey-Unlocks-Mysteries-of-the-Bitcoin-Universe-84575.html

 04:08 <stephenm> How to protect Samba from the SambaCry exploit

 04:08 <stephenm> http://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-protect-samba-from-the-likes-of-the-sambacry-exploit/

 04:08 <stephenm> That's all the news I have for tonight, back to you MajB

 04:09 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:09 <stephenm> welcome

 04:09 <MajB> TEAM NEWS:

 04:09 <MajB> The Team Meet-up Account is up and running.  If you are a social media type of person feel free to sign up.  https://www.meetup.com/Ubuntu-Arizona/

 04:10 <toddc> we may have a in to a Data center more to follow in a few days

 04:10 <MajB> Team Projects Page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjects

 04:10 <MajB> If anyone would like to take on a project listed, just notify any administrator and you will be added to the page as the project manager.

 04:10 <MajB> Nice toddc

 04:10 <MajB> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.  See any team administrator to get access to post to the blogs if you do not already have access or to recommend that any posting be moved to the front page.

 04:10 <MajB> JOB LIST:

 04:11 <MajB> DevOps Engineer – Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/devops-engineer-dLlX-YW30r5zZkdG1ZS6tF

 04:11 <MajB> Software Engineer – Phoenix

 04:11 <MajB> https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/software-engineer-platform-bbRs0gJimr5y1feMg-44q7

 04:11 <MajB> Software Engineering Intern - Tempe

 04:11 <MajB> https://careers.jobscore.com/careers/revolutionparts/jobs/software-engineering-intern-bfFrX6aHar46UVeJe7cNAE

 04:11 <MajB> Server Brake Fix Engineer -Tempe

 04:11 <MajB> http://www.nextstepsystems.com/jobs/sw-tempe-az-jobs-server-break-fix-days.html

 04:12 <MajB> Software Developer – Tempe

 04:12 <MajB> https://faithlife.com/jobs/SoftwareDeveloper

 04:12 <MajB> Data Center Technician (two openings)

 04:12 <MajB> http://employment.phoenixnap.com/?page_id=120

 04:12 <markthomas> Is that like a break fix engineer for brakes?

 04:12 <MajB> Site Reliability Engineer

 04:12 <MajB> https://www.datadoghq.com/careers/detail/?gh_jid=88569

 04:12 <toddc> I found the owner of the wristband left at the installfest!

 04:12 <MajB> :)

 04:13 <MajB> There are 4 open canonical Jobs today

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.canonical.com/careers/all-vacancies

 04:13 <superfly> oh, meeting...

 04:13 <toddc> one of the two Data center jobs was just filled

 04:13 <superfly> +1

 04:13 <toddc> hi superfly

 04:13 <superfly> hi :-)

 04:13 <MajB> There are 1 new and a total of 212 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are within 25 miles of Phoenix

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/q-Linux-Administrator-l-Phoenix,-AZ-jobs.html

 04:13 <MajB> There are a total of 62 Linux administrator jobs listed on Craigslist that are in Sierra Vista/Fort Huachuca AZ

 04:13 <MajB> http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Linux+Administrator&l=Sierra+Vista%2C+AZ

 04:14 <toddc> please welcome long_time_newbie

 04:14 <MajB> Hey superfly, get air conditioner working

 04:14 <toddc> we met him at the Tempe ubuntu hour

 04:14 <superfly> MajB: eh, sortof

 04:14 <MajB> TEAM SERVER NEWS:

 04:14 <MajB> If you would like a Owncloud/NextCloud account on the team server contact any team administrator.

 04:15 <wmack_> welcome long_time_newbie!

 04:15 <MajB> UP COMING TEAM EVENTS:

 04:15 <toddc> superfly: left the refridgerator door open

 04:15 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:

 04:15 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site http://azloco.org/node/28

 04:15 <superfly> toddc: I'm this close to doing that

 04:15 <toddc> hahahahah

 04:16 <MajB> That will work

 04:16 <MajB> 17 June, AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600 University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd., Tempe AZ.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your pers

 04:16 <MajB> 22 June, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista AZ.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:16 <MajB> 22 June, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe AZ.  Come and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <MajB> 01 July,  AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, University of Advancing Technology, 2625 W. Baseline Rd. Tempe AZ.  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything running that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring your per

 04:17 <toddc> we also had 4-5 new people at the installfest/workshop

 04:17 <MajB> 06 July, Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, Xtreme Bean, 1707 E. Southern Ave., Tempe AZ.  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:17 <markthomas> And a few used ones

 04:17 <MajB> PLUGAZ NEWS & EVENTS:

 04:18 <MajB> xHans would you like to do the PLUG news and events?

 04:18 <xHans> PLUG's June is this Thursday @ 19:00 and will have two topics

 04:18 <xHans> Phil W will talk about Krita

 04:18 <xHans> Ed N will talk about DNSSEC DANE and NTPsec

 04:18 <xHans> https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/14-east-valley-meeting.html

 04:18 <xHans> PLUG's new security is a week from Tuesday @ 19:00, 2nd Tuesday of the month

 04:18 <xHans> normally it's before the east side meeting, but this month it's the Tuesday afte

 04:18 <xHans> r the east side meeting

 04:18 <xHans> Brian is rocking in posting videos from the security class

 04:18 <xHans> video from last month - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ySsy8XotZ2A

 04:19 <xHans> meeting info - https://phxlinux.org/index.php/meetings/20-plug-security/

 04:19 <xHans> the Free Software Stammtisch is two weeks from Tuesday @ 19:00

 04:19 <xHans> http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley

 04:19 <xHans> Thanks again for the cross-group cooperation!

 04:19 <MajB> Thank you xHans

 04:20 <MajB> AZ LUG ACTIVITIES:

 04:20 <toddc> we are at 96 member on meetup

 04:20 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at http://www.azloco.org/node/225.

 04:21 <MajB> Tucson Linux Meet-up meeting on 06 June 7-8 pm.  Location TBA, Tucson AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> https://www.meetup.com/Tucson-Linux-Meetup/

 04:21 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 14 June 5-6 pm.  University of Arizona, Sierra Vista campus, 1140 Colombo Ave., Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:21 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group (SLUG) meeting on 14 June 6-8 pm.  Sunland Village East, The Computer Club Training Facility, 2145 S. Farnsworth Dr.,  Mesa AZ.

 04:21 <MajB> http://www.svecc.com/SLUG/slug.htm

 04:22 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group meeting on 24 June, Sierra Vista public library conference room, 2600 E. Tacoma St.,  Sierra Vista AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> http://cochiselinux.com/calendar/

 04:22 <MajB> Tucson Computer Society, Linux Special Interest Group meeting on 25 June 3-5 pm.  Adam D. Technology, 71 W. Jacinto St., Tucson AZ.

 04:22 <MajB> http://www.aztcs.org/sigs/linux.shtml.

 04:22 <MajB> Phoenix2600 meeting on 07 July 6-7 pm.  HeatSync Labs, 140 W. Main St., Phoenix AZ.  http://phx2600.org

 04:23 <MajB> Any thoughts on other events or projects???

 04:23 <MajB> That is all I have.  Anyone have anything else?  Does anyone have a problem or “issue” that toddc can solve?

 04:24 <MajB> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:24 <MajB> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
