{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===

* #Ubuntu-US-AZ: AZLoCo meeting, started by toddc, 07 Oct at 04:00 &mdash; 04:20 UTC.
* Full logs at https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-az/2024/ubuntu-us-az.2024-10-07-04.00.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.cafepress.com/azloco   (toddc, 04:01)
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsFeel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.  (toddc, 04:02)
* ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?   (toddc, 04:03)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/digital-advertising-privacy/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-pybonsai-generates-procedural-ascii-art-trees/   (Stephenm, 04:04)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/09/minecraft-is-getting-a-real-creepy-new-biome-and-mob-plus-item-bundles/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-internet-radio-software/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/pearai-controversy/   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Steam-Survey-September-2024   (Stephenm, 04:05)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/LogfileViewers/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/10/jump-and-climb-through-huge-structures-in-the-creepy-and-atmospheric-lorns-lure/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/ai/lumigator/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ostechnix.com/speech-note-speech-recognition-text-to-speech-translation-app-for-linux/   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-set-debian-development-environment   (Stephenm, 04:06)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/install-obs-studio/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.xda-developers.com/how-to-remote-desktop-to-ubuntu/   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/exploring-network-dynamics-networkx-linux   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.techradar.com/computing/artificial-intelligence/raspberry-pi-takes-a-shot-at-ai-with-a-camera-and-on-device-processing   (Stephenm, 04:07)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxconfig.org/bash-script-error-handling-try-catch-in-bash   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://ubuntushell.com/execute-command-without-sudo-password/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/attach-an-executable-file-to-email/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/linux-sed-command/   (Stephenm, 04:08)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.phoronix.com/news/Notcurses-3.0.10-Release   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://linuxtldr.com/installing-tilix/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.linuxlinks.com/flexget-multipurpose-automation-download-tool/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://news.itsfoss.com/orbot/   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.itprotoday.com/ubuntu/how-to-secure-ssh-access-on-ubuntu-servers-video-tutorial-   (Stephenm, 04:09)
* ''LINK:'' https://canonical.com/careers/all   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=   (toddc, 04:14)
* ''LINK:'' https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.  (MajB, 04:18)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* toddc (64)
* Stephenm (54)
* MajB (28)
* meetingology (2)

=== Full log ===

 04:00 <toddc> #startmeeting AZLoCo meeting

 04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started at 04:00:09 UTC.  The chair is toddc.  Information about MeetBot at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology

 04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action, commands, idea, info, link, nick

 04:00 <toddc> Welcome to AZLoCo IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1

 04:00 <MajB> +1

 04:00 <toddc> +1

 04:00 <toddc> Stardate   -299764.68

 04:00 <toddc> Team Website is http://azloco.org/

 04:00 <toddc> IRC stats http://www.azloco.com/~ircstats/

 04:01 <toddc> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980

 04:01 <Stephenm> sorry for being late

 04:01 <toddc> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az

 04:01 <toddc> hello Stephenm

 04:01 <MajB> Hello stephenm

 04:01 <Stephenm> evening toddc & MajB

 04:01 <toddc> Team events portal https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/upcoming-events-for-azloco/38466

 04:01 <toddc> http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuAZTeam

 04:01 <toddc> Discourse https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/events/38183

 04:01 <toddc> Team swag can be got at

 04:01 <toddc> https://www.cafepress.com/azloco

 04:02 <toddc> We have a team projects if anyone would like to take on a project

 04:02 <toddc> Team Projects Page

 04:02 <toddc> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam/TeamProjectsFeel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.

 04:02 <toddc> I will

 04:02 <toddc> Today is also National German-American Day

 04:03 <toddc> Anyone that would like to contribute to the weekly news items may add them to this list

 04:03 <toddc> https://docs.google.com/document/d/19ti1e1VXnEle3-wZQDhADbJJIOlwG6acyrF3IiBewqc/edit?

 04:03 <toddc> lets start with the news

 04:03 <toddc> stephenm will be bring us the news tonight!

 04:03 <Stephenm> new is random and you can pick what you want to read.

 04:04 <Stephenm> A free and open internet shouldn’t come at the expense of privacy

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/digital-advertising-privacy/

 04:04 <Stephenm> Linux Candy: PyBonsai – generates procedural ASCII art trees

 04:04 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/linux-candy-pybonsai-generates-procedural-ascii-art-trees/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Minecraft is getting a real creepy new biome and mob, plus item bundles

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/09/minecraft-is-getting-a-real-creepy-new-biome-and-mob-plus-item-bundles/

 04:05 <Stephenm> 23 Best Free and Open Source GUI Internet Radio Software

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/best-free-internet-radio-software/

 04:05 <Stephenm> This AI Startup "Copied" an Open-Source Project and Got Half a Million Dollar Funding by Y Combinator

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/pearai-controversy/

 04:05 <Stephenm> Steam On Linux Percentage Receded A Bit Further In September

 04:05 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Steam-Survey-September-2024

 04:06 <Stephenm> 14 Best Free and Open Source Linux Logfile Viewers

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/LogfileViewers/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Jump and climb through huge structures in the creepy and atmospheric Lorn's Lure

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2024/10/jump-and-climb-through-huge-structures-in-the-creepy-and-atmospheric-lorns-lure/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Introducing Lumigator

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/ai/lumigator/

 04:06 <Stephenm> Speech Note: An Offline Speech Recognition, Text-to-Speech and Translation App for Linux

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://ostechnix.com/speech-note-speech-recognition-text-to-speech-translation-app-for-linux/

 04:06 <Stephenm> How to Set Up a Debian Development Environment

 04:06 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-set-debian-development-environment

 04:07 <Stephenm> How to Install OBS Studio on Ubuntu and Other Linux Distros

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/install-obs-studio/

 04:07 <Stephenm> How to remote desktop to Ubuntu through Windows with Microsoft Remote Desktop

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.xda-developers.com/how-to-remote-desktop-to-ubuntu/

 04:07 <Stephenm> Exploring Network Dynamics with NetworkX on Linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/exploring-network-dynamics-networkx-linux

 04:07 <Stephenm> Raspberry Pi takes a shot at AI with a camera and on-device processing

 04:07 <Stephenm> https://www.techradar.com/computing/artificial-intelligence/raspberry-pi-takes-a-shot-at-ai-with-a-camera-and-on-device-processing

 04:08 <Stephenm> Try-Catch in Bash: Bash Script Error Handling

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxconfig.org/bash-script-error-handling-try-catch-in-bash

 04:08 <Stephenm> How to Run Linux Commands without Typing Sudo Password

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://ubuntushell.com/execute-command-without-sudo-password/

 04:08 <Stephenm> How to Attach an Executable File to Your Email (Works on Gmail

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/attach-an-executable-file-to-email/

 04:08 <Stephenm> Linux SED Command: Everything you Need to Know

 04:08 <Stephenm> https://www.rosehosting.com/blog/linux-sed-command/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Notcurses Is Still Alive For Ramping Up "Terminal Bling" With Complex TUIs

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.phoronix.com/news/Notcurses-3.0.10-Release

 04:09 <Stephenm> Tilix: A Tiling Terminal Emulator With Bookmark Support

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://linuxtldr.com/installing-tilix/

 04:09 <Stephenm> FlexGet – multipurpose automation download tool

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.linuxlinks.com/flexget-multipurpose-automation-download-tool/

 04:09 <Stephenm> Orbot for Android: The Ultimate Free Tor-Powered Open-Source VPN Replacement

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://news.itsfoss.com/orbot/

 04:09 <Stephenm> How To Secure SSH Access on Ubuntu Servers (Video Tutorial)

 04:09 <Stephenm> https://www.itprotoday.com/ubuntu/how-to-secure-ssh-access-on-ubuntu-servers-video-tutorial-

 04:10 <Stephenm> That's all I have for tonight, back to toddc

 04:10 <toddc> Great job stephenm! Thank You

 04:10 <MajB> Thank you stephenm

 04:10 <Stephenm> toddc

 04:10 <Stephenm> welcome

 04:10 <toddc> Is there any other news we missed?

 04:10 <toddc> We are still getting lots of hits on azloco.org since we started posting articles and would like to continue to add articles.

 04:10 <toddc> See any administrator for access to the blogs and any that should be moved to the front page let us know about it.

 04:10 <toddc> LINUX QUOTES/JOKES

 04:11 <toddc> How do penguins break through sea ice ?

 04:11 <toddc> Boot in Gnome first.

 04:11 <toddc> Why will Gnome launch from a shell ?

 04:11 <toddc> It can't reach up to the balcony.

 04:11 <toddc> The first time I read that a daemon might be the reason for some minor problem I was having, my first thought was,

 04:12 <toddc> "Omygosh! My computer needs an exorcism!?"

 04:12 <toddc> And my second thought was,

 04:12 <toddc> What is a Ferengi starship commander doing in my 'puter?"

 04:12 <toddc> Why did the sysadmin cross the road?

 04:13 <toddc> To get to the Chroot Jail.

 04:13 <toddc> What did Linux say when asked to go out for a date?

 04:13 <toddc> A. I'd love to, but I have to go-on-a-line.

 04:13 <toddc> Local linux Jobs

 04:14 <toddc> Digital High Performance Computing Sr. Principal Specialist - ONSITE Tucson AZ

 04:14 <toddc> RaytheonDigital High Performance Computing Sr. Principal Specialist - ONSITE Tucson AZ

 04:14 <toddc> Raytheon

 04:14 <toddc> Linux System Administrator    TEKsystems in Tucson, AZ

 04:14 <toddc> Canonical Jobs 257

 04:14 <toddc> https://canonical.com/careers/all

 04:14 <toddc> AWS Arizona jobs 60 local open jobs IT many other remote also

 04:14 <toddc> https://www.amazon.jobs/en/search?offset=0&result_limit=10&sort=relevant&category%5B%5D=operations-it-support-engineering&category%5B%5D=data-science&category%5B%5D=solutions-architect&category%5B%5D=software-development&state%5B%5D=Arizona&distanceType=Mi&radius=24km&latitude=&longitude=&loc_group_id=&loc_query=Arizona%2C%20United%20States&base_query=&city=&country=USA&region=Arizona&county=

 04:14 <toddc> &query_options=&

 04:15 <toddc> Runs linux

 04:15 <toddc> AMD Ryzen AI 300 Series Dominates Intel Core Ultra 7 Lunar Lake Performance For Linux Developers & Creators

 04:15 <toddc> Spot Light

 04:15 <toddc> Linux Mint 22.1 Slated for Release in December with Revamped Cinnamon Theme

 04:16 <toddc> are there any cancelled events?

 04:16 <toddc> UP COMING EVENTS is brought to us by MajB tonight!

 04:16 <MajB> none

 04:16 <MajB> Upcoming Events

 04:16 <MajB> AZLOCO Events and Activities:   Because of the Covid-19 virus, many events are still being held virtually on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net .

 04:16 <MajB> Detailed information with map locations can be found on our web site  https://www.azloco.org/az-team-calendar/.

 04:17 <MajB> 10 October, Sierra Vista Ubuntu Hour, 1800-1900, Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 Fry Blvd., Sierra Vista.  An hour to take time out of your busy schedule to relax, have a cup of coffee, talk about Ubuntu, Linux, and FOSS, and perhaps discover a different operating system for your personal computer that is free to download, free to install, free to use, and free to change to meet your own personal desires.

 04:17 <MajB> 10 October, Virtual Phoenix Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button https://bbb.azloco.net    Learn about Linux operating systems or discuss your problems and questions with Linux users.  Everyone is welcome.

 04:17 <MajB> 19 October,  Virtual AZLOCO/PLUG Installfest/Linux Workshop, 1000-1600, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net  Anyone can attend.  All are welcome.  We can install most Linux distributions on personal computers, servers, routers, Raspberry Pi's or almost anything that Linux can run on.  We are also happy to guide you through fixing problems, answer your questions or simply discuss Free and Open Source Software.  Bring

 04:17 <MajB> your personal projects, help others with theirs, spend time assisting with installations or problem solving, or spend some time talking about Linux.

 04:18 <MajB> 20 October, AZLOCO Team meeting, 2100-2130, On line on IRC channel #ubuntu-us-az

 04:18 <MajB> 24 October,  Virtual Tempe Ubuntu Hour, 1900-2000, On line on Big Blue Button, https://bbb.azloco.net,  Come out and meet us or ask questions and learn Linux open source or just hang for a bit with other users.

 04:18 <MajB> AZ LUG Events and Activities:

 04:18 <MajB> Detailed information for each LUG activity with map locations can be found at

 04:18 <MajB> https://www.azloco.org/arizona-lugs/.  Recommend that you go to the individual LUG’s web site and or contact them for the latest up to date information on their activities because of the Covid-19 situation.

 04:18 <MajB> Some of the events are still being held on line.

 04:18 <MajB> Phoenix Linux User Group  https://phxlinux.org

 04:18 <MajB> Until further notice all PLUG events are being conducted on line.  See the PLUG website.

 04:18 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 10 October, 1900-2200 (second Thursday of each month)

 04:18 <MajB> Free Software Stammtisch 15 October, 1900-2200 (third Tuesday of each month)

 04:18 <MajB> Sunland Linux User Group https://svecc.com/events/sunland-village-east-linux-users-group-meeting-4/

 04:18 <MajB> Weekly meeting,  Every Monday, 0900-1000

 04:19 <MajB> Location:  Training Room, Sunland Village East Computer Training Room, 2145 S Farnsworth, Mesa and Zoom (See website)

 04:19 <MajB> Cochise Linux User Group https://cochiselinuxusergroup.org/calendar

 04:19 <MajB> Monthly Meeting 22 October, 1700-1830 (fourth Tuesday of each month),

 04:19 <MajB> Location:  Warrior Healing Center (main conference room), 1838 Paseo San Luis, Sierra Vista

 04:19 <MajB> That is all I have todd

 04:19 <toddc> Thank ou MajB

 04:19 <toddc> FUTURE EVENTS  planning?

 04:19 <toddc> Any thoughts on other events or projects Questions ???

 04:20 <toddc> great meeting tonight that is all I have anyone have anything else?

 04:20 <toddc> Thanks for coming here tonight I will be here for a while if you have any questions

 04:20 <toddc> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.4.0 (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
