{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you have additions to the Agenda, please post them here after confirming with JohnCrawford or <nowiki>[[CraigAEddy]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
# Introductions
# Announcements
# TBA
# TBA
# TBA
# Agenda for next week

=== Log ===
<pre>
21:00 < tyche> OK, let's get started
21:00 < hobbet1> Hello
21:00 < azmike> here
21:00 < tyche> first, are there any new members that haven't had a chance to introduce themselves?
21:01 < hobbet1> this is my first time here
21:01 < Jeff_Martin> welcome hobbet1
21:01 < tyche> Welcome, hobbet1
21:01 < Jazzy_Jeff> welcome
21:01 < tyche> Have you signed up on the various pages?
21:01 < dennisk> Mine as well. Dennis Kibbe, Adjunct Faculty @ MCC
21:01 < Jeff_Martin> welcome dennisk
21:01 < Jazzy_Jeff> welcome dennisk
21:02 < tyche> Welcome, dennisk
21:02 < xHans> moin moin dennisk
21:02 < xHans> dennisk: yes
21:02 < hobbet1> I think so I have signed up for plugaz and when i went to azloco it said i was already signed up
21:02 < tyche> Well, for both of you, then.  If you haven't already signed up, see https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arizona
21:02 < dennisk> moin moin alle
21:02  * xHans waits to see if dennisk can deduce what the question was :)
21:02 < tyche> And https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
21:03 < tyche> Great, hobbet1.  Would you like to say a few words about yourself, as an introduction?
21:04 < hobbet1> my real name is Frank I am new to Ubuntu I want to learn more and then I would like to get my neighborhood more and help them with it for kids if that makessense
21:04 < tyche> It certainly makes sense.  And welcome aboard
21:05 < tyche> How about you, dennisk.  *I* know who you are (I remember meeting you).  But others may not.  Would you like to say a few words?
21:05 < dennisk> Along with der.hans I teach Linux at MCC's Downtown campus.
21:05 < azmike> welcome hobbet1
21:05 < tyche> Heavy responsibility.  Thanks.  And welcome aboard
21:05 < scott_ev> welcome both of you
21:06 < xHans> dennisk also keeps selling out his GNU/Linux classes
21:06 < tyche> OK, on to some announcements (This may be a brief meeting)
21:06 < dennisk> :-D
21:06 < tyche>  * You all know that johnc4510 was going on vacation.  He did.  The last word I heard from him was that he should be in Joplin, Misouri Saturday afternoon.  However, Joplin had been hit with a massive storm that knocked out power to 60,000 customers, and his sister was one of them - so he might not be able to connect with us.
21:06 < tyche> I'm sure he will contact us as soon as power is restored.  His brother-in-law has a generator, but that's reserved for things like the refridgerator, and can't be spared for a laptop computer.  So, they may be a bit uncomfortable, but I'm sure they're all right.  In the mean time, some announcements from the UWN:
21:07 < tyche>  * The BugSquad will hold it's first monthly meeting this Tuesday, May 12, 2009, at 16:00 UTC in IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting. The proposed agenda for the meeting can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meeting .  Everyone is invited to discuss how to improve the Team and actions.
21:07 < tyche> Topics that you feel important can be added to the agenda.  Due to time factors, some topics may not be addressed at this meeting.  It is also possible that, if the meeting runs over, it may be moved to #ubuntu-bugs.  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-news-team/2009-May/000541.html
21:07 < tyche>  * After 54 mini-releases, Dustin Kirkland is finally releasing version 2.0. This new version brings more stability, new features, and better performance thanprevious versions. It is also now ready for general usage.
21:07 < tyche> This release also renames the project from 'screen-profiles' to 'byobu', a Japanese term for decorative, multi-panel screens that serve as folding room dividers.  http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/05/byobu-20-released-project-formerly.html
21:08 < tyche>  * Blogger Bharat Balegere fromg AgniPulse.com covers why Ubuntu is a failure in India. These are: GRUB Boot loader does not have an aesthetic appeal, Login screen-users are required to type in their username, Desktop-the refresh option is missing, default login sound, default wallpaper, default audio driver  is weak, totem movie player sucks, right click send to options are missing, silverlight-moonlight, safely remove USB drive or Unmount Volume.
21:08 < tyche> Bharat Balegere gives details about each of these 10 reasons, and hopes that developers will read and use his suggestions, so that he will have more success spreading Ubuntu to his friends. http://agnipulse.com/2009/05/10-reasons-why-ubuntu-is-a-big-failure-in-india/
21:08 < tyche> (How's that for spamming the channel?)
21:08 < tyche> Now, xHans, do you have any announcements for us?
21:09 < xHans> tyche: a few
21:09 < tyche> Go for it.
21:09 < xHans> I was going to plug dennisk's summer class, but it looks like he already filled it, talk to him if you want an override
21:09 < xHans> http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=linux&all_classes=true&terms[]=4094&terms[]=4095&institutions[]=MCC04&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&subject_code=any&instructors=
21:10 < xHans> PLUG's east side meeting is Thursday with a presentation from CloudMade on OpenStreetMap. Hurricane is flying in for the weekend. She'll cover OSM for the meeting, then is throwing a mapping party for Saturday and Sunday.
21:10 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/119
21:10 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/766
21:10 < xHans> MatthewMPP is throwing a weekly BlenderCAD event on Sundays
21:10 < xHans> http://PLUG.phoenix.az.us/node/771
21:11 < xHans> at MCC we will have a few graduates with their degrees in Linux Networking this Friday
21:11 < xHans> that will be cool
21:11 < xHans> both Stammtische are the following week, so a week from Tuesday and a week from Wednesday
21:12 < xHans> that's it other than saying that the new update manager pop under virus-like setup sucks
21:12 < xHans> :)
21:13 < tyche> Oh, you noticed.  There IS a cure (I don't have it handy, but I've used it and it works)
21:13 < tyche> OK, is there anything else that anyone would like to mention?
21:13 < xHans> yeah, but it's not a supported cure
21:13 < scott_ev> <-likes unsupported cures
21:14 < tyche> BTW, xHans, is that graduation in competition with the one for ASU?
21:14 < xHans> tyche: not sure. one of my students is also at ASU and busy Wed and Thu, but not sure about Friday
21:14 < xHans> he's also one of our grads :)
21:15 < tyche> Just curious, since I expect that Sun Devil Stadium will be packed for theirs.  The President will be giving a commencement address.
21:15 -!- br24 [n=br24@unaffiliated/br24] has quit [Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
21:15 < xHans> that's what he claimed in front of the other students :)
21:15 < xHans> yeah, that one's Wed night
21:15 < tyche> Ah, good.  Then you don't have to compete.
21:16 < xHans> I will be driving past it to get to class, maybe I'll just head over Tuesday night and sleep in the park
21:16 < tyche> OK, If there's nothing else for the meeting, I'll declare it adjourned.
21:16 < tyche> Told you it would be brief.
 </pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
