{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
[21:00]	toddc	Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
[21:00]	toddc	+1
[21:00]	Rich_	+1
[21:00]	toddc	Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
[21:00]	toddc	I will also be in http://azlocobbb.banditti.com tonight if you want to talk or see me.
[21:00]	Rich_	cool
[21:01]	toddc	Welcome to sunny Arizona!!!
[21:01]	Rich_	My dog is covered in mud.
[21:01]	toddc	start with the news and see who else will show up
[21:03]	toddc	we were up north till this after noon my dog was scared of the snow but she is a bit physco any way
[21:03]	toddc	UBUNTU NEWS
[21:03]	toddc	Raspberry Pi suffers minor manufacturing issue
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.geek.com/articles/chips/raspberry-pi-suffers-minor-manufacturing-issue-2012038/?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=pulsenews
[21:03]	toddc	Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.2 vs. Ubuntu 12.04 LTS
[21:03]	toddc	http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=rhel_ubuntu_62&num=1
[21:04]	toddc	Locally Integrated Menus May Land in Scheduled Update for Precise (12.04.1)
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/lim-feature-explained-may-land-in-12-04-update/
[21:04]	toddc	Get Better Looking Folder Icons in Ubuntu
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/get-better-looking-folder-icons-in-ubuntu-with-fs-icons/
[21:04]	toddc	Gnome Shell 3.4 May Make It Inti the 12.04 Repositories After All
[21:04]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/gnome-shell-34-might-make-it-in-ubuntu.html
[21:05]	toddc	Cinnamon 1.4 Released with Hot New Corner Behavior, and More
[21:05]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/cinnamon-14-released-with-new-hot.html
[21:05]	toddc	Jupiter Applet Officially Switches to Python
[21:05]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/jupiter-applet-officially-switches-to.html
[21:05]	toddc	How to Synchronize Google Calendar with Thunderbird
[21:05]	toddc	http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/how-to-synchronize-google-calendar-with.html
[21:05]	toddc	Installing Alternative Desktops in Ubuntu
[21:05]	toddc	http://ubuntugenius.wordpress.com/2011/10/23/ubuntu-11-10-fix-how-to-add-the-classic-desktop-and-gnome-3-shell-as-login-options/
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.howtogeek.com/103691/install-linux-mints-new-cinnamon-desktop-on-ubuntu/
[21:06]	toddc	
[21:06]	toddc	http://news.softpedia.com/news/Install-Alternative-Desktop-Managers-in-Ubuntu-48586.shtml
[21:06]	toddc	http://tombuntu.com/index.php/2011/09/11/install-the-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/
[21:06]	toddc	
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.noobslab.com/2011/11/install-linux-mint-mate-desktop-on.html
[21:06]	toddc	Is Ubuntu becoming a big name in enterprise Linux servers?
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.zdnet.com/blog/open-source/is-ubuntu-becoming-a-big-name-in-enterprise-linux-servers/10602
[21:06]	toddc	Ubuntu disables app logging for privacy
[21:06]	toddc	http://www.itnews.com.au/News/293423,ubuntu-disables-app-logging-for-privacy.aspx
[21:07]	toddc	Thank you Dazed-75 for the news tonight!!
[21:07]	toddc	TEAM NEWS
[21:07]	toddc	If you would like a azloco.com email address please contact me at toddc@azloco.com
[21:07]	toddc	We would like to start several Ubuntu hour events at coffee shop or bars for quick get togethers
[21:07]	toddc	if anyone would like to find a spot on the west or north please let us know?
[21:07]	toddc	JOB LIST
[21:08]	toddc	"Pima Community College is looking for an Information Technology Advanced
[21:08]	toddc	Analyst with experience adminstering Linux. For more information and to
[21:08]	toddc	view the complete job positing visit the Pima Jobs website.
[21:08]	toddc	http://www.pima.edu/pima-jobs/ The position closes on 3/25/2012."
[21:08]	toddc	Network Administrator
[21:08]	toddc	http://practicemax.iapplicants.com/ViewJob-225397.html
[21:08]	xHans	thanks for listing the Pima CC job toddc
[21:09]	toddc	thanks for the info I have had several members there that are looking
[21:09]	toddc	Web-Hosting Tech Support (Level II - III)
[21:09]	toddc	http://www.arvixe.com
[21:10]	toddc	remeber to check the calender at http://www.azloco.com/?q=node/28
[21:10]	toddc	TEAM SERVER NEWS
[21:10]	toddc	thanks to Eric for updating the azlocbbb.banditti.com stie to 0.8-3 it really works great with a lot of new features but will need a web designer to complete the upgrade and customize the API's so we need a volunteer if someone would like to take it on please let me know
[21:11]	toddc	ABLEconf.org is March 24 and we need a some help we will be running our Big Blue Button server in up to three classrooms and a booth so I will need some help with that and it will be easy to do the BBB and or the booth.
[21:11]	toddc	I am planning on placing a projector or large monitor at the booth running BBB and if time permits making a Ubuntu demo slide show so if anyone has a few minutes we could use your help!!
[21:12]	toddc	http://www.ableconf.com/
[21:12]	toddc	ETA for my rasberry PI is 4/23 and as soon as it shows we will be setting up a few events test/break it in and see what it can do! Any all ideas for projects are welcome
[21:13]	xHans	toddc: actually, ABLEconf has been cancelled
[21:13]	toddc	xHansdo you have any news for us?
[21:13]	xHans	ABLEconf has been cancelled
[21:13]	toddc	gone for a few days
[21:13]	xHans	Reveiw meeting planned for late-morning on Saturday
[21:13]	xHans	http://www.ABLEconf.com/
[21:13]	xHans	toddc: that's why I showed up tonight, to make sure you knew
[21:14]	toddc	Thanks
[21:14]	xHans	should have mentioned it before the meeting, but it's been a long weekend and I didn't think of it
[21:14]	xHans	Free Software Stammtisch this Tuesday at 19:00
[21:14]	xHans	Iguana Macks in Chandler
[21:14]	xHans	http://www.LuftHans.com/Free_Software_Stammtisch#East_Valley
[21:14]	xHans	some community colleges have 8 week courses starting this week
[21:15]	xHans	I will have GNU/Linux Security starting tomorrow
[21:15]	xHans	Dennis has a GNU/Linux system administration class
[21:15]	xHans	http://classes.sis.maricopa.edu/index.php?keywords=linux&subject_code=any&all_classes=true&terms[]=4122&start_hour=any&end_hour=any&instructors=
[21:16]	xHans	CIS271DL for me and CIS238DL for Dennis
[21:16]	xHans	his is listed as full, but last I knew he had room for overrides
[21:16]	xHans	both are at Mesa Community College's Dobson and Southern campus
[21:19]	toddc	Thanks xHans for keeping us up to date on Plug events and classes at local Colleges
[21:19]	xHans	sorry, phased out for a sec
[21:20]	toddc	np
[21:20]	toddc	that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
[21:20]	xHans	wanted to say that Estrella Mountain CC also has classes starting this week
[21:20]	xHans	and now that's all
[21:20]	xHans	as I said, it was a long weekend
[21:20]	toddc	cool whio is teaching the estrella classes?
[21:21]	xHans	I don't know the instructors over there
[21:21]	toddc	ok I will check I think I know one of them
[21:21]	xHans	hmm, looks like South Mountain also has a CIS238DL class starting this week
[21:22]	xHans	Randy's the only person I know at EMCC
[21:22]	toddc	thought that was who was teaching it
[21:23]	toddc	I will edit the calendar and now have a free weekend
[21:23]	toddc	if there is nothing else?
[21:24]	toddc	Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
[21:24]	xHans	I see he's got one class starting, but there are several other EMCC classes starting ( at least one actually started last week )
[21:26]	Rich_	Any classes on the North side of town?
[21:28]	toddc	Linux none that I know of there was one but I never got any news on it it was a rehab training of some kind
[21:29]	Rich_	Thanks. I may have too look into online classes.
[21:30]	toddc	I talked to one student but did not find the location or who taught it Glendale CC had some for a while but not heard of anything in recent years 
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
