{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Log ===

<pre>
<toddc_> Welcome to AZLOCO IRC Meeting Please sign in with a +1
<spinrage> +1
<toddc_> +1
<fuzzyvader> +1
<TRG__> +1 booyah
<_ericcc> +1
<Dazed_75> +1
<toddc_> Team wiki site https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
<toddc_> Team membership http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445980
<toddc_> Feel free to make comments and add input to our meeting at anytime.
<toddc_> some of us are in azlocobbb.banditti.com if you want to see us or talk to us
<toddc_> Anybody here that is new tonight?
<toddc_> UBUNTU NEWS
<toddc_> over to Dazed_75 for the news
<Dazed_75> SteamAlerts Notifies you of game price drops
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/133206/steamalerts-notifies-you-of-game-price-drops/
<Dazed_75>     http://steamalerts.com/
<Dazed_75> 6 Tips for improving game performance with Steam on Linux
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/132549/6-tips-for-improving-game-performance-with-steam-on-linux/
<Dazed_75> New Unity Tweak tool unleashed for power users
<Dazed_75>     http://ostatic.com/blog/new-unity-tweak-tool-unleashed-for-power-users
<Dazed_75> 4 ways to run Windows software on Linux (old hat but OK)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/133515/4-ways-to-run-windows-software-on-linux/
<Dazed_75> How to back up MySQL databases with mylvmbackup on Ubuntu 12.10 (only with LVM file system)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-back-up-mysql-databases-with-mylvmbackup-on-ubuntu-12.10
<Dazed_75> LibreOffice 4.0 Release Candidate 1 released
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxuser.co.uk/news/libreoffice-4-0-rc1-released
<Dazed_75> The 10 oldest significant open-source programs
<Dazed_75>     http://www.zdnet.com/the-10-oldest-significant-open-source-programs-7000009735/
<Dazed_75> How to make your own torrent
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/make-your-own-torrent/2013/01/14
<Dazed_75> Make use of source .DEB packages to customize software installation
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/customize-software-installation-with-source-deb-package/2013/01/13
<Dazed_75> How to block a web site from Google search results (using a Chrome extension)
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/block-a-website-from-google-search-results/2013/01/11
* [R] (~rbox@unaffiliated/rbox) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Lightworks for Linux opened access briefly
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/01/lightworks-for-linux-opens-alpha-access-for-limited-time
<toddc_> [R] hi
<[R]> yo
<Dazed_75> Steam-powered Mini-PC gets detailed at CES
<Dazed_75>     http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/01/steam-linux-console-gets-detailed-at-ces
<Dazed_75> Enable TRIM on SSD in Ubuntu for better Solid State Drive perfprmance
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/enable-trim-on-ssd-solid-state-drives.html
<Dazed_75> Oracle releases Java 7 update 11 to fix critical security hole, Ubuntu PPA updated
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/oracle-releases-java-7-update-11-7u11.html
<Dazed_75> --- some folks don't trust that update is enuf tho
<Dazed_75> Undistract-me notifies you when terminal commands are completed
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/notifies-terminal-commands-completed-undistract-me.html
<Dazed_75> How to get Flash Player to work with Steam for Linux on 64 bit
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/how-to-get-flash-player-to-work-with.html
<Dazed_75> Fix wireless or wired network not working after resume from suspend in Ubuntu
<Dazed_75>     http://www.webupd8.org/2013/01/fix-wireless-or-wired-network-not.html
<Dazed_75> Blizzard may launch a game for Linux this year
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/01/blizzard-may-launch-game-for-linux-this.html
<Dazed_75> How to customize the font and color of the panel clock in Linux Mint Mate
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/01/customize-clock-linux-mint-mate.html
<Dazed_75> $3 million prize offered for demonstration of replacement of open source VA system
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/01/3-million-prize-for-open-source.html
<Dazed_75> Linux leading the pack in Cloud Servers and Virtual Private Servers (VPS)
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxandlife.com/2013/01/cloud-servers-leading-pack-in-linux-vps.html
<Dazed_75> How to update an Ubuntu daily ISO using zsync to download only changes
<Dazed_75>     http://www.antrecu.com/ubuntu-linux-world/how-update-ubuntu-daily-iso-using-zsync
<Dazed_75> VLC secrets: Logging and how it helps with bad files
<Dazed_75>     http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/vlc-secrets-logging.html
<Dazed_75> Is your screen blanking in XFCE despite your screensaver settings?
<Dazed_75>     http://stevenrosenberg.net/blog/desktops/Xfce/2013_0109_xfce_screenblanking_fix
<Dazed_75> Advanced image processing with GIMP and G'MIC
<Dazed_75>     http://maketecheasier.com/advanced-image-processing-with-gimp-and-gmic/2013/01/16
* Rich_ (c71e42b3@gateway/web/freenode/ip.199.30.66.179) has joined #Ubuntu-US-AZ
<Dazed_75> Python scripts as a replacement for BASH utility scripts
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/python-scripts-replacement-bash-utility-scripts
<toddc_> hi Rich_
<Rich_> hi
<Dazed_75> Linux port of Crusader Kings II and some excellent patch notes
<Dazed_75>     http://www.pcgamer.com/2013/01/15/crusader-kings-ii-linux-port-republic-video-and-some-excellent-patch-notes/
<Dazed_75> The Cave game for Linux announced for January 23
<Dazed_75>     http://news.softpedia.com/news/The-Cave-Game-Announced-for-January-23-on-Linux-321426.shtml
<Dazed_75> Xvidcap records screen activity nearly effortlessly
<Dazed_75>     http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/77083.html
<Dazed_75> Linux Professional Institute hosts exam labs at SCALE11x
<Dazed_75>     http://www.lpi.org/news/linux-professional-institute-hosts-exam-labs-scale-11x
<Dazed_75> Use traceroute (tracert) to identify network problems
<Dazed_75>     http://www.howtogeek.com/134132/how-to-use-traceroute-to-identify-network-problems/
<Dazed_75> ... and that's all folks
<toddc_> Thanks Dazed_75 for the news tonight!!!
<toddc_> I have a few more to add!!
<toddc_> How to install Native Ubuntu Linux on ASUS Transformer Pad Infinity TF700
<toddc_> Read more at http://thedroidguy.com/2013/01/how-to-install-native-ubuntu-linux-on-asus-transformer-pad-infinity-tf700/#vMfasIme2gu620Zo.99
<toddc_> Android and Ubuntu Powered Kite Tablet Shows What Future Tablets May Be Like
<toddc_> http://www.droid-life.com/2013/01/15/android-and-ubuntu-powered-kite-tablet-shows-what-future-tablets-may-be-like/
<toddc_> The Bad news we no longer have the use of OneNeck to Host our severs. The current plan
<toddc_> is to attempt to get our own rack at the same same location. I will be attempting this monday again,
<toddc_> but until futher notice our severs are offline and removed and stored here. And we will be open to other ideas as this unfolds. And we hope to be back up this week.
<toddc_> TEAM NEWS
<toddc_> We now have 12.10 DVD's please hook up with Dazed_75 or my self and pass out these and spread the word  of Linux/open source and or installfests
<toddc_> azloco.com  is Down
<toddc_> azloco.org is Down
<toddc_> lugy.com is down
<toddc_> JOB LIST
<toddc_> Senior Network Engineer at our Teams Data center they have several openings to fill
<toddc_> jobs@oneneck.com
<toddc_> Several openings at Limelight Networks
<toddc_> http://www.limelight.com/company/careers/
<toddc_> Technical Operations Analyst at  Athletes Performance
<toddc_> http://www.ziprecruiter.com/job/Technical-Operations-Analyst/2a5fa771/?
<toddc_> Systems Administrator Unix Linux and Windows
<toddc_> alignjobs@gmail.com
<toddc_> Sr. UNIX Administrator
<toddc_> http://azcourts.hrmdirect.com/employment/job-opening.php?req=65279&#job
<toddc_> Data Center Tech-3pm-Midnite; Carpathia Hosting
<toddc_> http://www.carpathiahosting.com/data-center-technician-phoenix-az
<toddc_> NEW MEMBERS
<toddc_> Paul Bradley
<xHans> toddc: please give the link to the PLUG archive for the Limelight jobs
<xHans> http://lists.phxlinux.org/lurker/message/20130109.200841.4cebea1d.en.html
<toddc_> Alison Sutherland
<xHans> our jobs page sucks :(
<toddc_> kk can do
<_ericcc> whats Pauls username?
<_ericcc> or was he the guy at the installfest
<toddc_> Irc nick are not part of team membership so I do not know his nick
<_ericcc> haha i was just askin incase he drops in
<toddc_> no but alison was there in the after noon
<toddc_> anyway please say hi and welcome them if you see them around
<toddc_> or you can find them!!
<toddc_> ANDROID APP PICK
<toddc_> Urbanspoon  Thanks TRG
<toddc_> https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.urbanspoon&feature=nav_result#?t=W251bGwsMSwxLDMsImNvbS51cmJhbnNwb29uIl0.
<toddc_> UBUNTU HOUR
<toddc_> Thursday January 31 is the next Ubuntu Hour at Extreme Bean in Tempe southern and McClintock
<toddc_> http://xtremebeancoffee.com
<toddc_> this a 1-2 hour social hour to meet new/old users and chat about linux and open source. Stop by and say hi!!
<toddc_> TEMPE INSTALLFEST
<toddc_> Azloco/plug Desktop Emphasis installfest is Febuary 2  at UAT 10am to 4  PM 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Tempe across from Fry's Electronics 10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 245 48st and Baseline Rd enter from the center corridor front building.
<toddc_> If you have time or want to meet any of us or have problems feel free to show up.
<toddc_> BBB is messed again if someone has time!!!
<toddc_> TEMPE SERVER INSTALLFESTS
<toddc_> Tagose planning and development meeting on February 9 10am-4 pm  2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics
<toddc_> The next Server Emphasis Installfest will be Saturday February 16 at UAT  10AM to 4M 2625 W Baseline Rd 85283 Room 208 across the street from Fry's Electronics enter from the center corridor front building we will do desktops/laptops as time permits
<toddc_> UBUNTU TRAINING
<toddc_> No classes this week
<Dazed_75> Actually, all Installfests are now back in room 208
<toddc_> over to xHans for PLUG info
<xHans> danke
<xHans> SCaLE 11x coming up in a month, 2013Feb20-24, Thursday through Sunday
<xHans> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale11x
<xHans> discount code for the LoCo is ALOCO
<xHans> PLUG west side will be moving in February, hopefully to elsewhere at MCC
<xHans> and that's all I have for tonight
<toddc_> have we heard anything on dev meetings?
<xHans> I have not
<xHans> doesn't mean Ed didn't email me, though
<toddc_> xHans east side or west side
<Dazed_75> xHans: did you mean PLUG EAST?
<xHans> yeah, probably :)
<toddc_> any news on the west side?
<xHans> PLUG east side is at MCC
<xHans> none from me
<toddc_> kk I can check on the front
<toddc_> xHans Thanks for keeping us up to date on plug events
<xHans> bitte
<toddc_> that is all I have any questions or comments or other news or ideas?
<fuzzyvader> thx Dazed_75 thx toddc_ danke xHans
<toddc_> welcome back fuzzyvader
<fuzzyvader> bitte
<toddc_> if there is nothing else?
<toddc_> Thanks for coming tonight. I will be here a while if anyone needs help or has a question
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArizonaTeam
