{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Arjan van Eersel, 32 ==

Originally from Schiedam, the Netherlands. Currently living in Bulgaria.

=== About ===

My name is Arjan van Eersel, on IRC known as Tsar_Evitsa or BezNalogov.

I have many interests including martial art, cooking, (Belgian) beer and brewing beer and of course technology and especially Ubuntu.

Already from childhood I was busy with computers, my first computer was a Schneider (Amstrad) CPC6128 with CP/M. After finishing my education in applied informatics I worked as a self-employed ICT consultant. However I rolled into the world of tax and legal advice and in 2001 I stopped doing ICT projects professionally and founded my current company in legal and tax advice.

I don't know exactly when I started to use Linux, but it's way before the year 2000. After hopping from distro to distro I started to use Ubuntu since Dapper Drake. My company fully runs on Linux. All offices are connected through a VPN. I've had no problems implementing linux, also employees had no problems to start using Ubuntu instead of Windows.

=== Learning ===

I can program in PHP and C, currently I am learning C++. Perhaps after learning C++ I'll dive into Python too as many people are very positive about this language.

=== Linux ===

Why I like linux? Simply because I like the idea of community development of an operating system and software. And of course I like linux because it works, because I believe that the quality of linux is better than the quality of certain commercial OS'es.

=== Ubuntu ===

As I already said before I use linux in a business environment. And I've tried this with many distro's. However in my opinion Ubuntu works best when it's about ease of use for former Windows users (let's face it, it's hard to find employees with prior linux user experience). But also from the point of view of system management. 

Also Ubuntu is quite easy to modify, so I modified the Live-CD to a version that's used within my company, so it's very easy to reinstall a computer, and so all the required software will directly be there.

=== Goals ===

I like the idea of open source and I like Ubuntu. So I'd love to be a part of that. I'd like to be a part of the MOTU team, as there is always a lot to do in packaging. Also I'd like to become a developer. As soon as I've read all the things I have to read, I'll request for a mentor.

Also I noticed that there is no LoCo in Bulgaria, at least I'll look what it takes to set this up and I might take the effords to setup the Bulgarian LoCo. 
