{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''March 26th, 2009, 12:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>
== Agenda ==
=== Action Items from March 19th, 2009 ===

* persia to investigate 338148 (co)
* persia & NCommander to review workflow for testing alternate images.
* NCommander to post dmesg for jax10 to 280669 (co)
* lool to spec ec2-package-builder for jaunty+1 (co)
* ogra to trim selection-of-arm-images to a smaller scope (co)
* ogra to register a new spec for a GUI to assist with kernel addition to arm images (co)
* ogra to rebuild gnome-keyring-daemon to troubleshoot 328167

=== Current Items ===

* Review <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki> progress
* Discuss moving meeting time to be more convenient for those in UTC-5 through UTC-8
* Any Other Business

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===

* persia to investigate 338148 (co)
* persia to chase VFP for cairo, ffmpeg, gtk+2.0
* lool to spec ec2-package-builder for jaunty+1 (co)
* ogra to trim selection-of-arm-images to a smaller scope (co)
* ogra to register a new spec for a GUI to assist with kernel addition to arm images (co)
* ogra to rebuild gnome-keyring-daemon to troubleshoot 328167 (co)
* ogra to document workaround for 34850
* NCommander to report on libgcc-vfp benchmark results 

=== Minutes ===

Action Item review was brief, with about half the items carried over.  Specs are largely unchanged: the only signficant advances was a clear plan to handle arm-library-optimisation.  Bug discussion was wide ranging, with many new bugs added.  Highlights included identification of the remaining installer issues for the babbage, and clear progress and problems with screen resolution in oem-config.  NSLU2 enablement was considered complete.  Babbage enablement has reached a working live system, and some installs with only minor hacks.  Further ARM Benchmarking is completed, but needs further work on the reporting documentation.

In discussion of moving the meeting time, it was agreed that it shall be moved to 21:00 UTC Thursdays, as this was least bad for the majority of meeting attendees.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
