{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''February 28th, 2008, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from Feb 21st, 2008 ===
* ChickenCutlass to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB. (carryover, 2nd time)
* cwong1, attempt to create an lang pack to report back next week with results.
* asac) report on code to create XPI from LP exports or look around for help to complete this and report back next week.
* kyleN will sum the executive steps for i18n for GMA and lool to review them before posting.
* ToddBrandt to continue building i18n infrastucture to match the gnome-control-center one by next week.
* lool to reformat detailed notes user interface string changes post freeze and post to Ubuntu wiki.
* lool kyleN to research if need to configure the seed into the LP Ubuntu export to get tarballs for the mobile seed, then update the rules.
* Mithrandir to split up remaining Hildon packages that need to be upgraded amongst everybody except people who claim they are busy with other things. (carryover)
* mawhalen to followup on when theme tools are updated, and then gen a new theme using the tools with sabotage (Shane Bryan)
* bfiller to file bug on gutsy/hardy dbus problems.

=== Current Items ===

* (lool) Cebit attendance
* (lool) version numbers in the ppa
* (lool) overwriting changes in ppa packages
* (bfiller) testing packages on Hardy before promoting to PPA

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* ChickenCutlass to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB. (carryover)
* asac to provide the general algorithm for converting .po files to xpi structures and provide with example input files to mobile list email.
* davidm & agoliveira to look at what asac provides and get script written by next week that does conversion of .po files to xpi structures.
* kyleN to prepare a mapping of hildon source packages to gettext domains, and list where the gettext domains are in maemo.
* Mithrandir to split up remaining Hildon packages that need to be upgraded amongst everybody except people who claim they are busy with other things. Loïc to get involved in this. (carryover address this week in email)
* mawhalen to follow up on when theme tools are updated, and then gen a new theme using the tools with sabotage (Shane Bryan) (carryover)
* lool to document versioning in the ppa into wiki
* overwriting changes in ppa packages, revisit this topic next week with Intel developers present.
=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080228_1702.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
