{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''November 15th, 2007, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.
 '''17:00 UTC''' will be the standard meeting time until the next Daylight Savings Change period happens.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from Nov 8th, 2007 ===
* tfheen/lool to upload new version of hildon-desktop out of bzr (lool: Complete)
* bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works and suggest
 changes. (held open for next meeting).
* Don_Johnson to explain USB client use case when user is using ext3 on
 device and windows on desktop
* lool to upload h-d to ppa (Complete)
* lool to upload an updated MIC which uses the PPA /by default/
* rob_ubuntu take an action item to report back to the team what i find out
 and what our requirements will be for graphics drivers 
* davidm to verify a new time for this meeting. (Complete: Every Thursday at 17:00 UTC is the new standard meeting time.)
* carry on "Discuss process for Gutsy / Hardy transition (bspencer)" for
 next week
* Specs need to be finalized next week (for the 22nd)

=== Current Items ===
* input methods: scim or hildon input method? - Kyle
* i18n: need plan to ensure everything's set up for translation - Kyle
* Xephyr with GL support
* Tagging moblin component versions

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* bfiller to for looking into a better solution for a banner to be hidden or shown in hildon-desktop.
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works and suggest changes. for next week.
* Don_Johnson to investigate USB client use case and how to export ext3 filesystems to windows use case.
* carry over lool to upload an updated MIC which uses the PPA /by default/ to next week.
* smagoun Since my group needs this, I'll take an action item to test Intel's flavor of exa on top of gutsy.
* StevenK to get h-i-m included in the build so KyleN_ can test
* kyleN_ to email Kevin to understand his issues with h-i-m
* agoliveira mobile-applications spec should be updated to include two things: List of commited apps for Hardy, Analysis of "app critieria

=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20071115_1703.html

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
