{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''June 9th, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110609]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110623]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* NCommander/ogra to review janimo SD alignment branch
* NCommander to get Documentation spec approved

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-2.html
* ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
* Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[15:59] <NCommand1r> #startmeeting
[15:59] <MootBot> Meeting started at 09:59. The chair is NCommand1r.
[15:59] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:00] <NCommand1r> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110616#preview
[16:00] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110616#preview
[16:00] <ogra_> plop
[16:00] <janimo> hello
[16:00] <NCommand1r> morning all
[16:00] <NCommand1r> who's here?
[16:00] <ppisati> o/
[16:00]  * GrueMaster is not here.
[16:01] <infinity> \o
[16:01]  * davidm thinks he is in London
[16:01] <NCommand1r> k, good enough
[16:01]  * davidm is sure he is not in the Freenode servers
[16:01] <NCommand1r> [topic] Action Item Review
[16:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Item Review
[16:01] <NCommand1r> [topic] NCommander/ogra to review janimo SD alignment branch
[16:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander/ogra to review janimo SD alignment branch
[16:01] <ogra_> reviwed, fine for merging
[16:02] <NCommand1r> ogra_: are oytugoing to handle actually merging it?
[16:02] <ogra_> i just didnt get to it yet (and was secretly hoping NCommand1r finds spare time :P)
[16:02] <ogra_> if you dont do it before i'll try to get to it tomorrow after the release team meeting
[16:03]  * NCommand1r just realized he was NCommand1r ...
[16:03] <GrueMaster> I assume it has been tested?
[16:03] <GrueMaster> who did you think you were?
[16:03] <NCommand1r> NCommander :-P
[16:04] <NCommand1r> [topic] NCommander to get Documentation spec approved
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to get Documentation spec approved
[16:04] <NCommand1r> co
[16:04] <NCommand1r> [topic] Standing Items
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[16:04] <NCommand1r> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:04] <NCommand1r> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-2.html
[16:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-2.html
[16:05] <ogra_> GrueMaster, hasnt been tested in real environment yet ... but we'll have to shake out bugs anyway :)
[16:05] <NCommand1r> trendline doesn't look so good ...
[16:06] <GrueMaster> Several of mine are done or in progress but not indicated.
[16:06] <ogra_> NCommand1r, i know, waiting for the last spec to land
[16:07]  * GrueMaster hates the syntax parser for the wi tracker.
[16:07] <ogra_> NCommand1r, i dont want to set the trendline twice
[16:07] <GrueMaster> Do you need to set the trendline for it to see that I have stuff done?
[16:08] <ogra_> GrueMaster, no
[16:08] <ogra_> its just a helpful diagonal line, thats all :)
[16:08] <ogra_> but the start value for it has to be set manually in the code
[16:09] <GrueMaster> So why aren't my tasks showing as done?
[16:09] <ogra_> so until NCommand1r#s doc spec is approved i wont set it
[16:09] <ogra_> GrueMaster, when did you change the WIs ?
[16:09] <ogra_> the tracker runs once a day iirc
[16:09] <GrueMaster> last week.
[16:10] <GrueMaster> for a couple.  two days ago for some others.
[16:10] <GrueMaster> >24hrs ago.
=== Guest78670 is now known as AndrewMC
[16:10] <ogra_> weird
[16:11] <ogra_> lets look after the meeting
=== AndrewMC is now known as Guest62338
[16:11] <NCommand1r> [topic] ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
[16:12] <NCommand1r> So I've discovered that my panda apparantly dislikes USB/ethernet when running with an oneiric userland  on the d-i netboot image. This incidently become a bit of a blocker w.r.t. to continuing to work on it
[16:12] <ppisati> NCommand1r: didn't you find anyone with a panda a2?
[16:12] <ogra_> when are you back in portland ?
[16:12] <ogra_> so you can use another panda
[16:12] <GrueMaster> Mine are tied up until I return.
[16:13] <ogra_> well, PXE booting will also have to wait until at least next week
[16:13] <NCommand1r> ogra_: I'm basically depwait GrueMaster until next week
[16:13] <ogra_> right
[16:13] <ogra_> so no more server netbooting this week then
[16:13] <GrueMaster> NCommand1r: I tested it here this morning and had networking through the eth0 port.
[16:14] <NCommand1r> ogra_: well, I still have a base-installer branch that needs review
[16:14] <ogra_> GrueMaster, A2 board too ?
[16:14] <NCommand1r> ogra_: mine is an A1
[16:14] <GrueMaster> He "shouldn't" have an A2.
[16:14] <NCommand1r> according to the panda I was pointed to
[16:14] <ogra_> didnt you say revision 0020 ?
[16:14]  * ogra_ thought that indicated A2
[16:14] <GrueMaster> his is oneof davidm's batch.
[16:15] <davidm> Anything that came from me is a A1
[16:15] <GrueMaster> and it booted maverick & natty before I gave it to him.
[16:15] <ppisati> so it's an a2, it's the same batch that had the bootloader problem with maverick
[16:15] <davidm> IT's all I have
[16:15] <ppisati> ah
[16:15] <ogra_> how did that A2 stuff come up then ?
[16:15] <ogra_> hmpf
[16:16] <ppisati> http://www.omappedia.org/wiki/PandaBoard_Revisions
[16:16] <NCommand1r> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti, ppisati)
[16:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti, ppisati)
[16:16] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.omappedia.org/wiki/PandaBoard_Revisions
[16:16] <GrueMaster> The cpuid changed between EA1 & A1.
[16:16] <ppisati> devmem2 0x4A002204
[16:16] <ppisati> to get the board revision
[16:16] <ppisati> as we discussed this morning, oneiric/ti-omap4 is still MIA
[16:17] <ogra_> well, there is the natty kernel which we will use until we have something new that works
[16:17] <ppisati> the usb issue turned out to be an upstream kernel bug revealed with tghe switch to gcc 4.6
[16:17] <ppisati> yep
[16:17] <ogra_> thats usually how we do it anyway
[16:17] <ogra_> i see that toolchain played back the ball to the kernel team court for the USB bug ?
[16:18] <ppisati> lp#791552
[16:18] <ppisati> yep
[16:18] <ogra_> bug 791552
[16:18]  * ogra_ pokes the bot
[16:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 791552 in linux (Ubuntu Oneiric) "No USB support on beagle/beagleXM" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/791552
[16:18] <ogra_> heh
[16:18] <ogra_> helps
[16:18] <infinity> Bot needs coffee.
[16:18] <ppisati> anyway, it seems it's *arm related, so as soon as distro start switching to 4.6
[16:19] <ppisati> it'll be an high priority for everyone
[16:19] <ppisati> right now i'm looking at
[16:19] <ogra_> right, but michaelh said there its an issue to solve in the kernel code
[16:19] <ppisati> bug 608312
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 608312 in linux (Ubuntu Natty) "USB host mode on OTG doesn't work on Maverick with BeagleBoard" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/608312
[16:19] <ppisati> ogra_: yes, the issue is in the kernel
[16:20] <ogra_> you think they are related ?
[16:20] <ppisati> ogra_: but the known workaround don't work for us
[16:20] <ogra_> yeah
[16:20] <ppisati> ogra_: nope, i was just taking a break from CVE :)
[16:20] <GrueMaster> yea, thanks for that.
[16:20] <ppisati> besides this, nothing new
[16:20] <ppisati> GrueMaster: but it seems i've no OTG hw here
[16:20]  * GrueMaster grumbles about pending propossed kernel testin to do.
[16:21] <ppisati> yep, there's a pending kernel for every distro/flavour
[16:21] <ppisati> have fun :)
[16:21] <GrueMaster> ppisati: Just get gadget working for now.
[16:21] <GrueMaster> I'll give to an OTG cable at the rally.
[16:22] <ppisati> GrueMaster: i think i bought OTG cables but whatever i attach them
[16:22] <GrueMaster> keyboard, mouse, etc.
[16:22] <ppisati> GrueMaster: the status in musb_hdrc/mode doesn't work
[16:22] <ppisati> doesn't change
[16:22] <GrueMaster> It puts the otg port into host mode.
[16:22] <GrueMaster> well, fix it.
[16:22] <ppisati> GrueMaster: is it a micro -> normal usb female?
[16:23] <GrueMaster> (hence the bug)
[16:23] <GrueMaster> micro b.  Wiring change.
[16:23] <ppisati> GrueMaster: actually it was supposed to work on lucid, but it doesn't work there neither
[16:23] <GrueMaster> iirc it worked in maverick on omap.
[16:24] <ogra_> how about we keep a TODO to look into that in dublin ?
[16:24] <ppisati> k
[16:24] <GrueMaster> yep.  next
[16:24] <ogra_> where we have HW and cables
[16:24]  * ppisati agrees
[16:26]  * GrueMaster shakes the NCommand1r bot.
[16:26]  * ogra_ hears the rattling 
[16:26] <NCommand1r> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:27] <janimo> some progress yesterday, during the porting jam
[16:27] <ogra_> threee hoorays from everyone to hrw ... he attacks chromium atm :)
[16:27] <janimo> but not very noticable if you look at the QA webpage, is still read
[16:27] <ogra_> well, doko fixed libnih
[16:27] <ogra_> that should give us upstart soon
[16:28] <janimo> nice - although I was under the impression that was a binutils issue
[16:28] <janimo> chromium I mean
[16:28] <NCommand1r> A wild chromium attacks
[16:28] <ogra_> well, he was testbuilding a fix last i saw him in #ubuntu-arm
[16:29] <ogra_> anyway, we're not massively worse than other arches on the ftbfs page
[16:29] <ogra_> which is pretty cool for that state of the cycle :)
[16:30] <ogra_> move ?
[16:30] <infinity> tp-glib is dying on a test failure?  I might have to look at why that is.
[16:31] <ogra_> infinity, i think there are (closed) bugs from the last three cycles
[16:31] <ogra_> look through launchpad, iirc one had a papertrail of tracking down the issue
[16:32] <infinity> *nod*
[16:33] <infinity> ogra_: Hrm, the old bug was a SEGV in the tests, this just lookg like a timeout, but I'll have to reproduce locally and see.
[16:33] <ogra_> hmm, k
[16:33] <ogra_> then it might be different this time
[16:34] <janimo> infinity, the old one was a gcc miscompilation when passed -fshrink-wrap which is now disabled. Could be another one though
[16:34] <janimo> I was under the impression it was ld this time
[16:34] <ogra_> there were older ones
[16:34] <janimo> the most recent one then :)
[16:34] <ogra_> we had the same segfault every release in the past
[16:34] <ogra_> and worked around it with -O1
[16:34] <infinity> janimo: I was led to believe it was ld exploding too, but I just looked at the build log, and all I see is a test timing out.  Anyhow, can take this out-of-band and test more later.
[16:35] <ogra_> yeah
[16:35] <ogra_> NCommand1r, move ...
[16:36]  * GrueMaster listens to the silence.  somewhere in the distance, a wolf howls.
[16:36] <NCommand1r> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:36]  * davidm thinks NCommand1r is stick in a loop 
[16:37] <NCommand1r> sorry, suffering from serious lag issues
[16:37]  * ogra_ points to http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-preinstalled/current/
[16:37] <infinity> Isn't that always true?
[16:37] <NCommand1r> infinity: ouch
[16:37] <ogra_> we have desktop images
[16:37] <NCommand1r> ogra_: \o/
[16:37] <ogra_> (with 1G of crap on them though, and no manifest files yet)
[16:38] <ogra_> maniofest is fixed now and should show up with next build
[16:38] <ogra_> i'll put in some time tomorrow to see how we can clean up and get smaller images
[16:38] <davidm> that works
[16:38] <ogra_> beyond that i did soem work on a headless natty ac100 image ... server and kernel people asked for it
[16:39] <ogra_> thats all for images from my side
[16:39] <GrueMaster> erm, how will that work?  ENOSERIAL
[16:39] <ogra_> heh
[16:39] <NCommand1r> ogra_: link would be nice, might be able to get my AC100 to do something
[16:40] <ogra_> indeed as framebuffer console image
[16:40] <GrueMaster> same here.
[16:40] <ogra_> i'm not done yet
[16:40] <persia> Consoles are for folks that don't trust their headless images.
[16:40] <ogra_> i update the netbook image at the same time to the latest kernel
[16:40]  * ppisati awaits impatiently for a headless AC100 image
[16:40] <infinity> Consoles are for people who can't pre-generate an sshd key.
[16:40] <infinity> It's all the rage.
[16:40] <NCommand1r> consoles are what I play games on :-P
[16:41] <ogra_> heh
[16:41] <ogra_> well, i usally announce new images on the ac100 ML
[16:41] <NCommand1r> anything on the image issue, or can I move on?
[16:41] <ogra_> i should have the headless one by tomorrow evening, latest mid weekend
[16:41] <ogra_> NCommand1r, move :)
[16:42] <NCommand1r> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:42] <GrueMaster> Currently attending QA Automation sprint.
[16:42] <GrueMaster> Learning about Jenkins and discussing various automation tools & techniques that I can apply to arm.
[16:43] <GrueMaster> I've also started FS benchmarking on home systems.
[16:43] <ogra_> so we can forward our java quesions to you in the future ?
[16:44] <ogra_> now that you know jenkins
[16:44] <GrueMaster> Actually, it will work w/o java on the test system, using ssh & serial console.
[16:44] <GrueMaster> (although java is better)
[16:44] <ogra_> heh, depends :)
[16:45] <GrueMaster> Will work to setup a jenkins environment when I return home.
[16:45] <NCommand1r> anyting else?
[16:45] <GrueMaster> I'm good.
[16:45] <ogra_> noting else
[16:45] <ogra_> :)
[16:46] <GrueMaster> NCommand1r: Moving right along....
[16:47] <NCommand1r> [topic] AOB
[16:47] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[16:48] <NCommand1r> If nothing else
[16:48] <NCommand1r> closing in 3
[16:48] <NCommand1r> 2
[16:48] <NCommand1r> 1
[16:48] <NCommand1r> #endmeeting
[16:48] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:48.
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* NCommander to get Documentation spec approved
