{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''March 13th, 2008, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from March 6th, 2008 ===
* patm to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB by 13 March. [cted]
* davidm & agoliveira to look at what asac provides and get script written by 13 March that does conversion of .po files to xpi structures. [cted]
* kyleN to prepare a mapping of hildon source packages to gettext domains, and list where the gettext domains are in maemo. [cted]
* kyleN to look into hildon-help; what's is useful for and whether we should package it for UME
* lool review progress on Hildon 2.0 updates next week
* sabotage to provide drafts of themes tools guide and implementation options as links on the mailing-list
* ToddBrandt to turn on moblin-settings-daemon's watching of the gtk theme gconf keys
* rustyl (+ lool if necessary) document release process for Moblin modules

=== Current Items ===
* (lool) Rebasing on the Moblin released tarballs
* (lool) Launchpad bugs, ubuntu-mobile subscription, and ume tag

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* patm to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB by 13 March. [cted]
* davidm & agoliveira to look at what asac provides and get script written by 13 March that does conversion of .po files to xpi structures. [cted]
* kyleN to attach his python script to list gettext domains in use in hildon modules on the langpack research page
* kyleN to enhance his python script looking into hildon modules to build a map of where the gettext templates are stored
* kyleN to look into hildon-help; what's is useful for and whether we should package it for UME [cted]
* lool review progress on Hildon 2.0 updates next week [cted]
* ToddBrandt to turn on moblin-settings-daemon's watching of the gtk theme gconf keys [cted]
* sabotage to provide drafts of themes tools guide and implementation options as links on the mailing-list [cted]
* lool to document tarball release + ppa upload process and patch addition + submission process
* lool to send rustyl_ steps to update ppa packages for the new tarball based release process
* rustyl_ to assign ppa packages updates for the new tarball based release process

=== Minutes ===
<nowiki>[[attachment:irc_meeting_log_20080313.txt]]</nowiki>

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
