{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''April 7th, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110407]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110421]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* None

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
* Unity 2D Status
* Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[15:59] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[15:59] <MootBot> Meeting started at 09:59. The chair is NCommander.
[15:59] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[15:59] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110414#preview
[15:59] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110414#preview
[15:59]  * rsalveti waves
[15:59] <NCommander> raise your hand if your here
[15:59] <ogra_> o/
[16:00] <rsalveti> o/
[16:00]  * GrueMaster is properly caffeinated and present.
[16:00] <NCommander> k
[16:00] <NCommander> we have no standing action items from last week
[16:00] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[16:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[16:00]  * ogra_ tickles janimo and DavidLevin 
[16:00] <ogra_> err
[16:00] <ogra_> davidm :=
[16:00] <ogra_> :)
[16:01] <janimo> hello
[16:01] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:01] <ogra_> NCommander, whats that one item you have still open there ?
[16:01] <NCommander> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
[16:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
[16:01] <ogra_> dokos is c losed
[16:01] <rsalveti> haha, it's mine
[16:01] <rsalveti> will close
[16:01] <rsalveti> forgot about this one
[16:02] <ogra_> rsajdok, i meant NCommanders Wi
[16:02] <NCommander> ogra_: it is has me test the chinese edition of Ubuntu
[16:02] <ogra_> grmbl
[16:02] <ogra_> NCommander, ah, the description sounds weird
[16:02] <ogra_> but we look great there imho :)
[16:02] <NCommander> ogra_: yeah, I don't think I hsould have it, but it isn't in a spec I can edit + it refers to other people so I'm basically ingoring it
[16:03] <ogra_> yeah, i think you can
[16:03] <ogra_> though its bad that you cant even postpone or close it without them
[16:04] <ogra_> well, but essentially we're done ... and 87 WIs closed for this cycle doesnt look to bad
[16:04] <ogra_> move ?
[16:04] <NCommander> ogra_: I keep forgetting to poke the spec owner before I poke the WI
[16:04] <ogra_> oh, wait
[16:04] <ogra_> should we dicuss the O spec ideas here ?
[16:05] <ogra_> (did anyone apart from me add any yet ? i think there is a deadline soon)
[16:05]  * NCommander hasn't 
[16:05] <rsalveti> not yet, was busy with beta-2
[16:05] <rsalveti> we should know about the deadline
[16:05] <ogra_> NCommander, you said you wanted to work on the archive skew stuff, would probably make a good spec after talking to cjohnston
[16:05] <ogra_> GRRR !!!!!!!!!
[16:05] <ogra_> to cjwatson
[16:06] <ogra_> rsalveti, there was mail somewhere tlaking about it
[16:06] <NCommander> ogra_: tab complete is not your friend
[16:06]  * ogra_ forgot where or when
[16:06] <ogra_> NCommander, totally not today :(
[16:06] <NCommander> ogra_: I've had ideas about it, just haven't taken pen to paper so to speak
[16:06] <ogra_> NCommander, i know colin has a plan ready but no time to implement it
[16:06] <ogra_> would need someone willing to touch soyuz indeed
[16:07] <ogra_> and it would be a massive improvement, for all of us
[16:07] <ogra_> mostly for GrueMaster thoughm since he would have images all the time ;)
[16:07] <NCommander> ogra_: I'll poke cjwatson
[16:07] <ogra_> cool
[16:07] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to poke cjwatson on soyuz archive skew plan
[16:07] <GrueMaster> That would be a nice change.
[16:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to poke cjwatson on soyuz archive skew plan
[16:08] <ogra_> i looked through brainstorm too today to find any spec ideas
[16:08] <ogra_> but thats mostly useless
[16:08] <NCommander> [topic] Unity 2D status
[16:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Unity 2D status
[16:08] <ogra_> upstream is working on remaining bugs and want to proviode me a package before 19th
[16:09] <ogra_> not sure it will make it in or become SRU ... up to release team then
[16:09] <NCommander> ogra_: we're at the point we should probably be prepared to do SRUs
[16:09] <ogra_> well, i'll upload in any case as long as i can
[16:09] <ogra_> if its rejected we can still make it an SRU
[16:09] <NCommander> ogra_: of course
[16:09] <ogra_> uploads are possible until 21st as i understood skaet's mail
[16:10] <ogra_> wether they are accepted is another story ;)
[16:10] <ogra_> move
[16:10] <ogra_> (unless anyone has anything else for u-2d)
[16:10] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[16:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[16:11] <rsalveti> there will be one new update soon, with stable updates and more bug fixes
[16:11] <rsalveti> the mem instability issue seems to be finally gone
[16:11] <rsalveti> tested over 3 days doing kernel build with 1g and our current kernel and it was fine
[16:11] <ogra_> with the current cmdline ?
[16:11] <rsalveti> didn't check our current image, but I believe ogra_ changed the default boot args already
[16:11] <ogra_> or just mem=1G
[16:12] <ogra_> yeah, bootargs are set to 980M or so
[16:12] <ogra_> or 960
[16:12] <rsalveti> ogra_: I tested with 1G, so it should be fine with less
[16:12] <janimo> rsalveti, is the omap4 sgx work going in as well? So no both 3d accel and wifi will work w/o a PPA?
[16:12] <rsalveti> janimo: it's in the release ppa already
[16:12] <GrueMaster> wifi works now.
[16:12] <rsalveti> there's still one driver update, that I'm planning to finish until the end of this week
[16:12] <GrueMaster> w/o ppa
[16:12] <rsalveti> wifi should work by default
[16:13] <rsalveti> with upstream driver
[16:13] <ogra_> GrueMaster, not in headless :(
[16:13] <GrueMaster> headless can be configured to use wifi manually.
[16:13] <ogra_> we miss a bunch of wireless tools
[16:13] <rsalveti> ogra_: we should have a cmd line mode for NM
[16:13] <ogra_> we do
[16:13] <ogra_> there is a tool
[16:14] <ogra_> lets make sure we have it in the image in oneric
[16:14] <rsalveti> also, another bug that had a fix (more a workaround) is the page allocation errors
[16:14] <rsalveti> ogra_: sure
[16:14] <ogra_> yeah
[16:14] <GrueMaster> rsalveti: cool.
[16:14] <rsalveti> that should help both omap3 and 4
[16:14] <janimo> rsalveti, I mean no ppa at all but official archives
[16:14] <ogra_> there is still bug 746133
[16:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 746133 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu) "Video loses sync on omap4" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/746133
[16:14] <rsalveti> janimo: if I get the "final" driver version ready soon, I'll try to push to the archive
[16:15] <rsalveti> but that depends if IMG is not releasing another one
[16:15] <ogra_> and bug 758961
[16:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 758961 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu) "WARNING: at /build/buildd/linux-ti-omap4-2.6.38/drivers/tty/tty_mutex.c:31 tty_lock 0x30/0x4c()" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/758961
[16:15] <janimo> ogra_, I could not get wifi working either with nmcli only
[16:15] <rsalveti> the second one (warning) should be gone with the new pull request
[16:15] <ogra_> janimo, i think we are missing wireless-tools and wpa-supplicant
[16:15] <rsalveti> janimo: it's working, but not stable atm
[16:15] <ogra_> janimo, something to research for O
[16:15] <rsalveti> the new pull request should also bring some fixes for it
[16:16] <ogra_> (i dont even think iwconfig was installed when i tested)
[16:16] <rsalveti> seems the "only" bug now is this related with the video losing sync
[16:17] <ogra_> GrueMaster, do you still plan to look into bug 651302 ? possibly for an SRU ?
[16:17] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 651302 in Ubuntu Natty "No sound in omap (beagle, beagleXM)." [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/651302
[16:17] <rsalveti> yeah, that would be good to have fixed
[16:17] <GrueMaster> Yes, that was next on my list (after release testing).
[16:17] <janimo> ogra_, I installed those by hand, but I did not research the actual command line incantation to make them all work together
[16:17] <ogra_> (though thats less kernel and more UCM stuff)
[16:17] <rsalveti> yeah
[16:18] <ogra_> janimo, yeah, as i said, O material
[16:18] <rsalveti> any other kernel related question or comment?
[16:18] <ogra_> we should release note it though
[16:19] <GrueMaster> I wonder if oem-config will start wifi on the headless images?  It sees the nic.
[16:19] <rsalveti> not related with kernel, but u-boot is broken with beagle <= B5
[16:19]  * ogra_ thinks headless got way further than expected 
[16:19] <ogra_> GrueMaster, it would if all tools would be there
[16:19] <rsalveti> bug 760350
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 760350 in u-boot-linaro (Ubuntu Natty) "2011.03 doesn't boot anymore on Beagle B5" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/760350
[16:19] <GrueMaster> ah
[16:20] <ogra_> move ?
[16:20] <GrueMaster> rsalveti: On that, I think you are the only one with that older board, which means you are the sole QA guy for it.
[16:20] <ogra_> haha
[16:21] <rsalveti> GrueMaster: that's fine
[16:21] <rsalveti> I'm working with jcrigby to have that fixed
[16:21] <rsalveti> but should be also in the release notes
[16:21] <rsalveti> for beta-2, if it's still possible
[16:22] <rsalveti> move?
[16:22] <ogra_> hmm, i wasnt even pinged by skaet for release note editing this time
[16:22]  * ogra_ will try to find out about it
[16:22] <rsalveti> NCommander: and please, add ppisati at the kernel topic
[16:22] <ogra_> ++
[16:22] <GrueMaster> They were having network issues late yesterday.  I think she's still climbing out from that.
[16:23] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:23] <janimo> fixed a few FTBFS in main
[16:23] <janimo> gnome-games fix pending (upload in moderation queue)
[16:24] <ogra_> doko pointed to https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/test-rebuild-20110419-arm/+builds?build_text=&build_state=failed today
[16:24] <janimo> given up on universe for natty = the remaining ones are all nasty or intrusive
[16:24] <ogra_> thats gcc 4.6 rebuilds for oneric prep
[16:24] <janimo> or impossible due to slow swapping builders
[16:25] <ogra_> we should monitor it to beable to fix ftbfs early
[16:25] <janimo> 3 FTBFS and only at the letter A. A good start
[16:25] <ogra_> heh, yeah
[16:26] <ogra_> move ?
[16:27] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:27] <ogra_> beta2 is on cdimage
[16:27] <ogra_> what else should i say :)
[16:28] <GrueMaster> Community images need some work (i.e. kubuntu-mobile).
[16:28] <ogra_> what kind of work ?
[16:28] <rsalveti> ogra_: just tested the ti release ppa and it worked fine :-)
[16:28] <ogra_> apart from app bugs
[16:28] <rsalveti> removed the icon and etc
[16:28] <ogra_> rsalveti, awesome !
[16:28] <GrueMaster> Aside from package issues they are working on, the images are currently just for the rootfs.
[16:29] <rsalveti> for now it's basically the SGX driver
[16:29] <ogra_> next release we'll remove the hacks
[16:29] <rsalveti> spec for that?
[16:29] <ogra_> for fixing hacks ?
[16:29] <ogra_> nah
[16:29] <rsalveti> again heheh
[16:29] <ogra_> i'll just do it
[16:30] <ogra_> GrueMaster, hmm, that sounds like missing bits in livecd-rootfs
[16:30] <ogra_> i fear nothing we can fix pre-natty
[16:30] <ogra_> i added a spec idea for community images btw
[16:31] <ogra_> anyway, move unless there are more questions
[16:31] <GrueMaster> Well, they designed it that way for omap3 due to kernel miscommunication issues and they are going for Nokia n900 support.  But their method is more work than if they had a complete image and overlayed with their bits.
[16:32] <GrueMaster> The way their images work now, I have to first flash the kubuntu-desktop image to SD then flash the kubuntu-mobile image to SD Partition 2.
[16:32] <ogra_> GrueMaster, sounds like a spec idea "use a generic armel image and assemble finals through adding overlays" :)
[16:32] <GrueMaster> Very doable.
[16:32] <janimo> ogra_, isn't that the linaro hwpack approach?
[16:32] <ogra_> well, add it to the ideas page
[16:33] <ogra_> janimo, yes, but to implement that in the ubuntu buildsys it has to be very different
[16:33] <ogra_> and the hwpacks are not images
[16:33] <rsalveti> yeah, that would be a good spec to implement
[16:33] <GrueMaster> We could easily support blaze with that method.
[16:33] <rsalveti> and if we could use linaro's hwpack it would be even better
[16:34] <rsalveti> but something to discuss during uds
[16:34] <ogra_> well, we would still have to roll images for each board
[16:34] <ogra_> rsalveti, we cant, unless we switch ubuntu to live-helper
[16:34] <ogra_> and unless we start to use linaro kernels
[16:34] <ogra_> which wont happen
[16:35] <ogra_> but yeah, put it up for uds
[16:35] <rsalveti> :-)
[16:35] <ogra_> spec ideas needs some content :)
[16:35] <GrueMaster> We continue to roll images for specific subarch (i.e. omap omap4).  HW pack would overlay that image.
[16:35] <ogra_> NCommander, hey, how about a softbootloader
[16:35]  * ogra_ hides
[16:35]  * rsalveti also hides
[16:35] <NCommander> ogra_: I'm going to beat you at UDS
[16:35] <ogra_> heh
[16:36] <ogra_> move ?
[16:36] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:36] <GrueMaster> I added the idea to the wiki.
[16:37] <GrueMaster> Oh, that's me.
[16:37] <GrueMaster> Release testing was much smother this week than it was two weeks ago.  Only major glitch was oem-config-debconf on headless.
[16:37] <davidm> Hello
[16:37] <GrueMaster> Which was quickly fixed.
[16:37] <ogra_> http://paste.ubuntu.com/594061/ is a list of bugs i'm monitoring for release (and what i will put into release team report)
[16:37] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://paste.ubuntu.com/594061/ is a list of bugs i'm monitoring for release (and what i will put into release team report)
[16:38] <ogra_> most were mentioned above already
[16:38] <ogra_> shout if i'm missing any
[16:38] <davidm> sorry guys had to eat breakfast
[16:38] <rsalveti> ogra_: I believe that list should cover almost everything
[16:38] <ogra_> good
[16:38] <GrueMaster> Why is the edid detection SRU only?  Kernel freeze is next week.
[16:39] <ogra_> kernel team denied inclusion already
[16:39] <ogra_> shout at tgardner :P
[16:39] <davidm> because OMAP 3 is in the main line brance
[16:39] <ogra_> thats also omap4
[16:39] <davidm> branch that is, would have to retest x86
[16:39] <rsalveti> he's fine for omap 4
[16:39] <ogra_> ah, k
[16:40] <davidm> Yes we are clear to do what we want in OMAP 4 but not OMAP 3
[16:40] <rsalveti> too close for omap 3, that's why will send it upstream to get more feedback
[16:40] <rsalveti> with more feedback the sru could be feasible
[16:40] <davidm> So SRU for OMAP 3
[16:40] <ogra_> well, omap4 still has rebase issues
[16:40] <skaet> ogra_, did ping on irc,  but seems to have not gotten through.  :(   Draft of release notes are in usual place.   Can you cross check that the key bugs found in your pastebin are mentioned,  and the ones there are appropriate?
[16:40] <ogra_> seems the idea to base off linaro trees wasnt that clever :P
[16:40] <davidm> yes I hope TI sorts rebase issues soonish
[16:41] <ogra_> skaet, will do, thanks
[16:41] <rsalveti> ogra_: problem is the way linaro is handling the tree
[16:41] <davidm> Yes we may release late I suspect
[16:41] <ogra_> yes
[16:41] <rsalveti> it's not doing rebases, but merges
[16:41] <ogra_> i know
[16:41] <ogra_> its sad since we are ready for release
[16:41] <davidm> Very frustrating for sure
[16:41] <ogra_> having to delay because of a maintenance issue is really odd
[16:42] <ogra_> but lets see, apw made some suggestions that looked good
[16:42] <ogra_> so it might make the release
[16:42] <davidm> I really hope so
[16:42] <ogra_> sound is sadly in a very bad state still
[16:43] <davidm> I really am upset about sound, that should have been sorted a while ago
[16:43] <ogra_> yep
[16:43] <ogra_> and in a better way than sending half breeded patches
[16:44] <NCommander> ogra_: breeded?
[16:44] <ogra_> it might still get solved, its my main focus and diwic helps where he can
[16:44] <ogra_> but the code coming from TI is very immature yet
[16:44] <ogra_> NCommander, yeah, from thepatch farm :P
[16:45] <ogra_> move ?
[16:45] <NCommander> ogra_: I think someone needs to explain the turth about whre patches come from :-P
[16:45] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[16:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[16:46] <ogra_> NCommander, you mean the patch-birds and -bees ?
[16:46] <davidm> Ha
[16:46] <davidm> By the by folks, it's that time again...... -->Blueprints<-- We need to start hitting that hard please
[16:47] <ogra_> people: add more stuff to the spec ideas wikipage
[16:47] <ogra_> snap :P
[16:47] <davidm> :-)
[16:47] <NCommander> ogra_: I think we need a patch for your brain.
[16:48] <ogra_> well, a vacation might do already ;)
[16:48] <davidm> We will be sharing our BP on ARM, MISC and Hardware tracks I think
[16:48] <NCommander> BP?
[16:48] <ogra_> and blowing some compressed air from ear to ear
[16:48] <ogra_> NCommander, blueprints
[16:48] <NCommander> oh
[16:48] <ogra_> davidm, do you have a deadline ?
[16:49] <davidm> Well I'm getting asked when we will have them, my response is as soon as we can, release is prio
[16:49] <janimo> ogra_, link to ideas page again please?
[16:49] <GrueMaster> janimo: It is in the #arm topic
[16:50] <janimo> GrueMaster, thanks
[16:51] <davidm> So really the worst case would be the week before UDS but really needs sooner if at all possible
[16:51] <GrueMaster> Sooner for scheduling.
[16:51] <ogra_> before release we should have the rough list if possible
[16:52] <davidm> Yes that would be good
[16:52] <ogra_> and even if you thinnk your idea is silly, just add it
[16:53] <ogra_> we can remove stuff later
[16:53] <ogra_> (and laugh about you) :P
[16:54] <davidm> We should be able I hope to take more rough edges off ARM this time
[16:54]  * ogra_ would like to thank the team for such a nice cooperative beta2 work ... that was a really nice milestone and a lot of fun to work on this time
=== chuck_ is now known as zul
[16:54] <ogra_> it really felt like we're working as a team :)
[16:54] <GrueMaster> Yes, it was.
[16:54]  * davidm thinks this a great
[16:55] <davidm> I have to run, session starting and I don't want to miss it.
[16:55] <ogra_> ciao then
[16:55] <davidm> ciao
[16:55] <NCommander> I think we're done, no?
[16:55]  * ogra_ waits for NCommander to fill the remaining 5min with singing and dancing for our amusement
[16:55] <NCommander> anything else?
[16:56] <GrueMaster> ogra_: Please, no!
[16:56] <ogra_> lol
[16:56] <ogra_> well, then lets just close ;)
[16:56] <NCommander> ogra_: I'm going to beat you at UDS, and then I'm going to put it on YouTube under CC-SA
[16:56] <NCommander> so the rest of the world can enjoy it :-P
[16:56] <ogra_> NCommander, try it :D
[16:57] <NCommander> anyway
[16:57] <NCommander> Closing in 3
[16:57] <NCommander> 2
[16:57] <NCommander> 1
[16:57] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[16:57] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:57.

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
[15:59] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[15:59] <MootBot> Meeting started at 09:59. The chair is NCommander.
[15:59] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[15:59] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110414#preview
[15:59] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110414#preview
[15:59]  * rsalveti waves
[15:59] <NCommander> raise your hand if your here
[15:59] <ogra_> o/
[16:00] <rsalveti> o/
[16:00]  * GrueMaster is properly caffeinated and present.
[16:00] <NCommander> k
[16:00] <NCommander> we have no standing action items from last week
[16:00] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[16:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[16:00]  * ogra_ tickles janimo and DavidLevin 
[16:00] <ogra_> err
[16:00] <ogra_> davidm :=
[16:00] <ogra_> :)
[16:01] <janimo> hello
[16:01] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:01] <ogra_> NCommander, whats that one item you have still open there ?
[16:01] <NCommander> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
[16:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
[16:01] <ogra_> dokos is c losed
[16:01] <rsalveti> haha, it's mine
[16:01] <rsalveti> will close
[16:01] <rsalveti> forgot about this one
[16:02] <ogra_> rsajdok, i meant NCommanders Wi
[16:02] <NCommander> ogra_: it is has me test the chinese edition of Ubuntu
[16:02] <ogra_> grmbl
[16:02] <ogra_> NCommander, ah, the description sounds weird
[16:02] <ogra_> but we look great there imho :)
[16:02] <NCommander> ogra_: yeah, I don't think I hsould have it, but it isn't in a spec I can edit + it refers to other people so I'm basically ingoring it
[16:03] <ogra_> yeah, i think you can
[16:03] <ogra_> though its bad that you cant even postpone or close it without them
[16:04] <ogra_> well, but essentially we're done ... and 87 WIs closed for this cycle doesnt look to bad
[16:04] <ogra_> move ?
[16:04] <NCommander> ogra_: I keep forgetting to poke the spec owner before I poke the WI
[16:04] <ogra_> oh, wait
[16:04] <ogra_> should we dicuss the O spec ideas here ?
[16:05] <ogra_> (did anyone apart from me add any yet ? i think there is a deadline soon)
[16:05]  * NCommander hasn't 
[16:05] <rsalveti> not yet, was busy with beta-2
[16:05] <rsalveti> we should know about the deadline
[16:05] <ogra_> NCommander, you said you wanted to work on the archive skew stuff, would probably make a good spec after talking to cjohnston
[16:05] <ogra_> GRRR !!!!!!!!!
[16:05] <ogra_> to cjwatson
[16:06] <ogra_> rsalveti, there was mail somewhere tlaking about it
[16:06] <NCommander> ogra_: tab complete is not your friend
[16:06]  * ogra_ forgot where or when
[16:06] <ogra_> NCommander, totally not today :(
[16:06] <NCommander> ogra_: I've had ideas about it, just haven't taken pen to paper so to speak
[16:06] <ogra_> NCommander, i know colin has a plan ready but no time to implement it
[16:06] <ogra_> would need someone willing to touch soyuz indeed
[16:07] <ogra_> and it would be a massive improvement, for all of us
[16:07] <ogra_> mostly for GrueMaster thoughm since he would have images all the time ;)
[16:07] <NCommander> ogra_: I'll poke cjwatson
[16:07] <ogra_> cool
[16:07] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to poke cjwatson on soyuz archive skew plan
[16:07] <GrueMaster> That would be a nice change.
[16:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to poke cjwatson on soyuz archive skew plan
[16:08] <ogra_> i looked through brainstorm too today to find any spec ideas
[16:08] <ogra_> but thats mostly useless
[16:08] <NCommander> [topic] Unity 2D status
[16:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Unity 2D status
[16:08] <ogra_> upstream is working on remaining bugs and want to proviode me a package before 19th
[16:09] <ogra_> not sure it will make it in or become SRU ... up to release team then
[16:09] <NCommander> ogra_: we're at the point we should probably be prepared to do SRUs
[16:09] <ogra_> well, i'll upload in any case as long as i can
[16:09] <ogra_> if its rejected we can still make it an SRU
[16:09] <NCommander> ogra_: of course
[16:09] <ogra_> uploads are possible until 21st as i understood skaet's mail
[16:10] <ogra_> wether they are accepted is another story ;)
[16:10] <ogra_> move
[16:10] <ogra_> (unless anyone has anything else for u-2d)
[16:10] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[16:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[16:11] <rsalveti> there will be one new update soon, with stable updates and more bug fixes
[16:11] <rsalveti> the mem instability issue seems to be finally gone
[16:11] <rsalveti> tested over 3 days doing kernel build with 1g and our current kernel and it was fine
[16:11] <ogra_> with the current cmdline ?
[16:11] <rsalveti> didn't check our current image, but I believe ogra_ changed the default boot args already
[16:11] <ogra_> or just mem=1G
[16:12] <ogra_> yeah, bootargs are set to 980M or so
[16:12] <ogra_> or 960
[16:12] <rsalveti> ogra_: I tested with 1G, so it should be fine with less
[16:12] <janimo> rsalveti, is the omap4 sgx work going in as well? So no both 3d accel and wifi will work w/o a PPA?
[16:12] <rsalveti> janimo: it's in the release ppa already
[16:12] <GrueMaster> wifi works now.
[16:12] <rsalveti> there's still one driver update, that I'm planning to finish until the end of this week
[16:12] <GrueMaster> w/o ppa
[16:12] <rsalveti> wifi should work by default
[16:13] <rsalveti> with upstream driver
[16:13] <ogra_> GrueMaster, not in headless :(
[16:13] <GrueMaster> headless can be configured to use wifi manually.
[16:13] <ogra_> we miss a bunch of wireless tools
[16:13] <rsalveti> ogra_: we should have a cmd line mode for NM
[16:13] <ogra_> we do
[16:13] <ogra_> there is a tool
[16:14] <ogra_> lets make sure we have it in the image in oneric
[16:14] <rsalveti> also, another bug that had a fix (more a workaround) is the page allocation errors
[16:14] <rsalveti> ogra_: sure
[16:14] <ogra_> yeah
[16:14] <GrueMaster> rsalveti: cool.
[16:14] <rsalveti> that should help both omap3 and 4
[16:14] <janimo> rsalveti, I mean no ppa at all but official archives
[16:14] <ogra_> there is still bug 746133
[16:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 746133 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu) "Video loses sync on omap4" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/746133
[16:14] <rsalveti> janimo: if I get the "final" driver version ready soon, I'll try to push to the archive
[16:15] <rsalveti> but that depends if IMG is not releasing another one
[16:15] <ogra_> and bug 758961
[16:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 758961 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu) "WARNING: at /build/buildd/linux-ti-omap4-2.6.38/drivers/tty/tty_mutex.c:31 tty_lock 0x30/0x4c()" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/758961
[16:15] <janimo> ogra_, I could not get wifi working either with nmcli only
[16:15] <rsalveti> the second one (warning) should be gone with the new pull request
[16:15] <ogra_> janimo, i think we are missing wireless-tools and wpa-supplicant
[16:15] <rsalveti> janimo: it's working, but not stable atm
[16:15] <ogra_> janimo, something to research for O
[16:15] <rsalveti> the new pull request should also bring some fixes for it
[16:16] <ogra_> (i dont even think iwconfig was installed when i tested)
[16:16] <rsalveti> seems the "only" bug now is this related with the video losing sync
[16:17] <ogra_> GrueMaster, do you still plan to look into bug 651302 ? possibly for an SRU ?
[16:17] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 651302 in Ubuntu Natty "No sound in omap (beagle, beagleXM)." [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/651302
[16:17] <rsalveti> yeah, that would be good to have fixed
[16:17] <GrueMaster> Yes, that was next on my list (after release testing).
[16:17] <janimo> ogra_, I installed those by hand, but I did not research the actual command line incantation to make them all work together
[16:17] <ogra_> (though thats less kernel and more UCM stuff)
[16:17] <rsalveti> yeah
[16:18] <ogra_> janimo, yeah, as i said, O material
[16:18] <rsalveti> any other kernel related question or comment?
[16:18] <ogra_> we should release note it though
[16:19] <GrueMaster> I wonder if oem-config will start wifi on the headless images?  It sees the nic.
[16:19] <rsalveti> not related with kernel, but u-boot is broken with beagle <= B5
[16:19]  * ogra_ thinks headless got way further than expected 
[16:19] <ogra_> GrueMaster, it would if all tools would be there
[16:19] <rsalveti> bug 760350
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 760350 in u-boot-linaro (Ubuntu Natty) "2011.03 doesn't boot anymore on Beagle B5" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/760350
[16:19] <GrueMaster> ah
[16:20] <ogra_> move ?
[16:20] <GrueMaster> rsalveti: On that, I think you are the only one with that older board, which means you are the sole QA guy for it.
[16:20] <ogra_> haha
[16:21] <rsalveti> GrueMaster: that's fine
[16:21] <rsalveti> I'm working with jcrigby to have that fixed
[16:21] <rsalveti> but should be also in the release notes
[16:21] <rsalveti> for beta-2, if it's still possible
[16:22] <rsalveti> move?
[16:22] <ogra_> hmm, i wasnt even pinged by skaet for release note editing this time
[16:22]  * ogra_ will try to find out about it
[16:22] <rsalveti> NCommander: and please, add ppisati at the kernel topic
[16:22] <ogra_> ++
[16:22] <GrueMaster> They were having network issues late yesterday.  I think she's still climbing out from that.
[16:23] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:23] <janimo> fixed a few FTBFS in main
[16:23] <janimo> gnome-games fix pending (upload in moderation queue)
[16:24] <ogra_> doko pointed to https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/test-rebuild-20110419-arm/+builds?build_text=&build_state=failed today
[16:24] <janimo> given up on universe for natty = the remaining ones are all nasty or intrusive
[16:24] <ogra_> thats gcc 4.6 rebuilds for oneric prep
[16:24] <janimo> or impossible due to slow swapping builders
[16:25] <ogra_> we should monitor it to beable to fix ftbfs early
[16:25] <janimo> 3 FTBFS and only at the letter A. A good start
[16:25] <ogra_> heh, yeah
[16:26] <ogra_> move ?
[16:27] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:27] <ogra_> beta2 is on cdimage
[16:27] <ogra_> what else should i say :)
[16:28] <GrueMaster> Community images need some work (i.e. kubuntu-mobile).
[16:28] <ogra_> what kind of work ?
[16:28] <rsalveti> ogra_: just tested the ti release ppa and it worked fine :-)
[16:28] <ogra_> apart from app bugs
[16:28] <rsalveti> removed the icon and etc
[16:28] <ogra_> rsalveti, awesome !
[16:28] <GrueMaster> Aside from package issues they are working on, the images are currently just for the rootfs.
[16:29] <rsalveti> for now it's basically the SGX driver
[16:29] <ogra_> next release we'll remove the hacks
[16:29] <rsalveti> spec for that?
[16:29] <ogra_> for fixing hacks ?
[16:29] <ogra_> nah
[16:29] <rsalveti> again heheh
[16:29] <ogra_> i'll just do it
[16:30] <ogra_> GrueMaster, hmm, that sounds like missing bits in livecd-rootfs
[16:30] <ogra_> i fear nothing we can fix pre-natty
[16:30] <ogra_> i added a spec idea for community images btw
[16:31] <ogra_> anyway, move unless there are more questions
[16:31] <GrueMaster> Well, they designed it that way for omap3 due to kernel miscommunication issues and they are going for Nokia n900 support.  But their method is more work than if they had a complete image and overlayed with their bits.
[16:32] <GrueMaster> The way their images work now, I have to first flash the kubuntu-desktop image to SD then flash the kubuntu-mobile image to SD Partition 2.
[16:32] <ogra_> GrueMaster, sounds like a spec idea "use a generic armel image and assemble finals through adding overlays" :)
[16:32] <GrueMaster> Very doable.
[16:32] <janimo> ogra_, isn't that the linaro hwpack approach?
[16:32] <ogra_> well, add it to the ideas page
[16:33] <ogra_> janimo, yes, but to implement that in the ubuntu buildsys it has to be very different
[16:33] <ogra_> and the hwpacks are not images
[16:33] <rsalveti> yeah, that would be a good spec to implement
[16:33] <GrueMaster> We could easily support blaze with that method.
[16:33] <rsalveti> and if we could use linaro's hwpack it would be even better
[16:34] <rsalveti> but something to discuss during uds
[16:34] <ogra_> well, we would still have to roll images for each board
[16:34] <ogra_> rsalveti, we cant, unless we switch ubuntu to live-helper
[16:34] <ogra_> and unless we start to use linaro kernels
[16:34] <ogra_> which wont happen
[16:35] <ogra_> but yeah, put it up for uds
[16:35] <rsalveti> :-)
[16:35] <ogra_> spec ideas needs some content :)
[16:35] <GrueMaster> We continue to roll images for specific subarch (i.e. omap omap4).  HW pack would overlay that image.
[16:35] <ogra_> NCommander, hey, how about a softbootloader
[16:35]  * ogra_ hides
[16:35]  * rsalveti also hides
[16:35] <NCommander> ogra_: I'm going to beat you at UDS
[16:35] <ogra_> heh
[16:36] <ogra_> move ?
[16:36] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:36] <GrueMaster> I added the idea to the wiki.
[16:37] <GrueMaster> Oh, that's me.
[16:37] <GrueMaster> Release testing was much smother this week than it was two weeks ago.  Only major glitch was oem-config-debconf on headless.
[16:37] <davidm> Hello
[16:37] <GrueMaster> Which was quickly fixed.
[16:37] <ogra_> http://paste.ubuntu.com/594061/ is a list of bugs i'm monitoring for release (and what i will put into release team report)
[16:37] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://paste.ubuntu.com/594061/ is a list of bugs i'm monitoring for release (and what i will put into release team report)
[16:38] <ogra_> most were mentioned above already
[16:38] <ogra_> shout if i'm missing any
[16:38] <davidm> sorry guys had to eat breakfast
[16:38] <rsalveti> ogra_: I believe that list should cover almost everything
[16:38] <ogra_> good
[16:38] <GrueMaster> Why is the edid detection SRU only?  Kernel freeze is next week.
[16:39] <ogra_> kernel team denied inclusion already
[16:39] <ogra_> shout at tgardner :P
[16:39] <davidm> because OMAP 3 is in the main line brance
[16:39] <ogra_> thats also omap4
[16:39] <davidm> branch that is, would have to retest x86
[16:39] <rsalveti> he's fine for omap 4
[16:39] <ogra_> ah, k
[16:40] <davidm> Yes we are clear to do what we want in OMAP 4 but not OMAP 3
[16:40] <rsalveti> too close for omap 3, that's why will send it upstream to get more feedback
[16:40] <rsalveti> with more feedback the sru could be feasible
[16:40] <davidm> So SRU for OMAP 3
[16:40] <ogra_> well, omap4 still has rebase issues
[16:40] <skaet> ogra_, did ping on irc,  but seems to have not gotten through.  :(   Draft of release notes are in usual place.   Can you cross check that the key bugs found in your pastebin are mentioned,  and the ones there are appropriate?
[16:40] <ogra_> seems the idea to base off linaro trees wasnt that clever :P
[16:40] <davidm> yes I hope TI sorts rebase issues soonish
[16:41] <ogra_> skaet, will do, thanks
[16:41] <rsalveti> ogra_: problem is the way linaro is handling the tree
[16:41] <davidm> Yes we may release late I suspect
[16:41] <ogra_> yes
[16:41] <rsalveti> it's not doing rebases, but merges
[16:41] <ogra_> i know
[16:41] <ogra_> its sad since we are ready for release
[16:41] <davidm> Very frustrating for sure
[16:41] <ogra_> having to delay because of a maintenance issue is really odd
[16:42] <ogra_> but lets see, apw made some suggestions that looked good
[16:42] <ogra_> so it might make the release
[16:42] <davidm> I really hope so
[16:42] <ogra_> sound is sadly in a very bad state still
[16:43] <davidm> I really am upset about sound, that should have been sorted a while ago
[16:43] <ogra_> yep
[16:43] <ogra_> and in a better way than sending half breeded patches
[16:44] <NCommander> ogra_: breeded?
[16:44] <ogra_> it might still get solved, its my main focus and diwic helps where he can
[16:44] <ogra_> but the code coming from TI is very immature yet
[16:44] <ogra_> NCommander, yeah, from thepatch farm :P
[16:45] <ogra_> move ?
[16:45] <NCommander> ogra_: I think someone needs to explain the turth about whre patches come from :-P
[16:45] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[16:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[16:46] <ogra_> NCommander, you mean the patch-birds and -bees ?
[16:46] <davidm> Ha
[16:46] <davidm> By the by folks, it's that time again...... -->Blueprints<-- We need to start hitting that hard please
[16:47] <ogra_> people: add more stuff to the spec ideas wikipage
[16:47] <ogra_> snap :P
[16:47] <davidm> :-)
[16:47] <NCommander> ogra_: I think we need a patch for your brain.
[16:48] <ogra_> well, a vacation might do already ;)
[16:48] <davidm> We will be sharing our BP on ARM, MISC and Hardware tracks I think
[16:48] <NCommander> BP?
[16:48] <ogra_> and blowing some compressed air from ear to ear
[16:48] <ogra_> NCommander, blueprints
[16:48] <NCommander> oh
[16:48] <ogra_> davidm, do you have a deadline ?
[16:49] <davidm> Well I'm getting asked when we will have them, my response is as soon as we can, release is prio
[16:49] <janimo> ogra_, link to ideas page again please?
[16:49] <GrueMaster> janimo: It is in the #arm topic
[16:50] <janimo> GrueMaster, thanks
[16:51] <davidm> So really the worst case would be the week before UDS but really needs sooner if at all possible
[16:51] <GrueMaster> Sooner for scheduling.
[16:51] <ogra_> before release we should have the rough list if possible
[16:52] <davidm> Yes that would be good
[16:52] <ogra_> and even if you thinnk your idea is silly, just add it
[16:53] <ogra_> we can remove stuff later
[16:53] <ogra_> (and laugh about you) :P
[16:54] <davidm> We should be able I hope to take more rough edges off ARM this time
[16:54]  * ogra_ would like to thank the team for such a nice cooperative beta2 work ... that was a really nice milestone and a lot of fun to work on this time
=== chuck_ is now known as zul
[16:54] <ogra_> it really felt like we're working as a team :)
[16:54] <GrueMaster> Yes, it was.
[16:54]  * davidm thinks this a great
[16:55] <davidm> I have to run, session starting and I don't want to miss it.
[16:55] <ogra_> ciao then
[16:55] <davidm> ciao
[16:55] <NCommander> I think we're done, no?
[16:55]  * ogra_ waits for NCommander to fill the remaining 5min with singing and dancing for our amusement
[16:55] <NCommander> anything else?
[16:56] <GrueMaster> ogra_: Please, no!
[16:56] <ogra_> lol
[16:56] <ogra_> well, then lets just close ;)
[16:56] <NCommander> ogra_: I'm going to beat you at UDS, and then I'm going to put it on YouTube under CC-SA
[16:56] <NCommander> so the rest of the world can enjoy it :-P
[16:56] <ogra_> NCommander, try it :D
[16:57] <NCommander> anyway
[16:57] <NCommander> Closing in 3
[16:57] <NCommander> 2
[16:57] <NCommander> 1
[16:57] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[16:57] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:57.

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
</pre>

=== Action Items ===

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
* NCommander to poke cjwatson on soyuz archive skew plan

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----
* NCommander to poke cjwatson on soyuz archive skew plan

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
