{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''December 13th, 2007, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

* Dates of the mobile sprint are: January 28th 2008 through February 1 2008

=== Action Items from Dec 06th, 2007 ===
* carry over lool to take a look at bug # 172426 and see if he can reproduce it. until Dec 20th.
* carry over to next week: bspencer & Don_Johnson to clarify the process and deliverables
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works
* carry over smagoun Since my group needs it, I'll take an action item to test overriding exa for a gutsy psb backport. In progress.
* carry over amitk to update hardy ppa with drivers
* davidm to query build team on best way to monitor the i386 builds and the LPIA builds to stay in sync.
* Michael Frey to post " Discuss reasons behind the decision to use acpid, custom moblin battery applet instead of using gnome-power-manager and its status bar applet" question to the list.
* agoliveira to report next week any findings on boot speed.
* robr to arrange a meeting around USB and VFAT issues. In this case all parties to this meeting are scattered around the world so someone will be inconvenienced.

=== Current Items ===
If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.
* smagoun - discuss tagging moblin projects in git
* patm what is the plan and current status for integrating PPM

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* carry over lool to take a look at bug # 172426 and see if he can reproduce it. until Dec 20th.
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works
* amitk to update hardy ppa with drivers,  ('''context found, sent to Amitk''').<<BR>>
 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/Meeting/20071129
* carry over, davidm to query build team on best way to monitor the i386 builds and the LPIA builds to stay in sync.
* Lexington to test ext3 for boot speed and disk image corruption as soon as an extra CB shows up.
* davidm to ship his crown beach to Lexington today overnight. ('''completed, shipped DHL''')
* Canonical to share all info with robr2 on disk image corruption as soon as available
* davidm to follow up and make sure a bug is opened to share info with Intel ('''bug opened # 176178''')<<BR>>
 Launchpad bug 176178 in moblin-other "Filesystem corruption on hard shutdown"
* robr2 to check if USB meeting will happen tomorrow.<<BR>>
 bspencer I setup the continued USB meeting for 10am PDT Friday
* bspencer to talk with developers to push get tags when making a release, and report back on status of this
* davidm to query rustyl on status of PPM ('''query sent, waiting response''')

=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20071213_1659.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
