{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''June 21st, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110714]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110728]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* None

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-2.html
* ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[14:59] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:59] <MootBot> Meeting started at 09:59. The chair is NCommander.
[14:59] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:59] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110721#preview
[14:59] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110721#preview
[14:59] <janimo> hello
[15:00]  * NCommander waits for people to arrive
=== Ursinha is now known as Ursinha`
[15:00]  * GrueMaster has coffee, will type.
=== Ursinha` is now known as ursinha`
[15:01]  * NCommander expects no ogra or davidm so just waiting for the last few regulars
[15:01] <ppisati> o/
[15:01] <GrueMaster> NCommander: Need to update the web page to point to Alpha3 WI.
[15:02] <NCommander> no AI from last week, so standing items
[15:02] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[15:02] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[15:02] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-2.html
[15:02] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-2.html
=== ursinha` is now known as Ursinha
[15:03] <NCommander> er
[15:03] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-3.html
[15:03] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-3.html
[15:03] <GrueMaster> Try Alpha 3 workitem tracker please.
[15:04] <davidm> I'm about but OTP so distracted
[15:04] <NCommander> any comments or shall I move on?
[15:05]  * janimo mistyped something agains, as his DONe items appear TODO
[15:05] <GrueMaster> I fixed it janimo.
[15:05] <janimo> GrueMaster, thanks. Was it missing colons?
[15:06] <GrueMaster> yes
[15:06]  * janimo tries to remember for next time
[15:06] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
[15:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
[15:06] <NCommander> work proceeds very slowly on partman-uboot on getting automated partitioning working for OMAP
[15:07] <NCommander> Omega: did preinstall pool land?
[15:07] <NCommander> er, infinity
[15:07] <GrueMaster> Who?
[15:08] <janimo> Omega, being the last greek letter is almost like infinity
[15:08] <NCommander> ,e [ples infinity
[15:09]  * NCommander pokes infinity 
[15:09] <NCommander> we
[15:09] <NCommander> we
[15:09] <NCommander> we'll come back
[15:09] <NCommander> it would be nice if I could type
[15:09] <GrueMaster> He pulled an alnighter.  May be MIA.
[15:10] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
[15:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
[15:10] <GrueMaster> Yea, that would help.  :P
[15:10] <ppisati> Got an updated BSP from agreen, rebased and pushed to my onerici/ti-omap4-next branch. Sent a pull request to replace oneiric/ti-omap4 with the 3.0.0 version (a binary package is available here: http://people.canonical.com/~ppisati/ti-omap4-next/), so far testing is good.
[15:11] <ppisati> As a side news, i started triaging marvin24 patches for a possible port to 3.0: so far i counted around 2800 patches.
[15:11] <ppisati> of course the last one is about oneiric/tegra.
[15:11] <ppisati> nothing else to report.
[15:12] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:12] <janimo> ppisati, you mean backport from 3.1 to 3.0
[15:12] <janimo> ?
[15:12] <NCommander> Made progres towards debugging ocaml
[15:12] <janimo> fixed and given back a few of the regulars. no hardcore debugging though
[15:13] <ppisati> janimo: nope, 2.6.38 to 3.0.0
[15:13] <NCommander> confirmed that it looks like a binutils regression
[15:13] <ppisati> janimo: does marvin start a 3 kernel?
[15:13] <janimo> ppisati, marvin24 is integrating his stuff in 3.1, could it be easier to backport?
[15:14] <janimo> ppisati, there's a tegra mailing list, where he sends patches and it gets upstreamed. Some stuff is already in 3.0 _I think_ but am not sure
[15:14] <ppisati> janimo: doh!
[15:15] <NCommander> can I get back to ARM porting?
[15:15] <janimo> ppisati, no worries, the ac100/tegra community is very disorganised and low profile, not obvious where to start
[15:15] <janimo> NCommander, sure, sorry
[15:15] <NCommander> I've filed inoration on the ocaml segfault and a probable cause on the bug and kicked it back to linaro to looks at binutils
[15:16] <NCommander> Beise work on partman-uboot I got nothing else, janimo you got anything ot add?
[15:16]  * janimo does not google what inoration mean as he suspects it is not a word
[15:16]  * GrueMaster hires an interpreter to decipher the last few lines.
[15:17] <NCommander> ugh
[15:17] <NCommander> janimo: do you want to add someting to the ARM porting progress?
[15:17] <janimo> NCommander, nothing besides the first line added on the topic above
[15:18] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:18] <NCommander> I don't have anything to add, althogh infinity was supposed to land preinstall pool on mMonday, I am unsure if it has landed
[15:19] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[15:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[15:20] <GrueMaster> Lots of progress researching and running the required tests for this cycle.
[15:20] <GrueMaster> Now have 5 pandas online at home, with a 6th spare (dup mac address) and 7th in shipping.
[15:21] <GrueMaster> As soon as I can get the tests to run manually and documented, I will work on adding them to jenkins for periodic autotesting.
[15:21] <GrueMaster> Started a wiki at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/QA/Server to document test procedures.
[15:22] <GrueMaster> mahmoh: anything to add?
[15:22] <mahmoh> just testing kernel (3.0.0-1~), apache, IO (a lot of IO)
[15:23] <mahmoh> added plans for cloud and other application testing
[15:23] <mahmoh> will all be documented on the wiki page above
[15:23] <GrueMaster> Spent some time reproducing the USB IO performance bug 709245.  Reproducable from Maverick forward.
[15:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 709245 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu) "panda: USB disk IO slow" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/709245
[15:23] <mahmoh> that's it for now, if there are things that need to be tested, please bring it to our attention
[15:24] <mahmoh> I did have a question about the server kernel, will there be one or can we just setup netboot install to add elevator=deadline?
[15:24] <GrueMaster> This bug appears to affect all systems with this particular chipset.  It was mentioned on #ubuntu-arm to also be affecting BeagleXM, Beagle, and even Tegra.
[15:26] <GrueMaster> Nothing else to report.
[15:28] <NCommander> [topic] aob
[15:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  aob
[15:28] <NCommander> anything/one else?
[15:29] <NCommander> #endmeeting
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* None
