{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''December 09st, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2011-20111218]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2012-20120119]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* jcrigby to update the mx53 kernel (c/o)
* NCommander to track dependency SNAFU on status tracker and remove non-ARM specs

=== Standing Items ===

* http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
* ARM Server Status (NCommander)
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (!GrueMaster, mahmoh)
* Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[15:02] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[15:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Jan 12 15:02:34 2012 UTC.  The chair is NCommander. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.
[15:02] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[15:02] <janimo> hi
[15:03] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Meeting/2012/20120112#preview
[15:03] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Meeting/2012/20120112
[15:03] <NCommander> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Meeting/2012/20120112
[15:03] <NCommander> oh give me a freaking break
[15:03]  * NCommander waits for the others to arrive
[15:05]  * davidm waves
[15:05] <NCommander> [topic] action item review
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: action item review
[15:05] <NCommander> [topic] jcrigby to update the mx53 kernel (c/o)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: jcrigby to update the mx53 kernel (c/o)
[15:05] <NCommander> still no jcrigby
[15:05]  * NCommander cos
[15:05] <NCommander> *c/os
[15:06] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to cntact jcrigby offline about mx53 kernel
[15:06] <meetingology> ACTION: NCommander to cntact jcrigby offline about mx53 kernel
[15:06] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to track dependency SNAFU on status tracker and remove non-ARM specs
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: NCommander to track dependency SNAFU on status tracker and remove non-ARM specs
[15:06] <NCommander> Its *slightly* better, but I haven't properly weeded the dependency tree yet
[15:07] <NCommander> [topic] http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
[15:07] <NCommander> [topic] http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
[15:08] <infinity> Regarding mx53 kernel, jcrigby is working on merging 3.2.0, and will include armhf support at the same time.
[15:08] <NCommander> +1
[15:08] <NCommander> as for burndown charts, we closed a few action this week, and reassigned a few around
[15:08] <ogra_> status seriously looks bad
[15:08] <NCommander> ogra_: its the dependency cruft which I need to apply weedkiller to
[15:08] <NCommander> so non-ARM specs are not tracked
[15:08] <ogra_> we need to perform better until FF
[15:09] <GrueMaster> Mine looks good.  :P
[15:09]  * NCommander whacks GrueMaster
[15:09] <ogra_> sure, but we didnt close as many items as hoped during the sprint
[15:09] <ogra_> (nothing we candt fix until FF indeed ;)
[15:09] <NCommander> :-P
[15:09] <NCommander> Anyway
[15:09] <ogra_> move ;)
[15:09] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Server Status (NCommander)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Server Status (NCommander)
[15:10] <NCommander> No updates
[15:10] <davidm> Have we postponed everything that we need to?
[15:10] <ogra_> yep
[15:10] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
[15:10] <ogra_> ppisati, around ?
[15:10] <cooloney> hey
[15:11] <NCommander> ogra_ has gone to ping ppisati
[15:11] <janimo> ac100 3.0 fixes uploaded, with tools package enabled
[15:11] <NCommander> cooloney: anyway, any status? :-)
[15:11] <ppisati> hey
[15:11] <ppisati> i just submitted the kexec fixes for arm
[15:11] <ogra_> great :)
[15:12] <NCommander> can we have it working across more than one upload? :-)
[15:12] <ppisati> about the bug tobin submitted for P/omap4, there was a missing patch
[15:12] <GrueMaster> Excelent.
[15:12] <infinity> ppisati: By submitted, do you mean it's being pushed to mainline?
[15:12] <ppisati> next upload will fix it
[15:12] <ppisati> infinity: i pulled it from mainline to our tree
[15:12] <GrueMaster> Cool
[15:12]  * NCommander sees ubuntu-arm-r-arm-softbootloader in my future
[15:12] <infinity> ppisati: Oh, even better.
[15:12]  * NCommander promptly goes to off himself
[15:13] <ogra_> was that supposed to mean "offer" actually ?
[15:13] <NCommander> ogra_: no, off, as in kill
[15:13] <ppisati> ah, and there was even another fix for the usb "slow down problem" that Ming Lei worarounded back then
[15:13] <ppisati> ARM acknwledged it was a desegin bug in the cache controller
[15:13] <ogra_> nah, that surely was "offer" as in volunteering ;)
[15:13] <NCommander> that spec been the bane of my existance since jaunty
[15:13] <GrueMaster> Yes, saw that.
[15:13] <ppisati> i pulled the fix in P
[15:14] <NCommander> anyway
[15:14] <NCommander> anything else?
[15:14] <ppisati> that's pretty much all for now
[15:14] <ppisati> iirc
[15:14] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:14] <NCommander> Speaking of banes of my existance
[15:14] <NCommander> I've been working to port libreoffice to hardfloat
[15:14] <janimo> fixed a package or two, not muchh
[15:14] <NCommander> I've managed to hit it with enough of a stick that it now partially passes the internal test suite
[15:15] <NCommander> A larger stick will be needed to get it working for hardfloat, probably 1-2 weeks of solid porting working but it at least looks straightforward from here
[15:15] <NCommander> */tempting fate*
[15:15] <infinity> I'm chasing down the status of fpc, ocamlopt, and gnat.  Still works in progress.  More to report in a couple of weeks, I hope.
[15:16] <NCommander> infinity: gnat shouldn't matter, we never managed to bootstrap it on armel either
[15:17] <ogra_> oh, evo seems to ftbfs on armhf
[15:17] <NCommander> ARGH
[15:17] <infinity> NCommander: It's fine on armel (gnat).
[15:17] <NCommander> infinity: well, with gnat, you have to build a cross-compiler to armhf, then cross-bootstrap the compiler, then native build it
[15:17] <NCommander> (brilliant that the only FOSS Ada compiler is written in Ada)
[15:18] <infinity> NCommander: Yeah, I know.  markos has been working on a few bugs with it, apparently.
[15:18] <rsalveti> also, do you all know about the porting queue webpage we created? http://bit.ly/arm-porting-queue
[15:18] <NCommander> infinity: ocaml will be rather painful, given we never got it to build with thumb2 even
[15:18] <rsalveti> just in case you're looking for bugs related with ftbfs
[15:18] <rsalveti> together with the qa one
[15:18] <NCommander> rsalveti: handy
[15:19] <NCommander> infinity: fpc probably isn't that high of priority. We only managed to build it on powerpc last cycle ...
[15:21] <NCommander> anyway
[15:21] <NCommander> moving on
[15:21] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Hardfloat status (infinity)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Hardfloat status (infinity)
[15:21] <NCommander> hrm
[15:21] <NCommander> I thinkI meant to kill this status section
[15:21] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:22] <NCommander> again, nothing to report
[15:22] <NCommander> moving on
[15:23] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
[15:23] <GrueMaster> 7 SRU kernels were tested last week (Thursday).
[15:25] <GrueMaster> Now looking into automating daily image installs.  Waiting on preinstall preseed capabilities (ogra???).
[15:26] <GrueMaster> That's all for me.  Back to the swamp.
[15:26] <ogra_> re :P
[15:26] <ogra_> GrueMaster, its on my todo for tomorrow :)
=== yofel_ is now known as yofel
[15:27] <GrueMaster> mahmoh: Anything to report on your end?
[15:27] <NCommander> [topic] Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
[15:27] <rsalveti> not much from my side, jcrigby is working on all the pieces we need
[15:27] <rsalveti> like kernel and newer u-boot
[15:28] <rsalveti> so should be around probably later this week, next week
[15:28] <rsalveti> other than that we got ubuntu tv ui working on panda
[15:28] <NCommander> rsalveti: great. anything else or can I move on?
[15:28] <rsalveti> something I blogged about on monday
[15:28] <NCommander> rsalveti: el or hf? :-)
[15:28] <rsalveti> el, based on oneiric
[15:28] <rsalveti> we're still missing video decode
[15:28] <rsalveti> but we know what needs to be done already
[15:29] <rsalveti> http://rsalveti.wordpress.com/2012/01/10/ubuntu-tv-ui-at-pandaboard-and-next-steps/
[15:29] <rsalveti> once it's done, and the sgx driver is available for hf, we can also make sure it's running on precise
[15:29] <rsalveti> :-)
[15:29] <rsalveti> that's all from my side
[15:29] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: AOB
[15:30] <NCommander> if nothing
[15:30] <NCommander> will close in 3
[15:30] <ogra_> go
[15:30] <NCommander> 2
[15:30] <NCommander> 1
[15:31] <NCommander> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[15:31] <meetingology> Meeting ended Thu Jan 12 15:31:00 2012 UTC.
[15:31] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-12-15.02.moin.txt
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* NCommander to track dependency SNAFU on status tracker and remove non-ARM specs
