{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''April21th, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110505]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110525]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* None

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-1.html
* Unity 2D Status
* Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[16:00] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[16:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:00. The chair is NCommander.
[16:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:00] <ogra_> moop
[16:01] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110519
[16:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110519
[16:01]  * NCommander pokes ogra_'s moop
[16:01] <ogra_> ouch !
[16:01] <ogra_> dont you touch my moop !
[16:02] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[16:02] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:02] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:02] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-1.html
[16:02] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-1.html
[16:02] <NCommander> None of my specs are showing up ...
[16:02]  * ogra_ isnt done yet with spec writing 
[16:03] <NCommander> Oh right, it has to be approved, doesn't it
[16:03] <NCommander> bah
[16:03] <ogra_> NCommander, lets go over them to see if everything is set right (accepted etcd)
[16:03] <ogra_> after meeting
[16:03]  * davidm is happy bp are getting done
[16:03] <ogra_> but its good to see the tracker work
[16:04] <ogra_> doesnt look like as much hassle for me as last round
[16:04]  * NCommander likes our '2.0' blueprints for A1 :-)
[16:04] <NCommander> Right
[16:04] <NCommander> so moving on
[16:05] <NCommander> if my web browser didn't force quit ...
[16:05] <NCommander> [topic] Unity 2D Status
[16:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Unity 2D Status
[16:05] <ogra_> use an ac100, its more stable :P
[16:05] <ogra_> i think we can drop that
[16:05] <ogra_> desktop team takes over now
[16:06] <ogra_> i talked to didrocks in budapest
[16:06] <davidm> I think it's DX team and desktop team
[16:06] <NCommander> cool
[16:06]  * NCommander brings dead to this standing item
[16:06] <ogra_> well, i think upstream is still the same
[16:06] <ogra_> not DX afaik
[16:06] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[16:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[16:06] <ogra_> heh
[16:06] <ogra_> NCommander, ppisati
[16:06] <rsalveti> :-)
[16:07] <ogra_> and we should probably include the linaro platform guys that work on kernel bits in that
[16:07] <ogra_> do you have any ?
[16:07] <rsalveti> send an SRU for bug 770679
[16:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 770679 in u-boot-linaro (Ubuntu) "Missing proper support for Beagle XM rev B and C" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/770679
[16:07] <NCommander> rsalveti: won't that require an item respin of natty, no?
[16:07] <rsalveti> still waiting for comments
[16:07] <rsalveti> NCommander: in theory yes
[16:08] <rsalveti> but we can just publish a new kernel file somewhere and update the wiki
[16:08] <rsalveti> like we did with maverick
[16:08] <ogra_> well, we can alsways provice replacement uInitrd and uImage
[16:08] <rsalveti> yeah, that's what we did with maverick
[16:08] <ogra_> right
[16:08] <rsalveti> but no other update
[16:08] <rsalveti> ti-omap4 kernel is kind of the same
[16:09] <rsalveti> will be sending another SRU for the drm driver next week
[16:09] <ogra_> do you have anyone in your team that should be included in the topic ping ?
[16:09] <rsalveti> now that I got that sorted out with linaro kernel
[16:09] <rsalveti> ogra_: that depends on what exactly we want to discuss
[16:09] <ogra_> same for any other of the standing topics :)
[16:09] <rsalveti> sure, we can solve this offline
[16:10] <ogra_> yeah
[16:10] <rsalveti> that's all for me
[16:10] <ogra_> ppisati, everything fine in your world ?
[16:11] <rsalveti> NCommander: put an action for you to include ppisati at this topic :-)
[16:11] <NCommander> rsalveti: I already edited the wiki
[16:11] <ogra_> well, seems he isnt around ... neither is cooloney
[16:11] <ogra_> so move :)
[16:12] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:12] <ogra_> its horrid
[16:12] <NCommander> fpc was bootstrapped on armel but beside that not much to add as the buildds drain
[16:12] <ogra_> yeah, will still need a while to lighten up
[16:12]  * NCommander isn't going to touch it until the build queue is close to empty
[16:13] <ogra_> i occasionally go over them and give back what looks like being worth it
[16:13] <ppisati> ogra_: let me read...
[16:14]  * ogra_ wonders where jani is 
[16:14] <ogra_> still jetlagged from the 100km train ride probably :)
[16:14] <GrueMaster> heh
[16:14] <NCommander> ogra_: :-P
[16:14] <NCommander> can I move on?
[16:15] <ogra_> yeah
[16:15] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:15] <ogra_> well ...
[16:15] <ogra_> waiting for live-build to be implemented for x86
[16:15] <ppisati> ah k :)
[16:15] <ogra_> i guess then we have a very small window to make it work for A1
[16:16] <ogra_> the risk is high that we wont make A1 though
[16:16] <GrueMaster> Always is.
[16:16] <NCommander> Yeah
[16:16] <ogra_> in other news i worked the week on preparing everything for the ac100 image
[16:16] <NCommander> right now all CD image work is depwait A1, though cjwatson said if we implement stuff in livecd-rootfs, then he'll migrate it to livehelper
[16:16] <ogra_> the bits from https://launchpad.net/~ac100/+archive/ppa will land in oneiric next week
[16:17] <ogra_> so that we can start rolling images
[16:17] <ogra_> look, its a jani :)
[16:17]  * NCommander throws a pokeball at wild janimo 
[16:17] <janimo> sorry, forgot what time it was
[16:17] <NCommander> :-P
[16:17] <ogra_> well, thats all about images atm ... toboin ?
[16:18] <ogra_> anything to say about nook ?
[16:18] <ogra_> GrueMaster, ^^
[16:18] <GrueMaster> Not yet.  Main focus has been on usbboot for panda.
[16:18] <ogra_> yeah, thought so
[16:18] <ogra_> though you had lots of converation going on about nook images in the channel :)
[16:18] <GrueMaster> Although one user has gotten some work towards making it boot natty.
[16:18] <ogra_> *conversation
[16:19] <NCommander> can I move on?
[16:19] <ogra_> go
[16:19] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:20] <GrueMaster> Hey, that's me!
[16:20] <ogra_> wohoo !
[16:20] <GrueMaster> My focus this week has been gitting panda to boot via usb blob from a host system.
[16:20] <ogra_> for automated image testing ;)
[16:21] <janimo> GrueMaster, this means no SD card needed at all?
[16:21] <ogra_> yeah
[16:21] <GrueMaster> This will help a lot for the new buildd deployment, and also help to build an image automation framework.
[16:21] <janimo> sweet
[16:21] <GrueMaster> No SD card was harmed in the making of thisproduction.
[16:21] <ogra_> lol
[16:21] <janimo> some SD cards deserve to be harmed though
[16:21] <ogra_> hehe
[16:22] <GrueMaster> Currently I am hung on getting the usb & network ports initialized.  I have a working kernel & initrd.
[16:22] <GrueMaster> Reviewing x-loader & u-boot code tosee what they do to enable them.
[16:22] <ogra_> i'll get you the initrd bits until monday
[16:23] <NCommander> GrueMaster: seems like a lot of it is hte board just isn't happy coming up OTG. could be an issue of whats being iniialized vs what isn't?
[16:23] <GrueMaster> I'm using the headless image as a test base.   I have the rootfs on a USB drive andam pushing down the kernel with a modified initrd.
[16:23] <GrueMaster> Yes.
[16:24] <GrueMaster> Not sure if it is the otg port getting in the way,but it shouldn't as they are completely separate circuits.
[16:24] <ogra_> NCommander, well, its the decision of putting half the board init code into x-loader and u-boot
[16:24] <NCommander> well yes
[16:24] <ogra_> if it would live in the kernel as it should, there wouldnt be any probs
[16:24] <GrueMaster> btw:  u-boot doesn't appear to support usb.
[16:24] <ogra_> GrueMaster, rsalveti is working on it
[16:25] <GrueMaster> yes, I know.
[16:25] <rsalveti> GrueMaster: u-boot supports usb now ;-)
[16:25] <ogra_> and martyn told me yesterday that the PXE support patch landed upstream
[16:25] <rsalveti> and TFTP
[16:25] <GrueMaster> Hopefully we can work together today and get a solution.
[16:25] <rsalveti> on my branch
[16:25] <GrueMaster> Nice.
[16:25] <rsalveti> but I still prefer to jump into the kernel directly
[16:25] <ogra_> \o/
[16:25] <ogra_> ++
[16:26] <ogra_> but at least we have something even if that doesnt work
[16:26] <rsalveti> anyway, just working with GrueMaster to see what we can get
[16:26] <rsalveti> yup :-)
[16:26] <GrueMaster> The aboot->kernel method is much cleaner, but what ever it takes to get forward progress is semi-acceptable.
[16:26] <ogra_> the good thing is that we could even use it in the images and boot *way* faster
[16:26] <rsalveti> let's spend some more time trying to get this to work
[16:27] <ogra_> we should inspect that
[16:27] <GrueMaster> once I get this working (critical priority), I'll focus on blueprint refinement and nook color.
[16:27] <rsalveti> yeah, can add that at my u-boot tftp bp
[16:27] <rsalveti> I'll be changing it to "alternatives to boot ubuntu images"
[16:27] <rsalveti> something like that
[16:27] <rsalveti> omap4boot
[16:27] <ogra_> cool !
[16:27] <rsalveti> u-boot with TFTP and PXE
[16:27] <rsalveti> and u-boot with fastboot
[16:28] <rsalveti> that should cover most of the cases, if not all
[16:28] <GrueMaster> That's all from me.  Questions?
[16:28] <ogra_> not here
[16:29] <NCommander> [topic] Specification Status
[16:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Specification Status
[16:29] <NCommander> probably a good idea to go over this
[16:30] <NCommander> I have two spcs drafted, one reviewed, one I mostly completed then handed off, and one that still needs a writeup
[16:30]  * ogra_ has nothing to report yet ... mine will be ready by monday
[16:31] <ogra_> janimo, GrueMaster ?
[16:31] <janimo> I have work items more or less written up on my specs
[16:31] <janimo> but no other work. Drafting means filling up the wiki template?
[16:31] <ogra_> (and anyone else having specs on the team tracker :) )
[16:31] <ogra_> janimo, yeah
[16:31] <GrueMaster> I think NCommander has been plastering me with work items.  I have been toofocused to check.
[16:31] <janimo> team tracker == burndown charts?
[16:31] <ogra_> you dont need all topics from the tamplate, only what makes sense in your context
[16:32] <ogra_> yeah team tracker == burndown
[16:34] <NCommander> [topic] ABO
[16:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  ABO
[16:34]  * NCommander has nothing
[16:34] <GrueMaster> ABO???
[16:34] <ogra_> ABO ?
[16:34] <ogra_> OBA ?
[16:34] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[16:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[16:34] <ogra_> BOA ?
[16:34] <GrueMaster> BOA?
[16:34]  * NCommander beats ogra_ 
[16:34] <ogra_> BAOBAB
[16:34] <GrueMaster> BAO?
[16:34] <ogra_> BLAH :)
[16:34]  * ogra_ doesnt have anything for this topic
[16:34] <NCommander> I'm guessing we don't
[16:35] <NCommander> closiging the meeting in 3
[16:35] <NCommander> 2
[16:35] <NCommander> 1
[16:35] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[16:35] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:35.
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* None
