{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''March 27th, 2008, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from March 20th, 2008 ===
* Debbie to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB by 13 March. [cted] [cted]
* kyleN to enhance his python script looking into hildon modules to build a map of where the gettext templates are stored [cted]
* kyleN to look into hildon-help; what's is useful for and whether we should package it for UME [cted] [cted]
* lool review progress on Hildon 2.0 updates next week [cted] [cted]
* lool to document tarball release + ppa upload process and patch addition + submission process [cted]
* lool to send rustyl_ steps to update ppa packages for the new tarball based release process [cted]
* rustyl_ to assign ppa packages updates for the new tarball based release process [cted as blocked by lool last week]
* ToddBrandt to talk to bspencer and mawhalen about the merging with Hardy and bfiller and lool, etc.
=== Current Items ===
* Moblin implementation of gettext and intltool, how's it going? (kyleN)

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* kyleN to look into hildon-help; what's is useful for and whether we should package it for UME [cted] [cted] [cted]
* lool review progress on Hildon 2.0 updates next week [cted] [cted] [cted]
* lool to document tips for Hildon 2.0 updates on Hildon 2.0 wiki page
* lool to document tarball release + ppa upload process and patch addition + submission process [cted] [cted scheduled for Friday the 28th]
* lool to send rustyl_ steps to update ppa packages for the new tarball based release process [cted] [cted scheduled for Friday the 28th]
* rustyl_ to assign ppa packages updates for the new tarball based release process [cted as blocked by lool last week and the week before that...]
* bspencer to list i18n status for Moblin project
=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080327_1801.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
