{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''January 10th, 2008, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

* Dates of the mobile sprint are: January 28th 2008 through February 1 2008

=== Action Items from Jan 03rd, 2008 ===
* rustyl to put tfheen and Mohomad Abas in touch with each other over PPM (complete)

=== Action Items from Dec 20th, 2007 ===
* carry over lool to take a look at bug # 172426 and see if he can reproduce it. until Jan 3rd 2008. (closed)
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works (complete)
* amitk to update hardy ppa with drivers, ('''context found,  sent to Amitk''').(closed) <<BR>> 
 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/Meeting/20071129
* Lexington to test ext3 for boot speed and disk image corruption as soon as CB has new C0 board installed. (disk image curruption closed) <<BR>>
 ''Issue on disk image corruption appears to be related to Image Creator was storing the squashfs image on an ext2 not ext3 partition as determined by Michael in the Lexington Canonical office''
* Canonical to share all info with robr2 on disk image corruption as soon as available (closed)
* bspencer to talk with developers to push get tags when making a release, and report back on status of this

=== Current Items ===
(If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.)
* Discuss  Intel Schedule Deliverables, Need more detail, who, what, when.  Davidm 

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* Michael Frey to test the ext3 image boot speed before weeks end.
* bspencer to checked to see if get tags tagging has occurred when making a release.
* bryce and amitk to provide verbose emails to bspencer about issues surronding Tungsten. (complete)
* mawhalen Don_Johnson davidm to meet off line on schedule issues (complete)

=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080110_1659.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
