{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''February 9th, 2012, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2012-20120202]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2012-20120216]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===

* janimo to look into LibO
* dannf to tidy up a kernel package for armada
* infinity to pull said kernel package into d-i
* janimo or GrueMaster to test the mx5 kernel from jcrigby

=== Standing Items ===

* http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
* ARM Server Status (NCommander)
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (!GrueMaster, mahmoh)
* Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[15:00] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[15:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Feb  9 15:00:57 2012 UTC.  The chair is NCommander. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[15:00] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[15:01]  * davidm waves 
[15:01] <dannf> hey
[15:01] <ogra_> wow, thats timing :)
[15:01] <NCommander> [topic] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Meeting/2012/20120209
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Meeting/2012/20120209
[15:01] <NCommander> [topic] Action Items from last meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Action Items from last meeting
[15:01] <NCommander> [topic] janimo to look into LibO
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: janimo to look into LibO
[15:02] <ogra_> lots ;:)
[15:02] <janimo> hi
[15:02]  * NCommander looks for mercy on janimo's soul
[15:02] <ogra_> NCommander, he volunteered !
[15:02] <janimo> indeed I did
[15:02] <NCommander> dd if=/dev/mercy of=/dev/janimo/soul
[15:02] <mahmoh> hi
[15:02] <janimo> I do not (yet) regret it
[15:02] <ogra_> must have to do with his transylvanian inheritance :)
[15:02] <NCommander> janimo: yet being the operative word here
[15:03] <janimo> true. I am looking at this now on the panda. If you'll see me curse these days, it's because I've been where NCommander has been before
[15:03]  * NCommander needs a t-shirt
[15:04]  * ogra_ doesnt want to go there ... evar !
[15:04] <NCommander> "I braved the depths of hell^W Libreoffice and all I got was this lousy t-shirt"
[15:04] <ogra_> though, mono is broken too
[15:04]  * ogra_ hides
[15:04] <NCommander> [action] ogra_ to debug mono
[15:04] <meetingology> ACTION: ogra_ to debug mono
[15:04] <NCommander> Ok
[15:04] <NCommander> done
[15:04] <ogra_> lol
[15:05]  * ogra_ looks for that rock and brick he collected before 
[15:05] <NCommander> janimo: anything else to report or can I move on?
[15:05] <janimo> no really?mono broken on arm? impossible, I hear a company bases it's business on it not being broken on arm. You are all lying
[15:05] <ogra_> lol
[15:05] <janimo> NCommander, nope I hope I'll make progress till next meeting
[15:05] <janimo> but I ave started on it
[15:05]  * NCommander thinks we've lost janimo to the madness already
[15:06] <ogra_> thats the winter
[15:06] <NCommander> [topic] dannf to tidy up a kernel package for armada
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: dannf to tidy up a kernel package for armada
[15:06] <ogra_> being locked in at -20Â°C does weird things to you
[15:06] <NCommander> ogra_: I lived in a mountian town like that. I'm still perfectly sane
[15:06] <ogra_> LOL
[15:06] <ogra_> LOLOLOLOL
[15:06] <dannf> NCommander: done afaik
[15:07]  * ogra_ cleans coffee from his kbd
[15:07] <NCommander> dannf: indeed, we're working on havinga kernel today (to be reported on later)
[15:07]  * GrueMaster had coffee shoot up his nose, laughing so hard.
[15:07] <NCommander> ogra_: GrueMaster oh you guys suck
[15:08] <GrueMaster> :D
[15:08] <NCommander> [topic] infinity to pull said kernel package into d-i
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: infinity to pull said kernel package into d-i
[15:08] <ogra_> is infinity even here ?
[15:08] <janimo> ogra_, I heard he planned on snorting coke a few hours ago
[15:08] <NCommander> No, but I thinkthis is a c/ogivenwestilldon't have an uploadedkernel
[15:08] <ogra_> yeah
[15:08]  * NCommander smacks his spacebar
[15:09] <theadmin> Hey wtf! I thought meeting starts at 20:00 UTC >.<
[15:09] <theadmin> No fair I sezzit
[15:09] <ogra_> the ARM meeting never ever started at 20UTC
[15:10] <NCommander> We'll be having the usual IRC meeting on #ubuntu-meeting, on
[15:10] <NCommander> Thursday 2011-02-09 at 15:00 UTC.
[15:10]  * NCommander would be very happy if the meeting was at 20:00 UTC but :-P
[15:10] <NCommander> [topic] janimo or GrueMaster to test the mx5 kernel from jcrigby
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: janimo or GrueMaster to test the mx5 kernel from jcrigby
[15:10]  * ogra_ wouldnt 
[15:11] <GrueMaster> Done.  Latest images have the new mx5 kernel
[15:11] <theadmin> Either I'm confusing something or... Well I'm here for the first time, buuut: http://i.imm.io/gbSI.png
[15:11] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Standing Items
[15:11] <GrueMaster> Still fails on START-R rev board.  USB issues.
[15:12] <NCommander> theadmin: wrong meeting. This is the ARM development team meeting, not IRC council
[15:12] <theadmin> NCommander: Ah, pardon me then. ARM is cool, I'll listen in if you don't mind?
[15:12] <janimo> I tested the kernel it was ok, people uploaded it then
[15:12] <NCommander> [topic] http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
[15:12]  * janimo answered late on previous topic
[15:13] <NCommander> Well
[15:13] <NCommander> ...
[15:13] <NCommander> The items are increasing
[15:13] <NCommander> I think we fail
[15:13] <ogra_> huh ?
[15:13]  * GrueMaster is too sleepy to comment on futility.
[15:13] <ogra_> we look better than ever
[15:14] <ogra_> slightly below trend (if it would be in the right angle)
[15:14] <NCommander> ogra_: we're supposed to close items, not add half-a-million new closed items
[15:14] <ogra_> nothing changed over the last week
[15:14] <NCommander> THATS NOT HOW WE'RE SUPPOSED TO GET ON THE TRENDLINE
[15:14]  * NCommander screams
[15:14]  * ogra_ wonmders what you are referring to=
[15:14] <NCommander> ogra_: madness
[15:14] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Server Status (NCommander)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Server Status (NCommander)
[15:14] <ogra_> there were no items added
[15:15] <NCommander> So, I've got news!
[15:15] <theadmin> Can anyone change topic or what...
[15:15] <theadmin> [topic] tests
[15:15] <theadmin> Guess not :D
[15:15] <NCommander> I saved a bunch of money changing my insurance!
[15:15] <theadmin> Sorry, getting used to things
[15:15] <ogra_> theadmin, please dont interfere with the meeting
[15:15] <NCommander> But I also have ARM server news
[15:15] <theadmin> ogra_: Understood.
[15:15] <NCommander> armadaxp finally has a usable kernel git tree
[15:16] <ogra_> theadmin, NCommander is the meeting chairt, only the chair can change topics and we try to keep the meeting short
[15:16] <janimo> NCommander, great
[15:16] <ogra_> yay
[15:16] <rbasak> \o/
[15:16] <NCommander> Using my gitified marvell patches, cooloney made them less crack, then we ported the Marvell sauce onto the oneiric tree
[15:16] <NCommander> So we went from 3.0.15->3.0.17 with Marvell
[15:17] <NCommander> We'll now track oneiric-updates, so we'll have security and updates for Armada until oneiric goes EOL
[15:17] <ogra_> wow, two micro versions !
[15:17] <ogra_> enormous
[15:17] <ogra_> :P
[15:17] <NCommander> ogra_: it wasn't a small job, the tree we got was based off an ubuntu tree of unknown origin, which required a ton of patch sorting and fun
[15:17] <rbasak> Are there any plans to bring it up to precise?
[15:18] <rbasak> Or will it stay based on oneiric indefinitely?
[15:18] <NCommander> rbasak: Marvell has been told that weneed a 3.2 kernel. We won't be doing the work to port it
[15:18] <rbasak> OK, thanks
[15:18] <NCommander> rbasak: the armadaxp kernel will go into precise, its simply tracking oneiric since there tree is on the same major as oneiric's
[15:18] <rbasak> Right
[15:19] <NCommander> Unlessa 3.2 kernel magically materializes before release, armada xp will be a universe supported flavor
[15:20] <ogra_> even though the kernel package will live somewhere else :)
[15:20] <NCommander> infinity and I are making the necessary demonic sacirifices to get d-i to work properly like that with netboot images
[15:20] <NCommander> ogra_: no, the kernel going in universe, we decided to fix d-i
[15:20] <ogra_> NCommander, the kernel will go to main
[15:20] <ogra_> we have approval and all
[15:20] <NCommander> we did?
[15:20] <NCommander> *do
[15:20] <NCommander> Damn
[15:20] <ogra_> no d-i hacjking required
[15:21] <NCommander> we weren't goingto hijack d-i
[15:21] <ogra_> unless that changed since tuesday
[15:21] <NCommander> d-i was simply going to pull in the universe udebs during the buildstep
[15:21] <NCommander> but we got approval for unsupported kernel in main, then yay
[15:21] <ogra_> we have release team approval, the kernel package will be in main, but unsupported and not in the manifest
[15:21] <davidm> NCommander, kernel in main
[15:21] <NCommander> oh
[15:21] <NCommander> davidm: awesome
[15:22] <NCommander> That makes life insanely less complicated
[15:22] <ogra_> (if you would read the team reports you would know btw :P )
[15:22] <janimo> NCommander, although d-i supporting universe kernels would have been useful in the future for other flavours
[15:22] <janimo> or for current mx53
[15:22] <NCommander> Anyway, I'm shacking loosing the last of the packaging bugs (linux-armadaxp tried to build on amd64 for one)
[15:23] <NCommander> But we should see an upload into NEW byEOD today or tomorrow
[15:23] <mahmoh> NCommander: how soon do we expect a kernel in main?
[15:23] <ogra_> janimo, thats super tricky since there (flasely) is a way to get rid of unwanted udebs by moving them to universe ...
[15:23] <NCommander> mahmoh: once it is approved from NEW, it goes into universe. Just needs a MIR to promote
[15:23] <ogra_> janimo, making d-i universe aware would break a lot through that
[15:23] <janimo> ogra_, I am not arguing it is tricky to accomplish, but it is useful :)
[15:24] <NCommander> janimo: its probably easier to get release/kernel team blessings to dump an unsupported kernel in main
[15:24] <ogra_> janimo, yes, but we would have to fix that broken concept alongside
[15:24] <janimo> NCommander, but then it means it is supported. Are there no cases to want it unoficcially supported but workng with d-i. Is netinstall not such a use case?
[15:25] <ogra_> else we break x86 stuff
[15:25] <ogra_> which is not wanted before an LTS
[15:25] <NCommander> janimo: I proposed the solution of rm -r universe
[15:25] <NCommander> janimo: historically, we've had a few packages inmain that are unsupported
[15:25] <janimo> NCommander, I can get behind such a command
[15:25] <NCommander> linux-ports being the poster child for that trope
[15:26]  * GrueMaster wonders if this is a topic for Kernel Status?
[15:26] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
[15:26] <NCommander> Right
[15:26] <NCommander> ok
[15:26] <NCommander> I think we pretty muchcovered the current kernel status
[15:26] <NCommander> Anything else to bring up
[15:26] <janimo> ac100 new test deb based on a 3.0.19 upstream advertised on the ac100 ml
[15:26] <ogra_> janimo has a new ac100 kernel coming :)
[15:27] <ogra_> and mx5 seems sorted
[15:27]  * NCommander just got an armel/powerpc FTBFS on linux-armadaxp
[15:27] <janimo> once marvin puts it in his stable, not exp branch
[15:27] <NCommander> WOOO
[15:27] <NCommander> Packaging needs to be hit with a brick
[15:27] <ogra_> yeah
[15:27] <janimo> NCommander, I would have been more worried if that build succeeded
[15:27] <GrueMaster> mx5 kernel still needs work.  It still doesn't support USB on the newer rev board.
[15:27] <NCommander> janimo: its still running on i386 >.>;
[15:27] <ogra_> and even more if it worked :)
[15:28] <ogra_> GrueMaster, dont use USB then :P
[15:28]  * ogra_ hides behind a chair
[15:28]  * NCommander facepalms
[15:28] <janimo> GrueMaster, we should get a 3.2 mx5 kernel sometime, this is 3.1 .
[15:28] <GrueMaster> For a desktop image not to use keyboard/mouse...difficult.
[15:28] <ogra_> pfft
[15:28] <ogra_> be creative !
[15:28] <NCommander> write a script
[15:28] <ogra_> use your soldering skills ... its a dev board after all
[15:29] <GrueMaster> oem-config doesn't use preseed other wise I would.
[15:29] <NCommander> ^- ogra_
[15:29] <NCommander> Care to fix that? :-)
[15:29] <GrueMaster> And I refuse to molest any of my stock dev boards.
[15:29] <ogra_> NCommander, yes, after FF
[15:29] <ogra_> its tasked
[15:30] <NCommander> cool
[15:30] <GrueMaster> Soldering iron == bad touch.
[15:30] <ogra_> try the other side :P
[15:30] <NCommander> ew
[15:30] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:30] <NCommander> libo is broken
[15:30] <NCommander> mono is broken
[15:30] <NCommander> four letter words are broken
[15:30] <janimo> given back empathy anf gnome-games on armhf
[15:30] <GrueMaster> No, say it isn't so....
[15:31] <janimo> armel is still waiting for the fixed mesa to build
[15:31] <NCommander> janimo: package name? I'll rescore
[15:31] <ogra_> upstart seems to need some love
[15:31] <janimo> NCommander, waiting for build to finish, it has started 8 h ago
[15:31] <janimo> finished in 1h:30 on armhf
[15:31] <ogra_> and indeed qtwebkit
[15:31] <janimo> we need more pandas in the build center
[15:31] <NCommander> janimo: ow
[15:32] <ogra_> well, all images failed due to empathy/gnome-games
[15:32] <ogra_> (but thats for a later topic)
[15:32] <janimo> due to mesa egl not providing some deps
[15:32] <janimo> so not actually a change in those gnome apps
[15:32] <NCommander> movingon
[15:32] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:33] <ogra_> awww, did they switcfh them to clutter ?
[15:33] <ogra_> well, all images failed due to empathy/gnome-games
[15:33] <ogra_> :)
[15:33] <janimo> ogra_, I think gnome games has been using clutter for a long time
[15:33]  * ogra_ likes his "up" key
[15:33] <janimo> empathy, no idea.
[15:33] <ogra_> k
[15:33] <ogra_> we should test performance then
[15:33] <janimo> empathy uses every technology
[15:33] <ogra_> GrueMaster, can you do a quick check with your next desktop tests ?
[15:33] <ogra_> just to see if they are still usable
[15:34] <GrueMaster> Check what?
[15:34] <ogra_> (i.e. play mahjongg for 5 min)
[15:34] <GrueMaster> WHAT?!?!?  Me play a game???
[15:34] <ogra_> not sure how to test empathy
[15:34]  * GrueMaster shuders
[15:34] <ogra_> you could try a voip call or so
[15:34] <janimo> I think we should drop games altogether and let people use games in their browser
[15:34] <ogra_> ++
[15:34] <ogra_> tell that to -desktop though
[15:34] <NCommander> GrueMaster: try playing Skyrim with qemu-user-i386 + wine on ARM
[15:35] <GrueMaster> Yea, I'll check them
[15:35] <ogra_> NCommander, qemu-x86 wont run
[15:35] <GrueMaster> Erm, no.
[15:35] <janimo> well if I was in charge I'd drop empathy too and the whole telepathy baggage
[15:35] <ogra_> threading issues i was told by linaro
[15:35] <janimo> but I am not
[15:35] <GrueMaster> Alien Arena on panda might be interesting though.
[15:35] <ogra_> cant make it work
[15:35] <ogra_> well, thats all about images i had :)
[15:36] <NCommander> nethack works great on ARM, what other game do you need?
[15:36] <GrueMaster> Zork works too.
[15:36]  * NCommander does wish Dwarf Fortress was opensource so he could 1. package it 2.compile it on ARM
[15:36] <GrueMaster> Just saying.
[15:36] <ogra_> well, wait until nethack gets switched to clutter too
[15:36] <NCommander> ARGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH\
[15:36] <NCommander> HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
[15:36] <ogra_> upstream has funny ideas lately
[15:36] <ogra_> to clutter the world etc
[15:38] <janimo> nethack too works in a browser I hear
[15:38] <janimo> we need less apps in the image, so we have fewer bugs
[15:38] <janimo> :)
[15:38] <ogra_> haha
[15:38] <ogra_> NCommander, move ?
[15:39] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
[15:39] <GrueMaster> Spot tested 20120207.1 desktop armhf images yesterday.  mx5 had a few issues (HDMI addon board had it confused, and START-R still doesn't see USB).
[15:39] <GrueMaster> Also worked up a few scripts to start testing on arm server (LAMP, Ruby on Rails, suspend/resume).
[15:40] <GrueMaster> Tested the 3.0.17 kernel on armadaxp.  The Marvell patches do something wacky to mmap, it fails to allocate above 2900M.
[15:41] <GrueMaster> That bug was fixed in all other arm kernels (bug 861296).
[15:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 861296 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu Oneiric) "mmap fails to allocate 2030Mb heap on ARM" [Undecided,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/861296
[15:42] <GrueMaster> Starting to dive into power meter testing today/tomorrow.  Hope to have some data starting next week.
[15:42] <GrueMaster> Not much else to report.  Just lots of work going on.
[15:43] <ogra_> http://image.img-erento.com/20171/5073643_dia_2.jpg
[15:43] <ogra_> power meter testing ?
[15:43] <NCommander> [topic] Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
[15:43]  * rsalveti waves
[15:43] <GrueMaster> Using a power meter to measure system amp load while running.
[15:43] <rsalveti> we're all busy at connect mostly this week
[15:44] <rsalveti> but we worked on helping fixing a bunch of multiarch related packages
[15:44] <rsalveti> and the cross buildd is almost ready, just fixing the web interface to be easy to use
[15:44] <ogra_> GrueMaster, i was referring to the pic :)
[15:44] <rsalveti> another good thing is that riku is now working on trying to get libreoffice to build and work for armhf
[15:45]  * ogra_ humps rsalveti's leg
[15:45] <rsalveti> NCommander: just make sure you send everything you had in the past
[15:45] <rsalveti> if you didn't do it already
[15:45] <GrueMaster> So, another duplication of effort?  Great.
[15:45] <ogra_> GrueMaster, no, a handover
[15:45] <rsalveti> not duplication, we're working together on this
[15:45] <NCommander> rsalveti: you have a time machine?
[15:45] <rsalveti> :-)
[15:46] <rsalveti> meanwhile steve is working on ruby and haskell I believe
[15:46] <rsalveti> but it's probably not critical for the desktop
[15:47] <rsalveti> should have a better report next week, once connect is done :-)
[15:47] <rsalveti> but that's mostly it
[15:47] <rsalveti> I asked the freescale LT to fix the imx53 3.2 kernel
[15:47] <rsalveti> we'll see how it goes
[15:48] <rsalveti> questions?
[15:49] <janimo> rsalveti, do you know about omap4 sgc for armhf?
[15:49] <janimo> omap3
[15:49] <janimo> sorry
[15:49] <ogra_> rsalveti, is anyone ever looking at chromium again ?
[15:49] <rsalveti> janimo: we hope that koen will get this fixed and released soon
[15:49] <ogra_> i wonder what we should do with it, the binary in the archive is three releases old
[15:49] <janimo> rsalveti, ok thanks
[15:49] <rsalveti> I'll talk with him next week, but he was working on getting it available for angstrom
[15:50] <rsalveti> ogra_: if we get a new release, we update
[15:50] <rsalveti> otherwise we'll just kill it  for now
[15:50] <NCommander> anything else
[15:50] <rsalveti> I believe we'll get it at some point, not yet sure for precise
[15:50] <ogra_> rsalveti, well, there were three (or four) new releases
[15:50] <rsalveti> ogra_: is chromium broken again?
[15:50] <ogra_> it didnt build since natty
[15:51] <ogra_> or even before
[15:51] <rsalveti> I remember riku said it was fixed, maybe with debian, will ping him today
[15:51] <rsalveti> .. :-)
[15:52] <ogra_> i think he only made it cross buildable
[15:52] <ogra_> it still fails in the archive
[15:52] <rsalveti> well, if it works by cross building it there's hope to have it working natively
[15:52] <ogra_> right, iirc there were issues with ffmpeg or so
[15:53] <ogra_> riku will likely know more
[15:53] <rsalveti> #action rsalveti to follow with riku to see if chromium will get fixed
[15:53] <meetingology> ACTION: rsalveti to follow with riku to see if chromium will get fixed
[15:53] <ogra_> or micahg ... iirc he took over from riku but gave up
[15:53] <rsalveti> #action rsalveti to follow with koen at ELC to see if we'll get armhf drivers for sgx (omap3)
[15:53] <meetingology> ACTION: rsalveti to follow with koen at ELC to see if we'll get armhf drivers for sgx (omap3)
[15:54] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: AOB
[15:55] <NCommander> closing the meeting out in 3
[15:55] <NCommander> 2
[15:55] <NCommander> 1
[15:55] <NCommander> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[15:55] <meetingology> Meeting ended Thu Feb  9 15:55:11 2012 UTC.
[15:55] <meetingology> Minutes (wiki):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-09-15.00.moin.txt
[15:55] <meetingology> Minutes (html):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-09-15.00.html
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* rsalveti to follow with riku to see if chromium will get fixed
* rsalveti to follow with koen at ELC to see if we'll get armhf drivers for sgx (omap3)
