{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''May 26th, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110519]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110602]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* None

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-1.html
* Unity 2D Status
* Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[15:59] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[15:59] <MootBot> Meeting started at 09:59. The chair is NCommander.
[15:59] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:00] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110526
[16:00] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110526
[16:00] <NCommander> *is having some issues with the wiki and 500 errors*
[16:00] <NCommander> There are no action items from last meeting so ...
[16:00] <NCommander> [topic] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:00] <NCommander> [topic] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-1.html
[16:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-1.html
[16:01] <ogra_> still lots missing
[16:01] <NCommander> and of course the WI tracker doesn't see any of my specs
[16:01] <ogra_> but davidm said he would do an approval round
[16:02] <ogra_> NCommander, they need to be approved first
[16:02] <Guest40648> Yep I want to to approvals today
[16:02] <ogra_> and have a prio
[16:02] <ogra_> and indeed need to be assigned to oneiric
[16:02] <ogra_> i see 6 for NCommander btw :)
[16:03] <NCommander> yeah, a number thats bound to go up :-(
[16:03] <ogra_> yes
[16:03] <GrueMaster> I see none for me.  Yippie!
[16:03] <ogra_> heh
[16:03] <NCommander> I sent a list of all the server specs to davidm. With the exception of the security/entropy one, they're all drafted and ready for review
[16:03] <ogra_> you have at least two items on my specs
[16:03] <GrueMaster> damn.  :(
[16:03] <ogra_> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/~davidm?searchtext=o-arm
=== Guest40648 is now known as davidm
[16:04] <ogra_> that should be all our specs
[16:04] <ogra_> if anything is missing we need to fix that
=== davidm is now known as Guest68947
[16:04]  * ogra_ sees david has fun with nickserv
[16:05] <NCommander> I don't think there's anything else on burndown charts
[16:06] <NCommander> [topic] Unity 2D Status
[16:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Unity 2D Status
[16:06] <ogra_> well, action; everyone get their specs in the right state
[16:06] <ogra_> before end of the week
[16:06]  * ogra_ guesses release team wants to review in the release meeting tomorrow
[16:06] <NCommander> [action] everyone to get their specs in proper shape before end of the week
[16:06] <MootBot> ACTION received:  everyone to get their specs in proper shape before end of the week
[16:06] <ogra_> NCommander, we too that one out btw
[16:07] <ogra_> unity-2d is desktop team now
[16:07]  * ogra_ though we discussed that last week)
[16:07] <davidm_> See if I stay davidm this time
[16:07] <ogra_> heh
[16:07] <ogra_> just be nice to nickserv :)
[16:07] <davidm_> sometimes nickserv hates me
[16:08] <NCommander> flower and candy are a good way to sooth rough feelings
[16:08] <ogra_> heh
[16:08] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti, ppisati)
[16:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti, ppisati)
[16:08] <ogra_> davidm_, since you missed it
[16:08] <ogra_> <ogra_> well, action; everyone get their specs in the right state
[16:08] <ogra_> <ogra_> before end of the week
[16:08] <ogra_> ACTION received:  everyone to get their specs in proper shape before end of the week
[16:08] <ogra_> davidm_, i suspect the release team will want to review
[16:08] <davidm_> Actually I need to get to it today as today is the deadline
[16:08] <rsalveti> bug 770679 is now fixed commited
[16:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 770679 in u-boot-linaro (Ubuntu Oneiric) "Missing proper support for Beagle XM rev B and C" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/770679
[16:09] <ogra_> so we need to get them ready before meeting
[16:09] <rsalveti> only major change for kernel
[16:09] <rsalveti> still long way to hit the archive
[16:09]  * ppisati is here too
[16:09] <ogra_> rsalveti, thats .proposed though
[16:09] <ogra_> any oneiric news you want to share ?
[16:09] <rsalveti> ogra_: not yet proposed
[16:10] <ogra_> well, will be :)
[16:10] <ppisati> nothing i'm aware off: at last TI call someone mentioned a .39 tree, wwaiting for it to appear
[16:10] <janimo> omap4 still remains a separate source for O ?
[16:10] <ppisati> yes
[16:11] <ppisati> still a topic branch
[16:11] <ogra_> yup
[16:11] <ppisati> we will cherry pick CVE and stable updates from master
[16:11] <ppisati> no rebase (unfrotunately)
[16:11] <ogra_> until mainline is on par feature wise
[16:11] <ppisati> actually i'll try (but since ompa4 is so big i'm pretty sure i'll fail)
[16:12] <ppisati> btw, can anyone add me to the invitation of the weekly TI conf call?
[16:12] <ogra_> ppisati, talk to ndec in #ubuntu-arm
[16:12] <ogra_> he owns the invitation iirc
[16:12] <ppisati> ok
[16:13] <ogra_> NCommander, move ?
[16:13] <davidm_> ppisati, done, you are added
[16:13] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[16:14] <ppisati> davidm_: thanks
[16:14] <janimo> nothing here
[16:14]  * NCommander hides in fear of the FTBFS list
[16:14] <janimo> a bit of bug triaging in the KInaro Jam
[16:14] <ogra_> 31 packages in main isnt that bad
[16:14] <janimo> the nasty oes from natty are still here
[16:15] <janimo> as they are upstream issues
[16:15] <ogra_> only 8 arm specific
[16:15] <NCommander> true
[16:15] <NCommander> and some of that seems to be ghc blew up
[16:15] <ogra_> dbus, upstart and libnih look serious
[16:15] <NCommander> yeah
[16:16] <ogra_> i gave back dbus and upstart already
[16:16] <ogra_> and the failures are weird segfaults
[16:16] <janimo> ld segfaults iirc
[16:16] <NCommander> Great
[16:16] <ogra_> yep
[16:16] <NCommander> Has anyone reproduced out of the data center?
[16:16] <janimo> same in chromium
[16:16] <ogra_> do we know if anyone is inspecting that on the toolchain side ?
[16:17] <janimo> Linaro know about it, I am not sure what the status is
[16:17] <ogra_> oh, also note that we will switch seeds this release
[16:17] <GrueMaster> Buh???
[16:17] <janimo> to ubuntu-desktop?
[16:17] <ogra_> so look at the desktop seed once the first images roll in
[16:17] <ogra_> right
[16:17] <GrueMaster> ok
[16:17] <ogra_> netbook will go away
[16:18] <NCommander> ogra_: do you want to follow up with Linaro w.r.t. binutils segfaults?
[16:18] <janimo> so our images get larger as well? will we ship the same ubuntu desktop metapackage?
[16:18] <ogra_> NCommander, well, would at least be good to know a bugnumber
[16:19] <ogra_> janimo, do you know if there is one (since you seem to know that linaro knows about it)
[16:19] <davidm_> We might need to make our own  seed, I don'think we want all of desktop on ARM
[16:20] <ogra_> thats fine
[16:20] <janimo> ogra_, no idea, I just saw it discussed on #linaro
[16:20] <ogra_> we can do per-arch excludes
[16:20] <ogra_> no need for an extra seed
[16:20] <ogra_> NCommander, then put an action item on for me
[16:20] <janimo> did  not follow FTBFS lately as it seemed there were large rebuilds and I was waiting for it to settle down
[16:20] <NCommander> [action] ogra to trim down desktop seed on ARM
[16:20] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra to trim down desktop seed on ARM
[16:20] <ogra_> NCommander, ??
[16:20] <NCommander> ogra_: what?
[16:21] <ogra_> "<NCommander> ogra_: do you want to follow up with Linaro w.r.t. binutils segfaults?"
[16:21] <NCommander> oh
[16:21] <ogra_> i was referring to that one
[16:21] <NCommander> wrong followup :-P
[16:21] <ogra_> i dont need an action item for my day to day work :P
[16:21] <NCommander> [action] ogra to follow up with Linaro on binutils segfault
[16:21] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra to follow up with Linaro on binutils segfault
[16:21] <GrueMaster> Hard to follow the multiple topics of the meeting.
[16:21]  * ogra_ has nothing else for ftbfs
[16:22] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (NCommander, ogra)
[16:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (NCommander, ogra)
[16:22] <ogra_> dead
[16:22] <ogra_> but i think cjwatson built the first x86 images today
[16:22] <janimo> eta for live helper?
[16:22]  * NCommander is making funeral perperations :-(
[16:22] <ogra_> so it shouldnt be long anymore
[16:22] <ogra_> and its still 2 weeks to A1
[16:22] <NCommander> then we get to re-implement evertyhing for l-h
[16:22] <cjwatson> yesterday
[16:22] <ogra_> so chances are good we can make it
[16:23] <GrueMaster> I estimate image availability the day before A1.
[16:23] <cjwatson> janimo: not necessarily for a1
[16:23] <ogra_> cjwatson, wohoo
[16:23] <cjwatson> still using livecd-rootfs for now
[16:23] <ogra_> ah
[16:23] <ogra_> when do you plan the final switch ?
[16:23] <cjwatson> when it's ready
[16:23] <ogra_> heh
[16:23] <GrueMaster> good plan.
[16:23] <ogra_> k
[16:23] <NCommander> I don't think their is much mor eon this point
[16:24] <cjwatson> if I can make it before a1, I will, but I'm not promising anything
[16:24] <ogra_> k
[16:24] <NCommander> thanks cjwatson
[16:24] <cjwatson> the CD image cron jobs are back on now
[16:25] <GrueMaster> wrt netboot images, make sure we have both uImage/uInitrd & vmlinuz/initrd.img available
[16:25] <NCommander> \o/
[16:25] <ogra_> so we should have something to test (if it builds)
[16:25] <cjwatson> so unless GrueMaster knows something I don't, they should build tomorrow
[16:25] <ogra_> GrueMaster, will do
[16:25] <ogra_> GrueMaster, i also plan a "mini iso" as well
[16:25] <GrueMaster> I'm just speaking from experience as the QA guy that has last minute image testing to do...always.
[16:25] <NCommander> anything else on this subject or can I move on?
[16:25] <GrueMaster> :P
[16:26] <ogra_> move
[16:26]  * NCommander moves to New York
[16:26] <NCommander> :-P
[16:26] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:26] <ogra_> haha
[16:26] <GrueMaster> Hey, that's me.  Isn't that special.
[16:26] <GrueMaster> Work continues on usbboot.
[16:26] <ogra_> wowie
[16:27] <GrueMaster> Issues still with aboot, but we have enough to enable the buildd farm.
[16:27] <ogra_> GrueMaster, btw, it would be good to know if there is a usb0 after boot
[16:27] <ogra_> then we wouldnt need the conventional network for netcatting the tarball but could pull it via usbnet
[16:27] <GrueMaster> There is.  Networking and usb ports both function (My keyboard/mouse is on one, usb drive on the other).
[16:27] <ogra_> i mean a usbnet device
[16:28] <ogra_> (the g_ether module being loaded)
[16:28] <ogra_> well, lets discuss that offline
[16:28] <GrueMaster> Missing are mmc and reboot.  mmc is mia, reboot causes the kernel to hang at the end with message:  Rebooting.
[16:28] <ogra_> hmpf
[16:28] <GrueMaster> Oh, that requires musb to work.
[16:28] <ogra_> we dont need mmc so i dont care
[16:28] <GrueMaster> Which it doesn't.
[16:29] <ogra_> in kernel ?
[16:29] <GrueMaster> I need mmc for automation testing.
[16:29] <ogra_> hmm, i thought that worked
[16:29] <GrueMaster> Nope.
[16:29] <ogra_> gar
[16:29] <ogra_> k, then its conventional network, sad
[16:29] <ppisati> IIRC musb is broken upstream
[16:29] <ogra_> usb would have been sexier
[16:29] <ppisati> since .38.x where i don't remeber the x
[16:30] <GrueMaster> musb has never worked in .38 that I know of.
[16:30] <GrueMaster> Last worked in .35.
[16:30] <GrueMaster> iirc.
[16:30] <ogra_> well
[16:30] <ogra_> moot discussion then
[16:31] <GrueMaster> Back to usbboot.  I am very concerned about the copyright issues with the source.
[16:31] <ogra_> well, for internal use thats a non issue
[16:31] <ogra_> for packaging it thats a disaster
[16:31] <GrueMaster> Right.
[16:32] <ogra_> did you start conversation with upstream ?
[16:32] <NCommander> ogra_: w.r.t. to copyright, if the code is invalid, we can't use it, internatl or not.
[16:33] <GrueMaster> For initial deployment, I should have it working fully by eod tomorrow.  For packaging and future automation, I am looking to do a rewrite, at least for the host side.  Not much to it, shouldn't take too long (2-3 days max).
[16:33] <ogra_> NCommander, as long as we dont distribute it ...
[16:33] <NCommander> ogra_: I'm not going to argue specifics during this meeting, but I'll be glad to discuss in private
[16:34] <ogra_> sure
[16:34] <GrueMaster> The mods needed for immediate deployment are fairly trivial and can be pushed upstream.
[16:35] <NCommander> can I move on?
[16:35] <GrueMaster> I am also gearing up to review lava for our use.
[16:35] <GrueMaster> Currently, it will not work with our images.  Looking to see what modifications need to be in place for that.
[16:35] <GrueMaster> Done.
[16:36] <davidm_> I'm sure we can sort license issues, I'm in contact with upstream
[16:36] <NCommander> [topic] AOB]
[16:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB]
[16:36] <ogra_> is it a requirement that all images get tested with lava ?
[16:36] <ogra_> or could we just define a certain set of i.e. images that work ootb
[16:36]  * ogra_ could imagine the mini iso might work just fine 
[16:37] <ogra_> or any other alternate ones
[16:37] <GrueMaster> I was told to get lava working on some of our images.  headless & server are prime candidates.
[16:37] <ogra_> well, mini iso with server preseed file should get you that
[16:37] <ogra_> it can test isos too, right ?
[16:38] <GrueMaster> no.
[16:38] <ogra_> (i mean for x86)
[16:38] <ogra_> err
[16:38] <GrueMaster> It currently works with linaro style images & hw packs.
[16:38] <ogra_> why the heck are we forced to use it then ? i thought its the "save the world" solution for all image testing automation
[16:38]  * ogra_ wasnt aware thats only used for linaro tarballs
[16:38] <GrueMaster> Not my call.  Way beyond my pay grade.
[16:39] <ogra_> hmpf
[16:39] <ogra_> then i dont understand the hype
[16:39] <GrueMaster> That's why it is called the Linaro Automated Validation App.
[16:39] <ogra_> right, still i thought the plan was to have all images tested on it
[16:40] <GrueMaster> The front end is pretty good.  It is the back end that needs rework.  Unfortunately, it is all combined in one atm.
[16:40] <GrueMaster> It isn't modular.
[16:40] <ogra_> oh, like livecd-rootfs :)
[16:40] <GrueMaster> Never having seen that, I can only guess.
[16:40]  * ogra_ likes non modular after looking at live-build today :P )
[16:41] <ogra_> anyway, no more questions for QA here
[16:41] <GrueMaster> You want modular, but in an intelligent way.
[16:42] <GrueMaster> Otherwise we would be stuck with a hugh kernel binary that loaded every driver under the sun.
[16:42]  * ogra_ doesnt want too modular :)
[16:42]  * NCommander would rather just refactor livecd-rootfs into modules
[16:42] <NCommander> :-P
[16:42] <ogra_> NCommander, ++++++++++++
[16:42] <ogra_> +++
[16:42] <ogra_> and +
[16:42] <GrueMaster> The proper way to do it is with libraries and function calls.
[16:42] <ogra_> but i guess we cant have that pony
[16:42] <GrueMaster> At least that was what I did in my old days of automation development.
[16:43] <ogra_> well, for shell scripts thats different :)
[16:43] <GrueMaster> Not just shell scripts.
[16:43] <ogra_> i agree for C code though ...
[16:43] <ogra_> but we somehow get offtopic :)
[16:44] <GrueMaster> I'm done unless someone has other questions on QA.
[16:44] <NCommander> anything got anything else?
[16:45] <NCommander> if not, I'll close the meeting
[16:45] <ogra_> go for it
[16:45] <NCommander> closing in 3
[16:45] <NCommander> 2
[16:45] <NCommander> 1
[16:45] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[16:45] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:45.
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* ogra to trim down desktop seed on ARM
* ogra to follow up with Linaro on binutils segfault
