{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''January 22nd, 2009, 12:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>
== Agenda ==
=== Action Items from Jan 15th, 2008 ===

* ogra to finish touchscreen spec
* lool to finish specs
* persia to verify all specs are assgined

=== Current Items ===

* Review <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki> progress
* Wimax: we should start packaging this stack but need help from Kernel and Foundation folks for some bits (kernel drivers and DHCP patches); we also need hardware   :-p   amitk had started looking in some stuff http://www.linuxwimax.org/Download
* Any Other Business

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===

* persia to get initial results from mobile-setup-wizard
* NCommander to take over driving ship-seed-for-mobile-images to close it
* NCommander to reset arm-softboot-loader to "Drafting", and work towards a solution in #ubuntu-arm over the next week.
* StevenK to review UbuntuSpec:selection-of-arm-images
* persia to request conclusions from application research delegates for UbuntuSpec:mobile-applications

=== Minutes ===

==== Roadmap Review ====

Most specs had limited discussion or quick actions.  Notable points are that UbuntuSpec:lpia-versus-i386 conclusions need to be discussed with the Foundations team, UbuntuSpec:arm-softboot-loader needs to be reimagined, and the remaining bits of UbuntuSpec:mobile-team-seed-management are likely waiting for more output from UbuntuSpec:archive-reorganisation.

==== Considering Intel WiMax ====

Apparently the kernel portions of this stack were included in hardy, and dropped in intrepid.  The userspace portions were never included.  Some kernel portions have since merged upstream.  Current upstream work can be seen from http://www.linuxwimax.org/Download .  There were no volunteers to investigate this further, or draft a spec for inclusion: volunteers welcome.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
