{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''March 2nd, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==

=== Link to previous meeting ===
* <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100223]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from February 23rd, 2010 ===
* asac to blog about the ARM alpha-3 release
* NCommander to link power management spec to dove bugs
* GrueMaster to produce a daily report on image testing and add that to the weekly meeting page
* everyone to move work items not finished for alpha-3 to ubnutu-10.04-beta-1
* asac to talk to team about training session
* asac and JamieBennett to triage netbook-launcher-efl bugs
* NCommander to create wiki page to track actions taken to evaluate ooo/uno issues
* StevenK and persia to ensure that xubuntu- ubuntu- images are not produced for armel anymore
* StevenK and persia to also get rid of kubuntu-desktop aka everything != server
* everyone to try rootstock GUI once its in the archive

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
** mvl-dove: Marvell just dropped another patch set which largely included Android support and some fixes, review in progress, kexec basically works with workarounds (need to decide which workaround to use), several more bugs were found (kernel oops launching mplayer, ...), might need to get Marvell engineers involved
* QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
** ISO Tracker (http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuarm/all)
*** Both live images tested and got good coverage, one of the two net install images was testable
** Suspend/Resume testing blueprint has beta available (lp:~pwlars/checkbox/checkbox-susres)
*** This is already exposing several bugs
* ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
** Add status here.
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
** kdebindings remains broken on ARM due to a segfault
** OpenOffice.org remains broken due to UNO library possibly corrupting the stack
** libqt4-x11 remains on high priority list for things to be ported to ARMv7/Thumb2
** (ogra:) '''Was the likewise-open fix handed to the server team for further testing ?''' (if not please do ASAP)
** (ogra:) please look at libplist and squid (bug: #519897)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|persia]]</nowiki>)
** Ubuntu Netbook images look good so far, todays is broken due to an evolution upload, will be solved in tomorrows build
** Kubuntu Netbook images hard hard broken due to cascading build failures
** Ubuntu Server images are building cleanly, but need testing
** general bugs as usual
* Any Other Business
** Collect suggestions for possible Summer of Code projects

=== Action Items ===
* To be added.

=== Minutes ===
* To be added.

== Weekly Reports ==

=== Emmet Hikory (persia) ===
==== This Week ====
* Far too much yak-shaving trying to get a Debian armel install up
** Preliminary work to allow libvirt and dnsmasq to coexist well for VM + embedded target work
* A couple days attempting to track down why partman-uboot was failing (fixed in passing in ubiquity r3854)

=== David Sugar ===
==== This Week ====
* testing a3 image for imx51
* migrated laptop to a3
* moved arm packaging activities to x86 hosted via qemu-arm-static
* investigated mono runtime issues
* arm porting updates, including gmp
==== Future ====
* focus on some motu/lubuntu work and submit canola2 package for archive
* new machine arriving this week
* more arm porting and ftbfs issues

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===
==== This Week ====
** finished the split of progress handling in rootstock GUI (show different progresses for different stages of the build instead of complete build progress)
** code cleanups in rootstock and rootstock-gtk
** did more oem-config testing for rootstock images
** testplan for mobile-QA to test rootstock images is online at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/RootstockTestplan
** test and work on A3 images for imx51
** research hangs in qemu under rootstock, no final outcome yet, but seems not rootstock induced, hang of installing ubuntu-netbook at unpacking iso-codes is reproducable in plain qemu images, needs more research.
** tested various mono fixes for armel/qemu
==== Future ====
** Go on researching the qemu hangs when installing big tasks
** do final rootstock gui upload
** fix remaining rootstock bugs
** still do more oem-config testing in rootstock images
** convert rootstock testplan to gui testplan once the final upload is done
** switch rootstock fully to archive (d-i netinst) kernel (needs some special handling under jaunty/karmic i.e. devtmpfs disabling)

=== Paul Larson (plars) ===
==== This week ====
* Tested multiple respins of images on both imx51 and dove, test results documented on iso tracker
* Wrote the remaining checkbox tests for suspend/resume testing
* Fixed a few bugs in the suspend/resume tests
* Started executing suspend/resume tests, opened several bugs as a result of this already
* debugging on an audio problem I'm seeing with dove
* bug triaging
==== Future ====
* bug triaging
* additional automation work
* try to get some baseline tests for mobile-bringup-testing
* announce and push merge request for suspend/resume tests

=== Steve Kowalik (StevenK) ===
==== This Week ====
* More dealing with NBS.
* Clean up cdimage by removing old armel images and making sure they don't come back.
* Alpha 3 testing.
* FTBFS work.
* No archive admin work due to Alpha 3

=== Tobin Davis (GrueMaster) ===
==== This Week ====
* Alpha 3 Release testing (multiple respins).
* Extensive testing of Bluetooth stack.  File Transfer works very well with my cell phone.  Still need to test audio.
* Testing audio issues on both dove and imx51 (different issues on each platform).
* ramp up to test likewise active directory services.  Created virtual machine image of Windows 2003 server with Active Directory Services enabled to test with.

==== Future ====
* Bluetooth audio testing
* Alsa testing
* Rebuild library of test audio clips of varying sample rates, stereo/mono, audio codecs, etc.  Used to have one when testing Moblin 1.0.
* See where we stand with lsb-arm-port.  Received a few suggestions from Linux  Foundation that I need to implement patches for and see if they improve build errors and fix test errors.

=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
==== This Week ====
* Alpha 3 Testing
* Setup imx51 boards in series 
* Setup icecc and ccache to build OOo on my X0
* Kicked off OOo builds, UNO debugging continues
* Talked to GrueMaster on likewise-open testing

==== Future ====
* OOo debugging continues

=== Jamie Bennett (JamieBennett) ===
* Worked on web-office integration, got an initial implementation using Zoho's web API.
* Research Thumb2 issues.
* Blogged about 2D launcher work.
** http://www.linuxuk.org/2010/02/the-new-ui-for-arm-based-ubuntu-devices/
Tuesday 

=== Alexander Sack (asac) ===

* fix libv4l thumb2/armel build failures (lp:522717)
* reviewed webkit for thumb2/armel readyness (lp:514255)
* evaluate zoho for webservice office integration
* sponsor and coordinate release of thunderbird 3.0.1
* coordinate and sponsor firefox 3.6 for lucid alpha3
* upstream discussion on improving 3G modemmanager API
* discuss and coordinate network-manager daily breakage with debian and ubuntu contributors; we need an updated ifupdown and isc-dhclient
* weekly release team meeting (and preparations)

== Meeting Log ==
<pre>
* To be added.
</pre>
