{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''May 4th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100427]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting

** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100518]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from April 27th, 2010 ===
* asac and ogra to fill out the arm release notes
* NCommander, plars, ogra to test firefox on new image
* dyfet to fix update-manager sanity checks for ARM upgrades in an SRU

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-2.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
* QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
* ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|persia]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

=== Action Items ===
* NCommander to add a link for dove install notes to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/LucidReleaseNotes
* dyfet to fix update-manager sanity checks for ARM upgrades in an SRU
* everyone with UDS specs planned, talk to asac for approval/declination
* everyone with UDS specs planned please submit your specs against ubuntu-arm project at https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-arm/+specs
* NCommander to take care for disabling (not dropping) netboot builds of imx51/dove in d-i

=== Minutes ===
* Lucid Released
* Discussion on disabling imx51/dove image builds
* Review of lucid cycle, and primary blueprints for Maverick

== Weekly Reports ==

== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) == 
* Image testing for Dove
* General post-release work
* Drafting of UDS specifications and blueprints

== Meeting Log ==
<pre>
<ogra> #startmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting started at 08:04. The chair is ogra.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
<ogra> heya
<dmart> hi
<ian_brasil> hi
<ogra> seems the agenda isnt properly filled and i have no idea what the action items from last week were
* ogra sighs
<dmart> I wasn't here last weeek
<davidm> Were there any?  It was release week
<ogra> there was "fill out the arm release notes" for asac and me 
<ogra> (i'm still waiting for NCommander to add the dove install instructions, the rest is done)
<ogra> i dont remember what else 
<ogra> i know there were a bunch
<NCommander> sorry for being tardy
<ogra> ok, there was: NCommander, plars, ogra to test firefox on new image
<ogra> looked fine, i tested it right away
<plars> as did I
<NCommander> no unexpected scrollbarsin sight
<plars> stuff like google maps, yahoo, etc looked normal again
<ogra> and there was "asac and ogra to flesh out release notes"
<ogra> which was done modulo the dove install instructions <- NCommander please add
<NCommander> ogra: add an action item for me on that (I'm currently updating the karmic ones)
<ogra> and there was a carry over for dyfet to add a check for v6->v7 upgrades to update-manager
<ogra> NCommander, just copy paste and remove mentioning of karmic ... if you really do it after the meeting we dont need an extra action imho
<NCommander> ogra: I need to update the bootloader section
<ogra> dyfet, has an SRU patch been created for mvo to inspect for u-m ?
<ogra> [action] NCommander to add a link for dove install notes to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/LucidReleaseNotes
<MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to add a link for dove install notes to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/LucidReleaseNotes
<ogra> hmm, no dyfet
<ogra> so i suspect thats a c/o 
<ogra> [action] dyfet to fix update-manager sanity checks for ARM upgrades in an SRU
<MootBot> ACTION received:  dyfet to fix update-manager sanity checks for ARM upgrades in an SRU
<ogra> ok
<ogra> moving on 
<ogra> [topic] Standing Items
<MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
<ogra> i guess we dont need to look at the workitem tracker atm
<persia> There's a new one, but it's mostly empty :)
<NCommander> Mostly just need to get specs for UDS up and improved
<ogra> neither on any of the other items in that section or do we ?
<ogra> so did everyone who has poposed spec for UDS talk to lool  ?
<ogra> to get them approved and scheduled ?
<ogra> (iirc lool is supposed to approve/decline unless that changed, though nobody told us yet)
<asac> feel free to talk to me ;)
<asac> NCommander: please submit your spec against ubuntu-arm project
<ogra> [action] everyone with UDS specs planned, talk to asac for approval/declination
<MootBot> ACTION received:  everyone with UDS specs planned, talk to asac for approval/declination
<asac> or keep it where it is ... hjowever, i think its best to file it against ubuntu-arm as in that way we will track it
<NCommander> asac: huh?
<ogra> [action] everyone with UDS specs planned please submit your specs against ubuntu-arm project
<MootBot> ACTION received:  everyone with UDS specs planned please submit your specs against ubuntu-arm project
<ogra> anything else we need to discuss on the standing items ? 
<persia> I think all the specs for Ubuntu ought be done against ubuntu.  It's a huge pain to move stuff against projects to be against distros (we encountered this previously when fussing with ubuntu-mobile project, and that is part of why we gave up the ubuntu-mobile LP project)
<persia> No maverick images available yet :)
<ogra> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-arm/+specs disagrees :)
* NCommander has everything submitted against ubuntu with davidm as the approver. If we're going to chang ehow we're filing blueprints, that should have been annoyanvced ages ago
<asac> NCommander: it was announced
<ogra> NCommander, it was announced about four to six weeks ago
<asac> multiple times
<ogra> right
* NCommander sighs
<ogra> not the ubuntu-arm project but that lool should be approver for all specs at least
<persia> ogra: How does that disagree?  Looks like someone else is trying to experiment with a separate project again and will have the same pain later.
<asac> mobile team has no own track ... so if its arm related it should be ubuntu-on-arm
<davidm> all blueprints are approved by lool
<ogra> davidm, it was delegated to asac
<davidm> NCommander, I am not involved this cycle
<ogra> [link] https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-arm/+specs
<MootBot> LINK received:  https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-arm/+specs
<ogra> so lets move on unless someone else has anything for the spec topic
<asac> thanks ogra
* ogra skips up to image status
<ogra> [topic] ARM Image Status
<MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status
<ogra> i saw that NCommander asked that imx51 and dove images get disabled
<ogra> which apparently happened
<ogra> (thanks cjwatson )
<ogra> since both wont have supported kernels in ubuntu for maverick
<ogra> (yet)
<ogra> omap and versatile images will persist for now
<NCommander> ogra: can you action item me to post a bzr branch to also drop imx51/dove there (the netboot images are still being generated)
<NCommander> er
<NCommander> drop imx51/dove in d-i
<ogra> yes
<persia> NCommander: Don't drop it: just leave it unused.
<NCommander> persia: ?
<ogra> [action] NCommander to take care for disabling (not dropping) netboot builds in d-i
<MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to take care for disabling (not dropping) netboot builds in d-i
<ogra> hrm
<ogra> [action] NCommander to take care for disabling (not dropping) netboot builds of imx51/dove in d-i
<MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to take care for disabling (not dropping) netboot builds of imx51/dove in d-i
<ogra> thats better :)
<ogra> we want to keep omap and versatile :)
<ogra> anything else on images ? 
<NCommander> 10.04 was aweseom?
<NCommander> *awesome
<ogra> agreed :)
<NCommander> I think we're good on images
<ogra> ok, moving ong
<ogra> *on :)
<ogra> [topic] AOB
<MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
<ogra> any having anything ? 
<ogra> well 
<ogra> its probably good to mention that we should take a look on universe FTBFS in maverick now that main is mostly sorted
<ogra> i dont expect massive fallout in main this cycle ... no huge toolchain changes like we had the last releases or anything similar will occur ...
<ogra> so we should try to get more motus intrested and work with them to fix all the ftbfs mess 
<ogra> thats all i had to say for AOB ...
<ogra> anyone else ?
<ogra> doesnt look like ...
<ogra> how about we adjourn then ? :)
<ogra> going once ...
<ogra> going twice ...
<ogra> #endmeeting
</pre>
