{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''TIME Change +1 hour'''
'''November 8th, 2007, 17:00 UTC''' in #ubuntu-mobile.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from Oct 24th, 2007 ===
* Don_Johnson to follow up on USB Client utilities etc.
* lool to continue looking at the current issues with hildon-desktop this coming week.
* Carry forward the action -> Intel should verify the ubuntu branch works and suggest changes.

=== Current Items ===
If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.
* Discuss process for Gutsy / Hardy transition  (bspencer)

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* tfheen/lool to upload new version of hildon-desktop out of bzr
* bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works and suggest changes.
* Don_Johnson to explain USB client use case when user is using ext3 on device and windows on desktop
* lool to upload h-d to ppa
* lool to upload an updated MIC which uses the PPA /by default/
* rob_ubuntu take an action item to report back to the team what i find out and what our requirements will be for graphics drivers
* davidm to verify a new time for this meeting.
* carry on "Discuss process for Gutsy / Hardy transition (bspencer)" for next week

=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20071108_1710.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
