{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''September 28th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100928]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20101009]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* None

=== Special Items ===
* None

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-mobile-natty-alpha-1.html
* http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[13:04] <davidm> #startmeeting
[13:04] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:04. The chair is davidm.
[13:04] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[13:04] <davidm> Given that almost no one is here, it will be a quick meeting
[13:04] <davidm> [topic] kernel status
[13:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  kernel status
[13:05] <mpoirier> nothing to report as it was UDS last week.
[13:05] <mpoirier> still working on SGX driver in kernel.
[13:05] <davidm> beat me too it
[13:05] <davidm> :-)
[13:05] <davidm> Anything we need to take action on?
[13:06] <mpoirier> not that I can see.
[13:06] <davidm> OK thanks for the update
[13:06] <davidm> [topic] QA status
[13:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA status
[13:06] <davidm> GrueMaster, any thing to report?
[13:06] <GrueMaster> Nothing new here as I was on vacation.
[13:07] <GrueMaster> Missed UDS.  Still trying to connect to gobby to review UDS notes.
[13:07] <GrueMaster> Nothing else.
[13:07] <davidm> OK
[13:08] <GrueMaster> I'm surprised ogra and persia are not here, but I guess they are at plumbers.
[13:08] <nigelb> GrueMaster: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDSProceedings/N/ might help instead of Gobbby.
[13:08] <GrueMaster> ok
[13:09] <davidm> ogra is traveling to plumbers today as I will be soonish
[13:09] <davidm> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDSProceedings/N/
[13:09] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDSProceedings/N/
[13:09] <GrueMaster> Yea, figured that.
[13:09] <davidm> [topic] Any other business
[13:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Any other business
[13:10] <davidm> NCommander, is having connectivity problems and can't connect to Freescale :-(
[13:10] <GrueMaster> You mean freenode?
[13:10] <davidm> GrueMaster, yes, bloody spelling corrector
[13:10] <GrueMaster> heh
[13:11] <davidm> Freenode
=== bilalakhtar_ is now known as bilalakhtar
[13:11] <davidm> If there is nothing else from anyone then I'll call the meeting for today...
[13:12] <davidm> close the meeting going once...........
[13:13] <davidm> close the meeting going twice.....
[13:14] <davidm> #endmeeting
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* None

=== Minutes ===

== Weekly Reports ==

=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
* Moved to Portland, OR full-time
* Drafted Userland subarch spec, and updated improved subarch detection spec.
