{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''January 19th, 2012, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2011-20111212]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2012-20120126]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* NCommander to track dependency SNAFU on status tracker and remove non-ARM specs

=== Standing Items ===

* http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
* ARM Server Status (NCommander)
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (!GrueMaster, mahmoh)
* Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[14:59] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:59] <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Jan 19 14:59:16 2012 UTC.  The chair is NCommander. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.
[14:59] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[14:59] <NCommander> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Meeting/2012/20120119
[14:59] <NCommander> Who's here?
[14:59] <infinity> o/
[14:59] <rbasak> \o
[14:59] <ogra_> moop
[14:59] <ppisati> o/
[15:00] <NCommander> ok
[15:00] <NCommander> [topic] Actoin Item Review
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Actoin Item Review
[15:00]  * GrueMaster is not
[15:00] <janimo> hi
[15:01] <infinity> Did we have any "actoin" items?
[15:01] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to track dependency SNAFU on status tracker and remove non-ARM specs
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: NCommander to track dependency SNAFU on status tracker and remove non-ARM specs
[15:01] <NCommander> Done
[15:01] <ogra_> yay
[15:01] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Standing Items
[15:02] <ogra_> looks pretty bad
[15:02] <NCommander> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/ubuntu-arm.html
[15:02] <ogra_> we need to finish some WIs
[15:02] <GrueMaster> The burndown line on the chart should be reset to reflect the total # of jobs.
[15:03] <ogra_> i'll see what i can do, but up to then just imagine the line in a different angle :P
[15:03] <ogra_> we wouldnt look good then either
[15:04] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Server Status (NCommander)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Server Status (NCommander)
[15:04] <GrueMaster> ubuntu-arm-p-mx53-image and ubuntu-arm-p-armhf-archive-bringup have duplicate work items.
[15:04] <NCommander> No progress to report
[15:04] <infinity> GrueMaster: One dupe, yeah.  But hey, we get to close it soon.
[15:05] <rbasak> No requests. I may need to ask someone for help with an FTBFS on openmpi at some point
[15:05] <rbasak> (from debian experimental)
[15:05] <janimo> rbasak, I worked on openmpi last cycle
[15:06] <rbasak> thanks, I might poke you
[15:06] <janimo> rbasak, np
[15:06] <Daviey> \o/
[15:06] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
[15:06] <ppisati> a new P/omap4 has been pulled this morning: 1404.6
[15:06] <ppisati> it's 3.2.1 based, latest TI bits and some changes to the the pvr omap4 dkms happy
[15:07] <infinity> ppisati: Did you ever sort out why enabling the errata fix blew up the kernel?
[15:07] <ppisati> yesterday i played a bit with that dkms and, indeed, we can make it work in 3.2
[15:07] <ppisati> infinity: not yet
[15:07] <ogra_> on a sidenote, TI will not make the multimedia framework work in 3.2 ... they go straight to 3.3 with that
[15:08] <ogra_> but we will have to stay on 3.2
[15:08] <GrueMaster> sigh.
[15:08] <ogra_> well
[15:08] <ppisati> well
[15:08] <ppisati> even if we go to 3.3
[15:08] <ogra_> they will provide everything in the PPA
[15:08] <ppisati> some bits won't be ready per P release
[15:08] <ppisati> so users will still need to add stuff from TI ppa
[15:09] <ppisati> so, even if we pick, MM will still be a half backed solution for a while
[15:09] <ogra_> right
[15:10] <ppisati> s/even if we pick/even if we pick 3.3/
[15:10] <NCommander> anything else?
[15:10] <ogra_> move
[15:10] <ppisati> not from me
[15:10] <GrueMaster> ppisati: Why was lp:ubuntu/linux-ti-omap4 recently linked to bug 903346?
[15:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 903346 in linux (Ubuntu Oneiric) "On omap, CONFIG_DEFAULT_MMAP_MIN_ADDR needs to be set to 32768 per kconfig notes" [Undecided,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/903346
[15:10] <ppisati> GrueMaster: let me check
[15:11] <GrueMaster> afaik, it has always been correct.  Wrong bug assignment maybe?
[15:11] <ppisati> probably
[15:11] <ppisati> dunno
[15:12] <NCommander> anything else?
[15:12] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:12] <NCommander> libreoffice porting continues
[15:12] <NCommander> slow and slow progress to report
[15:13] <ogra_> we got some new failures in main
[15:13] <janimo> another gmime package version fix, revert of a workaround from last cycle
[15:13] <janimo> not much else
[15:13] <infinity> I've put some work into fpc over the last day or two, might have 2.6.0 with float shinyness soon.
[15:13] <NCommander> infinity: sounds like it was suprisingly straightforward
[15:15] <infinity> Haven't looked at the calligra failure yet, but that's the only one in main that's new.
[15:15] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
[15:15] <infinity> janimo: Want to poke it?
[15:15] <janimo> infinity, sure
[15:16] <GrueMaster> Not much that is reportable here.  Worked on getting daily ubuntu core test status reported on http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com
[15:16] <GrueMaster> Now focusing on monitoring preseed installations and automating daily installs.
[15:17] <ogra_> GrueMaster, did you try preinstalled preseeding already ?
[15:17] <GrueMaster> Not yet, but I will later today (post coffee).
[15:17]  * ogra_ would like to know about massive bugs before A2
[15:17] <ogra_> thanks
[15:17] <rbasak> I have preseeded installs working on, armel and armhf
[15:18] <rbasak> working ok
[15:18] <ogra_> rbasak, with preinstalled ?
[15:18] <rbasak> oh, no. what's preinstalled?
[15:18] <GrueMaster> That is the images we push out.
[15:19] <GrueMaster> netinstall preseed has been working for quite some time (early oneiric).
[15:19] <rbasak> I'll ask in #ubuntu-arm.
[15:20] <NCommander> anything else?
[15:20] <GrueMaster> mahmoh: Anything from your end on arm server testing?
[15:20] <ogra_> nope
[15:20] <ogra_> oh, indeed
[15:20] <mahmoh> GrueMaster: nothing this week, should have more info. next week
[15:21] <NCommander> [topic] Linaro Status (rsalveti)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Linaro Status (rsalveti)
[15:21]  * rsalveti waves
[15:22] <rsalveti> guess the topic for today is that jcrigby is working on getting the packages
[15:22] <rsalveti> for u-boot-linaro, imx53, and few other packages
[15:22] <rsalveti> so should have more updates in the next few days
[15:23] <rsalveti> but that's all from my side, we're working heavily on the release :-)
[15:23] <rsalveti> ..
[15:23] <rsalveti> :-)
[15:23] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: AOB
[15:24] <ogra_> erm, we missed image status
[15:24] <NCommander> ok
[15:24] <NCommander> er
[15:24] <NCommander> oops
[15:24] <ogra_> :)
[15:25] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:25] <ogra_> they fail ... second day in a rowm due to a skew by the looks of it
[15:25] <ogra_> gnome-games-data : Breaks: gnome-games-common but 1:3.2.1-0ubuntu3 is to be installed
[15:25] <ogra_> for today
[15:25] <infinity> ogra_: That wasn't skew, that was a broken -meta.
[15:25] <ogra_> ah, k
[15:25] <infinity> ogra_: And a broken package.
[15:25] <infinity> ogra_: Colin fixed the latter, I fixed the former.
[15:26] <ogra_> oh
[15:26] <ogra_> awesome !
[15:26] <ogra_> nothing more from me
[15:26] <NCommander> [topic] aob
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: aob
[15:27] <NCommander> i think we got nothing
[15:27] <NCommander> so I'll close the meeting out
[15:27] <NCommander> going once
[15:27] <NCommander> twice
[15:27] <NCommander> three times
[15:27] <NCommander> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[15:27] <meetingology> Meeting ended Thu Jan 19 15:27:25 2012 UTC.
[15:27] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-19-14.59.moin.txt
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* None
