{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''June 9th, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110602]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110616]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* ogra to trim down desktop seed on ARM
* ogra to follow up with Linaro on binutils segfault

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-2.html
* ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
* Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
