{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Freescale i.MX53-based QuickStart support ==

=== Installing Oneiric ===

* Download the preinstalled desktop image from
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/oneiric/release/ubuntu-11.10-preinstalled-desktop-armel+mx5.img.gz

* Write it to a microSD card - the !QuickStart board only boots from microSD

<pre>
$ zcat ubuntu-11.10-preinstalled-desktop-armel+mx5.img.gz | sudo dd of=/dev/mmcblk0 bs=4M
</pre>

* Insert your microSD card in the board, plug in the power cord and press the power-on button next to the microSD slot.

=== Input/Output ===

Connect a monitor via the VGA slot and USB mouse/keyboard using the USB ports.

To enable HDMI at 720p, edit `/boot/boot.script` and append <pre>
di0_primary video=mxcdi0fb:RGB24,1280x720M@60 hdmi gpu_nommu gpu_memory=64M </pre>
to the end of the `setenv bootargs` line, then `sudo update-initramfs -u` and reboot. Experiment for 1080p.

=== Known issues ===

The installation is very slow, it can take an hour. Be patient.

The installer window may disappear due to a crash towards the end of the install but it should be left to work until it finishes removing of installer-only packages. NOT selecting automatic login when asked is a good workaround, as the system will log out to a lightdm greeter when installation and package removal is finished.
