{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''February 28th, 2008, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from Feb 21st, 2008 ===
* ChickenCutlass to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB. (carryover, 2nd time)
* cwong1, attempt to create an lang pack to report back next week with results.
* asac) report on code to create XPI from LP exports or look around for help to complete this and report back next week.
* kyleN will sum the executive steps for i18n for GMA and lool to review them before posting.
* ToddBrandt to continue building i18n infrastucture to match the gnome-control-center one by next week.
* lool to reformat detailed notes user interface string changes post freeze and post to Ubuntu wiki.
* lool kyleN to research if need to configure the seed into the LP Ubuntu export to get tarballs for the mobile seed, then update the rules.
* Mithrandir to split up remaining Hildon packages that need to be upgraded amongst everybody except people who claim they are busy with other things. (carryover)
* mawhalen to followup on when theme tools are updated, and then gen a new theme using the tools with sabotage (Shane Bryan)
* bfiller to file bug on gutsy/hardy dbus problems.

=== Current Items ===

* (lool) Cebit attendance
* (lool) version numbers in the ppa
* (lool) overwriting changes in ppa packages
* (bfiller) testing packages on Hardy before promoting to PPA

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* ChickenCutlass to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB. (carryover)
* asac to provide the general algorithm for converting .po files to xpi structures and provide with example input files to mobile list email.
* davidm & agoliveira to look at what asac provides and get script written by next week that does conversion of .po files to xpi structures.
* kyleN to prepare a mapping of hildon source packages to gettext domains, and list where the gettext domains are in maemo.
* Mithrandir to split up remaining Hildon packages that need to be upgraded amongst everybody except people who claim they are busy with other things. Lo√Øc to get involved in this. (carryover address this week in email)
* mawhalen to follow up on when theme tools are updated, and then gen a new theme using the tools with sabotage (Shane Bryan) (carryover)
* lool to document versioning in the ppa into wiki
* overwriting changes in ppa packages, revisit this topic next week with Intel developers present.
=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080228_1702.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
