{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''March 30th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100323]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100406]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from March 23rd, 2010 ===
* cooloney to get karmic-proposed imx51 kernel with NEON fix in
* ncommander to extend invite to ericm and amitk to report on kernel status
* plars to follow up with crimsun on the sound bug and report back
* asac to upload libplist with -marm
* asac and dmart to get firefox rendering issue upstreamed

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
* QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
* ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|persia]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

Meeting canceled due to Ubuntu Mobile team being mostly unavailable.

== Weekly Reports ==
=== Tobin Davis (GrueMaster) ===
==== This Week ====
* Built test system and installed Windows 2003 server with updates and third party ftp server software to test network issues seen on Babbage (karmic & lucid).  Tested new kernel with network driver rewritten to take advantage of common phylib resources showed a dramatic improvement of network data transfer rates.  Further testing pending arrival of outdated 10/100 Ethernet hubs to close additional bugs reported.
* Extensive work testing and fixing audio issues on Dove platform.  First issue fixed was for pulse to be able to enable/disable headphone/line swap switch for user accessibility.  Now users can select audio output direction from the sound applet.
* More digging into root cause of pulseaudio not allowing certain sound sample rates to be played.
* Assembled new Linux server for mirroring ports repositories and testing netboot/rootfs on arm.  Should be operational for Beta 2 testing.
==== Future ====
* More work on pulseaudio issues.  Hope to resolve before Beta 2.
* Ramp up pairwise testing now that the images are stabilizing.
* Document lsb library testing procedures.

=== Jamie Bennett (JamieBennett) ===
==== This Week ====
* Investigated a couple of FTBFS packages with no real conclusion.
* Worked on fixing bugs in webservice-office-zoho. 
** Fixed 
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/537356| Bug 537356, application menu entries dont do anything]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/548820| Bug 548820, If a menu entry is clicked, Zoho should open with an empty document]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/531908| Bug 531908, Web alternative to open office should be available]]</nowiki>, 
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/540178| Bug 540178, Does not open any document but works through terminal]]</nowiki>, 
** finished off <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/539626| Bug 539626, Needs translation support]]</nowiki>
** Talked to Zoho about <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/537365| Bug 537365, Uses open office icons, should use something else]]</nowiki>, Zoho have committed to supplying distributable icons. 
* Packaged and released version 0.2, then 0.3 of webservice-office-zoho at https://edge.launchpad.net/webservice-office-zoho/trunk/0.3 There will be another release as soon as icons have been received from Zoho.
* Spent some time working on beagle board bring up, research and experimenting.
* Usual administration tasks such as meeting documentation, reports and infrastructure.
==== Future ====
* Finish off the webservice-office-zoho package when we have icons.
* Background research for possible UDS topics.
* Triage the FTBFS list.

=== Steve Kowalik (StevenK) ===

* Thursday archive admin duties.
* Fight to keep images building.
* Seeded webservice-office-zoho on armel.

=== Paul Larson (plars) ===
==== This Week ====
* Helped IS with cabling issues for new buildds
* testing on neon network performance on karmic
* tested a new kernel with updated FEC driver for lucid imx51
* build a serial debug cable for beagle
* updated pairwise iso tracker to switch to all-options testing for beta 1.
* worked on some scripts to help with generation of bug lists for release status
* began testing on ubuntu-one and ubuntu music store on arm
* tested backport of the new fec driver to karmic
==== Future ====
* more testing
* scripting/automation
* omap image bringup if it becomes available/testable
* vacation
