{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''September 14th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100907]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100921]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===

=== Special Items ===

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
* http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[DavidSugar|dyfet]]</nowiki>)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[14:06] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:06] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:06. The chair is NCommander.
[14:06] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:07] <GrueMaster> Morning.
[14:07]  * NCommander forgot that this meeting was in the morning after a month in China
[14:07] <mpoirier_> o/
[14:07] <dyfet> *blink*
[14:07] <davidm> G'day NCommander
[14:08]  * NCommander swears
[14:08] <NCommander> I think the wiki page forgot to save
[14:08] <NCommander> give me a sec
[14:08] <ogra> hmm
[14:09] <NCommander> [topic] Action Item Review
[14:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Item Review
[14:09] <ogra> you dont have the action items ...
[14:09] <NCommander> [topic] ogra to talk to rsalveti about the darn EDID spec, reassigning it and new workitems
[14:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  ogra to talk to rsalveti about the darn EDID spec, reassigning it and new workitems
[14:09] <ogra> done
[14:09] <rsalveti> working on it now :-)
[14:09] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to clean up thumb2 assignments from http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html which he definitely wont work on this cycle
[14:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to clean up thumb2 assignments from http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html which he definitely wont work on this cycle
[14:09] <NCommander> c/o
[14:09] <ogra> pfft
[14:10] <NCommander> [topic] ogra to clearify uboot-imx bugs with jcrigby
[14:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  ogra to clearify uboot-imx bugs with jcrigby
[14:10] <ogra> c/o
[14:10] <ogra> imx is really low prio
[14:10] <NCommander> [topic] ogra to update the title and generalize bug 628029
[14:10] <ogra> at least that part
[14:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  ogra to update the title and generalize bug 628029
[14:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 628029 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu Maverick) "[maverick] panda ES1.0 does not suspend on beta image" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/628029
[14:10] <ogra> whoops
[14:10] <ogra> c/o
[14:10] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to talk to davidm about adding dove to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/ReleaseManifest
[14:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to talk to davidm about adding dove to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/ReleaseManifest
[14:11] <NCommander> Done
[14:11]  * ogra applauds
[14:11] <NCommander> [TOPIC] Standing Items
[14:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[14:11] <NCommander> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:11] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:11] <NCommander> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
[14:11] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
[14:12] <ogra> wohooo !
[14:12] <ogra> below trend
[14:13] <NCommander> yay
[14:13] <ogra> well, not in the overall one
[14:13] <ogra> but for 10.10
[14:13] <NCommander> [TOPIC] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag(
[14:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag(
[14:14] <mpoirier_> nothing to declare.
[14:14] <ogra> bug 605042 ... will screw us if we dont find a fix on imx51
[14:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 605042 in eglibc (Ubuntu Maverick) "[armel] java fails to start with eglibc-2.12-0ubuntu4" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/605042
[14:14] <persia> I thought that was fixed with the reversion to b18
[14:14] <ogra> persia, the buildd screwup ?
[14:14] <ogra> no
[14:15] <lag> I have
[14:15] <persia> Oh :(
[14:15] <ogra> the kernel on the buildds makes java segfault
[14:15] <lag> o/    When you're ready
[14:15] <ogra> which makes all packages using java binaries ftbfs
[14:15] <ogra> lag, go
[14:15] <lag>  * Marvel (mvl-dove)
[14:15] <lag>    * Nothing new this week
[14:15] <lag>  * Freescale (fsl-imx51)
[14:15] <lag>    * ON GOING : B605042: Java segfault on Freescale iMX5.1 Babbage board with Lucid - will try to bisect Lucid 2.6.31 kernel
[14:15] <lag>  * Texas Instruments (ti-omap)
[14:15] <lag>    * ON GOING : B591941 Original patch was not complete - Adrian Hunter should release the final patch this week.
[14:15] <lag>    * ON GOING : B608266 Fix submitted and accepted - still waiting for mobile team to test.
[14:15] <lag>    * ON GOING : B633227 ES2.0 board is unstable when highmem is enabled - backported a patch from upstream to solve memtester issue
[14:15] <lag>    * ON GOING : B628029 ES2.0 board does not boot with CONFIG_PM enabled
[14:15] <lag>    * NEW      : B622935 a patch has been written - author needs to send it upstream
[14:15] <lag>    * PATCH    : Lots of TI audio patches have now been applied - testing under way
[14:15] <lag>    * PATCH    : B563650 upstream patch was applied
[14:16] <lag>    * PATCH    : B477106 Lucid alpha-2 and earlier freeze upon suspend with sd card plugged in with some hardware
[14:16] <lag>    * PATCH    : B588243 upstream patch was applied
[14:16] <lag>    * FIXED    : B613855 omap3 beagle XM MMC card always comes up read-only
[14:16] <lag>    * FIXED    : B605488 scheduling while atomic: mmcqd/46/0x00000002
[14:16] <lag>    * FIXED    : B589624 omap flavour does not work on beagle XM board
[14:16] <lag>    * FIXED    : B605832 LG monitor behaving incorrectly when used in conjunction with the Panda board and HDMI
[14:16] <lag>    * FIXED    : B477106 Maverick alpha-2 and earlier freeze upon suspend with sd card plugged in with some hardware
[14:16] <lag>    * FIXED    : B592295 omapdss DISPC error: SYNC_LOST_DIGIT
[14:16] <lag>    * FIXED    : B628107 false alarm - first boot loaded unstable kernel
[14:16] <lag> ..
[14:16] <ogra> i see some weird display issues on omap4 at,
[14:16] <ogra> *atm
[14:16] <ogra> which are not easily reproducable
[14:16] <GrueMaster> I will be testing 608266 today.
[14:17] <rsalveti> ogra: like what?
[14:17] <ogra> screen goes black and i can only get it back when switching consoles
[14:17] <lag> Yeah, I have that
[14:17] <lag> Although, when I do switch consoles, I only have a display for a few seconds then that dies too
[14:17] <ogra> EEEK !
[14:18]  * ogra just looked at dmesg on his panda for the first time this week
[14:18] <ogra> [89357.432678] swapper: page allocation failure. order:3, mode:0x4020
[14:18] <ogra> *sigh*
[14:18] <ogra> lots of them
[14:18] <rsalveti> =\
[14:18] <ogra> gah, i thought that was gone
[14:19] <ogra> lag, it stays for me and i dont have anything display related in dmesg usually
[14:19] <GrueMaster> Is that today's image?
[14:19] <ogra> GrueMaster, yesterdays
[14:19] <rsalveti> but kernel should be the same
[14:19] <lag> ogra: Mine just went black :(
[14:19]  * ogra wishes dmesg would have proper timestamps
[14:20] <GrueMaster> I'm running 20100913 on ES2 and not seeing the page allocation failures.
[14:20] <ogra> i just did lots of apt-get stuff on the panda, i wonder if the page allocation stuff is related
[14:20] <ogra> but hard to tell without a proper timestamp
[14:20] <lag> Okay, it's staying now
[14:21] <lag> But there's no messages in dmesg
[14:21] <ogra> right
[14:21] <ogra> same for me
[14:21] <ogra> i wonder if userspace triggers some DPMS stuff that hangs until you switch consoles
[14:21] <lag> No, I have it
[14:21] <persia> Might be better to do the low-legel debugging discussion after the meeting...
[14:21] <ogra> persia, indeed
[14:21] <lag> It's the GFX_FIFO_UNDERFLOW again
=== cking is now known as cking-afk
[14:21] <lag> ack
[14:21] <ogra> lag, ah, i think i saw that
[14:21] <NCommander> can I move on?
[14:22] <lag> ..
[14:22] <ogra> NCommander, go
[14:22] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:23] <GrueMaster> Worked a bit on a script to generate a launchpad report with all open bugs.  WIP.
[14:23] <GrueMaster> Most of my testing is on apps atm.  Testing on all running systems as simultaneously as possible.
[14:24] <GrueMaster> I'm still getting some random, hard to reproduce bugs that don't generate enough debug output for the devs to work on.
[14:24]  * ogra looked at go-home-applet today
[14:25] <GrueMaster> I saw that, cool.
[14:25] <ogra> and found some work for our contractor :)
[14:25] <GrueMaster> Will it get fixed before release?
[14:25] <GrueMaster> We are weeks away.
[14:25] <ogra> GrueMaster, if you find bugs that are clearly -efl, feel free to assign to him (and notify me)
[14:25] <ogra> i'm working on a fix for go-home today
[14:25] <GrueMaster> I'll need his info.
[14:25] <ogra> not sure about efl
[14:25] <ogra> look at the bug :)
[14:26] <GrueMaster> Ok.
[14:26] <ogra> i assigned the efl part to him
[14:26] <ogra> and go-home to me
[14:26] <GrueMaster> Go-home looks like an easy fix.  porting the add-to-fav's may be a little more work.
[14:26] <GrueMaster> And not as critical.
[14:26] <ogra> i'm also going through the remaining jasper bugs today
[14:27] <GrueMaster> I also filed a low priority bug on go-home-applet wrt the version reported.
[14:27] <ogra> sadly our contractor is in a werid TZ
[14:27] <GrueMaster> aren't we all. :P
[14:27] <ogra> like US westcoast ... i think
[14:27] <ogra> :P
[14:28] <ogra> so i havent talked to him yet
[14:28] <GrueMaster> Erm, that is the pacific Standard timezone, thankyou.
[14:28] <NCommander> can I move on?
[14:28] <GrueMaster> go
[14:28] <ogra> ++
[14:28] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:29] <dyfet> Well, I am focused this morning on two packages, gcl and hdf5
[14:29] <ogra> great !
[14:29] <ogra> doko asked for them
[14:29] <dyfet> I am trying to reduce the hdf5 issue into a simple test case
[14:29] <NCommander> ubiquity remains dead on Dove
[14:30] <NCommander> (and armel in general I guess)
[14:30] <NCommander> Looking into that this week
[14:30] <dyfet> gcl I think may be an underlying toolchain bug
[14:30] <ogra> NCommander, dead as in FTBFS ?
[14:30] <NCommander> ogra: segfault
[14:31] <ogra> NCommander, note that ubiquity runs fine on omap
[14:31] <ogra> so must be either dove specific or partitioner issue
[14:31] <NCommander> ogra: ubiquity is running in oem-config mode, and not in full installation mode.
[14:31] <ogra> since we use everything but the partitioner on omap
[14:31] <NCommander> ogra: right. I'm working on it.
[14:31] <ogra> k
[14:31] <NCommander> We might just change to alternates for release if necessary if this proves difficult to fix (already discussed with davidm)
[14:32] <ogra> oem-config mode isnt much different to normal install mode
[14:32] <ogra> just adds the extra panel and supresses partitining
[14:32] <ogra> NCommander, why not preinstalled ?
[14:32] <ogra> would save us QA effort
[14:32] <NCommander> ogra: cause 1. preinstall images require hacks to livecd-rootfs.sh for each subarch 2. you actually want to install on Dove since it has both SATA, and FTL NAND
[14:32] <davidm> NCommander, I really don't want to use alternates
[14:33] <GrueMaster> Not much.  I actually have more infrastructure to support installs on dove.
[14:33] <ogra> NCommander, leave 2 to server installation ;)
[14:33] <GrueMaster> And the installer works on Dove A0.
[14:33] <GrueMaster> Just not on unsupported hw.
[14:33] <ogra> and 1) isnt really a big issue
[14:33] <NCommander> GrueMaster: it does? I thought it was segfaulting during installation
[14:33] <GrueMaster> That was fixed last week.
[14:33] <NCommander> GrueMaster: oh good. yeah, its known to do that on unsupported installation. I'm working with cjwatson to resolve it.
[14:33] <NCommander> GrueMaster: ah, I must have missed it in my bug mail
[14:34] <ogra> ah, so we talk about a non-issue ?
[14:34] <ogra> great
[14:34] <NCommander> ogra: it must have gotten fixed while I was in transit (I hadn't tested since Thursday)
[14:34] <GrueMaster> The last image available (20100910 I believe) installed fine yesterday.
[14:34] <NCommander> \o/
[14:34] <NCommander> execellent
[14:35] <ogra> 0910 ?
[14:35] <ogra> its 14th today
[14:35] <ogra> NCommander, can you check crontab and make sure dailies build ?
[14:35] <ogra> i think there was a big difference between tree and real crontab when i checked
[14:35] <NCommander> ogra: will do
[14:35] <ogra> just didnt have the time to fix it
[14:35] <GrueMaster> 20100909 is the latest (looking on cdimage now.
[14:35] <GrueMaster> )
[14:36] <NCommander> ogra: I *really* want to know who is changed it; I know I had the tree and the actual crontab in sync
[14:36] <ogra> yeah, seems like dailies dont happen
[14:36] <ogra> 0910 was a manual build i did
[14:36] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to smash antimony's crontab's with a big large golden brick
[14:36] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to smash antimony's crontab's with a big large golden brick
[14:36] <NCommander> [topic] Weekly Activity Reports (all)
[14:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Activity Reports (all)
[14:36] <GrueMaster> Not seeing dailies for omap either.
[14:36] <GrueMaster> omap4 is ok.
[14:36] <ogra> [action] NCommander to put something fluffy aounrd the golden brick
[14:36] <NCommander> This topic is a request from davidm for us to do our activity reports here in the meeting
[14:37] <NCommander> (if I understood him right)
[14:37] <ogra> NCommander, yes, he asked me too to take care
[14:37] <NCommander> so I'll go first
[14:37] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander's status
[14:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander's status
[14:37] <ogra> NCommander, but to have them on the wiki
[14:37] <NCommander> oh
[14:37]  * NCommander coughs
[14:37] <NCommander> Ok
[14:37] <ogra> dont make the meeting longer
[14:37] <NCommander> [action] EVERYONE to put their status on the wiki
[14:37] <MootBot> ACTION received:  EVERYONE to put their status on the wiki
[14:37] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[14:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[14:38] <ogra> action me with hunting people down for them
[14:38] <ogra> did we have image status ?
[14:38] <NCommander> gah
[14:38] <rsalveti> there's a question regarding the opengl es powervr sgx driver
[14:38] <NCommander> [topic] CDimage Status
[14:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  CDimage Status
[14:38] <ogra> heh
[14:38] <rsalveti> for AOB
[14:38] <NCommander> (thanks ogra)
[14:38] <GrueMaster> Easier for me to add to wiki than to type it out at 6:40am.
[14:38] <ogra> we seem to have bad HW
[14:39] <ogra> acorn constantly fails
[14:39] <NCommander> ogra: yeah, the crontab looks like it got changed for beta and never reverted. I'm just going to save a copy and apply the tree (which is what we were using pre-beta)
[14:39] <ogra> usually only survives a day or two
[14:39] <ogra> NCommander, fine with me
[14:39]  * NCommander does a manual spin for Dove
[14:39] <ogra> i asked lamont to try to find out when exactly it fails ... (under load or during idling)
[14:40] <ogra> but we have no outcome there yet
[14:40] <NCommander> speaking of acorn
[14:40] <NCommander> Its dead
[14:40] <ogra> NCommander, yeah
[14:40] <NCommander> ssh: connect to host acorn.buildd port 22: No route to host
[14:40] <NCommander> :-/
[14:40] <ogra> you should have gotten mail about the failed omap build this morning
[14:40] <ogra> if thats emopty its a good indicator its dead
[14:40] <NCommander> ogra: I did.
[14:41] <NCommander> ogra: I hadn't looked at the email though in depth
[14:41] <GrueMaster> Last one I got was two days ago.
[14:41] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to change buildlive to send an email to lamont if acorn is down
[14:41] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to change buildlive to send an email to lamont if acorn is down
[14:41] <NCommander> :-)
[14:41] <ogra> mean !
[14:41] <ogra> i doubt he likes that
[14:41] <ogra> and he cant do much anyway
[14:41] <NCommander> ogra: well, if you have a better target ...
[14:41] <ogra> since it requires someone to drive over to the location and reboot it by hand
[14:42] <NCommander> ugh
[14:42] <NCommander> disregard then:-/
[14:42] <ogra> someone of the guys who drive over ;)
[14:42] <ogra> i mean, i'm sure lamont would like to know about it ... but effectively he will only trigger manual intervention
[14:43] <ogra> NCommander, ask in #is if they would like such a thing and to whom
[14:43] <NCommander> ogra: k
[14:43] <ogra> though it smells to me like we need to replace the board soon
[14:43] <ogra> its diening more often than it used to
[14:43] <ogra> and the OS is the same all over the place so its unlikely to be software
[14:44]  * NCommander wonders if the kernel team was allowed near it
[14:44] <ogra> heh
[14:44] <NCommander> I think that's everything
[14:44] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[14:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[14:44] <rsalveti> so, regarding the powervr sgx driver for omap3
[14:45] <rsalveti> latest version they changed the license
[14:45] <rsalveti> from export control to TSPA (no registration required)
[14:45] <ogra> sweet !
[14:45] <rsalveti> and from the license definition we're able to distribute it
[14:45] <ogra> does that mean we can pull it to multiverse ?
[14:45] <rsalveti> still restricted, but we can pull it
[14:45] <rsalveti> as they libraries are just binaries
[14:46] <rsalveti> don't know how we work with proprietary stuff
[14:46] <ogra> well, if its suitable for restricted/multiverse we should immediately upload it there
[14:46] <rsalveti> there are 2 pieces, one is the kernel part, that's GPL
[14:46] <ogra> and build our images with it
[14:46] <rsalveti> another is the libraries
[14:46] <rsalveti> I created a first version for the packages, and described the test howto at http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/sgx/HOWTOINSTALL.txt
[14:46] <ogra> if its not different to nvidia/fglrx we can use it
[14:47] <rsalveti> for now I'm separating the kernel part because we should discuss to understand where it should be integrated
[14:47] <rsalveti> ogra: guess it's the same
[14:47] <ogra> rsalveti, you shouldnt use m-a
[14:47] <ogra> use DKMS
[14:47] <rsalveti> http://www.flickr.com/photos/rsalveti/4989404974/
[14:47] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.flickr.com/photos/rsalveti/4989404974/
[14:47] <rsalveti> the driver running with beagle xM
[14:47] <ogra> if you could repack them with DKMS they can go in
[14:47] <persia> rsalveti, Could you post the license somewhere?
[14:47] <rsalveti> ogra: yep, saw that after using m-a
[14:48] <rsalveti> persia: sure
[14:48] <rsalveti> ogra: I can work on it
[14:48] <ogra> awesome !
[14:48] <rsalveti> ogra: then the libraries also need some more love
[14:48] <ogra> that would be a big step
[14:48] <rsalveti> as it'll conflict with mesa ones
[14:48] <ogra> like nividas
[14:48] <ogra> or fglrx
[14:49] <ogra> look at these packages
[14:49] <persia> No, it's not as bad as nvidia, but there's work to be done
[14:49] <ogra> they handle the mesa replacements somehow
[14:49] <rsalveti> persia: http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/sgx/TSPA.txt
[14:49] <rsalveti> ogra: yep, will check with these packages
[14:50] <rsalveti> and with asac, as I remember there was a proposal for opengles
[14:50] <ogra> cool, thanks a lot, thats so awesome
[14:50] <ogra> you really really rock !"
[14:50] <rsalveti> Object Code License.  For the Licensed Materials provided in object code format, TI hereby grants to you a limited, non-exclusive license to reproduce and use the Licensed Materials provided to you in object code format and to distribute an unlimited number of object or executable copies of such object code Licensed Materials.
[14:50] <ogra> all beer at UDS is on me !
[14:50] <GrueMaster> Very nice.  With those installed how well does unity work?
[14:50] <rsalveti> this is the piece that I like the most, from the license
[14:50] <ogra> GrueMaster, i think clutter still has issues
[14:50] <GrueMaster> Damn, I won't be there for free beer.
[14:51] <rsalveti> GrueMaster: still didn't check unity
[14:51] <rsalveti> but probably has issues
[14:51] <ogra> and i think we'll need an xserver for it long term ...
[14:51] <ogra> which doesnt exist at all afaik
[14:51] <rsalveti> persia: can you check the license later?
[14:51] <rsalveti> to see if I'm right on it
[14:52] <persia> rsalveti, that license looks OK, depending on the additional materials provided: stuff that falls afoul of the export restrictions, registration requirments, royalty requirements, etc. might have to be multiverse.  Other stuff could be universe.
[14:52] <rsalveti> cool
[14:52] <ogra> persia, well, main then
[14:52] <persia> I'm not authoritative, but I've read a lot of licenses, so there's probably at least an 80% chance the archive-admins would have a similar opinion.
[14:52] <ogra> if we can ship it we can add it to the images
[14:53] <persia> ogra, Doesn't matter really.
[14:53] <ogra> from an image guy POV it does :)
[14:53]  * persia adds "really get rid of the main/universe distinction" to the list of things to bring to UDS
[14:53] <persia> Not really, but sure :)
[14:53] <ogra> well, make it "on image/not on image" then :P
[14:54] <persia> Well, no, but never mind :)
[14:55] <ogra> rsalveti, what about the GPLed kernel bit, culd we get it in the tree ?
[14:55] <ogra> we wouldnt need m-a or DKMS then
[14:55] <rsalveti> ogra: I'd love if we could move to the tree
[14:56] <rsalveti> maybe to staging
[14:56] <ogra> lag, ^^^ ??
[14:56] <persia> lag, ?
[14:56] <ogra> rsalveti, even as sauce or under the ubuntu/ dir :)
[14:56] <rsalveti> ogra: could be
[14:56]  * ogra doesnt mind how ... as long as we can get it
[14:57] <rsalveti> lag: ?
[14:57] <ogra> or mpoirier_ ^^^
[14:57] <ogra> :)
[14:57] <rsalveti> that's why he uses lag as nick
[14:57] <ogra> yeah
[14:57] <mpoirier_> Yes, no problem.
[14:57] <ogra> there is a special meaning ... i always suspected that
[14:57] <lag> Sorry
[14:57] <mpoirier_> but again, I don't have a board to test.
[14:57] <rsalveti> mpoirier_: do you have a beagle?
[14:57] <ogra> mpoirier_, omap3 ?
[14:57] <rsalveti> normal beagle
[14:57] <mpoirier_> ok.
[14:58] <ogra> C4 or some such will do
[14:58] <ogra> we dont have these libs for omap4 yet
[14:58] <mpoirier_> omap3 - no problem.
[14:58] <rsalveti> mpoirier_: if you can work on it I'll send you the links
[14:58] <rsalveti> we can talk on #ubuntu-arm
[14:58] <mpoirier_> yes indeed, more more details.
[14:58] <NCommander> we're almost out of time, can I close the meeting?
[14:58] <rsalveti> no more topics from me
[14:59] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[14:59] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 08:59.
</pre>

=== Action Items ===

* NCommander to smash antimony's crontab's with a big large golden brick
* EVERYONE to put their status on the wiki
* NCommander to change buildlive to send an email to lamont if acorn is down

=== Minutes ===

== Weekly Reports ==

=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
==== This Week ====
* Further progress on improved-subarch
* Continue collaboration with Marvell
* dove image testings crontabs

* Fixed antimony'
=== Ricardo Salveti (rsalveti) ===
==== This Week ====
* Kernel pull request accepted to improve MMC performance on OMAP 3 (https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-team/2010-September/012683.html)
* Proposed branch with devmem2 packaging (bug #607752), but it seems devmem2 still needs some love
* Working on a first version of PowerVR SGX packaging (now that they changed from export control to TSPA)
* Patch to fix Panda LED at u-boot is now upstream and working with latest u-boot-linaro (bug #633271)
* Working with Bryan on bug #633227, testing and trying to reproduce upstream

==== Future ====
* Finish PowerVR SGX packaging, proposing a PPA and using DKMS for kernel modules
* Study possibilities for EDID blueprint now with Kernel Freeze
* Continue debugging memory and display issues on Panda

=== David Sugar ===
==== This Week ====
* Some frustration with kde on arm.
* Assigned hdf5 at end of week.
* A number of bugs resolved, arm specific and general.

==== Future ====
* HDF5, gcl, and other/release critical arm specific bugs
* Fixing other release critical packages in ubuntu for Maverick
