{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Installing pre-installed OMAP4 Precise (12.04.2) Server Images ==

Follow these steps;

=== Download ===
Download the compressed image from the <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/precise/release/|cdimage]]</nowiki> server.

/!\ Check the md5sum to verify the image /!\

=== Copy the image to SD card ===

You should write the raw image to a blank SD card. Make sure you're using at least a 2 Gig SD card so that you have enough room for the image.

Steps:
# Insert the SD card in your host computer's SD card reader.
# Make sure the SD card is not mounted (just umount it if needed).
# Identify the correct device name (like `/dev/mmcblk0` or `/dev/sdb`).
# Run the following command to write it: 
<pre>
gunzip -c ubuntu-12.04-preinstalled-server-armhf+<omap or omap4>.img.gz | sudo dd bs=1M of=/dev/<device name>
sync
</pre>

or

<pre>
sudo sh -c 'zcat ubuntu-12.04-preinstalled-server-armhf+<omap or omap4>.img.gz > /dev/<device name>'
sync
</pre>

~- '''(note: replace <omap image> with omap4 for panda/blaze/other omap4 based system and the raw block device for <device name> - not a partition. i.e. /dev/mmcblk0 )''' -~

=== Booting the image ===

# Attach a serial cable to the serial port on the board. ~-(note:  The board is already wired for a straight serial cable - no null modem needed)-~ 
# Open a terminal on your host system and launch a serial console monitor with the port set for 115200,n,8,1
** '''Screen:''' screen /dev/ttyUSB0 115200
     ~- ''' * you can end the screen session by pressing Ctrl-A and then K ''' -~
** '''Minicom:''' TERM=vt100 minicom 
     ~- ''' * the TERM=vt100 setting is needed for proper output formatting ''' -~

     ~- ''' * you can end the minicom session by pressing Ctrl-A and then X or Q ''' -~

1. Insert the SD card in the system and switch on the board.

The system should start booting with output shown on your serial terminal.  After the board resizes the image to fill the SD card, it will reboot and start oem-config to prompt for localization and user info.
