{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''January 3rd, 2008, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

* Dates of the mobile sprint are: January 28th 2008 through February 1 2008

=== Action Items from Dec 20th, 2007 ===
* carry over lool to take a look at bug # 172426 and see if he can reproduce it. until Jam 3rd 2008.
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works
* amitk to update hardy ppa with drivers, ('''context found,  sent to Amitk''').<<BR>>
 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/Meeting/20071129
* carry over, davidm to query build team on best way to monitor the i386 builds and the LPIA builds to stay in sync. (manual)
* Lexington to test ext3 for boot speed and disk image corruption as soon as an extra CB shows up.
* davidm to ship his C0 MB when it arrives to Lexington.
* Canonical to share all info with robr2 on disk image corruption as soon as available
* bspencer to talk with developers to push get tags when making a release, and report back on status of this
* davidm to query rustyl on status of PPM ('''query sent, waiting response''')

=== Current Items ===
(If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.)

Discuss Moblin Compliance Tests  -- bspencer

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* rustyl to put tfheen and Mohomad Abas in touch with each other over PPM

=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080103_1718.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
