{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''December 06th, 2007, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

* Dates of the mobile sprint are: January 28th 2008 through February 1 2008

=== Action Items from Nov 29th, 2007 ===
* lool to take a look at bug # 172426 and see if he can reproduce it.
* carry over bfiller to for looking into a better solution for a banner to be
* Don_Johnson to get this written up (USB info) with some use cases and put it on the mail list.
* carry over to next week: bspencer & Don_Johnson to clarify the process and deliverables
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works
* carry over smagoun Since my group needs it, I'll take an action item to test overriding exa for a gutsy psb backport
* kyleN to test h-i-m and get back to StevenK on status Mobile Application spec: (issue documentation is light)
* amitk to update hardy ppa with drivers

=== Current Items ===
If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.

* smagoun - Better tracking of LPIA build failures (correct versions of evince, freetype1, tasks, probably others didn't get into gutsy/lpia because of various build failures: https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/lpia/+builds)
* ChickenCutlass - Discuss reasons behind the decision to use acpid, custom moblin battery applet instead of using gnome-power-manager and its status bar applet.
* smagoun - startp performance update from agoliveira

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* carry over lool to take a look at bug # 172426 and see if he can reproduce it. until Dec 20th.
* carry over to next week: bspencer & Don_Johnson to clarify the process and deliverables
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works
* carry over smagoun Since my group needs it, I'll take an action item to test overriding exa for a gutsy psb backport. In progress.
* carry over amitk to update hardy ppa with drivers
* davidm to query build team on best way to monitor the i386 builds and the LPIA builds to stay in sync.
* Michael Frey to post " Discuss reasons behind the decision to use acpid, custom moblin battery applet instead of using gnome-power-manager and its status bar applet" question to the list.
* agoliveira to report next week any findings on boot speed.
* robr to arrange a meeting around USB and VFAT issues. In this case all parties to this meeting are scattered around the world so someone will be inconvenienced.

=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20071206_1700.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
