{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''March 16th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100309]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100323]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from March 9th, 2010 ===
* asac and JamieBennett to triage netbook-launcher-efl bugs
* ogra to file a bug on LP not tracking bug links to blueprints or sending emails
* ogra to forward cooloneys patch for bug #531696 to be included in the BSP
* ogra and asac raise regulator patch issue again with fsl
* ogra to check with ttx on what server team needs to help likewise testing on arm

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
* QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
** Suspend issue on imx51 narrowed down to changes between 20100303(Pass) and 20100305(Fail) images.  Further testing being done to determine root cause.  Not a kernel issue (both images use the same kernel).
** Sound on dove still a problem for most apps outside of basic alsa test programs.
** Beta 1 Release testing this week.
* ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|persia]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business
** Ubuntu Liquid

=== Action Items ===
* GrueMaster & plars to investigate imx51 suspend issue
* persia to bring remove any unneeded images from antimony

=== Minutes ===
* Some of the team were absent due to training.
* The overall burn-down chart for the Mobile team was looking in good shape but the beta-1 chart highlighted the fact that not all items were completed. Some items will have to be retargeted to beta-2.
* ericm told the team that he had received more patches from Marvell and forwarded them to the Ubuntu kernel lead to be included. No specific bugs were targeted with these patches. He also mentioned that he had included a patch for a mplayer audio crash bug.
* No status update was given for the Freescale kernel as cooloney was absent.
* Talk moved to the Q/A status and plars asked for help in testing the beta-1 images that were now available.
* GrueMaster mentioned that he had narrowed down the suspend issue on iMX51. After testing multiple images he found that the image dated 03/03/10 was the last working one that supported suspend.
* ericm asked about the status of the ARM desktop images, he was informed that the team only build netbook images now.
* dyfet informed the team that Canola2 would not be included in Lucid and may not be in Lucid+1 due to upstream package problems.
* The saga with the long standing unwind bug in Open Office was coming to a close. NCommander said that ARM had supplied a revised patch that needed testing.
* NCommander also mentioned that he had filed bugs against the Chromium browser.
* dyfet had been working on the squid fail to build issue and with lool’s help had produced a patch.
* Talked moved onto the image build status. persia reported that images were being built but they were still a big buggy. 
* GrueMaster asked about the status of kexec, NCommander said it would not be ready for Lucid.
* After meeting with the upstream author of plasma mobile, ian_brasil informed the team that Ubuntu Liquid Remix could be available for testing in early June and that it may be ready in time for the 10.10 Ubuntu release. Talk drifted to the naming of the release and whether it should have the ‘Remix’ suffix, no conclusion was made.

== Weekly Reports ==
=== Jamie Bennett (JamieBennett) ===
==== This Week ====
* Fail to build work:
** Worked on fio fail to build.
** Fix - http://www.launchpad.net/bugs/532722 
** Got a solution uploaded but dmart suggested a configure script that may be the better option. In the short term we will fix as normal, long term some more generic way for ARM may be desired.
** Also had an ia64 failure, produced a fix for that too.
*** http://www.launchpad.net/bugs/535000 
** Produced a fix for kbuild fail to build:
** http://www.launchpad.net/bugs/535093
* Produced a fix for mythtv fail to build on ARM:
** https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/537714
* webservice-office-zoho was uploaded. Needs to be in main for our images. Produced an MIR for it.
** https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/537323
* Worked on initial investigations into browser bookmark support for webservice-office-zoho. Supplied asac with necessary files to integrate.
* Worked on bug 537356 to make menu icons launch the appropriate zoho services if no filename is passed. Pushed a solution to:
** https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~jamiebennett/+junk/webservice-office-zoho
* Filed bug for new icons for webservices-office-zoho. We really need to tie up whether or not we can use Zoho's icons or else make some of our own.
** https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/537365
* Gave presentation on our Ubuntu on ARM hardware initiative to a local embedded Linux company.

==== Future ====
* Work through more of the FTBFS list.
* 'Out of office' until Wednesday.

=== David Sugar (dyfet) ===
==== This Week ====
* Re-packaged canola2 for revu, found we cannot use it at this time
* Worked on squid ftbfs issue on armel
* Rebuilt test machine on lucid
* Some motu activity related to sipwitch

==== Future ====
* More ftbfs issues, armel or not
* Tracking down bugs that are fixable
* More motu related activity
* Will be away end of week to speak at Harvard
* Test install of beta 1?

=== Tobin Davis (GrueMaster) ===
==== This Week ====
* Tested new kernels on imx51 and dove.
** Bug #537083 - Suspend fails on imx51 - need to determine last working image.
** Fixed dove crash when using mplayer - Bug #530404 
* Some pairwise image testing
** Bug #536960 - Ubiquity partman crashed during partition resize on Dove only
* Spent more time with olver-core-tests.  Rebuilt with latest patch "suggestions".  Need to review results.
 
==== Future ====
* Determine failure point on babbage3 suspend.  Not a kernel issue at this point.
* Beta 1 Testng.
* Likewise Open Active Directory testing.
* Possible NFS root testing (if I can get time to assemble my new server).
* Develop a smoke test checklist that goes beyond installation (suspend/hibernate/resume, base app testing, etc).  Nothing too time consuming, but something that touches the main areas.

=== Paul Larson (plars) ===
==== This week ====
* debugging on audio problems seen in bug 528524 and 534815
* Installed karmic on imx51 to test a kernel for it
* tested several kernels aimed at fixing the suspend/resume regression on imx51 lucid (bug #537083)
* Spent time trying to bring up a new dev board
* Did some fixes for the suspend/resume checkbox suite, updated it to the upstream tree (still need to push a new merge request)
* spent some time going through ftbfs list seeing if there's some way I can help trim down the armel list
** Tested the debian version and submitted sync request for bug 538059
==== Future ====
* Beta 1 testing!
* Chromium testing

=== Alexander Sack (asac) ===
==== This Week ====
* MIR processing:
** liblog-log4perl-perl - approved
** plotutils - pushed back with comments
** getfem++ - pushed back due to missing ABI/API tracking 
** pstoedit - approved with some comments
** opengtl - pushed back due to missing ABI/API tracking
** libqtgtl - pushed back due to missing ABI/API tracking
** shared-desktop-ontologie - approved with some comments
* retried ftbfs:
** yelp, ppl
* made patch for "firefox not starting with certain extensions installed" bug - lp:518422
* packaged a few of #armel fsl imx51 goodies: imx-lib libz160 and xserver-xorg-video-imx

=== Emmet Hikory (persia) ===
==== This Week ====
* Fix python-apt patch to be actually correct for warty and hoary
* Try to track down test case for python-apt fixes
* Set up improved mirroring to track image status
* Further investigation / testing of UBI bits

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===
==== This Week ====
* lots of FTBFS give backs 
* more rootstock/qemu hang debug tries, still no solution for #532733
* plenty rootstock upstream bugfixes
* some imx51 image tests in preparation to beta1
==== Future ====
* final rootstock upload
* convert rootstock testplan to gui testplan once the final upload is
done
* add a failed/succeeded stamp to livecd-rootfs to have an easier log
overview page
* package x-loader and u-boot for omap 
* start working on cdimage changes for building omap images
* add support for beagle boards to flash-kernel-installer
* work on partman changes for beagleboard default partitioning
(needs /boot being vfat)

=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
==== This Week ====
* Marvell optimization and packaging
* OpenOffice.org test fixing continues
* General ARM FTBFS testing
==== Future ====
* Marvell optimization continues
* ARM FTBFS continues

=== Steve Kowalik (StevenK) ===

* Thursday archive admin duties.
* Fight to keep images building.

== Meeting Log ==
<pre>
[13:01] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100316
[13:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100316
[13:01] <persia> Much better on that time thing this week :)
[13:01] <plars> yay :)
[13:03] <davidm> G'day NCommander
[13:03]  * NCommander pokes GrueMaster ogra ericm_ 
[13:04]  * GrueMaster pokes back with a sharper, longer stick.
[13:04] <NCommander> :-P
[13:04]  * ericm_ pokes back
[13:04] <NCommander> [topic] Action Items from March 9th, 2010
[13:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Items from March 9th, 2010
[13:05] <NCommander> [topic] asac and JamieBennett to triage netbook-launcher-efl bugs
[13:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  asac and JamieBennett to triage netbook-launcher-efl bugs
[13:05] <GrueMaster> they are at lean training.  C/O
[13:05] <NCommander> ah, yes
[13:05] <NCommander> [topic] ogra to file a bug on LP not tracking bug links to blueprints or sending emails
[13:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  ogra to file a bug on LP not tracking bug links to blueprints or sending emails
[13:06] <plars> also out, skip
[13:06] <NCommander> all the other action items are ogra's
[13:06] <NCommander> so
[13:06] <NCommander> [topic] Current Items
[13:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Current Items
[13:06] <plars> so short meeting today! :)
[13:06] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
[13:06] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
[13:07] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
[13:07] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
[13:07] <NCommander> burndown chart looking happier
[13:08] <StevenK> Sorry about that
[13:08] <NCommander> StevenK: np
[13:08] <plars> hmm, not the beta1 one
[13:11] <NCommander> Anyone else have anything to say on the burndown charts, or can I move on?
[13:11] <davidm> NCommander, they look better then I expected so move on
[13:11] <GrueMaster> forward, hoa
[13:11] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
[13:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
[13:12] <ericm_> I guess cooloney is on his biz travel to Beijing
[13:13] <ericm_> from dove POV, nothing really interested, Marvell has another several fixing patches but none of them addresses any LP bugs
[13:13] <ericm_> I've sent the git pull request to apw just now, together with a workaround for the audio crash bug in mplayer
[13:13] <ericm_> and hopefully we'll get a new kernel in several days
[13:14] <NCommander> nice
[13:14] <GrueMaster> The mplayer crash was fixed in latest kernel.
[13:14] <NCommander> ericm_: can I move on?
[13:14] <apw> will try and get you a test kernel today
[13:14] <ericm_> NCommander, yes please
[13:14] <ericm_> apw, thanks
[13:14] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
[13:14] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
[13:15] <GrueMaster> I've posted some bullets on the meeting web page.
[13:15] <plars> looks like someone already put some decent status there, thanks GrueMaster
[13:15] <GrueMaster> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100316\
[13:15] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100316\
[13:15] <plars> big thing this week is beta 1
[13:15] <plars> please help test images (if/when they become available)
[13:15] <plars> speaking of which... is there something we need to do to get the images to show up there?
[13:16] <plars> for armel that is?
[13:16] <plars> oh wait
[13:16] <plars> they are now it seems
[13:16] <persia> plars: It's often just a matter of timing, etc.
[13:16] <plars> nm... odd that I didn't get subscription notification of them
[13:16] <GrueMaster> I asked yesterday, and they mentioned needing to do a respin due to an Ubiquity issue.
[13:17] <plars> I am down to just my imx51 board, so anyone who has stuff to test on, would be very useful
[13:17] <GrueMaster> Yes, interesting.  I didn't either.
[13:18]  * GrueMaster also notices a netboot with 20081029ubuntu90?
[13:18] <GrueMaster> date seems to be a bit off.
[13:19] <NCommander> GrueMaster: looks like a QA tracker bug, i386/amd64 are the same
[13:19] <GrueMaster> Ah
[13:19] <StevenK> netboot's are built with the version number of d-i, not the date.
[13:19] <StevenK> So it isn't a bug
[13:19] <GrueMaster> ah, that would explain it.
[13:20] <GrueMaster> In more critical news, I have narrowed down the bug on imx51 suspend.  It isn't a kernel issue.
[13:22] <GrueMaster> I tested several images since Alpha 3, and found that the image dated 0303 works, but 0305 does not.  The only relevant package that I can tell that changed was pm-utils, but that was a fix for nvidia only.  Doubt that it would make a difference, but I plan on testing it anyways to see.
[13:23] <GrueMaster> The interesting part is that if you start with an image from 0303 and just run updates, it will still work.
[13:23] <persia> What!
[13:24] <plars> GrueMaster: that's not completely true, at least in my experience
[13:24] <NCommander> GrueMaster: ow
[13:24] <persia> That points at some difference in how the packages are configured during image build.
[13:24] <plars> GrueMaster: when I got the new kernel, it broke for me, starting at the 0303 image
[13:24] <NCommander> plars: GrueMaster: are you both testing on the same hardware revisions?
[13:24] <plars> reverting to the one that cooloney gave us, fixed it for me
[13:24] <plars> babbage 3.0 is what I'm on
[13:25] <GrueMaster> Same here.  I'll test the new kernel on 0303.  I had thought that you reported the new kernel as working, but you had only been doing updates (hence my deduction).
[13:26] <plars> I reported in the bug that the rebuilt kernel that he pointed to in the previous comment worked for me
[13:26] <GrueMaster> yes, that was what I thought.
[13:27] <GrueMaster> I had said that the same kernel failed for me, but I was testing off a newer image.
[13:28] <GrueMaster> At any rate, it is a regression that so far isn't entirely kernel based.
[13:28] <plars> clearly there's some more investigation to be done here, but I think we can work on that outside the meeting
[13:29] <NCommander> [action] GrueMaster & plars to investigate imx51 suspend issue offline
[13:29] <MootBot> ACTION received:  GrueMaster & plars to investigate imx51 suspend issue offline
=== doko_ is now known as doko
[13:30] <NCommander> anything else on the topic we need?
[13:30] <ericm_> NCommander, just wondering why there is no recent image on cdimage?
[13:30] <GrueMaster> Nothing new to report on the sound issue with dove.  More testing is needed, and the new kernel patches "may" fix it.
[13:30] <ericm_> still
[13:30] <GrueMaster> ericm_: 20100316 isn't recent enough?
[13:31] <ericm_> GrueMaster, convince me with URL?
[13:31] <plars> http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/ubuntu-netbook/ports/daily-live/
[13:31] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/ubuntu-netbook/ports/daily-live/
[13:31] <GrueMaster> http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/ports/daily-live/20100316/
[13:31] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/ports/daily-live/20100316/
[13:32] <plars> ericm_: could be that you are looking under the old location?
[13:32] <ericm_> no more desktop? sorry I think I missed something
[13:32] <plars> a few weeks back, desktop was dropped yes
[13:32] <GrueMaster> Desktop builds were stopped during the sprint.
[13:32] <plars> in favor of netbook 2d launcher based images
[13:32]  * ericm_ oops
[13:33] <plars> :)
[13:33]  * ericm_ starts the downloading
[13:33] <persia> Um, just as a side note, there may still be some leftover images, but they were *intended* to be dropped.
[13:33] <StevenK> Sorry, I probably should have told the kernel guys that
[13:33] <StevenK> persia: Can we spend some time tomorrow going over that?
[13:33] <GrueMaster> I thought they knew since they were at the sprint working with us.
[13:33] <persia> NCommander: Could you action me to kill the rest of the leftover images tomorrow?
[13:33] <ericm_> StevenK, that's OK - my bad - because I'm still seeing desktop images maybe a weeks ago
[13:33] <NCommander> [action] persia to bring death to leftover images on antimony
[13:33] <MootBot> ACTION received:  persia to bring death to leftover images on antimony
[13:34] <persia> StevenK: Absolutely.  Sorry it slipped my mind today.
[13:34] <persia> NCommander: It's beryllium/chromium/etc. I care about : more poisonous metals I leave for other folk, but sure.
[13:35] <StevenK> ericm_: Where are you seeing those images?
[13:35]  * persia is also curious, because a week ago there should not have been a desktop live
[13:35] <StevenK> Indeed, I killed it with fire
[13:35] <StevenK> persia: Currently only chromium
[13:35] <ericm_> StevenK, maybe cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/daily-live/* - but I cannot remember the date, maybe back several weeks ago
[13:36] <StevenK> ericm_: There's no armel there now :-)
[13:36] <persia> StevenK: That wasn't true when I synced 12 hours ago, but sure :)
[13:36] <persia> ericm_: Several weeks ago, I'd believe.
[13:36] <ericm_> StevenK, persia, now I'm clear - thanks
[13:36] <StevenK> persia: I just got defeated by the round-robin-dns-but-we'll-only-tell-you-one thing
[13:36] <persia> Anyway, let's move on.  ericm_ will play with netbook images, and StevenK and I will fiddle scripts to make sure everything is clean.
[13:37] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
[13:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
[13:37] <persia> StevenK: Yeah.  I only see multiple names because I watch iftop during my mirror runs sometimes :)
[13:38]  * NCommander pokes dyfet 
[13:39] <dyfet> We have decided not to package canola2 for lucid
[13:39] <persia> Considering how many freezes are in effect, that's a good thing :)
[13:40] <dyfet> Well more to the point, parts of it are using entirely depreciated dependencies that we should not package either
[13:40] <dyfet> So we may not be using it in lucid +1 either...
[13:42] <ian_brasil> but if you have the 2D launcher you have the dependencies, no?
[13:42] <persia> We did get a different enlightment media player into lucid though.
[13:42] <dyfet> It also uses etk
[13:42]  * persia checks
[13:42] <dyfet> and epsilon
[13:42] <persia> enna
[13:44] <NCommander> may I move on?
[13:44] <dyfet> yes
[13:44] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[13:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[13:45] <NCommander> OOo is almost resolved. ARM sent a revised patch which I need to test
[13:45] <NCommander> chromium-browser is showing some odd platform specific behavior. Bugs filed
[13:45] <NCommander> (also a general bug with it in UNE)
[13:48] <NCommander> dyfet: anything else to add?
[13:48] <plars> NCommander: did you file a bug on the decoration/maximus issue?
[13:48] <dyfet> Yes
[13:48] <dyfet> I had a small patch for squid ftbfs
[13:49] <persia> You fixed squid!  Excellent!.
[13:49] <dyfet> Well, I took Loic's suggestion...
[13:49] <dyfet> And made it into a patch :)
[13:49] <NCommander> plars: yeah, its tagged une since its not armel specific
[13:50] <plars> NCommander: great, I was going to offer if you hadn't already
[13:51] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, persia)
[13:51] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, persia)
[13:51] <persia> Images seem to be building, but are still a bit buggy.
[13:52] <persia> squid was the last big missing piece on Monday (didn't check today)
[13:52] <persia> I'm having an issue that I can't boot some recent images, but I think that's just me.
[13:52] <persia> Nothing else, unless someone else has something.
[13:53] <NCommander> [topic] Any Other Business
[13:53] <MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business
[13:53] <GrueMaster> Are we going to have kexec this cycle?
[13:54] <GrueMaster> I believe that is what is needed for dual booting images, right?
[13:54] <NCommander> GrueMaster: no
[13:54] <NCommander> not unless something drastically changes between now and release
[13:55] <GrueMaster> If we are not going to have a supported method for dual booting, I would like to suggest we remove the side-by-side installation option from Ubiquity.
[13:56] <GrueMaster> Since the only way to dual boot currently is with a lot of magic and a serial port.
[13:56] <NCommander> GrueMaster: file a bug :-)
[13:57] <NCommander> anything else, or can I close out the meeting
[13:57] <ian_brasil> Ubuntu Liquid Update: I spoke with the upstream author of plasma mobile @ the Bossa Conference and he is happy for us to work on making it available in ubuntu :). He said an October time frame is realistic if we help out on Kwin and other issues. There is now an official initiative to break up kde libs http://mail.kde.org/pipermail/kde-maemo/2010-February/000059.html and we are participating on that too. We would like the standing item back and w
[13:57] <ian_brasil> ant to have everything in-archive by the week of 3rd June, so we can play with Alpha 1
[13:58] <NCommander> ian_brasil: woo. Sounds like we'll have a ubuntu-liquid-remix for lucid+1
[13:58] <NCommander> :-)
[13:58] <ian_brasil> it is not called remix now..just ubuntu liquid
[13:59] <persia> Well, we'll see.
[13:59] <NCommander> ian_brasil: I thought it had to be called remix unless approved by the TB
[13:59] <persia> We'll try to make it not a remix, at least.
[13:59] <persia> NCommander: No, it has to be called a remix unless it's a flavour.
[13:59]  * NCommander notes persia would probably know the trademark policy better than I will
[13:59] <ian_brasil> ok..either is fine by me
[13:59] <persia> It isn't yet clear whether that needs TB approval (although I think it ought).
[13:59] <NCommander> ian_brasil: we'll have something. What that something is called is $UNDEFINED
[13:59]  * NCommander notices a running tread with platform related items, and names
[13:59] <persia> NCommander: Not trademark, but anyway, yeah.
[14:00] <NCommander> any objections if I close out the meeting?
[14:00] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[14:00] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 09:00.
</pre>
