{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Writing the image ===

You should write the raw image to a blank SD card. Make sure you're using at least a 4G SD card (desktop image is 2G uncompressed).

==== Linux ====

Steps:
# Place the SD card at your host computer.
# Make sure the SD card is not mounted (just umount it if needed)
# Identify the correct raw device name (like /dev/sde - '''not''' /dev/sde1)
# Run the following command to write it: 
(replacing omap4 and sde with the right values i.e. just omap for a beagle image.)
<pre>
zcat ./ubuntu-12.04-preinstalled-desktop-armhf+omap4.img.gz |sudo dd bs=4M of=/dev/sde ; sudo sync
</pre>

/!\  Some people have reported issues with this method.  If this doesn't work, try the following commands:
# gunzip ubuntu-12.04-preinstalled-desktop-armhf+omap4.img.gz
# sudo dd bs=4M if=ubuntu-12.04-preinstalled-desktop-armhf+omap4.img of=/dev/sde
# sudo sync

==== MAC (OSX 10.x) ====

Download the image and extract it with the system archive utility, you should get a .img file
if the disk is mounted disk1.. disk2.. '''not''' - disk0, unmount it with the following code.
<pre>
sudo diskutil unmountDisk disk1
</pre>

Then use the following code to write the image to disk1 ('''not''' - disk1s1..)
<pre>
sudo dd bs=4m if=ubuntu-12.04-preinstalled-server-armhf+omap4.img of=/dev/disk1
</pre>

If you get any errors trying to run the following code then try reinserting the SD card and trying again after unmounting the disk, or try formatting it first with !DiskUtilities

==== Windows (XP/Vista/7) ====

Download the image and extract it using !WinZip or some other archive utility.  Then use !Win32ImageWriter to write the unzipped img file to your flash device.

