{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''February 23rd, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==

=== Link to previous meeting ===
* <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100216]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from February 16th, 2010 ===
* asac to arrange the next thumb2 team sprint.
* asac to blog about the ARM alpha-3 release.
* asac and JamieBennett to discuss the web office spec and come up with a way of moving it forward.
* NCommander to link power management spec to dove bugs
* GrueMaster to produce a daily report on image testing and add that to the weekly meeting page.
* ogra to produce a rootstock test plan.
* NCommander to investigate KDE FTBFS issues.
* Team to add individual summaries to standing items before meetings. 

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-lucid-alpha-3.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
** Add status here.
* QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
** Add status here.
* ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
** Add status here.
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
** kdebindings remains broken on ARM due to a segfault
** OpenOffice.org remains broken due to UNO library possibly corrupting the stack
** libqt4-x11 remains on high priority list for things to be ported to ARMv7/Thumb2
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|persia]]</nowiki>)
** Add status here.
* Any Other Business

=== Action Items ===
* To be added.

=== Minutes ===
* To be added.

== Weekly Reports ==
=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
* Lost Monday due to President's Day
* Returned home from working from Lexington office
* Began OOo debugging
* Successfully booted a Marvell X0 with assistance with Marvell and ericm
* Worked with GrueMaster to confirm X0 enablement patches didn't hose Y0/Y1
* Repaired apport on jocote (again)
* Implemented pselect() syscall in QEMU to help increase dpkg/apt performance
* Worked with armin76 to confirm that Gentoo also is affected by OOo breakage
* Discussion with doko on possible binutils regression related to OOo breakage
* Was granted kubuntu-dev status for uploading to kubuntu packages in main
* Tested kexec() on ARM on Marvell Dove; confirmed that it works, but initramfs support is broken ATM
* mukluk hacking continues

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===
==== This Week ====
* finish rootstock GUI spec 
* prepare and uplaod a rootstock-gtk package with first iteration of the GUI
* upload rootstock with added --script, --manifest, --extra-mirror support
* fix several rootstock bugs
* make all rootstock builds default to use oem-config
* tons of testbuilds
* plenty of tests of oem-config frontends with rootstock (still many many bugs here, not rootstock related though)

==== Future ====
* finish the split of progress handling in rootstock GUI (show different progresses for different stages of the build instead of complete build progress)
* code cleanups in rootstock and rootstock-gtk
* fix missing profile load/save functions in rootsotck-gtk
* more oem-config testing for rootstock images
* work out testplan for mobile-QA to test rootstock images
* prepare and test alpha3 images for imx51
* work through remaining FTBFS that might hold up A3

=== Emmet Hikory (persia) ===
* Review of moserial : an excellent tool for managing serial console access
* Continue work on schroot FTBFS
* Confirm final plans for lucid liquid: 100% PPA (Carnival + FeatureFreeze is not ideal)

=== Paul Larson (plars) ===
==== This Week ====
* one day of vacation
* Spent some time running through the mobile-bringup-tests on imx51, mostly to do some small corrections to tests
* Tested a rebuilt kernel on imx51
* Got new hardware for dove installed and running
* Rebuilt the dove squashfs to build an image with a new kernel.  The included fix seems to address kernel issues we were seeing on the new hardware
* Created some new tests for the suspend/resume testing blueprint
==== Future ====
* Finish off the suspend/resume testing blueprint
* Start running and posting results for mobile-bringup-tests to get baseline
* Alpha 3 iso testing for imx51 and dove images
* Look at some possible new testsuites I came across recently

=== Alexander Sack (asac) ===

* evaluated zoho webservice API for webservice-office spec
* reviewed/invalidated issues from thumb2 review list: ocaml, pixman, webkit
* updated netbook-launcher-efl to be installable side by side with netbook-launcher to prepare 2d/3d fallback
* weekly release team meeting and preparations - update blueprint workitems
* worked on webservices email spec, testing various providers
* sponsored xulrunner, thunderbird, firefox, network-manager, network-manager-applet, network-manager-pptp, network-manager-openvpn, network-manager-vpn, network-manager-openconnect

=== Steve Kowalik (StevenK) ===

Short week, climbing a bridge on Monday.

* NBS work. Lots of it. :-(
* Try and get images building, keep getting defeated by slow buildds.
* Thursday archive admin duties.
* Try and sort out Babbage hardware, getting defeated by not finding suitable power.
* Clean up old desktop armel images. Discover they keep coming back.

=== Tobin Davis ===
==== This Week in QA ====
* National Holiday (Presidents Day)
* Received Dove X0 - initial testing fails to boot.  Filed Bug 522834.
* Start Pairwise testing with updated image to reduce false failures - new bug causes partitioner to crash if drive has existing partitions - Bug 524169
* Continued testing of UNE live image - Filed bugs 524066 & 522848
* Received test kernel for X0 - Installed on imaged system using Y1 board.  New kernel works on both Y1 & X0.
* Retested several Yx bugs on X0 and closed them as fixed (510954, 512620, 522834)
* Spent Friday with PDX team.  Asked for input on daily test log ideas.  Didn't get any valuable input.  Spent rest of day working remotely on LSB olver-core-test fixes.
* Integrated latest fixes to olver-core-test from LSB Engineers.  Slight improvement only.  Need to do a full rebuild with changes to ensure that all changes are fixing compiler warnings if nothing else.  

==== Future ====
* Alpha 3 Release testing
* Rootstock testing for Oliver
* Pairwise testing post Alpha 3.  Hope to finish as much as possible so I can refocus on real testing again.
 
=== Dave Martin (dmart) ===
==== This Week ====
* Some browser discussions
* Checked up on x264 status with regard to the NEON code upstream
* Tried to boot lucid on a couple of SMP platforms, unsuccessfully so far.
* Miscellaneous effort supporting Thumb-2 porting.
==== Future ====
* Absent Mon and maybe Tues next week.
* Try to make progress on the SMP boot problems.
* Continue supporting the Thumb-2 porting effort.

=== David Sugar ===
==== This Week ====
* Short week, holiday at start, away at scale/8x at end
* Some thumb-2 porting
* Some sipwitch finalized all blueprint work
* Finalized asterisk changes for server blueprint
* Canola2 ready for preliminary archiving
==== Future ====
* More ftbfs, issues left for a3 freeze
* Critical path on gnome-keyring
* Testing of a3 iso

=== Jamie Bennett (JamieBennett) ===
==== This Week ====
* iMX51 image testing.
* Mythbuntu documentation proof-reading.
==== Future ====
* Web office work.

== Meeting Log ==
<pre>
* To be added.
</pre>
