{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page describes information needed to install Ubuntu on ARM-based systems with UEFI firmware.
Note: only '''ARM64''' platforms are currently supported, and only with the network boot installation method.

== Network Boot Installation ==
# Download the <nowiki>[[http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/dists/xenial/main/installer-arm64/current/images/netboot/netboot.tar.gz|current installer]]</nowiki> (16.04)  and unpack at the '''top level''' of your tftp server root. '''subdirectories are not supported.'''
# Configure a TFTP and DHCP server as described in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/16.04/installation-guide/arm64/ch04s03.html|Install Guide]]</nowiki>.
  a. The '''netboot.tar.gz''' must be unpacked at the '''top level''' of your tftp server root.
  a. For the '''''filename''''' parameter in your '''dhcpd.conf''' file, use '''''"ubuntu-installer/arm64/bootnetaa64.efi"'''''.
1. Direct your system to network boot. The method for doing this varies across UEFI implementations.
  a. AMI AptioV
   i. From the Aptio Setup Utility, select '''''Advanced -> Network Stack Configuration -> Network Stack'''''.
   i. Press "+" to enable the network.
   i. Exit to the top menu and under the '''Boot''' menu the network devices will show up in the Boot Priorities list.
1. Booting the installer : 

  a. Connect to the serial console

  a. Power on the system
  a. When the console displays the following message: "'''The default boot selection will start in X seconds'''", Interrupt the boot by pressing a key. This will present the EFI Main Menu.
  a. From the EFI Main Menu, choose option “'''[3] Boot Manager'''”
  a. From the Boot Manager menu, choose option “'''[1] Add Boot Device Entry'''”
  a. Select a “'''PXE'''” option from the menu corresponding to the network adapter to be used for installation.
  a. When prompted for a “'''Description for this new Entry'''” enter “'''PXE'''”
  a. Choose option “'''[5] Return to main menu'''”
  a. From the EFI Main Menu, choose the newly created “'''PXE'''” option
  a. At this stage your system should PXE boot and present a GRUB menu
  a. Press “'''Enter'''” to select “'''Install'''”. At this point your console will go blank for ~60 seconds, followed by the initial installer screen. 
  a. Please follow the installer prompts to make appropriate selections and kick off the installation.

Please use the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/16.04/installation-guide/arm64/index.html|Ubuntu install guide]]</nowiki> for more detailed instructions including automated install information.
