{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:other-o-arm-flash-kernel-postinst
* '''Created''': 2011-04-22
* '''Contributors''': Oliver Grawert
* '''Packages affected''': linux

=== Summary ===

Comply with upstream guidance that the kernel management scripts need to be responsible for ensuring that updates to initramfs and bootloaders are correctly applied to the target hardware.

=== Release Note ===

Starting with Ubuntu 11.10, improved mechanisms for updating boot data have been made available, such that any of the kernel, initramfs, or bootloader are only written individually when updated, rather than all updated together.  This results in fewer write cycles to the boot medium, extending the life of your hardware.

=== Rationale ===

Mostly because upstream says so.  Upstream is right because the use of flash kernel considerably increases the risk of operations, as all boot files are written each time any of them are updated, reducing the life of the flash, increasing the chance of write errors, and generally being uselessly redundant.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
