{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Goals ==
This wiki covers the bug workflow and policies for the arm team.

The goals of this document are to:
# Establish clear guidelines for handling the workflow of bugs associated with the arm team
# Identify relevant bugs
# Prevent missing important bugs
# Track the progress of relevant bugs

Unless otherwise specified in this document, the general <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/WorkFlow|bug workflow]]</nowiki> guidelines should be followed.

== Filing bug reports ==
Whenever possible, bugs should be created using apport.  The easiest way for doing this in graphical applications is by clicking on Help->Report a problem.  For other problems, or when the bug makes this impossible, the ''ubuntu-bug'' command can be used from the command line. For help on using the ''ubuntu-bug'' command and finding the right package to file the bug against, see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|ReportingBugs]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage|FindRightPackage]]</nowiki>.

== Bug Triage ==

Please follow the general bug triage guidelines outlined <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage|here]]</nowiki>.
=== Bug Tags ===
Please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Tags|Bug Tags]]</nowiki> for other general bug tags that may be appropriate.

Bugs found running on an ARM processor based systems will be automatically tagged with the '''armel''' tag by apport.  This no longer means that they are specific to Ubuntu on ARM, but could be since they were found there.

Bugs related to ARMv7 / Thumb-2 migration, compiler segfaults, or other obscure compiler internal errors should also be tagged with '''armv7'''

Bugs related to ARMHF migration, compiler segfaults, or other obscure compiler internal errors should also be tagged with '''armhf'''

==== Daily image testing ====
Bugs found while testing against daily builds should be tagged with the '''daily''' tag.  This is not automatically handled by apport and should be done manually.
 
=== Subscription ===
All bugs that are determined to be specific to ARM should be subscribed to the '''ubuntu-arm''' team.  For ARM bugs related to compiler issues, also subscribe Matthias Klose (~doko) and Dave Martin (~dave-martin-arm) to the bug.  More information about compiler related issues on ARM can be found on <nowiki>[[ARM-Thumb2]]</nowiki>.

=== Assignment ===
Generally speaking, if you are opening or triaging a bug, you should not assign it to anyone.  Assignment should be to an individual or team who is taking ownership to ''fix'' the bug.  If you have been assigned the bug and do not intend to work on it, or do not anticipate having time to work on it, you should add a comment to the bug to reflect this and find someone else to take ownership of it, or unassign yourself.

Bugs subscribed to by the ubuntu-arm team will be reviewed by the arm team and assigned to the linaro team if appropriate.
