{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''September 9th, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2011-20110901]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2011-20110915]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-arm.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-arm-ubuntu-11.10-beta-2.html
* ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
* Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[15:00] <ogra_> #startmeeting
[15:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Sep  8 15:00:15 2011 UTC.  The chair is ogra_. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.
[15:00] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[15:00] <ogra_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Meeting/2011/20110908
[15:00] <ogra_> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Meeting/2011/20110908
[15:00] <ogra_> pfft
[15:00] <ogra_> who is here ?
[15:00]  * ogra_ fears only GrueMaster and me
[15:01]  * rbasak is here
[15:01] <GrueMaster> Zzzzz
[15:01] <ogra_> heh
[15:01] <rbasak> Daviey: ?
[15:01] <czajkowski> me to watch ogra_ chair another meeting!
[15:01]  * mrjazzcat lurks
[15:02] <ogra_> well, lets make this a quick one then, many team members are traveling (plumbers) or on vacation
[15:02]  * cmagina waves
[15:02] <ogra_> #topic action items
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: action items
[15:02] <ogra_> there were none i could find on the wikipages
[15:02] <ogra_> eirther michael didnt update that or we had none :)
[15:02]  * ogra_ just assumes the latter for now
[15:03] <ogra_> #standing items
[15:03] <ogra_> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-arm.html
[15:03] <ogra_> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-arm-ubuntu-11.10-beta-2.html
[15:04] <ogra_> hmm, there are two persia items
[15:04] <ogra_> GrueMaster, any idea if he will work on them ?
[15:05] <GrueMaster> Let me look at them.
[15:05] <ogra_> hmm, i thought LTSP and NBD were assigned to me
[15:05] <GrueMaster> Not seeing any for persia.
[15:05] <ogra_> i wonder why they show up there
[15:05] <ogra_> GrueMaster, on the beta-2 page
[15:05] <ogra_> LUKS and LVM testing
[15:06] <ogra_> anyway, that seems all wrong all over
[15:06] <GrueMaster> Refresh or something.  I already completed the LVM and LUKS testing.
[15:06] <ogra_> [action] ogra to find out whats wrong with the tracker
[15:06] <meetingology> ACTION: ogra to find out whats wrong with the tracker
[15:06] <ogra_> BAH !!!!!
[15:06]  * ogra_ kicks chroimum
[15:07] <ogra_> the url came out of the cache ... i'm on ubuntu-armel
[15:07] <GrueMaster> I'm looking at the same links.  You have the LTSP & NBD items.
[15:07] <ogra_> sigh
[15:07] <ogra_> yeah, that looks better, sorry, my browser tricked me
[15:07] <GrueMaster> heh
[15:08] <ogra_> and imho it all looks fine
[15:08]  * ogra_ moves on
[15:08] <GrueMaster> I'm not sure what to do for SELinux.
[15:08] <ogra_> #topic server status NCommander, Daviey
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: server status NCommander, Daviey
[15:08] <ogra_> GrueMaster, given we generally treat it as a nice to have in ubuntu i think that could slip to P as long as apparmor is fine
[15:08]  * GrueMaster will come back to WI issues in QA section.
[15:09]  * rsalveti just noticed that the linaro related topic is not at the wiki
[15:09] <ogra_> do we have anything for server status
[15:09] <ogra_> rsalveti, feel free to add it :) just tell me when to reload
[15:09] <rbasak> What needs doing for ARM server and how can I help?
[15:09] <GrueMaster> rbasak: Mainly testing.
[15:09] <ogra_> rbasak, well, the gusy caring for it seem to not be around, but generally we can need help with QA and the like
[15:10] <rbasak> apart from testing is there anything else?
[15:10] <ogra_> there are so many server apps ...
[15:10] <ogra_> and while GrueMaster does an awesome job, he cant test all of it alone
[15:10] <rsalveti> ogra_: done
[15:10] <ogra_> NCommand1r, anything from you to add for the server topic ? (since you are around)
[15:11] <ogra_> doesnt look like
[15:11] <rbasak> So to help with testing, I'll speak to GrueMaster about what I can do later shall I?
[15:11] <rbasak> Or if not, who?
[15:11] <ogra_> rbasak, well, generally we are all available in #ubuntu-arm in our awake hours
[15:11] <ogra_> lets carry that to there after the meeting
=== lan3y is now known as Laney
[15:12] <rbasak> OK
[15:12]  * ogra_ moves on
[15:12] <GrueMaster> rbasak: Take a look at http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/u/gruemaster.html and feel free to pull any open WI (just let me know which).
[15:12] <ogra_> #topic kernel status ppisati, cooloney
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: kernel status ppisati, cooloney
[15:12] <ogra_> hmm, neitrher of them is around
[15:13] <ogra_> rsalveti, any intresting kernel bits on your side we should know about ?
[15:13]  * ogra_ saw someone is fiddling with sound stuff
[15:13] <GrueMaster> It would appear that the USB SMP issue has been resolved.  I am doing testing on the new kernel now.
[15:13] <Daviey> gah!
[15:13] <ogra_> Daviey, shoudl we re-visit ?
[15:13] <rsalveti> ogra_: sound should be sorted at the current omap 4 package
[15:13] <ogra_> rsalveti, including userspace ?
[15:13] <rsalveti> ogra_: yeah, someone updated the alsa ucm configs
[15:13] <ogra_> i think i read thats still missing
[15:13] <rsalveti> ogra_: will check what is needed to make it work later today
[15:14] <ogra_> thanks, if you need anything on our side feel free to chase me down :)
[15:14] <rsalveti> ogra_: and I'm now just waiting the TI update on the SGX side
[15:14] <Daviey> ogra_: It really needs to be NCommander and GrueMaster providing an update.. I'm empty ;(
[15:14] <GrueMaster> Cool.  Will keep an eye out for it on the next desktop image.
=== Guest98499 is now known as Zic
[15:14] <rsalveti> to see if we're still missing any related patch to make it work properly with latest kernel
[15:14] <ogra_> yeah
[15:15] <ogra_> ac100 kernel is still pending an update to the latest tree tip btw
[15:15] <ogra_> (it carries the USB patch too, and apparently USB throughput went from 7M/s to over 20)
[15:15] <ogra_> any more stuff for kernel ?
[15:15] <rsalveti> yup :-)
[15:15] <rsalveti> ogra_: nops
[15:16] <ogra_> Daviey, GrueMaster will give a QA update, does that suffice ? NCommand1r is on vac. he would give updates i fear
[15:16] <ogra_> #topic ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:16] <ogra_> ftbfs page looks good :)
[15:17] <ogra_> nothing pressing
[15:17] <rsalveti> nops, lot of help from folks to get the ftbfs related bugs fixed
[15:17]  * ogra_ dug a bit into the vlc issues the last days ... that will be fixded once Qt is updated 
[15:17] <doko> ogra_, it's not complete ;)
[15:18] <ogra_> doko, according to nokia it is fixed in the version we plan to pull
[15:18] <ogra_> or is there anything required on the vlc side ?
[15:18] <doko> rsalveti, did you tag gcc ICE's too?
[15:19] <rsalveti> doko: afaik, yes
[15:19] <rsalveti> will double check
[15:19] <ogra_> anything else for ftbfs ?
[15:19] <doko> rsalveti (and janimo): please open a gcc-4.x task for those too, and best attach the preprocessed source
[15:20] <rsalveti> doko: sure, fair enough
[15:20] <ogra_> jani is on vacation
[15:20] <ogra_> like nearly everyone in the arm team atm
[15:20] <rsalveti> interesting time to have vacations
[15:20] <rsalveti> before the release hehe :-)
[15:20] <ogra_> well ... i'm not granting them, dont complain to me :)
[15:20]  * ogra_ moves on
[15:20] <rsalveti> sure, just saying :-)
[15:21] <ogra_> #topic ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:21] <ogra_> failed today once again due to archive skew
[15:21] <ogra_> (ubiquity was just building on armel when the images attempted to build)
[15:21] <GrueMaster> yep, noticed.
[15:21] <ogra_> generally they should be fine
[15:21] <ogra_> ac100 has an issue with initrd size i hopefully have fixed now
[15:21]  * rsalveti hates launchpad search
[15:22] <ogra_> oh, and ac100 is now semi official
[15:22] <ogra_> we can blog about it etc
[15:22] <ogra_> other than that, i'm a bit desparate with the mx5 images
[15:22] <ogra_> while i can finish the livefs building, i dont have the HW and no clue what code we need to make it bootable
[15:23]  * GrueMaster wonders if they will happen this cycle.
[15:23] <ogra_> GrueMaster, i wasnt aware that jani is off this week
[15:23] <ogra_> that indeed puts us way behind
=== lynxman- is now known as lynxman
[15:23] <ogra_> i would have needed him for finishing it
[15:23] <GrueMaster> Well, we "should" have had them shortly after the rally.  Just saying.
[15:24] <ogra_> we didnt have the HW at any place where someone had time to work on it
[15:25] <ogra_> it wont take more than one or two days to implement it ... effectively we only need to add the arch to the config
[15:25] <rsalveti> ogra_: what else is needed to publish images for imx53?
[15:25] <ogra_> buit it will need plenty testbuilds which is time consuming
[15:25] <ogra_> rsalveti, only the debian-cd bits and editing a config file for cdimage, we have the livefs builds ready
[15:26] <ogra_> its just the post-processing for u-boot or whatever bootloader
[15:26] <rsalveti> hm, ok
[15:26] <ogra_> mkimage calls etc
[15:26] <rsalveti> sounds like 1, 2 days of work
[15:26] <ogra_> irts really trivial if i have the HW
[15:26] <ogra_> less
[15:27] <rsalveti> ok
[15:27] <ogra_> 1/2 day but 3 days for testbuilds etc
[15:27] <rsalveti> yeah...
[15:27] <ogra_> which is mainly blocking due to archive skew
[15:28] <ogra_> i usually fix more archive skew than i actually do anything on the images if i need to testbuild :P
[15:28] <ogra_> anyway
[15:28] <ogra_> thast all from me for images
[15:28] <ogra_> anything else ?
=== noy_ is now known as noy
[15:28] <ogra_> #topic QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
[15:28]  * ogra_ leans back
[15:29] <GrueMaster> Still being bogged down by bug 806751. With it, I have to manually create a netboot image to get through install.
[15:29] <GrueMaster> iSCSI working to a point.  Now blocked by bug 838809 (as are all other archs).
[15:29] <GrueMaster> AoE tested fine as remote disk.  No information on how to setup for diskless boot.
[15:29] <ogra_> hrm, where is the bugbot
[15:29]  * GrueMaster wakes bugbot.
[15:30] <GrueMaster> ubottu: hello?
[15:30] <ogra_> well, the first should be fixed if michael is back
[15:30] <GrueMaster> Heh, sure.
[15:30]  * ogra_ just uses #ubuntu-arm's bugbot :)
[15:31] <ogra_> i doubt we have any initrd support for AOE booting
[15:31] <ogra_> so that should all be fine
[15:31] <GrueMaster> Well, other than those, I am still steamrollering through the server test workitems.
[15:31] <ogra_> Daviey, what else do you want from GrueMaster ?
[15:32] <GrueMaster> Oh, I also ran into a curious issue with SD cards that are used only for bootloader/kernel.  Seems that once they have been booted off of, they can not be removed from the system without the system going wonky.
[15:33] <GrueMaster> I.e. you can't swap SD cards and expect to be able to read them.  The kernel refuses to refresh the partition tables.
[15:34] <ogra_> yeahm, thats a very weird behavior
[15:34] <ogra_> and not easy to explain, did you talk to any bootloader guys (jcrigby, sakoman etc) ?
[15:34] <GrueMaster> Not sure if it is a kernel issue or a u-boot issue.  Kind of leaning to the u-boot, as I have seen this when doing netinstall over pxe, and only using SD for MLO/u-boot.bin.
[15:34] <GrueMaster> Not yet.
[15:35] <ogra_> would be intresting to know if it happens in the other case too
[15:35] <ogra_> i.e. with root on SD
[15:35] <ogra_> how do you copy the SD ? binary (dd) or do you format the vfat by hand etc
[15:35] <GrueMaster> With root on SD it is bound to happen.  Linux doesn't like swapping out the rootfs.
[15:36] <ogra_> well, yeah for a comparison you would have to copy the rootfs too
[15:36] <GrueMaster> Because of bug 806751, I have to manually format the SD.
[15:36] <ogra_> ah, indeed
[15:37] <ogra_> well, definitely worth filing a bug for ... even though i fear it wont be high prio
[15:37] <GrueMaster> And the netboot images are so off as far as CHS goes, that I have to completely blast the SD and repartition/reformat from a different system.
[15:37] <Daviey> ogra_: Really, want to look at automating the tests
[15:37] <GrueMaster> I already have filed a bug on this.
[15:37] <ogra_> Daviey, well, implement kvm or libvirt support in arm kernels
[15:38] <Daviey> ogra_: GrueMaster has done a nice job of creating some complex test cases which we would find useful on tadional arches aswell.
[15:38] <ogra_> seems our testsuites cant eat anything else
[15:38] <Daviey> ogra_: But not much use, until ARM can be part of the automated testing infrastructure.
[15:38] <GrueMaster> Daviey: I am more than wanting to automate them.  Unfortunately, I have to do a ton of research for each test usually just to get them to work.
[15:38] <ogra_> Daviey, right, buit due to missing kvm its hard to automate them
[15:38] <Daviey> ogra_: No, using linvirt and kvm is the wrong approach :)
[15:38] <GrueMaster> I agree with that.
[15:39] <ogra_> i think we should put the automating on our plate for the P cycle and move that stuff to generic qemu
[15:39] <ogra_> with a joined tream effort
[15:39] <ogra_> *team
[15:39] <GrueMaster> We need to make sure all of our server tests can run on raw systems as well as kvm.
[15:39] <Daviey> ogra_: The same functionality needs to be created external to libvirt to support it for bare metal
[15:39] <ogra_> GrueMaster, well, kvm is essential qemu with kernel support
[15:40] <ogra_> so it should be possible to switch to plain qemu
[15:40] <Daviey> ogra_: it requires collaboration between the arm team, server team and QA.
[15:40] <ogra_> yes
[15:40] <ogra_> Daviey, i think thats a good P target :)
[15:40] <Daviey> :)
[15:40] <ogra_> hello ubott2 and ubottu
[15:40] <ogra_> :)
[15:40] <ogra_> bug 12345
[15:40] <ogra_> hmm
[15:40]  * GrueMaster will add a spec for joint collaboration.
[15:41] <Daviey> ogra_ / GrueMaster: we'll need to get our thinking caps on for UDS.
[15:41] <ogra_> GrueMaster, hmm, that did come out differently than intended, but i wont complain
[15:41] <rbasak> What about the discussion about having nova support instantiating metal?
[15:41] <ogra_> Daviey, well, we have a wikipage to collect such stuff :)
[15:42] <ogra_> anything else for QA ?
[15:42] <Daviey> GrueMaster: I'm expecting QA to drive it, with you offering ARM guidance (and rbasak), with jamespage offering Jenkins help.
[15:42] <GrueMaster> Sounds good.
[15:42] <GrueMaster> I have nothing else.
[15:42]  * ogra_ moves 
[15:42] <rbasak> If we want openstack support then it needs to be discussed at this upcoming ODS doesn't it?
[15:42]  * Daviey dances
[15:43] <Daviey> rbasak: in part, yes
[15:43] <ogra_> #topic linaro (rsalveti)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: linaro (rsalveti)
[15:43] <ogra_> rbasak, i think the basics are there already
[15:43] <rsalveti> updated list for 11.09 https://launchpad.net/linaro-ubuntu/+milestone/11.09
[15:43] <ogra_> NCommander worked on getting LXC working on arm
[15:44] <ogra_> so openstack on top of that should not be to much work
[15:44] <rsalveti> we should be updating the linux-linaro packages at oneiric probably next week
[15:44] <ogra_> great
[15:44] <rsalveti> and hopefully trying a FFe for libjeg-turbo
[15:44] <rsalveti> at least for universe
[15:44] <ogra_> what do we have to expect from the upstream sync of u-boot ?
[15:45] <ogra_> any possible issues
[15:45] <rsalveti> ogra_: we don't expect any major changes
[15:45] <ogra_> good
[15:45] <rsalveti> just basically syncing our own modifications
[15:45] <GrueMaster> rsalveti: Does the usb smp patch need to be applied to u-boot?
[15:45] <ogra_> whats that android components for ubuntu ?
[15:46] <rsalveti> GrueMaster: not that I know
[15:46] <ogra_> adb shell ?
[15:46] <rsalveti> ogra_: yup
[15:46] <ogra_> cool
[15:46] <rsalveti> for u-boot, we may need a package update for blaze
[15:46] <GrueMaster> PXE on more platforms interests me.
[15:46] <ogra_> yeah
[15:46] <rsalveti> just saw sebastian posted some patches for fixes
[15:47] <ogra_> how about multiarch ? any breakage we need to be prepared for ?
[15:47]  * GrueMaster would like to see omap first, then others (mx53, etc).
[15:47] <rsalveti> ogra_: not atm, just small bug fixes
[15:47] <ogra_> good
[15:47] <rsalveti> for major changes we're just pushing to debian
[15:47] <rsalveti> to sync at P
[15:47] <ogra_> thats a good idea
[15:48] <Daviey> bug 827705 seems to be a linaro task, how is that going?
[15:48] <Daviey> urgh
[15:48] <Daviey> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/u-boot-linaro/+bug/827705
[15:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 827705 in u-boot-linaro (Ubuntu) "PXE boot requests non-standard config filename" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/827705
[15:48]  * ogra_ hopes asac will hold a talk at UDS "what is star rating" :)
[15:48] <rsalveti> and we'll have gcc-linaro packages too, but not for oneiric
=== bdmurray_ is now known as bdmurray
[15:49] <rsalveti> that's all from my side
[15:49] <ogra_> any comment for Daviey ?
[15:49] <rsalveti> let me check
[15:49] <ogra_> seems lool alerady added a patch
[15:50] <rsalveti> I think that's fixed already
[15:50] <rsalveti> will check
[15:50] <ogra_> yeah, likely slipped the papaerwork
[15:50] <lool> I did, yes
[15:51] <ogra_> doesnt sound like it would boot with that bug still in place
[15:51] <lool> I sent it to upstream and to John; I think it's in?
[15:51] <rsalveti> I think so, will check with john
[15:51] <GrueMaster> Shows as Fix Committed as of 8/18
[15:51] <ogra_> GrueMaster, not in ubuntu
[15:52] <ogra_> but i think thats just an oversight
[15:52] <GrueMaster> In u-boot-linaro.
[15:52] <rsalveti> http://git.linaro.org/gitweb?p=boot/u-boot-linaro-stable.git;a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/Linaro-u-boot-2011.08
[15:52] <rsalveti> yup, seems to be in
[15:52] <ogra_> great, can someone close it
[15:52] <ogra_> Daviey, you happy ?
[15:52] <rsalveti> 2011.08.6-0ubuntu2
[15:52] <GrueMaster> I can close it.
[15:52] <rsalveti> ubuntu is using the latest tag already
[15:53]  * ogra_ thought so
[15:53] <ogra_> i wonder if we should just drop the upstream/downstream distinction for linaro packages that fully live in ubuntu anyway
[15:53] <GrueMaster> What about the u-boot and u-boot (ubuntu) tags?  Isn't that an old tree?
[15:53] <ogra_> seems to add confusion
[15:55] <GrueMaster> Ok.  Marked them as invalid, and marked Linaro U-Boot & u-boot-linaro (ubuntu) as Fix Released.
[15:55] <ogra_> greaqt
[15:55] <ogra_> anything else ?
[15:55] <Daviey> ogra_: over the mon
[15:55]  * ogra_ moves then
[15:55] <ogra_> #topic AOB
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: AOB
[15:55]  * ogra_ has nothing
[15:55] <ogra_> anyone ?
[15:56] <ogra_> sounds like not ...
[15:56] <ogra_> going once
[15:56] <ogra_> going twice
[15:56]  * GrueMaster remains silent.
[15:56] <ogra_> sold to the man with the funny hat
[15:56] <ogra_> #ednmeeting
[15:56] <ogra_> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[15:56] <meetingology> Meeting ended Thu Sep  8 15:56:35 2011 UTC.
[15:56] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-09-08-15.00.moin.txt
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* ogra to find out whats wrong with the tracker
