{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''March 6th, 2008, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from Feb 28th, 2008 ===
* patm to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB by 13 March.
* asac to provide the general algorithm for converting .po files to xpi structures and provide with example input files to mobile list email.
* davidm & agoliveira to look at what asac provides and get script written by 13 March that does conversion of .po files to xpi structures.
* kyleN to prepare a mapping of hildon source packages to gettext domains, and list where the gettext domains are in maemo.
* Mithrandir to split up remaining Hildon packages that need to be upgraded amongst everybody except people who claim they are busy with other things. Loïc to get involved in this. (carryover address this week in email)
* mawhalen to follow up on when theme tools are updated, and then gen a new theme using the tools with sabotage (Shane Bryan) (carryover)
* lool to document versioning in the ppa into wiki
* overwriting changes in ppa packages, revisit this topic next week with Intel developers present.

=== Current Items ===
 Please add your name to agenda items.

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* patm to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB by 13 March. [cted]
* davidm & agoliveira to look at what asac provides and get script written by 13 March that does conversion of .po files to xpi structures. [cted]
* kyleN to prepare a mapping of hildon source packages to gettext domains, and list where the gettext domains are in maemo. [cted]
* kyleN to look into hildon-help; what's is useful for and whether we should package it for UME
* lool review progress on Hildon 2.0 updates next week
* sabotage to provide drafts of themes tools guide and implementation options as links on the mailing-list
* ToddBrandt to turn on moblin-settings-daemon's watching of the gtk theme gconf keys
* rustyl (+ lool if necessary) document release process for Moblin modules
=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080306_1703.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
