{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== To use preinstalled OMAP3/4 Maverick (10.10) Images apply the following steps ==

=== Downloading ===
Download the compressed image from http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/ports/releases/

/!\ Check the md5sum to verify the image

=== Booting the image ===

==== On Pandaboard A1 and Beagleboard xM until rev A2 ====

Just switch on the board with the SD card inserted.

==== On Pandaboard A2 and later ====
# Download http://people.canonical.com/~tobin/maverick/panda.tar.bz2
# untar with "tar -jxf panda.tar.bz2"
# mount the first partition of the imaged SD card
# Copy MLO and u-boot.bin (extracted from the tar file) to the mounted partition.
# unmount the partition, move the SD card to the panda and boot.

==== On Beagleboard xM rev A3 and later ====
# Download http://people.canonical.com/~tobin/maverick/beaglexm.tar.bz2
# untar with "tar -jxf beaglexm.tar.bz2
# Mount the first SD card partition at your host PC and copy uImage to it.  Unmount
# Mount the second SD card partition at your host PC and copy vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-omap to <mountpoint>/boot.  Unmount
# Switch on the board with the SD card inserted.

This update is needed because of bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/663642.  A new kernel is in updates, and can be installed after logging in for the first time.

==== On OMAP4 Blaze ====
# Download http://people.canonical.com/~tobin/maverick/blaze.tar.bz2
# untar with "tar -jxf blaze.tar.bz2
# Mount the first SD card partition at your host PC and copy MLO, u-boot.bin, and uImage to it.  
# Umount it and just switch on the board with the SD card inserted.

==== On older Beagleboards ====
Insert SD card with new image into the beagleboard and reset while holding User1 button on system

/!\ On omap3 systems with a modified NAND (i.e. beaglebord C series) do the following:  

On a serial console connected to the system, halt any autoboot script and type 
<pre>
setenv bootcmd 'mmc init;mmc rescan;fatload mmc 0 0x82000000 boot.scr;source 0x82000000'; setenv autostart yes; saveenv; boot
</pre>
The system should start booting (note that this step is only necessary if you have a NAND and the system does not default to reading boot.scr)

=== Notes about the process ===

* An attached monitor, mouse and keyboard are expected for these images, the installation process is all graphical after first reboot and the images will boot into a graphical netbook session. 
* The console is disabled by default, so don't be surprised to see just "Uncompressing Linux... done, booting the kernel." at your console. Please check https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/BeagleEditBootscr to understand how to activate it (on Panda just change ttyS2 to ttyO2).
* The System will expand the root filesystem to fill the SD card on first boot
* After this process completes the system will reboot and prompt for first boot information (create username/password, region, timezone, language support, etc)
* Once this information is filled in, the system should continue with the boot process, after which it will ask for the newly created user to login for the first time (or just boot to the netbook session in case you selected autologin during user creation)
* In case of problems during installation, please join #ubuntu-arm on IRC.
