{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''December 22nd, 2009, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from December 15th, 2009 ===

* asac to approve outstanding liquid specs
* persia to watch the builds and make sure they happen and are testable
* GrueMaster to post LSB test failures for investigation
* asac to figure out why dove still uses a 2.6.31 kernel
* dyfet to prepare a test kernel build with the patch in bug 494831 (comment 7)
* asac, ogra, persia to make sure .32 backporting for imx51 kernels is documented somewhere.

=== Current Items ===

* http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid-alpha2/report.html

=== Standing Items ===

* http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid/report.html
* ARM Image Status
* Any Other Business

=== Action Items ===

=== Minutes ===

=== Weekly Reports ===
==== Jamie Bennett (JamieBennett) ====
===== This week =====
** Continued on with the Casper investigations. Talked with interested parties to identify the area's of interest. Possible low hanging fruit is <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/CasperSpeedup#45disable_guest_account|disable_guest_account]]</nowiki> which could be sped up by about 6.5 seconds. 
** Tracked down the major cause of slowness for Casper, that of debconf-communicate. Straced, timestamped and looked at this with the conclusion that loading the templates.dat file takes around 4 seconds for every debconf-communicate call. Massive win to get this sped up so identified ways of tackling it. Needs implementing.
** Documented possible fixes for Casper slowness <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/CasperSpeedup#Conclusion|here]]</nowiki>.
** Worked on, along with help from the community, pushing build dependencies for netbook-launcher-efl.
** Little work on the REVU version of netbook-launcher-efl to whip it into shape after the excellent work of mterry.
** Pushed to get Canola packaged.
*** Now packaged at http://edge.launchpad.net/~canola
** Initial test of Canola proved that it needs some work before it can be the default media player for Ubuntu ARM. Some bugs submitted.
** Image testing, internal stuff, tending to sick kids, all good fun.

===== Future =====
** Come up with a working implementation to fix the debconf-communicate issues.
** Gather monthly information and publish monthly team report.
** Keep pushing and monitoring netbook-launcher-efl dependencies.
** If I get time take a look at the Moblin media player.
** Vacation Tuesday till new year (although I'm sure I'll have some cheeky post-turkey hours to bash some blueprints).

==== Steve Kowalik ====
** Propose a patch for Launchpad for a change to germinate, get it merged and landed.
** Upload netbook-meta, pulling from the new netbook.lucid branch. Do so multiple times.
** Merge changes to tasksel, adding netbook, and removed unr and mobile.
** Remove mobile-meta, and discuss with the LOSAs how to remove its seed branch.
** Test my changes to livecd-rootfs, uploading it, and organising installation on the buildds.
** Discover issues that relate to changes with desktop versus une, and fix the seeds. Three times.
** Push out my changes for the rename to the public branch of cdimage.
** Merge the changes into the deployed cdimage code.
** Also fix debian-cd and merge it in too.
** After an hour or so of poking around, discover why my cron.germinate changes caused it to bail and fix two scripts on rookery. Fix component-overrides generation while I was there.
** Thursday archive admin duties.

==== Emmet Hikory ====
* Address squashfs -> squashfs-tools source rename for image builders
* Track ARM image builds

==== Tobin Davis ====
* Continued work on porting LSB tests to arm.  Currently focusing on T2C test suites.

==== Paul Larson ====
* Was able to begin testing images on imx51 with successful images beginning on 20091213
* Collected additional requested debug data for bug #494787 - firefox crashed with SIGSEGV
* Wrote a script for the bringup testing that uses the bootchart tarball to gather the amount of time it took for boot
* rebuilt dove kernel with patch from bug #494831
* created a new install image with the kernel for bug #494831 to test the fix - fix worked, and I was able to create a working dove image to test with
* made a qemu-arm-static build environment to mess with, see if I can gain any efficiency with it, did some performance comparisons, not impressed with the result
* Tested a new build of Chromium on ARM, still seeing some SIGILL issues, but able to get further
* Started working on install testing blueprint

==== Alexander Sack ====
* Vacation.

==== Oliver Grawert ====
* Vacation.
