{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''January 12th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==

=== Link to previous meeting ===
* <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100105]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from January 5th, 2009 ===
* NCommander to invite relevant kernel people to the next meeting.
* asac, ogra, persia to make sure .32 backporting for imx51 kernels is documented somewhere (c/o).
* ogra, asac, NCommander to blog on planet about ARM work.
* Work item review
** ALL, check work items due for Alpha-2 and either complete, postpone or push to Alpha-3.
** asac, JamieBennett to discuss MIR stalling for 2D launcher.
** asac to report on Chromiums licensing issue progress.

=== Current Items ===
* http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid-alpha2/report.html
* dmart: Discuss how to process the ARMv7/Thumb-2 compatibility review list at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Thumb2PackageReviewList
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/UbuntuLiquid|Ubuntu Liquid]]</nowiki>
=== Standing Items ===
* http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid/report.html 
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
** fsl-imx51 (cooloney): 2.6.31 Freescale BSP patches based kernel source was uploaded on Jan 11. Kernel packages cross compiled was tested on ogra and cooloney hardware. Freescale updated final BSP is just released. I will try to review the new kernel patches and try to apply them for testing.   
** mvl-dove (ericm): Marvell's patchset based on v2.6.32.2 has been rebased again on top of lucid, config files sorted out, and building is OK. There are several issues though (not specifically related to this patchset) including: unexpected segfaults and X desktop freezing (LP bug #504880, bug #505772), still investigating the root cause with Marvell, and this is holding the patches from being uploaded atm.
* QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
* ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (ogra, persia)
* Any Other Business

=== Action Items ===
* Commander to add the relevant kernel people to the weekly email reminder.
* asac, ogra, persia to make sure .32 backporting for imx51 kernels is documented somewhere (c/o).
* asac to discuss with dmart how to best tackle the list and assign packages to team members etc.
* dmart to investigate test procedures at ATM which may work on dove.
* ericm, NCommander, GrueMaster to work on dove kernel debugging.
* ogra to care for seed changes to get oo.o off the ima

=== Minutes ===
* NCommander was asked to invite the relevant kernel people to the meeting in the meeting reminder email. He took up the action to do that next week.
* asac, ogra, and persia has the action item to produce a wiki page detailing .32 iMX51 kernel backporting information. The page is not yet complete so they extended the action item to next week.
* There was an action item for ogra, asac and NCommander to blog on planet about ARM related work. It was discussed that this will happen when there is some news to report, possibly on the uboot progress ogra and asac are making.
* NCommander asked about the 2D launcher dependency situation, JamieBennett informed the team that a resolution had been found and that the Mobile team are to take ownership of embryo for future bugs. This unblocks the other MIR dependencies that have been filed. JamieBennett also mentioned that he had filed bugs to upstream for all concerns that the MIR process had highlighted. JamieBennett also noted that 2 MIR's are yet to be reviewed.
* NCommander commented that the burn down chart for Alpha-2 (http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid-alpha2/report.html) was looking good. The team talked about the current short-comings of the script that produces the burndown chart and asac mentioned that he will go through the blueprints this week for alpha-3 planning and to clean them up.
* persia invited dmart (Dave Martin from ARM) and others to add their weekly activities to the report. dmart and ian_brasil indicated that they would.
* asac asked NCommander what the problem was with alternate images. NCommander replied that he hasn't managed to install one due to changes in the archive which tends to happen at this point in the cycle. asac asked to be kept informed about the situation.
* Ubuntu Liquid Remix was discussed. rbelem indicated that seed work had started: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/UbuntuLiquid/Seed and that they are now working on customizing kdm and kwin for mobile environments. Riddell offered to help with the project and NCommander added a standing item to discuss Liquid at subsequent meetings.
* The team had a lengthy discussion on how to process the ARMv7/Thumb-2 compatibility review dmart had produced: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Thumb2PackageReviewList. dmart was thanked for his effort so far and asac decided that it would be best if they talked about the details after the meeting.
* Talk moved to kernel status. cooloney posted that " 2.6.31 Freescale BSP patches based kernel source was uploaded on Jan 11. Kernel packages cross compiled was tested on ogra and cooloney hardware. Freescale updated final BSP is just released. I will try to review the new kernel patches and try to apply them for testing". ericm posted that "Marvell's patchset based on v2.6.32.2 has been rebased again on top of lucid, config files sorted out, and building is OK. There are several issues though (not specifically related to this patchset) including: unexpected segfaults and X desktop freezing, still investigating the root cause with Marvell, and this is holding the patches from being uploaded atm". ogra asked ericm to subscribe all ARM related kernel bugs to ubuntu-armel.
* Maybe related to kernel issues, NCommander informed the team that the dove image frequently hangs after boot. ericm noted that this didn't happen with Lucid Alpha-1. The team thought the crashes were due to X. NCommander and GrueMaster took the action item to investigate this further with ericm's help. dmart took up the action to investigate if ARM had any specific tests for Thumb2 that could be run on dove.
* QA (plars, Gruemaster) reported that the bringup testing blueprint is done and plars plan to start running through that and posting results asap. 
* ogra mentioned that there were still quite a few packages on the FTBFS list. NCommander indicated that he had fixed a few of them and was continuing on with the effort along with dyfet.
* ogra informed the team that images hadn't been built due to a hardware failure on the image builder. IS have been informed and an image build was in progress again.
* asac said that OpenOffice.org had failed to build. ogra took the action to remove it from the seeds if it was posing a problem to Alpha-2 image builds.

== Weekly Reports ==
=== Jamie Bennett (JamieBennett) ===
==== This week ====
* More work on 2D launcher dependencies. Embryo needs a commitment from the Mobile team if it is to be moved to main. As Embryo is only used by edje it was suggested that maybe we combine the two packages? Worked with EFL upstream to discuss code issues. Some progress.
* More MIR's produced, this time for <nowiki>[[Bug: 502912|efreet]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Bug: 502909|edbus]]</nowiki>, as of writing they are yet to be picked up.
* Discounted Moblin's media player as a possible candidate for the alternate media player spec. It <nowiki>[[http://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/building-the-moblin-media-player-with-the-intel-compiler/|uses clutter]]</nowiki> which isn't appropriate for us.
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/BootChartInvestigation|Analysed bootcharts]]</nowiki> from the ARM iMX51 image. Seems initial investigations were right and that the slowness is all in Casper. Combined it with the Casper information under the umbrella page <nowiki>[[ARM-LiveCDSpeedup|LiveCDSpeedup]]</nowiki>.
* Made a start on the implementation side of the Casper spec. Talked with interested parties to discuss a solution that would not only work but would be the correct solution. Committed <nowiki>[[https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~jamiebennett/casper/debconf-speedup-work|initial code]]</nowiki> which isn't working yet but shows the idea behind the fix. Left this to finish off Alpha-2 targets specs.
* Chased a GDM issue on daily builds. Something crept in but was fixed just as quickly.
* Bit of seed work for 2D launcher, hit a launchpad data corruption bug. Worked with the launchpad team to track it down but to no conclusion.

==== Future ====
* Continue on getting a working implementation to fix the debconf-communicate issues in Casper.
* Get 2D launcher dependencies finalised one way or another.
* Investigate kernel patches that may be worth backporting.
* Compare bootcharts from i386 and iMX51 to see if there is any arch specific slowness.

=== Tobin Davis ===
* Reloaded Babbage 3 image from Freescale to use as a benchmark and to see if certain hardware issues were working.  Discovered a number of issues with current images; audio issues, video refresh issues, etc.  Most already have bugs filed against them.
* Finished porting the T2C test suite.  Biggest hangup was in packaging, but that has been passed off to Emmet.
* Purchased another SATA drive so that I can do installation testing on dove without disrupting the development image.
* Switched focus to image testing.  Dove images broken to the point of not booting.
* As part of swith to full image testing, I have been asked to find the obscure issues.  First issue I filed affects all Ubuntu installations; Bug 504116 apport-collect returns incorrect name with -h option.  Simple bugs like this can be easily fixed and released, making Ubuntu look more like a highly refined distribution, not a throw together distro.

==== Future ====
* More deep testing for issues not normally detected or brushed off with work-arounds. 
* Finish any remaining tasks with the mobile-lucid-arm-lib-tests spec.

=== Emmet Hikory ===
* Packaging of LSB tests
** tet-harness packaged, pushed to lp:~persia/lsb-arm-port/tet-harness
** t2c-framework packaged, tarball unsuitable for redistribution, packaging at lp:~persia/t2c-framework
** initial work done on t2c-desktop

=== Steve Kowalik ===
* Test and re-test the ubuntu-netbook image, in preperation for Alpha 2.
* Investigate why netbook-launcher is constantly restarting itself, have asac upload a patch.
* A bunch of NBS work.

=== Paul Larson ===
==== This week ====
* Pairwise install testing blueprint
** documented test cases on the qa wiki
** Discussed next steps with Ara
** Requested access to iso tracker DB so that I can insert tests
** This blueprint is done, except for adding the virtual milestones to begin testing '''after''' A2 is released.  Since it doesn't help anything to do that now, that bit has been deferred until after A2 is actually out
* Arm Bringup testing blueprint
** New script to use ldtp to time application startup times
** New tests added
** All complete except for one deferred item (script to gather additional arm-specific information).  The remaining item has been done to the extent that it can be, but leaving it open because there could be additional things that make it easier to get some more information in the A3 timeframe.
* Arm Suspend/Resume Blueprint
** reorganized the table on the wiki page to align with work items
** Discussed the tests, priorities, and implementation ideas with others on #ubuntu-arm
** assigned priorities, all A2 targeted work items complete
* Updated bug workflow to include new bug tag "daily" for bugs found during the testing of daily images
* Tested suspend on imx51, still seems to be broken but there are some upcoming patches that should help with that
==== Future ====
* Look into an issue that is preventing LTP from building properly in Lucid
* Look into some new tests
* Testing A2 candidate images
* Start running bringup testing suite, document what is needed to run it, start posting results
* Create virtual milestones for pairwise testing, put tests into tracker database
* start on suspend/resume tests

=== Alexander Sack ===
==== Blueprints/Planning/Team ====
* ensure progress on alpha-2 items; get alpha-2 status down to trendline
** release team meeting
* work with plars to give suspend-resume spec a boost:
** reviewed prioritization
** discussed ways to test
* discuss lib-test spec with GrueMaster, persia and davidm
** outcome: we will share the work load better on this and assign specialists for special tasks like packaging etc.
* assigned first batch of ftbfs to team members; peers for ftbfs tasks are NCommander, dyfet and JamieBennett

==== Chromium ====
* resolve chromium-browser runtime issues by tracking down gcc bug
* two days worth of work on getting chromium license situation in shape; only a few files left; extended licensecheck.pl to produce a compressed dep-5 presentation; current copyright file: http://people.canonical.com/~asac/tmp/copyright.full
* review and sponsored gyp - buld dependency of chromium.

==== Porting ====
* fix postgresql-8.4 ftbfs - LP: #497331
* uploaded fix for clutk to lucid - LP:#495066
* sponsored d-shlibs, libtool, ocaml for ncommander
* fixed apex build on armel/lucid
* fixed db4.2 ftbfs
* gave back a few packages that failed early in cycle
* firefox/xulrunner upload that includes patch to fix thumb crashes

==== Booting ====
* u-boot experiments and partition issues for images; also, broke my bbg3 board

==== other team contributions ====
* pushed emergency #fontconfig update to unbreak buildds after defoma update in lucid
* prepare/QA and upload firefox 3.0.17/3.5.7 and xulrunner 1.9.0.17/1.9.1.7 security/stability updates for hardy to lucid
* mentor micah on firefox/xulrunner release process
* move xpi location for mozilla langpack production to a place where ArneGoetje can maintain them.

=== OliverGrawert ===

==== DONE ====
* tested new imx51 kernel from latest freescale code drop RC
* updated uboot to latest freescale code drops
* added MIR for uboot 
* tried to create image creation script for uboot from proof of concept code
* found several issues with partitioning and vfat handling of uboot that prevent to load a kernel image uncorrupted. researched these with asac with no result yet

==== TODO ====
* start working on the rootstock specs 
* prepare and test A2 images for imx51
* find more info about the uboot issues that prevent proper image builds

=== Dave Martin (dmart) ===

==== DONE ====
* Initial browser benchmark runs:
** Firefox-3.5 (firefox-3.5 3.5.7+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.9.10.1; xulrunner1.9 1.9.1.7+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.9.10.1; karmic)
** Chromium (chromium-browser 4.0.283.0~svn20091226r35283-0ubuntu1~ucd1~lucid6; lucid)
** Chromium looks good at the moment: up to ~ 80-90% faster on general page rendering.
** Caution: firefox-3.5 used for comparison, was old, ARM (not Thumb-2) and running on Karmic.
** Still need a firefox build to test on lucid: we don't have a working Thumb-2 build yet (asac working on it).

* List of packages of packages to review for v7/Thumb-2 compatibility
** Published initial lists on the wiki, based on the results of the source archive grep:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Thumb2PackageReviewList

==== TODO ====
* List of packages of packages to review for v7/Thumb-2 compatibility
** Agree with the asac how we work through this list together.

=== David Sugar (dyfet) ===
==== Arm ====
* Initial chromium testing on lucid arm
* Porting effort for canola to build on arm
* Initial pass at fails to build for arm
==== Server ====
* Handoff of asterisk blueprint to jmdault
==== Motu ====
* Rebuild of ccscript for package revu
==== Next Week ====
* Focus on failed to build priority bugs and Motu

=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
==== ARM ====
* FTBFS work on armel, resolved ocaml, libtool, d-shlibs, and fontmatrix
* Retried and rescored several failed packages that went bust due libtool being broken
* Forwarded patches to ocaml upstream
* Investigated non-PIC shared libraries on ARMum
* Dove instability investigation continues
* Assisted JamieBennett with some bash shell scripting in changing debconf for speeding up casper

==== Next Week ====
* FTBFS work continues
* Thumb2 compatibility work continue
* Dove instability research continues

== Meeting Log ==
<pre>
(13:00:05) ***asac waves
(13:00:12) ***JamieBennett waves back
(13:00:25) ***ogra moos
(13:00:25) dmart [n=chatzill@fw-tnat.cambridge.arm.com] entered the room.
(13:00:28) asac: persia: ogra: dyfet: davidm_: plars: StevenK: ping
(13:00:33) asac: GrueMaster: ping
(13:00:39) plars: present
(13:00:39) NCommander: [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100112
(13:00:40) MootBot: LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100112
(13:00:42) GrueMaster: pong
(13:00:50) dyfet: pong
(13:00:57) NCommander: [link] http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid-alpha2/report.html
(13:00:57) MootBot: LINK received:  http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid-alpha2/report.html
(13:01:03) davidm_: present
(13:01:06) asac: NCommander: no topic?
(13:01:15) NCommander: [topic] Action Item Review
(13:01:15) MootBot: New Topic:  Action Item Review
(13:01:19) JamieBennett: also cooloney ping
(13:01:27) ian_brasil_ [n=ian@192.100.104.170] entered the room.
(13:01:30) asac: yeah
(13:01:31) JamieBennett: oh
(13:01:36) asac: ericm not here
(13:01:40) NCommander: [topic] NCommander to invite relevant kernel people to the next meeting.
(13:01:41) MootBot: New Topic:  NCommander to invite relevant kernel people to the next meeting.
(13:02:07) bundo left the room ("Logoff").
(13:02:12) asac: i made them aware ... guess the reminder mail didnt go to them though, right?
(13:02:21) ericm_ [n=ycmiao@112.65.48.82] entered the room.
(13:02:28) NCommander: asac, yeah. I had talked to both of them though
(13:02:29) NCommander: hey ericm_
(13:02:39) ericm_: hey NCommander
(13:02:47) ogra: NCommander, they should be on the list for the reminder mail
(13:02:51) asac: ok, do we need an action or will this happen now?
(13:02:56) ogra: NCommander, or be invited to the gcal event
(13:02:57) asac: persia: NCommander:?
(13:03:38) asac: ok, lets carry it over to see if it happens next time :)
(13:03:38) NCommander: [action] NCommander to add mobile kernel devs to gcal event
(13:03:38) MootBot: ACTION received:  NCommander to add mobile kernel devs to gcal event
(13:03:40) cooloney [n=roc@91.189.88.12] entered the room.
(13:03:43) persia: They should be subscribed to the mailing list, or manage their calendars well :)
(13:03:49) NCommander: [topic] asac, ogra, persia to make sure .32 backporting for imx51 kernels is documented somewhere
(13:03:50) MootBot: New Topic:  asac, ogra, persia to make sure .32 backporting for imx51 kernels is documented somewhere
(13:04:10) persia: We had the meeting.  I'm not yet done with a wiki page.  Can we defer this until later in the meeting?
(13:04:16) asac: yes
(13:04:17) kamalmostafa [n=kamal@c-98-234-57-75.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] entered the room.
(13:04:31) NCommander: [action] asac, ogra, persia to make sure .32 backporting for imx51 kernels is documented somewhere (c/o)
(13:04:31) MootBot: ACTION received:  asac, ogra, persia to make sure .32 backporting for imx51 kernels is documented somewhere (c/o)
(13:04:36) asac: we should carry that forward. the wiki isnt done yet
(13:04:42) ogra: right
(13:04:51) NCommander: [topic] ogra, asac, NCommander to blog on planet about ARM work
(13:04:51) MootBot: New Topic:  ogra, asac, NCommander to blog on planet about ARM work
(13:05:00) ***StevenK waves
(13:05:02) persia: Don't carry it forward yet: come back during this meeting :)
(13:05:03) ogra: nothing intresting to blog about yet
(13:05:16) JamieBennett: ogra: uboot work?
(13:05:25) ogra: i'll blog about the babbage switch to uboot once thats working
(13:05:28) asac: no success story there yet
(13:05:29) ***cooloney waves
(13:05:46) ogra: and about rootstock changes once i have any :)
(13:06:08) NCommander: [topic] Work item review
(13:06:09) MootBot: New Topic:  Work item review
(13:06:15) ogra: i dont think we need an action item for it though
(13:06:29) NCommander: As a reminder, all work items due for A2 are due, and mus tbe marked complete, or postponed
(13:06:51) NCommander: asac, JamieBennett, how goes the MIRs for 2d launcher?
(13:07:01) JamieBennett: Seems we have some resolution
(13:07:09) asac: we committed to take care of the main concern
(13:07:17) JamieBennett: 2 MIR's still need reviewing though
(13:07:20) ***ogra moves uboot to A3
(13:07:20) asac: so the MIR for embryo is probably unblocked
(13:07:38) ogra: ... with a tear in my eye
(13:07:40) JamieBennett: Just need pitti to approve it now
(13:07:56) ***NCommander gives ogra a tissue
(13:07:59) NCommander: [topic] asac to report on Chromiums licensing issue progress
(13:08:00) MootBot: New Topic:  asac to report on Chromiums licensing issue progress
(13:08:02) JamieBennett: all other non-blocking issues have bugs filed in debian
(13:08:03) asac: i plan to go through the blueprints for alpha-3 with each of you now
(13:08:06) ogra: *sniff*
(13:08:08) asac: thats done. its in my AR ...
(13:08:20) asac: quite good progress, just a few rough edges left
(13:08:29) NCommander: [topic] Current Items
(13:08:30) MootBot: New Topic:  Current Items
(13:08:46) NCommander: The burndown chart for A2 is looking good
(13:08:47) NCommander: http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid-alpha2/report.html
(13:08:48) MootBot: LINK received:  http://piware.de/workitems/mobile/lucid-alpha2/report.html
(13:09:09) dmart: Stupid question: how do I mark an action as complete?
(13:09:11) asac: yeah, so on friday we were still at trendline, since then not much happened, as expected
(13:09:20) asac: dmart: flip from TODO to DONE
(13:09:22) asac: in the blueprint
(13:09:24) ian_brasil left the room (quit: Read error: 113 (No route to host)).
(13:09:28) ogra: dmart, you write [DONE] behind it in the whiteboard
(13:09:37) asac: if you finished items, please set them to DONE.
(13:09:38) starcraft-ntbk [n=quassel@dyn-241-158.wireless.concordia.ca] entered the room.
(13:09:38) ogra: on the blueprint page
(13:09:48) dmart: OK
(13:09:48) asac: i will go through the blueprints later this week for the alpha-3 planning
(13:09:56) dmart: Cool
(13:09:58) asac: and do the cleanup
(13:10:09) persia: And report it in an action report on the meeting page :)
(13:10:16) persia: (if it's a significant thing)
(13:10:23) dmart: Of course, will do
(13:10:27) JamieBennett: Need to get alpha-2 targeted blueprints re-targeted if they are not at 100% awell
(13:10:32) asac: dmart: yes, feel free to add your own entry to that wiki :)
(13:10:37) asac: we would love to have more contributors presenting their work there
(13:10:46) ***JamieBennett agrees
(13:10:52) NCommander: +1
(13:10:55) ogra: ++
(13:11:22) asac: so ... one more word on the action items
(13:11:31) asac: i think there are still action items that dont need upload to archive
(13:11:40) asac: those can still be finished this week
(13:11:58) ogra: dont forget we're working on the alpha
(13:12:09) asac: not everyone
(13:12:11) ***persia is ready for kernel backport discussion when the agenda has a slot
(13:12:17) NCommander: Is there anything to discuss on Ubuntu Liquid?
(13:12:20) ogra: wed and thu are usually stressful days during alpha periods
(13:12:22) asac: NCommander: what is the problem with the alternate images?
(13:12:25) rbelem: yep
(13:12:26) asac: its at 71%
(13:12:33) NCommander: asac, I haven't managed to actually install one
(13:12:55) NCommander: asac, a lot of churn in the archive causes the resulting image to be uninstallable, as in a package fails to install or the like.
(13:13:11) StevenK: I think arm-une should be retargetted to A3, we don't have the launcher in main yet
(13:13:14) asac: rbelem: ian_brasil_: you are also invited to add your stuff to the wiki
(13:13:26) rbelem: cool
(13:13:30) ian_brasil_: asac, ok we will
(13:13:31) NCommander: asac, now that we're in freeze, I should have better success, and will be retesting today
(13:13:40) JamieBennett: StevenK It is at alpha-3 now
(13:13:54) GrueMaster: I tried the dove alternate image last Friday and had a package install failure.  Not sure what package.
(13:13:55) asac: NCommander: thanks. let me know. i would love to not drag everything to alpha-3 ... we already have enough to do there
(13:14:20) NCommander: GrueMaster, today's should be better as we've entered main freeze
(13:14:35) NCommander: ian_brasil_, rbelem anything to report on Ubuntu Liquid?
(13:14:50) rbelem: NCommander, yep
(13:14:57) ogra: GrueMaster, save installer logs !
(13:15:01) Lure left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(13:15:07) ogra: they usually say which package
(13:15:07) GrueMaster: right
(13:15:09) rbelem: NCommander, we packaged the plasma-mobile
(13:15:15) asac: ogra: can you keep the uboot still on a2 please
(13:15:20) asac: the problem is the work item tracker is a mess
(13:15:29) ogra: asac, hrm, ok
(13:15:32) ***ogra rolls back
(13:15:35) asac: e.g. you cannot move just what is left to a3
(13:15:39) rbelem: NCommander, outside the kdebase
(13:15:51) ogra: asac, moved back
(13:15:52) asac: ogra: we can do that on release day
(13:15:55) asac: thanks
(13:16:00) rbelem: NCommander, started to work on the seeds
(13:16:13) rbelem: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/UbuntuLiquid/Seed
(13:16:49) asac: maybe we should have a real topic for liquid?
(13:16:51) asac: standing item?
(13:16:56) NCommander: rbelem, excellent. I look forward to further progress on l
(13:16:59) ***NCommander has no objection
(13:17:06) rbelem: rbelem, we will now on customize kdm and kwin for mobile
(13:17:10) NCommander: I'll add it for the next meeting
(13:17:12) Riddell: rbelem: what's all this?
(13:17:12) rbelem: NCommander, ^
(13:17:14) asac: [action] asac to add liquid to standing items for next meeting
(13:17:21) asac: hmm cant take actions :)
(13:17:25) NCommander: [action] asac to add liquid to standing items for next meeting
(13:17:26) MootBot: ACTION received:  asac to add liquid to standing items for next meeting
(13:17:37) NCommander: asac, only the chair has the power to do so
(13:17:37) persia: Um, why asac?
(13:17:43) NCommander: [topic] Standing Items
(13:17:44) MootBot: New Topic:  Standing Items
(13:17:45) StevenK: Exactly
(13:17:50) persia: NCommander: Wait.  Not yet.
(13:17:53) DavidLevin left the room (quit: "Leaving").
(13:18:00) asac: persia: to give them a slot where we can discuss roadblocks etc.
(13:18:01) ***persia wants to talk about kernel backporting for FSL
(13:18:04) asac: and see progress ;)
(13:18:04) rbelem: Riddell, we will work on plasma mobile to be the shell for ubuntu liquid
(13:18:21) Lure [n=quassel@ubuntu/member/lure] entered the room.
(13:18:29) asac: persia: we can discuss that in kernel status standing item ;)
(13:18:35) persia: OK.
(13:19:06) rbelem: Riddell, i will help arthur with the code and etc
(13:19:31) asac: persia: do you have concerns with having a slot for liquid?
(13:19:51) persia: asac: No.  I just don't understand why the action is assigned to you, rather than the chair :)
(13:19:57) asac: heh. ok
(13:19:59) persia: Doesn't matter.  Let's go on.
(13:20:01) Riddell: rbelem: that's the sort of thing the Kubuntu team would be interested in hearing about
(13:20:04) asac: because i added a bunch of them this time already
(13:20:13) rbelem: Riddell, yep :-)
(13:20:32) rbelem: Riddell, we really want your help
(13:20:43) NCommander: Any objection if I continue?
(13:20:58) NCommander: [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
(13:20:59) MootBot: New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
(13:21:00) asac: i would think Riddell and rbelem can do that offline
(13:21:01) asac: yes.
(13:21:04) JamieBennett: NCommander did you miss - dmart: Discuss how to process the ARMv7/Thumb-2 compatibility review list ?
(13:21:08) JamieBennett: Or did I ?
(13:21:11) rbelem: ok
(13:21:15) NCommander: oh, *grumble*
(13:21:20) asac: one word on the standing items:
(13:21:22) NCommander: [topic] Discuss how to process the ARMv7/Thumb-2 compatibility review list ?
(13:21:22) MootBot: New Topic:  Discuss how to process the ARMv7/Thumb-2 compatibility review list ?
(13:21:29) JamieBennett: dmart
(13:21:33) dmart: Did everyone see the link to the wiki?
(13:21:33) cooloney: yeah, guys, i think i updated the status for fsl-imx51 on the wiki
(13:21:35) asac: ok waiting
(13:21:41) dmart: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Thumb2PackageReviewList
(13:21:42) asac: dmart: yes, thank you very much.
(13:21:52) NCommander: [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Thumb2PackageReviewList
(13:21:53) MootBot: LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Thumb2PackageReviewList
(13:22:05) asac: dmart: i wondered if you had the the grep lines of concerns there ...
(13:22:23) asac: would probably be helpful in order to spot the code to look at when verifying if a package needs a fix etc.
(13:22:26) dmart: The detail is in the page attachments
(13:22:35) asac: thats the full blob, yes.
(13:22:45) asac: we can use that
(13:22:58) DavidLevin [n=dslevin@67-210-33-186.ul.warwick.net] entered the room.
(13:23:01) NCommander: I think the easiest way we could go forward with the review is a divide and conquer approach, and we simply assign packages to people.
(13:23:03) asac: a more compressed form would have been easier, but its fine i guess
(13:23:04) dmart: The filtered output has names like search-arm-swp.filt.gz
(13:23:23) dmart: This is far as it's easy to go automatically
(13:23:29) asac: ok
(13:23:37) asac: we could have had a per-package filter
(13:23:37) Amaranth__ left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(13:24:03) Amaranth__ [n=travis@97-114-236-151.sxcy.qwest.net] entered the room.
(13:24:13) dmart: What about prioritisation?  Main comes before universe, but beyone that, I'm not sure.
(13:24:20) asac: [action] asac to discuss with dmart how to best tackle the list and assign packages to team members etc.
(13:24:29) NCommander: [action] asac to discuss with dmart how to best tackle the list and assign packages to team members etc.
(13:24:29) MootBot: ACTION received:  asac to discuss with dmart how to best tackle the list and assign packages to team members etc.
(13:24:33) ogra: dmart, on-cd more important than off-cd
(13:24:40) asac: dmart: i think we could check the conut or rdepends and go for those with more first
(13:24:42) ogra: s/cd/image/
(13:24:43) persia: I think we'd want to prioritise stuff that ends up in images beyond stuff that doesn'T.
(13:24:45) asac: but lets discuss that after meeting
(13:25:00) persia: Or in build-depends/depends ordering.
(13:25:02) dmart: OK, we can discuss that offline
(13:25:28) NCommander: [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
(13:25:28) MootBot: New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
(13:25:36) asac: so one word on the new standing items
(13:25:59) asac: i added a few and added nicks next to them ... to reflect who i think would be good at doing this
(13:26:15) asac: if you disagree let me know ... if you think it makes no sense, let me know either
(13:26:26) asac: also ... i added it this, week, so if you dont have anything this time its fine
(13:26:28) cooloney: right, asac i added fsl-imx51 already
(13:26:31) ***ericm_ has just finished updated the kernel status on wiki
(13:26:34) persia: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100112/FSLKernelBackport talks about the results of the backporting discussion
(13:26:51) asac: [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100112/FSLKernelBackport
(13:26:51) MootBot: LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100112/FSLKernelBackport
(13:27:12) cooloney:  2.6.31 Freescale BSP patches based kernel source was uploaded on Jan 11. Kernel packages cross compiled was tested on ogra and cooloney hardware. Freescale updated final BSP is just released. I will try to review the new kernel patches and try to apply them for testing.
(13:27:45) asac: that sounds good
(13:27:48) ogra: dist upgrade on my babbage board is still running, i should be able to test the in-archive soon kernel after the meeting
(13:27:49) ericm_: Marvell's patchset based on v2.6.32.2 has been rebased again on top of lucid, config files sorted out, and building is OK. There are several issues though (not specifically related to this patchset) including: unexpected segfaults and X desktop freezing, still investigating the root cause with Marvell, and this is holding the patches from being uploaded atm.
(13:28:05) ogra: * the in-archive kernel soon
(13:28:24) asac: ericm_: do we have bugs for those issues?
(13:28:31) ericm_: asac, yes
(13:28:38) asac: would be great to have those in that status info
(13:28:38) asac: ;)
(13:28:51) ericm_: asac, ok
(13:28:55) ogra: please make sure to have ubuntu-armel subscribed to such bugs
(13:29:05) asac: right
(13:29:10) ogra: that way the team gets them automatically
(13:29:20) asac: so cooloney and ericm_ and everyone: ensure that you subscribe ubuntu-armel and add the armel tag
(13:29:23) asac: ;)
(13:29:28) asac: even if the package is armel only
(13:29:35) ericm_: bug 504880 and bug 505772
(13:29:36) asac: its easier for us to pull a list of all issues
(13:29:38) ubottu: Launchpad bug 504880 in linux-mvl-dove "[dove] possibility of thumb2 instructions invalidly being handled" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/504880
(13:29:39) ubottu: Launchpad bug 505772 in linux-mvl-dove "system freezes sometimes after X is up for a while" [Critical,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/505772
(13:29:50) asac: also ensure that bad bugs are milestoned and targetted for lucid (aka on release team radar)
(13:29:55) asac: ericm_: thanks
(13:30:01) starcraft-ntbk left the room (quit: Remote closed the connection).
(13:30:04) asac: so..
(13:30:08) asac: atm dove doesnt work at all?
(13:30:16) asac: or is that just random frequen crashes?
(13:30:34) NCommander: asac, it works, but its extremely unhappy.
(13:30:36) ericm_: asac, I'll say - doesn't work at all
(13:30:46) ericm_: not able to install even
(13:30:58) asac: ok targetted both bugs for lucid
(13:30:58) ericm_: interestingly, this doesn't happen on karmic or even lucid-alpha-1
(13:31:23) asac: hmm.
(13:31:30) asac: so its a regression in kernel?
(13:31:32) ericm_: and this happen as well with karmic kernel, so there are some new issues indeed we never found
(13:31:44) asac: do we have .32 on dove already?
(13:31:47) ericm_: I'd say - it's not a regression
(13:31:48) ogra: doesnt sound like kernel at all
(13:31:57) ericm_: asac, I've already rebased .32 on dove
(13:32:03) ogra: uploaded ?
(13:32:13) ogra: i.e. is it in any image atm ?
(13:32:19) ericm_: ogra, not yet - apw said it's not suitable
(13:32:21) NCommander: ericm_, there are known issues with thumb2 mode with the karmic kernel according to Marvell; we fixed the thumb2 quirk which helped with the stability, but still didn't solve it
(13:32:35) asac: thats good.
(13:32:40) ericm_: I guess we need to root cause those issues before an upload is made
(13:32:44) asac: i mean: that its not suitable -> its not uploaded :-
(13:32:46) ogra: ericm_, right, so the issues we see wrt X etc are unlikely to come from the kernel
(13:32:46) asac: P
(13:33:12) ericm_: ogra, I can run in console quite happily
(13:33:19) ogra: right
(13:33:24) NCommander: ericm_, try compiling stuff at the console
(13:33:26) ericm_: ogra, it indeed looks to be something related to X
(13:33:29) ogra: but X fails even with the karmic kernel
(13:33:33) NCommander: ericm_, once theboard gets unde rload, you run into segfaults
(13:33:34) ericm_: NCommander, ok - will do
(13:33:35) asac: ogra: we had kernel fixes for instructions before
(13:33:40) ericm_: ogra, exactly
(13:33:45) asac: ericm_: what crashes are you getting? segfaults or sigill?
(13:33:45) NCommander: also
(13:33:47) NCommander: X works here
(13:33:55) NCommander: asac, combination of both
(13:33:56) ogra: asac, i know, but kernel wouldnt be the first ting i'd look
(13:34:05) ericm_: asac, I guess as NCommander suggested - that single fix doesn't solve all the potential issue
(13:34:07) ericm_: seems to me
(13:34:11) asac: ogra: sure. we have the thumb list by dmart ;)
(13:34:18) ogra: right :)
(13:34:19) asac: or compiler
(13:34:21) asac: version
(13:34:25) Serendippo [n=djiezes@unaffiliated/serendippo] entered the room.
(13:34:30) NCommander: dmart, is there some sorta thumb test kit that runs through all the instructions that we could run on dove?
(13:34:30) ogra: most likely compiler/binutils
(13:34:38) ericm_: NCommander, would be good if you could test the .32 kernel your side
(13:34:47) asac: i dont see any debug info on the X crashes to attached
(13:34:55) NCommander: ericm_, I did
(13:34:56) asac: can we file a bug against X for that for now?
(13:34:59) dmart: NCommander: I don't know. I can enquire
(13:35:00) NCommander: ericm_, no improvement
(13:35:12) ericm_: asac, it just freezes - so no crash report
(13:35:19) plars: it's more like a full system hang, not just X crashing
(13:35:36) ogra: no ssh ?
(13:35:37) NCommander: dmart, thanks. If such a beast exists, it might help us find the problem
(13:35:43) asac: ericm_: maybe you can still log in or use console and get a dump?
(13:35:58) NCommander: asac, when it hangs, the board counter stops, or it goes completely non-responsive
(13:36:01) dmart: NCommander: I'll enquire at my end and see if something is available.
(13:36:03) asac: plars: ^
(13:36:14) NCommander: dmart, thanks :-).
(13:36:21) ericm_: asac, no - the debug hex led even stops counting
(13:36:31) GrueMaster: ogra: ssh isn't on the live image, and no it doesn't work even if added.
(13:36:47) ogra: GrueMaster, thanks :)
(13:36:47) ericm_: asac, so I'm trying to find some doc to see if that hex led is a software watchdog something
(13:37:01) ericm_: NCommander, do you have the detailed docs like schematics and developer manuals?
(13:37:01) ghostcube [n=ghostcub@unaffiliated/ghostcube] entered the room.
(13:37:16) NCommander: ericm_, the counter is driven by software
(13:37:25) NCommander: ericm_, we do have them, I'll send you a message
(13:37:32) ericm_: NCommander, cool
(13:38:00) ericm_: NCommander, so it could the kernel just locks up - yet not able to see anything from the serial console
(13:38:13) asac: do X apps work fine if you run them through ssh (e.g. without X server running)?
(13:38:31) NCommander: asac, X for me works.
(13:38:37) ericm_: asac, I'll try that on my side
(13:38:43) NCommander: asac, but its just a matter of time before the board hangs
(13:39:00) Lure left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(13:39:00) ericm_: one other thing I noticed is gnome-panel seems to respawn again and again
(13:39:00) asac: right. try without X and see if that goes away
(13:39:10) njpatel_ left the room (quit: Remote closed the connection).
(13:39:10) asac: then we hvae only xserver and kernel left most likely
(13:39:20) GrueMaster: Yesterday's live image starts X, but hangs shortly after rendering the desktop and before the panel fully loads.
(13:39:30) asac: ericm_: that indicates a crash. we should be able to get a backtrace on that then
(13:39:32) ericm_: GrueMaster, is that on dove?
(13:39:37) GrueMaster: yes
(13:39:45) asac: btw, is apport enabled?
(13:39:48) GrueMaster: Just booted it.
(13:39:51) persia: As much as it's nice to go through individual issues, aren't we drifting from topic a bit?  I'd expect a lot of this could be covered in #ubuntu-arm (as it seems arm-specific)
(13:39:56) ogra: define "yesterdays image" :)
(13:39:58) ericm_: asac, ok - just have no idea where to find the log of those gtk/gdk messages
(13:40:03) njpatel_ [n=njpatel@212.99.125.106] entered the room.
(13:40:04) ogra: there were no builds since the 8th
(13:40:13) ericm_: asac, I guess so - yet not able to see the apport icon on the taskbar
(13:40:16) GrueMaster: 20100111 daily.
(13:40:24) asac: persia: i agree somewhat, though without having a way forward its bad to stop the topic
(13:40:24) GrueMaster: Ok.
(13:40:28) asac: anyway
(13:40:28) ogra: thats actually 20100108
(13:40:29) plars: GrueMaster: alternate maybe? live images haven't been rebuilt
(13:40:30) asac: lets move that offline after meeting
(13:40:30) ericm_: asac, I mean - apport doesn't seem to find anything wrong from it's last run
(13:40:37) NCommander: [action eric, NCommander, GrueMaster to work on dove kernel debugging
(13:40:44) NCommander: [action] ericm, NCommander, GrueMaster to work on dove kernel debugging
(13:40:45) MootBot: ACTION received:  ericm, NCommander, GrueMaster to work on dove kernel debugging
(13:40:50) NCommander: [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
(13:40:50) MootBot: New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
(13:41:30) plars: the bringup testing blueprint is, for all practical purposes, done, plan to start running through that and posting results asap
(13:41:38) asac: (GrueMaster: plars: anything important? i dont expect you to have a formal report prepared for this week )
(13:41:48) plars: but might be lagged slightly by systems being tied up with alpha testing this week
(13:41:48) GrueMaster: Nothing new to report as of yet.  QA on dove is stalled due to hanging images.
(13:42:00) asac: plars: great news. can we set that to implemented? ;)
(13:42:01) plars: ...and lack of new images
(13:42:04) plars: any ETA on that?
(13:42:13) plars: asac: there is one WI set for a3, which we discussed
(13:42:21) plars: just to gather more arm-specific info if possible
(13:42:27) asac: right. but thats after implemented
(13:42:34) asac: there are a few more stages ;)
(13:42:39) asac: or waits deployment maybe
(13:42:40) Lure [n=quassel@ubuntu/member/lure] entered the room.
(13:42:49) asac: anyway, i will go through specs anyway, so dont bother
(13:42:54) plars: asac: sure then
(13:43:01) NCommander: [topic] ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
(13:43:02) MootBot: New Topic:  ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
(13:43:35) JamieBennett: Umm, not looked at ARM specific's this week
(13:43:42) asac: i think nothing to report on this this week
(13:43:55) JamieBennett: asac: what were you expecting from this item?
(13:44:07) asac: lets move on ... we can check that after the meeting
(13:44:16) ogra: there is still a good bunch of stuff on the ftbfs list
(13:44:19) JamieBennett: noting that you FTBFS and plars/Gruemaster to report bugs too?
(13:44:47) NCommander: [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
(13:44:47) MootBot: New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
(13:44:58) NCommander: Bunch of FTBFS's fixed
(13:45:12) NCommander: libtool && ocmal being the hilights here
(13:45:15) NCommander: KDE's broken again
(13:45:18) asac: yeah. good progress so far (but new stuff is tickling in)
(13:45:28) asac: NCommander: did you go through the list of failures and gave back those that failed because of libtool?
(13:45:33) ogra: gd2 and gphoto look bad
(13:45:41) ogra: lv4l too
(13:45:42) asac: ogra: one of those is libtool iirc
(13:45:52) ogra: postgres ...
(13:46:01) ogra: meh and plymouth
(13:46:10) NCommander: asac, not all of them. just the obvious ones.
(13:46:21) NCommander: asac, i didn't spend as much on the failure list as I would have liked. Friday was hetic
(13:46:24) asac: ogra: postgres is fix committed
(13:46:26) ogra: plymounth is seeded since yesterday
(13:46:29) asac: pitti hasnt uploaded my fix yet
(13:46:32) ogra: someone should look at it
(13:47:20) asac: i can go through the ftbfs again and assign bugs
(13:47:31) asac: in the long run i would hope that dyfet and NCommander would do that regularly
(13:47:36) asac: but for now i am fine to do that
(13:47:51) ogra: why, leave it to them :)
(13:47:59) ogra: they are grown up guys :)
(13:48:01) Amaranth_ [n=travis@ubuntu/member/Amaranth] entered the room.
(13:48:06) Amaranth__ left the room (quit: Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer)).
(13:48:53) NCommander: [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, persia)
(13:48:53) MootBot: New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, persia)
(13:49:01) ***NCommander thinks he should be on this one
(13:49:07) ogra: clemetine has her monthlies ...
(13:49:19) ***persia was so excited by ogra's return from holiday that no image status was checked all week.  Next week something may be reported
(13:49:21) ogra: but an image build is running as we speak
(13:49:31) StevenK: Surely there has to be a better way to state that.
(13:49:35) ogra: heh
(13:49:49) ogra: StevenK, she was misbehaving and angry
(13:49:52) asac: good. for now its top prio to get A2 images going
(13:49:57) NCommander: StevenK, surely, but I do admit ogra has a way with words.
(13:50:00) ogra: and died directly after rebooting
(13:50:19) Amaranth_ left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(13:50:20) ogra: this time the machine stayed up ... and i fired off a build
(13:50:28) ogra: with luck we'll have images in 2-3h
(13:50:38) Amaranth_ [n=travis@ubuntu/member/Amaranth] entered the room.
(13:50:42) asac: ok i optimistically take this as A2 images are on track
(13:50:47) ogra: up to the 8th at least imx51 looks good
(13:51:05) NCommander: [topic] Any Other Business
(13:51:05) asac: ooo failed to build
(13:51:05) MootBot: New Topic:  Any Other Business
(13:51:07) ogra: freeze is in place so everything should be in sync atm
(13:51:18) NCommander: asac, *wince*, not again.
(13:51:19) Amaranth_ left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(13:51:23) asac: so we might need some slangasek help on that (i think he already did that)
(13:51:36) ogra: oo.o failes on all but x86 amd64
(13:51:39) Amaranth_ [n=travis@ubuntu/member/Amaranth] entered the room.
(13:51:48) asac: someone can take the action to fix our seeds so they dont block on armel?
(13:51:49) ogra: asac, i'll care for it if it gets in our way
(13:51:54) asac: good
(13:51:58) asac: NCommander: ^^ action please
(13:52:12) NCommander: [action] ogra to change seeds to route around OOo
(13:52:12) MootBot: ACTION received:  ogra to change seeds to route around OOo
(13:52:18) ogra: [action] ogra to care for seed changes to get oo.o off the image
(13:52:20) ***NCommander was tempted to say braindamage instead ...
(13:52:20) persia: NO need to change the seeds, just reupload the -meta.  germinate will automatically do the right thing per-arch.
(13:52:27) NCommander: persia, it won't
(13:52:33) ogra: persia, nope
(13:52:34) NCommander: persia, the arch all packages cause issues.
(13:52:41) ***NCommander remembers when this happened in karmic
(13:52:45) ogra: persia, tranbslations are a beast wrt oo.o
(13:52:48) persia: Ah.  That's probably a bug :)
(13:52:48) cooloney: ogra: one quick question, what version GCC we are using for build imx51?
(13:52:56) ***NCommander sighs
(13:53:01) asac: current gcc 4.4
(13:53:04) ogra: cooloney, the one in the archive :)
(13:53:07) asac: i think its 4.4.2
(13:53:15) NCommander: Why the hell do people upload massive packages hours before A2 freeze
(13:53:22) cooloney: ogra: i just found fsl kernel patch revert the kernel compiling flag to 4.1.2
(13:53:29) persia: NCommander: To avoid uploading them after the freeze?
(13:53:31) ScottK: NCommander: Which?
(13:53:36) StevenK: What ScottK said
(13:53:37) asac: NCommander: ooo was explicitly requested by slangasek because the isos were oversized
(13:53:38) NCommander: persia, ScottK, OOo
(13:53:39) cooloney: asac: ogra thanks, will talk with freescale guys later
(13:53:41) persia: NCommander: Also:
(13:53:42) persia: !ohmy
(13:53:43) ubottu: Please remember that all Ubuntu IRC channels share the same attitude of providing friendly and polite interaction with all users of all ages and cultures. Basically, this means no foul language and no abuse towards others.
(13:53:45) ogra: cooloney, 4.1 isnt in ubuntu anymore i think
(13:53:46) NCommander: asac, ok, fair enough
(13:54:12) marjo [n=marjomer@pool-98-113-160-46.nycmny.fios.verizon.net] entered the room.
(13:54:21) StevenK: gcc-4.1 does still exist in Lucid
(13:54:22) NCommander: ogra, its still in universe
(13:54:23) asac: is "why the hell" really offensive ;)
(13:54:24) asac: ?
(13:54:25) asac: hehe
(13:54:29) StevenK:    gcc-4.1 | 4.1.2-27ubuntu1 | lucid/universe | source, amd64, i386
(13:54:29) ogra: ah, universe
(13:54:35) ogra: no option anyway :)
(13:54:40) persia: asac: At least it hits the highlight filters.
(13:54:46) ScottK: NCommander: The real problem was breaking mesa on Friday and leaving it broken for 72 hours
(13:55:05) ScottK: asac: Depends on context, but it can be.
(13:55:07) ***StevenK is *still* grumbling about that
(13:55:07) ogra: yeah, 3D sucks
(13:55:22) persia: No, breaking stuff and disappearing for the weekend sucks
(13:55:25) NCommander: ScottK, ow.
(13:55:39) ogra: i thought we had a rule for that
(13:55:58) asac: ScottK: whats the status on mesa? is that now fixed?
(13:56:06) ScottK: It's fixed
(13:56:08) cooloney: ogra: my cross compile gcc is 4.3.3
(13:56:14) ScottK: But that's why KDE and OOo are behind
(13:56:28) ScottK: KDE 4.3.90 was uploaded before it was broken even
(13:56:33) asac: ok. i agree that friday night uploads are not sensible ... especially towards community that spend their weekend time and are blocked
(13:56:39) ogra: cooloney, yeah, the kernel package needs to use whatever is the default in the archive though
(13:56:50) ogra: cooloney, for testing codesourcery is usually fine
(13:58:01) asac: ScottK: so is there anything that needs to get done for KDE wrt a2 and armel?
(13:58:05) jsalisbury [n=chatzill@65.206.2.67] entered the room.
(13:58:16) ogra: asac, a time machine ?
(13:58:20) asac: haha
(13:58:24) ScottK: asac: Nope.  It looks like everything is building.
(13:58:24) smoser [n=smoser@d14-69-66-169.try.wideopenwest.com] entered the room.
(13:58:26) asac: ok so it just needs to get build
(13:58:29) NCommander: ogra, I'd disagree. The archive toolchain should be used in all cases because CodeSourcery may have patches that change or fix bugs that aren't in mainline.
(13:58:30) asac: perfect
(13:58:47) asac: seems all 7 builders for armel are active
(13:58:51) ScottK: We don't have any A2 milestones around armel, so we'll try to stay out of your way
(13:58:53) asac: and queue is empty
(13:58:54) ogra: NCommander, for a quick test CodeSourcery is really ok
(13:59:05) NCommander: ogra, fair enough.
(13:59:06) cooloney: ogra: understand, i will let freescale guys know that
(13:59:13) ScottK: asac: Once kdebase-workspace publishes the queue will fill again.
(13:59:19) asac: cooloney: what is this about?
(13:59:28) asac: (seems i missed something in scrollback)
(13:59:45) asac: ScottK: yeah. ok. thanks
(14:00:02) asac: ok. more AOB?
(14:00:09) asac: otherwise we have a perfect 1h ;)
(14:00:15) NCommander: #endmeeting
(14:00:15) MootBot: Meeting finished at 08:00.
(14:00:17) NCommander: wooh
(14:00:19) asac: thanks all
</pre>
