{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''February 26th, 2009, 12:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>
== Agenda ==
=== Action Items from Feb 19th, 2009 ===
* persia to file bugs to fix mobile-setup-wizard issues (co)
* persia to post install testcases for MID and UNR (co)
* persia to put vfp spec on the roadmap. (co)
* persia to finish pouslbo-packaging spec draft and add to roadm (co)
* NCommander to reset arm-softboot-loader to "Drafting", and work towards a solution in #ubuntu-arm over the next week. (co)
* NCommander to test fix for 280669 (co)
* NCommander to finish drafting arm-softboot-loader (co)
* StevenK to file poulsbo packaging bugs (co)

=== Current Items ===

* Review <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki> progress
* Any Other Business

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===

* persia to file bugs to fix mobile-setup-wizard issues (co)
* persia to post install testcases for MID and UNR (co)
* persia to put vfp spec on the roadmap. (co)
* persia to finish pouslbo-packaging spec draft and add to roadm (co)
* NCommander to reset arm-softboot-loader to "Drafting", and work towards a solution in #ubuntu-arm over the next week. (co)
* NCommander to finish drafting arm-softboot-loader (co)
* NCommander to report installer bugs with logs from jax10 install
* NCommander to test packaged kexec() for arm-softboot-loader research
* NCommander to test arm-softboot-loader ideas also on x86
* StevenK to file poulsbo packaging bugs (co)
* ogra to investigate 328167
* lool to spec ec2-package-builder for jaunty+1

=== Minutes ===

Most of the action items from the last meeting remained undone, and are carried over, the exception being testing for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/280669|Bug #280669]]</nowiki>, which was inconclusive due to other issues discovered with the installer, and needs proper install tests and full logs attached to bugs to demonstrate issues (and separate from other sorts of partitioning issues).

Spec review went quickly, with most specs unchanged.  UbuntuSpec:unr-handling-jaunty moved to Beta Available, UbuntuSpec:mobile-team-seed-management was removed from the roadmap, as those parts left undone are blocked by ArchiveReorganisation, UbuntuSpec:general-resolution-for-touchscreen was deferred until next cycle, with only high-profile bugs investigated for Jaunty.

There was good progress with tracked bugs: many were closed prior to the meeting.  <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libipc-sharelite-perl/+bug/299847|Bug #299847]]</nowiki> is being rationalised for a reduced test case, and ogra volunteered to investigate <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/328167|Bug #328167]]</nowiki> in more detail.

In other targets, NLUS2 enablement is looking good, and an additional bugfix is expected to improve future milestones, although there are still concerns about memory usage.  VFP optimisations are proceeding slowly and painfully, and there may be some oddities related to the specific FPU implementation on the build servers, which may impact the possiblity of tuning for those packages that run a test-suite at build-time.  ARM benchmarking is proceeding apace, but there are some issues working with ARMv6 optimised varieties blocking further progress.

In discussion on ARMv6 optimised testing, two ideas were raised: the first being to further investigate the qemu-omap3 branch used for maemo testing, and the other to develop a tool to ease rebuilds of packages (or the entire archive) in a clustered environment.  The former will investigated as a possible one-off to support benchmarking, and the latter will develop into a blueprint for the next cycle.

At the end of the meeting, UbuntuSpec:arm-softboot-loader was discussed further, in some specificity, with additional action items being generated to better guide research for educated discussion at UDS.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
