{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''November 13th, 2008, 12:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>
== People ==
 Roll call
=== Attended ===
 amitk<<BR>>
 persa<<BR>>
 davidm<<BR>>
 ogra<<BR>>
 StevenK<<BR>>
 lool

== Agenda ==
=== Action Items from Nov 5th, 2008 ===
=== Current Items ===
(If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.)
* status:
** amitk
** StevenK
** persia
** lool
** ogra
** davidm
=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* davidm to add session for UDS on "Discussion on hardware support status for devices roundtable."
* persia to write a spec for UDS on using a display manager for MID.
=== Minutes ===
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
