{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Meeting Time Change was 17:00 UTC now one hour earlier'' '''16:00''' UTC<<BR>><<BR>>
'''April 24th, 2008, 16:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.<<BR>><<BR>>
''Meeting Time Change was 17:00 UTC now one hour earlier'' '''16:00''' UTC<<BR>>
== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from April 17th, 2008 ===
* (bspencer) document status of i18n of moblin modules on Ubuntu wiki; needs discussion with asac and cwong for FF
* (GrueMaster) update #215242 to request enabling of alsa in helix builds (or a dependency on oss support in alsa)
* (GrueMaster) file new bug requesting addition of alsa-base to the seeds with the rationale of the power management features it provides
* (ToddBrandt and lool) workshop on solving dependency issues in ppa

=== Current Items ===
(If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.) 
=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* (bspencer) document status of i18n of moblin modules on Ubuntu wiki; needs discussion with asac and cwong for FF [cted]
* (davidm) fix links in IRC logs
=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080424_1801.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
