{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== What does the ARMTeam do? ===

The ARM''''''Team is responsible for the ARM flavours of Ubuntu.  Most of the work is focused on improving the experience for mobile use cases such as netbooks, small form factors, and touchscreen interfaces.

=== Does Ubuntu ARM work on my Cell Phone? ===

The Ubuntu ARM team is not currently focusing on cell phone applications or base operating system support.  Our current focus is on netbook technology.

=== What is the Ubuntu UMPC flavour? ===

Ubuntu UMPC is focused on improving the experience for 7-9" clamshell devices, commonly called "subnotebooks", "umpcs",  or "netbooks".  Current customizations include optimizing the desktop environment for smaller screens and selecting alternate applications for highly-mobile use cases.  Starting with Jaunty, this has merged with Netbook work.

=== What is the Ubuntu MID flavour? ===

Ubuntu MID is focused on providing an application interface for 4-6" tablets and convertibles, commonly called "Mobile Internet Devices" or "Personal Mobile Tools", and similar in form-factor to devices previously called "Personal Digital Assistants".  The standard environment has been replaced with a touch-oriented interface, and application selection had been adjusted considerably to better meet identified use cases for this type of device.

=== How can I help? ===

The greatest help would be to test or port Ubuntu flavours on your device, and file any bugs you can find.  Also, if you encounter any general issues with the environment or unsupported use cases appropriate for highly mobile devices, please contact the team either on IRC (#ubuntu-mobile and #ubuntu-arm on freenode) to talk about how the experience can be improved.  If you're a developer, submitting patches is appreciated, and with consistent effort, we'd love to have you join the team.
