{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''February 21st, 2008, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from Feb 14th, 2008 ===
* ChickenCutlass to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB. (carryover)
* cwong1 to to look into languages pack differences between midbrowser and firefox and report back next week.
* kyleN to follow up with ToddBrandt offline on control panel i18n status.
* Mithrandir and lool to determine what is the best solution for "the probability that there will be significant user interface string changes post freeze that will need to be translated"
* Mithrandir to split up remaining Hildon packages that need to be upgraded amongst everybody except people who claim they are busy with other things.
* Mithrandir to nag about the import; we have it set up already but it's just in testing.

=== Current Items ===
* (lool) UDS Prague attendance (FOSSCamp in particular)
* (lool) Status reports on the public mailing list
* (kyleN) Moblin theme inconsistency with Hildon Theme tools to be fixed by updating layout.txt and template.png? (Mentioned in Shane Bryan's Moblin Theme Guide)
* (rustyl) What is the status for finding a resolution for enabling a Hardy PPA target image to run inside Xephyr.  This is the issue where the session dbus is not being started, causing massive breakage on many levels.

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* ChickenCutlass to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB. (carryover, 2nd time)
* cwong1, attempt to create an lang pack to report back next week with results.
* asac) report on code to create XPI from LP exports or look around for help to complete this and report back next week.
* kyleN will sum the executive steps for i18n for GMA and lool to review them before posting.
* ToddBrandt to continue building i18n infrastucture to match the gnome-control-center one by next week.
* lool to reformat detailed notes user interface string changes post freeze and post to Ubuntu wiki.
* lool kyleN to research if need to configure the seed into the LP Ubuntu export to get tarballs for the mobile seed, then update the rules.
* Mithrandir to split up remaining Hildon packages that need to be upgraded amongst everybody except people who claim they are busy with other things. (carryover)
* mawhalen to followup on when theme tools are updated, and then gen a new theme using the tools with sabotage (Shane Bryan)
* bfiller to file bug on gutsy/hardy dbus problems.

=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080221_1659.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
