{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''December 16th, 2010, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110127]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110210]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* NCommander to talk to the release team on which team to track w.r.t. to bugs (co)

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-natty-alpha-2.html
* Unity 2D Status
* Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[15:00] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[15:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 09:00. The chair is NCommander.
[15:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[15:01] <NCommander> who's here?
[15:01]  * rsalveti waves
[15:01]  * ogra pretends to
[15:01] <flag> me too :)
[15:02] <janimo> hello
[15:02] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110203
[15:02] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110203
[15:02]  * davidm thinks it's too cold
[15:02] <NCommander> [topic] Action Items from last meeting
[15:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Items from last meeting
[15:03] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to talk to the release team on which team to track w.r.t. to bugs (co)
[15:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to talk to the release team on which team to track w.r.t. to bugs (co)
[15:03] <NCommander> c/o (again)
[15:03] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[15:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[15:03] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
[15:03] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
[15:03] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-natty-alpha-3.html
[15:03] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-natty-alpha-3.html
[15:03] <rsalveti> should we list the alpha 2 items?
[15:04] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-natty-alpha-2.html
[15:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-natty-alpha-2.html
[15:04] <rsalveti> I think the wi are all done, but just to make sure
[15:04] <rsalveti> NCommander: you need to move your wi to alpha3
[15:05] <NCommander> rsalveti: indeed, as qt4-x11 still doesn't work on ARM
[15:05] <ogra> yup
[15:05] <janimo> NCommander, I have also been debugging the Qt issue. Takes time since qt rebuilds are slow. Not sure what the bug is though :(
[15:06] <NCommander> anything else on work items?
[15:06] <NCommander> janimo: thanks, its appericated :-)
[15:06] <ogra> we should see that we get below 10 items per person on the aÂ§ tracker imho
[15:06] <ogra> *aÂ§
[15:06] <ogra> GRR
[15:06] <ogra> A3
[15:07] <NCommander> ogra: :-)
[15:07] <ogra> especially rsalveti and me
[15:07] <rsalveti> yup
[15:07] <janimo> is that the cat on yopur keyboard?
[15:07] <rsalveti> janimo: want to take another bp?
[15:07] <rsalveti> :-)
[15:07] <janimo> rsajdok, bp?
[15:07] <rsalveti> got too many, and still need to debug sgx
[15:07] <janimo> ah blueprint
[15:07] <janimo> yes
[15:07] <ogra> janimo, no, i have no capslock led on the ac100
[15:07] <rsalveti> janimo: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-arm-n-handle-core-boot-files-update
[15:08] <janimo> rsalveti, ok feel free to assign it to me
[15:08] <rsalveti> still didn't start, but should be fine
[15:08] <ogra> i'll drop the thin clients spec and am happy to give away the BT remote testing for the mediacenter one
[15:08] <ogra> that gets me on exactly 10 items
[15:09] <ogra> though the build cluster stuff isnt really tied to the release schedule
[15:09] <rsalveti> the gles porting one is now kind of blocked
[15:09] <rsalveti> because of the compiz and nux port by linaro
[15:09] <rsalveti> so it should be easy to work on
[15:09] <rsalveti> once it's done
[15:09] <ogra> can we do anything to speed them up ?
[15:09] <janimo> ogra, help out with porting I guess
[15:09] <rsalveti> ogra: nops, need dev work from linaro side
[15:10] <ogra> k
[15:10] <NCommander> can we move on?
[15:10] <ogra> from my POV you can ... anyone else ?
[15:10] <rsalveti> yup, move
[15:10] <NCommander> [topic] Unity 2D Status
[15:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Unity 2D Status
[15:11] <NCommander> still broken on ARm due to qt4 being foobared
[15:11] <ogra> unity-2d MIR was reviewed by mterry
[15:11] <ogra> had a good amount of licensing issues still
[15:11] <ogra> these were fixed and included in the latest package
[15:11] <ogra> so unity-2d itself is fine for main
[15:11] <ogra> the libs arent yet
[15:12] <ogra> two of them are still missing symbols files
[15:12] <ogra> which i plan to have fixed by end of the week
[15:12] <ogra> MIRs are ok beyond that
[15:12] <ogra> so after that fix we theoretically are ready for main inclusion
[15:12] <ogra> i will try to pull it to main but leave it off the images next week
[15:12] <NCommander> \o
[15:13] <ogra> and wait for the QT fix
[15:13] <NCommander> go ogra for handling this :-)
[15:13] <ogra> (and also hoping that we get a magical fix with 4.7.2)
[15:13] <NCommander> ++
[15:13] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[15:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[15:13] <ogra> which according to Riddell is due "any minute" (since a week or so) ;)
[15:14] <ogra> ..
[15:14] <rsalveti> we're now using kernel 2.6.38 for omap 3
[15:14] <rsalveti> I fixed one dvi issue we had, patch followed to linux-omap and already integrated at our tree
[15:14] <ogra> there were some issues about responsibilities wrt security updates for lucid and maverick
[15:14] <rsalveti> so now we have it working fine for beagle and xM
[15:14]  * janimo somewhow doubts qt 4.7.2 fixes this
[15:14] <NCommander> ogra: oops
[15:14] <rsalveti> for omap 4 no other updates
[15:14] <ogra> janimo, likely not, but one can hope :)
[15:15] <ogra> davidm, was the support matrix discussed with kernel/security ?
[15:15] <ogra> and are they clear which kernels need support and which not ?
[15:15] <davidm> ogra yes
[15:15] <ogra> ++
[15:16] <davidm> I sent rtg a list of what needs support
[15:16] <ogra> rsalveti, any idea when we get something newer than .35 for omap4 ?
[15:16] <davidm> He forwarded same to the section of the kernel team that does that work
[15:16] <ogra> i guess thats something for the call
[15:16] <rsalveti> ogra: not atm, still waiting more update from the linaro + ti
[15:16] <rsalveti> probably
[15:16] <davidm> .38 is looking interesting and will be very late in cycle
[15:17] <rsalveti> yep :-(
[15:17] <ogra> sigh
[15:17] <ogra> again
[15:17] <davidm> I'm working the issue but it's not pretty
[15:17] <rsalveti> yeah, we'll see the same thing as maveirck
[15:17] <rsalveti> late core updates all around
[15:18] <ogra> that costed us sound support last cycle
[15:18] <ogra> :(
[15:18] <rsalveti> yup :-(
[15:18] <NCommander> can I move on?
[15:18] <rsalveti> yup, nothing else from my side
[15:18] <ogra> go
[15:18] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[15:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[15:19] <GrueMaster> Release testing went quite smooth.
[15:19] <GrueMaster> No major issues, only a few minor ones.
[15:19] <GrueMaster> Last minute uploads almost clobbered the release image though.
[15:19] <ogra> and no arm realted ones !
[15:19] <ogra> 'related
[15:20] <ogra> (apart from the muted XM sound)
[15:20] <GrueMaster> Audio controls on panda will also need to be fixed with UCM.
[15:20] <ogra> indeed
=== bjf[afk] is now known as bjf
[15:21] <GrueMaster> There is audio, but it is difficult to control.
[15:21] <ogra> hey, but we made A2
[15:21] <rsalveti> :D
[15:21] <ogra> and pretty smooth this time
[15:21] <GrueMaster> yes we did.
[15:21] <rsalveti> yup
[15:22] <GrueMaster> nothing else here.
[15:22] <ogra> move
[15:23] <GrueMaster> *yawn*
[15:24] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:24] <ogra> did you guys start using the new list ?
[15:24] <janimo> new list?
[15:24] <NCommander> QT4 debugging continues with another set of build tests
[15:24] <NCommander> ogra: ne wlist?
[15:24] <ogra> the one slangasek promotes since the rally
[15:25]  * NCommander hasn't heard of it
[15:25] <ogra> please make sure to talk to him
[15:25] <janimo> as in mailing list, or list of bugs (porting qurue)
[15:25] <janimo> queue
[15:25] <ogra> NCommander, it was discussed at the rally as well as in last linaro/arm call
[15:25] <ogra> porting queue
[15:26] <janimo> so a set of tags and processes for triaging and fixing armel porting issues
[15:26] <janimo> in LP
[15:26] <ogra> the ftbfs website isnt really close wrt timing
[15:26] <janimo> between linaro and us
[15:26] <ogra> i.e. we didnt have the empathy blocker for A2 on it
[15:27] <NCommander> ogra: the ftbfs page is only delaARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:27] <ogra> even 5h after the build had failed
[15:27] <NCommander> yed sometihng like ~30 minutes-ish
[15:27] <NCommander> argh
[15:27] <ogra> NCommander, the ftbfs list only gets generated twoce a day
[15:27] <ogra> *twice
[15:27] <NCommander> ogra: that was fixed
[15:27] <NCommander> with th move to launchpadlib
[15:28] <ogra> in any case the new porting queue as discussed should be used
[15:28] <janimo> with packages taking one day to build it is the perfect sampling frequency :)
[15:28] <ogra> heh
[15:28] <ogra> yeah
[15:28] <slangasek> ogra: the new list isn't populated yet, sorry - not much there to use yet
[15:28] <ogra> if you need more info, slangasek can point you to urls and tags
[15:28] <slangasek> Coming Soon
[15:28] <ogra> oh, ok
[15:28] <ogra> so until then use the ftbfs site :P
[15:28]  * ogra hides
[15:29] <janimo> plenty of work on the ftbfs site too (kde!!)
[15:29] <NCommander> janimo: i recommend ignoring KDE until Qt is fixed
[15:29] <GrueMaster> Yes, kdelibs needs love.
[15:29] <ogra> blame NCommander, he said all oreal issues were fixed upstream :P
[15:29] <ogra> *qreal
[15:29] <janimo> NCommander, sure
[15:29] <GrueMaster> Missed release this time around as a result.
[15:29] <NCommander> GrueMaster: that was intentional due to the qt4-x11 issues
[15:30] <NCommander> Until Qt is resolved, KDE is not on my TODO list 10:30:39 < janimo> plenty of work on the ftbfs site too (kde!!)
[15:30] <janimo> I guess upstream introduces new qreal issues when doing a new minor release
[15:30] <ogra> it is release noted
[15:30] <NCommander> (ok
[15:30] <ogra> no worries
[15:30] <NCommander> this is getting annoying
[15:30]  * NCommander has to fix his kb
[15:30] <ogra> get a new one ;)
[15:30] <ogra> they dont cost the world
[15:30] <NCommander> [topic] 10:31:48 < NCommander> this is getting annoying
[15:30] <NCommander> 10:31:53  * NCommander has to fix his kb
[15:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  10:31:48 < NCommander> this is getting annoying
[15:30] <NCommander> ....
[15:31] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:31] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:31] <ogra> awesome !
[15:31] <ogra> they rock !!!
[15:31] <rsalveti> \o/
[15:31] <ogra> siny and sexy
[15:31] <ogra> *shiny indeed
[15:31] <ogra> nothing else to report atm
[15:31] <NCommander> I do
[15:31] <janimo> headless creation postponed after A2
[15:32] <ogra> so we'll have them tomorrow ?
[15:32] <ogra> ;P
[15:32] <NCommander> nm on my news
[15:32] <NCommander> :-)
[15:32] <janimo> after, not shortly after :P
[15:32] <ogra> :)
[15:32] <janimo> NCommander, yes? what's the news? :)
[15:33] <NCommander> janimo: we'll beat the headless work into the ground ASAP, its at least fairly straightforward
[15:33] <NCommander> janimo: you beaAny Other Business
[15:33] <NCommander> oh give me a break
[15:33] <janimo> :)
[15:33]  * NCommander goes to find  mallet
[15:33] <GrueMaster> ogra: Pool is frozen.  Have to wait until Monday first thing.
[15:33] <NCommander> (anything else?)
[15:34] <janimo> GrueMaster, pool?
[15:34] <janimo> debian arch or swimming?
[15:34] <GrueMaster> yes
[15:34] <GrueMaster> :P
[15:35] <ogra> GrueMaster, pull out your swim suit
[15:35] <ogra> will thaw today
[15:35]  * NCommander hopes its the former as the idea of GrueMaster in a swimsuit scares and confuses me
[15:35] <janimo> so NCommander did you find the mallet?
[15:35] <GrueMaster> Oh, you don't want that.
[15:35] <NCommander> anyway, can I move?
[15:35] <GrueMaster> can you type?
[15:36] <NCommander> possibly
[15:36] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[15:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[15:36]  * NCommander has nothing
[15:36] <ogra> other meeting times so we can have persia back ?
[15:37] <ogra> (not serious here, but it seems to be awkward for him to attend atm)
[15:37] <ogra> and i must say i miss him
[15:37] <ogra> meeting wise
[15:38]  * NCommander thinks it might be easier to move Japan ...
[15:38] <ogra> go ahead
[15:38] <NCommander> then to get us all in times that aren't bad
[15:38] <ogra> :)
[15:38] <ogra> though i prefer to have more than 20sqm to live in
[15:39] <NCommander> ok
[15:39] <NCommander> anything else?
[15:39] <NCommander> going once
[15:40] <NCommander> twice
[15:40] <NCommander> three times
[15:40] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[15:40] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 09:40.
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
** NCommander to talk tod the release team on which team to track w.r.t. to bugs (co)

== Weekly Reports ==
=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
* Qt debugging continues

=== Minutes ===
* Qt continues to remain broken
* KDE FTBFS due to Qt breakage
