{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''December 20th, 2007, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

* Dates of the mobile sprint are: January 28th 2008 through February 1 2008

=== Action Items from Dec 13th, 2007 ===
* carry over lool to take a look at bug # 172426 and see if he can reproduce it. until Dec 20th.
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works
* amitk to update hardy ppa with drivers, ('''context found,  sent to Amitk''').<<BR>>
 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/Meeting/20071129
* carry over, davidm to query build team on best way to monitor the i386 builds and the LPIA builds to stay in sync.
* Lexington to test ext3 for boot speed and disk image corruption as soon as an extra CB shows up.
* davidm to ship his crown beach to Lexington today overnight. ('''completed, shipped DHL''')
* Canonical to share all info with robr2 on disk image corruption as soon as available
* davidm to follow up and make sure a bug is opened to share info with Intel ('''bug opened # 176178''')<<BR>>
 Launchpad bug 176178 in moblin-other "Filesystem corruption on hard shutdown"
* robr2 to check if USB meeting will happen tomorrow.<<BR>>
 bspencer I setup the continued USB meeting for 10am PDT Friday
* bspencer to talk with developers to push get tags when making a release, and report back on status of this
* davidm to query rustyl on status of PPM ('''query sent, waiting response''')

=== Current Items ===
If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* All prior actions that make sense to carry over will carry over to the Jan 3, 2008 meeting.
=== Minutes ===
No minutes, the meeting was short, most people were on holiday and there was no participation to speak of.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
Describe MobileAndEmbedded/Meeting/20071220 here.
