{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<pre>
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/OMAPMaverickInstall (Japanese).
Base rev: 12
</pre>
== プリインストール済みのOMAP3/4 Maverick (10.10) イメージを使うには ==
プリインストール済みのOMAP3/4 Maverick (10.10) イメージを使い、以下の方法で適用します。
<pre>
== To use preinstalled OMAP3/4 Maverick (10.10) Images apply the following steps ==
</pre>

=== ダウンロード ===
圧縮済みイメージを http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/ports/releases/ からダウンロードします。

/!\ イメージの精査を行うには、md5sumでチェックしてください。

<pre>
=== Downloading ===
Download the compressed image from http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/ports/releases/

/!\ Check the md5sum to verify the image

</pre>

=== イメージの書き込み ===
生のイメージを空のSDカードに書き込みます。Maverickでは最低4GのSDカードが利用できることを確認してください。

手順:
# SDカードを母艦となるコンピュータに設定します。
# SDカードがマウントされていないことを確認します(この際に必要であればumountをしてください)
# SDカードの正しいデバイス名を特定しておいてください。(例: /dev/sdb )
# イメージを書き込みには以下のコマンドを実行してください:
<pre>
sudo sh -c 'zcat ./ubuntu-netbook-10.10-preinstalled-netbook-armel+<omap image>.img.gz >/dev/<device name>'
  </pre>

<pre>
=== Writing the image ===

You should write the raw image to a blank SD card. For Maverick make sure you're using at least a 4G SD card.

Steps:
# Place the SD card at your host computer.
# Make sure the SD card is not mounted (just umount it if needed)
# Identify the correct device name (like /dev/sdb)
# Run the following command to write it:
  <pre>
sudo sh -c 'zcat ./ubuntu-netbook-10.10-preinstalled-netbook-armel+<omap image>.img.gz >/dev/<device name>'
  </pre>

</pre>

=== イメージから起動する ===
==== PandaboardやBeagleboard xM上のシステム ====
SDカードを挿入してボード上の電源を入れます。

<pre>
=== Booting the image ===

==== On Pandaboard and Beagleboard xM systems ====

Just switch on the board with the SD card inserted.

</pre>

==== OMAP4 Blaze ====
母艦PC上でSDカードの1番目のパーティションをマウントし、以下のファイルをコピーします:
<pre>
$ cd /media/7E21-4C20
$ wget http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/blaze/MLO -O MLO
$ wget http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/blaze/boot.scr -O boot.scr
$ wget http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/blaze/u-boot.bin -O u-boot.bin
$ wget http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/blaze/uImage -O uImage
</pre>

母艦PC上からumountを行い、SDカードをボードに挿入してボード上の電源を入れます。
<pre>
==== On OMAP4 Blaze ====

Mount the first SD card partition at your host PC and copy the following files to it:
<pre>
$ cd /media/7E21-4C20
$ wget http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/blaze/MLO -O MLO
$ wget http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/blaze/boot.scr -O boot.scr
$ wget http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/blaze/u-boot.bin -O u-boot.bin
$ wget http://people.canonical.com/~rsalveti/maverick/blaze/uImage -O uImage
</pre>

Umount it and just switch on the board with the SD card inserted.

</pre>

==== 旧式のBeagleboard ====
新しいイメージがあるSDカードをBeagleboardに挿入し、システム上のUser1ボタンを押したままにしてリセットを行ないます

/!\ NANDが修正されたOMAP3のシステム(例:Beagleboard revision C以降)では、以下のようにします:  
シリアルコンソールでシステムに接続し、どのautobootスクリプトも停止して、以下の内容を入力します
<pre>
setenv bootcmd 'mmc init;fatload mmc 0 0x82000000 boot.scr;source 0x82000000'; setenv autostart yes; saveenv; boot
</pre>
システムは起動を開始します(この手順はNANDを持っていて、システムがboot.scrを標準で読み込まないシステムにのみ必要であることに注意してください)

<pre>
==== On older Beagleboards ====
Insert SD card with new image into the beagleboard and reset while holding User1 button on system

/!\ On omap3 systems with a modified NAND (i.e. beaglebord C series) do the following:  

On a serial console connected to the system, halt any autoboot script and type 
<pre>
setenv bootcmd 'mmc init;fatload mmc 0 0x82000000 boot.scr;source 0x82000000'; setenv autostart yes; saveenv; boot
</pre>
The system should start booting (note that this step is only necessary if you have a NAND and the system does not default to reading boot.scr)

</pre>
=== この作業で注意すること ===
* このシステムは、最初の起動でSDカードを埋めるためにルートファイルシステムを伸長します。
* この処理が完了した後でシステムは再起動し、プロンプトで初期の起動情報を入力します (ユーザ名/パスワード、地域、タイムゾーン、言語サポートなどの作成)
* これら情報をを埋めたならば、システムは起動処理を継続し、新規の作成したユーザで最初にログインするかを確認されます(または、ユーザ作成で自動ログインを選択した場合は、ネットブックのセッションが起動します)
* インストール中に問題が発生した場合、IRC上の#ubuntu-armに参加してください。
<pre>
=== Notes about the process ===

* The System will expand the root filesystem to fill the SD card on first boot
* After this process completes the system will reboot and prompt for first boot information (create username/password, region, timezone, language support, etc)
* Once this information is filled in, the system should continue with the boot process, after which it will ask for the newly created user to login for the first time (or just boot to the netbook session in case you selected autologin during user creation)
* In case of problems during installation, please join #ubuntu-arm on IRC.
</pre>
