{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:other-o-arm-port-lightspark
* '''Created''': 2011-04-22
* '''Contributors''': Jani Monoses
* '''Packages affected''': lightspark

=== Summary ===

Port rendering routines to OpenGL ES 2.0.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu 11.10 now provides Lightspark for the armel architecture, with full optimisations to improve the free flash experience.

=== Rationale ===

Flash on ARM is messy, complicated, and involves long contracts nobody wants to read.  Further, there isn't a handy package in the partner archive to leverage for those using multiverse (or partner itself).  Provision of a free solution helps the base experience, leaving the negotiations to silicon vendors, ODMs, IHVs, OSVs, and similar parties, rather than being a development blocker.

=== User stories ===

ARM users with proprietary video drivers that provide accelerated GLES but not GL can watch streaming video sites which still use Flash instead of HTML5 based solutions.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

Working with upstream, incrementally port to modern GL and then GLES 2.0.
Optionally improve performance for NEON capable processors.

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
