{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''October 24th, 16:00 UTC''' in #ubuntu-mobile.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from last week ===
 '''Continued from last week:'''
* Topic: private builds
** tfheen to get download area for proprietary builds set up. (carried forward):  '''In progress''': Waiting for IS to set up, got preempted by the 7.10 release.
 '''New to this week:'''
* Topic: TODO for gutsy
** lool will look at the current issues with hildon-desktop this coming week.
** Intel should verify the ubuntu branch works and suggest changes.
** bspencer to resolve issue with hildon-desktop configuration files and separate packages
* Topic: Pre-Alpha status
** davidm, Review test place at UDS
** davidm, Review UI issues at UDS
** davidm, further discussion of Application development and upstream at UDS
* Topic: Organize the next meetings as we will be at UDS/All Hands
** davidm, look into what and and how to have status meetings
* Topic: Expected USB Client functionality for customer
** Don_Johnson to investigate USB client issues.

=== Current Items ===
If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.
* Testing + running on an 800x480 screen (smagoun)

* UDS attendance anyone else coming? (davidm)
* Any additional topics for UDS? (davidm)
 

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* Don_Johnson to follow up on USB Client utilities etc.
* lool to continue looking at the current issues with hildon-desktop this coming week.
* Carry forward the action -> Intel should verify the ubuntu branch works and suggest changes.
* pat_mcgowan to send davidm scheduling list. (complete)
* davidm to commit schedule for UDS by Thursday (complete)
* davidm to figure out issues around Intel call (complete)

=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20071024_1701.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
