{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''September 15th, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2011-20110922]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-2011-20111006]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* None

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-arm.html
* ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ppisati)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (!GrueMaster, mahmoh)
* Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
* P Blueprints (all)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[14:59] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:59] <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Oct  6 14:59:20 2011 UTC.  The chair is NCommander. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.
[14:59] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[15:00] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Meeting/2011/20111006
[15:00] <janimo> hi
[15:01] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-arm.html
[15:02]  * davidm waves
[15:02] <ogra_> i dont think we need to look at specs for O
[15:02]  * NCommander waves back
[15:02] <NCommander> Yeah
[15:02] <ogra_> lets use the time at the end to look at ÃœP specs instead
[15:02] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Server Status (NCommander, Daviey)
[15:03]  * davidm is upset that the HTC Flyer pricing was a mistake
[15:03] <NCommander> ogra_: I have nothing drafted for a meeting on it. We can do that next week
[15:04] <NCommander> server side, I have nothing new to report
[15:04] <ogra_> NCommander, we need to have the drafts registered by next week
[15:04] <NCommander> ogra_: I'm aware.
[15:04] <ogra_> so we need to discuss them today
[15:05] <ogra_> at least who adds which
[15:05] <NCommander> ogra_: then I'd appericate it if you had asked me to bring it up before the meeting or even put it on the agenda.
[15:05] <ogra_> (and i doubt we have anything beyond banshee to discuss at all anyway)
[15:05] <ogra_> NCommander, will do next time, but that doesnt change the deadline now :)
[15:06] <ogra_> and you just said you are aware
[15:06] <NCommander> ogra_: we have the P Blueprints page, and we've gone over it in this meeting before.
[15:07] <ogra_> right
[15:07] <ogra_> who registers and drafts which one then ?
[15:07] <ogra_> i assume david will not do all he has assigned
[15:08] <NCommander> I'm drafting all the ARM server ones and will assign them after UDS after discussions with the team
[15:08] <GrueMaster> sigh.  Can we stick to the agenda?  I have added Blueprints to the meeting wiki.
[15:08] <ppisati> NCommander: anything kernel related?
[15:08] <ogra_> GrueMaster, thanks !
[15:08] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel status
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Kernel status
[15:08] <NCommander> ppisati: not to my knowledge, anything to report?
[15:09] <ogra_> yes, lets stick to the agenda, i didnt mean to start a discussion (since i thought it was clear we have to do it today)
[15:09] <ppisati> nothing new to report this week
[15:09] <janimo> no new ac100 either, I was kind of hoping upstream fixes speaker sound - ongoing
[15:09] <ppisati> NCommander: nope, that's why i was asking
[15:09] <ogra_> janimo, its fixed :)
[15:09] <ogra_> janimo, see #ac100
[15:09] <ogra_> janimo, time for a zero day SRU i'd say ;)
[15:10] <ogra_> (after some testing)
[15:10] <janimo> ogra_, well, marvin says one more patch is pening
[15:10] <janimo> pending
[15:10] <ogra_> k
[15:10] <infinity> If the patchset is small, I'd accept it today. :P
[15:10] <infinity> But 0-day works too.
[15:10] <ogra_> ppisati, xranby reported stability issues on omap4
[15:11] <ogra_> i assume GrueMaster doesnt do many heavy load tests so that went unnoticed it seems
[15:11] <janimo> indeed, would be nice to have it for release
[15:11] <ogra_> janimo, ++
[15:11] <ppisati> ogra_: i'll ping him
[15:11] <ogra_> great, there should also be a bug open already
[15:11] <GrueMaster> ogra_: I haven't been able to get past the installer on dailys.
[15:11] <ogra_> GrueMaster, yeah, thats what i mean :)
[15:11] <ppisati> omap4?
[15:11] <ogra_> yep
[15:12] <ogra_> panda
[15:12] <ppisati> uhm
[15:12] <ppisati> on cdimage i don't see any daily for omap (that is not a preinstalled one)
[15:13] <infinity> ppisati: All our images are preinstalled.
[15:13] <NCommander> except netboot
[15:13] <ppisati> btw, today i reinstalled an omap4 preinstalled and it was ok
[15:13] <GrueMaster> ppisati:The installer I am referring to is oem-config.  It is part of Ubiquity.
[15:13] <ogra_> great to hear !
[15:13] <ppisati> but yes, couldn;'t get ubiquity to start
[15:13] <GrueMaster> And is part of every preinstalled image.
[15:13] <infinity> ppisati: Couldn't get it to start?
[15:14] <ppisati> nope
[15:14] <ppisati> crash
[15:14] <infinity> ppisati: Was there a bug filed?
[15:15] <ppisati> infinity: didn't check, i thought there was something wrong on my side
[15:15] <infinity> Possibly.
[15:15] <ppisati> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity
[15:16] <ppisati> but it seems there are quite a bit open
[15:16] <ppisati> bugs
[15:17] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, janimo)
[15:17] <ogra_> banshee ! :)
[15:18] <ogra_> so lets make a decision ... since RC doesnt happen today we have a bit wiggle room
[15:18] <NCommander> GrueMaster: and I did some work on finding the root of the crash and some workaround attempts Allailed
=== fader_ is now known as fader
[15:18] <GrueMaster> Sadly, it builds.  It even installs.
[15:18] <ogra_> NCommander, GrueMaster do you see any chance for a fix (even an SRU) in time ?
[15:18] <NCommander> ogra_: I say we ship withe banshee despite the breakge. Changing el seeds is el suidice IMHO at this point
[15:18] <ogra_> if not i'll change the seeds right after meeting
[15:19] <ogra_> NCommander, i have approval and RB was tested
[15:19] <NCommander> ogra_: I think the odds are on par with you quitting smoking:-/
[15:19] <davidm> what is the status  on banshee
[15:19] <davidm> I don't want to ship broken as it could be months for an SRU
[15:19] <ogra_> i only want to ship banshee if there are realistic chances that we can get a fix
[15:19] <GrueMaster> RB doesn't support ubuntuone from what I could tell.
[15:19] <NCommander> GrueMaster: it should
[15:20] <ogra_> davidcalle, i'll happily ship it broken if i can get a word from NCommander that there is a chance for a zero day SRU or some such
[15:20] <NCommander> RB support predated bansheesupport
[15:20] <GrueMaster> The banshee issue feels like a missing package or setting issue.
[15:20] <davidm> It does not but I don't care working player beats broken player with unknown repair
[15:20] <ogra_> if thats clearly impossible lets drop it
[15:20] <NCommander> the less dependence on a framework known to be dodgy on ARM, the happiler I am
[15:20] <ogra_> so its all based on michaels judgement
[15:21] <NCommander> ogra_: you gotapproval to ship RB. Make it happen
[15:21] <davidm> NCommander, what is the likely hood of a fix by next Thursday?
[15:21] <ogra_> and since he said that i would stop smoking before it gets fixyed ...
[15:21]  * ogra_ lights a cigarette and opens a terminal in the seeds dir :)
[15:22] <NCommander> davidm: Unlikely. Its crashing in pure mono code, and I've yet to get mdb to work properly under ARM
[15:22] <NCommander> davidm: nor has GrueMaster managed to getone going throguh MonoDevelop
[15:22] <ogra_> yeah, lets keep banshee for P :)
[15:22] <ogra_> how about ftbfs beyond banshee ?
[15:22] <GrueMaster> davidm: The fix could happen as early as today or as late as it takes.  In my opinion, it is not an easy nut to crack, even with debugging symbols.
[15:23] <davidm> OK then lets pursue RB for release, and fix banshee later if at all possible
[15:23] <ogra_> yep
[15:23] <ogra_> or concentrate on having a rock solid banshee in P
[15:23] <ogra_> and dont waste time on O
[15:23] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:23] <ogra_> they build and work
[15:23] <ogra_> for everyone bug GrueMaster
[15:24] <GrueMaster> For most people.
[15:24] <ogra_> s/bug/but even
[15:24] <janimo> mx5 is very slow though
[15:24] <ogra_> janimo, how is mx5 ?
[15:24] <ogra_> heh, snap
[15:25] <GrueMaster> I have yet to get through oem-config without it respawning several times.
[15:25] <janimo> everyone who tested it says the same
[15:25] <ogra_> well, it installs and its a "tech preview"
[15:25] <GrueMaster> on omap4.
[15:25] <janimo> GrueMaster, for me once it respanwed was the sign the system was installed
[15:25] <janimo> but hmm, maybe not ocnsistently
[15:25] <ogra_> janimo, that doesnt help
[15:25] <janimo> I know
[15:25] <GrueMaster> I believe the mx5 issues are swap related.  I seemed to get a bit better performance once I had a working swapfile.
[15:25] <ogra_> since you still have jasper and ubiquity installed then
[15:26] <GrueMaster> And no user account some of the time.
[15:26] <janimo> GrueMaster, but it has ~800Mb of RAM no? The beagle was snappier with less RAM
[15:26] <ogra_> GrueMaster, oh, intresting
[15:26] <ogra_> that indicates that it breaks reaqlly really early
[15:26] <GrueMaster> janimo: I thought it only had 512
[15:27] <infinity> 868432
[15:27] <ogra_> bug 868432
[15:27] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 868432 in SchoolTool Gradebook "â€¢ one of Worksheets view or Worksheet's title edit view show unstranslated value " [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/868432
[15:27] <infinity> ogra_: No, that was the amount of RAM on an mx53loco. :P
[15:27] <ogra_> hmm
[15:27] <ogra_> lol
[15:28] <ogra_> NCommander, move ?
[15:28] <GrueMaster> On my system, last time I tried an image it failed to load the panel and several other issues until I had a working swapfile.
[15:28] <infinity> Well, swap is back on again.
[15:28] <ogra_> well, swap should be back
[15:29] <GrueMaster> I'll test today's image in a bit.
[15:30] <NCommander> [tpic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[15:30] <NCommander> we
[15:30] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: QA Status (GrueMaster, mahmoh)
[15:32] <GrueMaster> I have spent most of the week tracking down the banshee issue.  I have ruled out possible SMP issues and for the most part, mono core and addons work from what I can tell by running other apps.
[15:32] <NCommander> GrueMaster: anything tobring up
[15:33] <GrueMaster> I have also been trying to get some feedback from banshee developers on the #banshee channel on irc.gnome.org.
[15:33] <GrueMaster> Will continue on those tracks today.
[15:33] <NCommander> k anything else?
[15:33] <GrueMaster> Daily image for today just booted through oem-config for me (and there was much rejoicing).
[15:34] <GrueMaster> Although there is a crash report I'll need to look at.
=== zz_bigbash is now known as bigbash
[15:35] <GrueMaster> Is unity-2d supposed to use the same settings as Unity for hiding the panel?  If so - fail.
[15:35] <GrueMaster> crash appears to be oem-config.  Maybe I'll have something useful to report on it.finally.
[15:35] <ogra_> i think the default is "2" in dconf-editor
[15:36] <ogra_> not sure which hide behavior that sets :P
[15:36] <ogra_> but there should be a description in the editor
[15:37] <GrueMaster> Ugh.  Can't report crash on oem-config because libgtk2.0-0 is out of date.
[15:37] <GrueMaster> There was no description in gconf-editor for that key.
[15:37] <ogra_> dconf...
[15:37] <ogra_> gconf is dead
[15:37] <GrueMaster> At least none that I saw.
[15:37] <GrueMaster> ok
[15:37] <GrueMaster> Will look later.
[15:38] <ogra_> if you still have gconf settings anywhere thats a bug
[15:38] <GrueMaster> Nothing else here.
[15:38] <infinity> Once this new apt builds, I might spin a new set of images.
[15:38] <infinity> Installer performance will seem a bit snappier.
[15:39] <infinity> For a 6 minute period or so that update-apt-xapian-index isn't killing your SD in the background. :P
[15:40] <GrueMaster> I would ask that everyone on the team with a working panda please try to do some testing with the daily desktop image.  I am seeing too many crashes for a good release.
[15:41]  * ogra_ didnt see any in the last image he tested
[15:41] <ogra_> that was a few days after beta
[15:42] <GrueMaster> Hence why I said "daily".  Beta was 2 weeks ago.
[15:42] <infinity> Oh, we need to get on ndec's case about the ti-omap-extras stuff actually existing for oneiric.
[15:43] <ogra_> GrueMaster, yes, i tested a dail
[15:43] <ogra_> y
[15:43] <ogra_> as i said
[15:43] <ogra_> a few days after ...
[15:43] <GrueMaster> today's daily.  A lot of packages have changed in the last two weeks.
[15:43] <ogra_> sure
=== bigbash is now known as zz_bigbash
[15:44] <ppisati> 6th Oct daily + morning dist-upgrade = ubiquity crash (at least here)
[15:44] <NCommander> [topic] Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Linaro Updates (rsalveti)
[15:44] <GrueMaster> Just filed bug 869284.
[15:44] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 869284 in geoclue (Ubuntu) "geoclue-master crashed with signal 5" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/869284
[15:44]  * rsalveti waves
[15:44] <ogra_> i think i saw evan talk about that issue today
[15:44] <rsalveti> not much to report from the Linaro side this week, besides the planning for the 11.10 cycle
[15:44] <rsalveti> https://launchpad.net/linaro-ubuntu/+milestone/11.10
=== beuno is now known as beuno-lunch
[15:45] <rsalveti> jcrigby pushed the fix for bug 867670 and bug 867650
[15:45] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 867670 in u-boot-linaro (Ubuntu) "OMAP 4460 based pandas run too hot at current operating point" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/867670
[15:45] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 867650 in u-boot-linaro (Ubuntu) "OMAP4 eMMC support is missing" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/867650
[15:45] <rsalveti> but as SRU
[15:45] <rsalveti> still in progress
[15:45] <ogra_> rsalveti, how is the move to oneiric going ?
[15:46] <infinity> rsalveti: I need to talk to him about that.
[15:46] <infinity> rsalveti: But the fixes he pushed looked entirely suitable for release.
[15:46] <rsalveti> ogra_: we're still blocked with bugs at the linaro-image-tools
[15:46] <ogra_> :(
[15:46] <rsalveti> infinity: is it critical enough for the releasE?
[15:46] <rsalveti> ogra_: but we expect to have working images next week
[15:47] <ogra_> we too :)
[15:47] <infinity> rsalveti: Did we not want 4460 to work with oneiric images?
[15:47] <rsalveti> I'll also make sure the unity3d packages are in place, so we can demonstrate it with oneiric + latest sgx packages
[15:47] <infinity> rsalveti: It's not like we're respinning images post-release.
[15:47]  * ogra_ hugs rsalveti 
[15:47] <ogra_> rsalveti, if you need me for PPA copying or anything, ping me
[15:48] <ogra_> (for 3D)
[15:48] <rsalveti> infinity: yeah, there's one issue for 4460 that might be important for the release
[15:48] <rsalveti> ogra_: sure, I'll let you know when I get it all working
[15:48] <infinity> rsalveti: The overheating one, at least.  But I thought I saw another.
[15:48] <rsalveti> but I should be able to have a PPA for that
[15:48] <infinity> rsalveti: Still, the installer setting your board on fire is bad enough. :P
[15:48] <rsalveti> infinity: yup :-)
[15:48] <rsalveti> infinity: let's talk about this at #ubuntu-arm then
[15:48] <ogra_> rsalveti, well, they eventually need to end up in the ti ppa
[15:49] <GrueMaster> meh.  Self-heating.
[15:49] <rsalveti> ogra_: oh, that's fine by me, thought we would like a separated ppa for that
[15:49] <ogra_> well, winter is near in the northern hemisphere ... probably the pandas know that ;)
[15:49] <rsalveti> once I have the packages all working I'll let you know, then we can make sure it lands at the proper ppa
[15:49]  * GrueMaster looks outside.  Near?
[15:49] <ogra_> rsalveti, well, whatever works, effectively panda is the only thing we can run it on atm
[15:50] <rsalveti> yeah
[15:50] <ogra_> so it makes sense to put it in the TI one i think
[15:51] <rsalveti> sure, and it's already enabled by default once you installed the sgx drivers
[15:51] <rsalveti> :-)
[15:51] <ogra_> right
[15:51] <rsalveti> that's all from my side
[15:51] <ogra_> NCommander, move
[15:52] <rsalveti> next week I should have all the planning for connect/uds in place
[15:52] <rsalveti> at least from my side
[15:52] <ogra_> NCommander, move !
[15:53] <ogra_> time is running out and we need to get the specs assigned
[15:54] <ogra_> davidm, did you see the recent additions to the spec ideas page ?
[15:54]  * ogra_ gets the feeling he talks to an empty room
[15:55]  * rsalveti is still around, but not important anymore
[15:55] <davidm> ogra_, nope have not
[15:55] <davidm> I'll have a look
[15:55] <ogra_> davidcalle, see the two smagoun buts at the bottom
[15:55] <ogra_> that looks like linaro material
[15:55] <NCommander> [topic blueprints
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: blueprints
[15:56] <ogra_> so NCommander said he'd take all server specs and have them registered next week
[15:56] <NCommander> [chair] ogra_
[15:56] <meetingology> Current chairs: NCommander ogra_
[15:56] <ogra_> infinity, are you taking the HF spec ?
[15:56]  * infinity looks.
[15:56] <ogra_> since you do the work i guess ...
[15:56] <infinity> But I imagine I am.  Didn't know there was one. :P
[15:56] <ogra_> it just says armhf _)
[15:57] <infinity> Ahh.  Kay.
[15:57] <infinity> Yeah, I'll take that.
[15:57]  * ogra_ still doesnt know what "linaro arm boot " is supposed to mean
[15:57] <ogra_> davidm, can we skip that one until its clear what it means ?
[15:58] <ogra_> then we have "ARM ISO install for non-mmc hardware"
[15:58] <infinity> Does smagoun realize that an emulated live-build is likely to be slower than the real thing?
[15:58] <ogra_> who wants that ? i suspect its just d-i images
[15:58] <janimo> ogra_, I think that means 'arm boot speed'
[15:58] <ogra_> infinity, i think he doesnt want qemu, they used it in the past
[15:58] <ogra_> janimo, linaro arm boot ?
[15:58] <infinity> ogra_: He has to have qemu.
[15:58] <ogra_> janimo, do you want to take it ?
[15:58] <janimo> ogra_, yes. I think so
[15:59] <infinity> ogra_: His packages won't magically install on x86.
[15:59] <ogra_> and find out if thats true ?
[15:59] <janimo> ogra_, well it is a postponed one from O so I guess I'll do something related still
[15:59] <ogra_> infinity, well, qemu-arm-static ...
[15:59] <infinity> ogra_: Still qemu.
[15:59] <ogra_> janimo, a postponed one ?
[15:59] <infinity> ogra_: Anyhow, I should probably take smagoun's specs, so I can shoot them down as crack.
[15:59] <ogra_> oh, yours
[15:59] <ogra_> indeed
[15:59] <janimo> ogra_, yes
[15:59] <ogra_> infinity, well, one is clearly linaro
[16:00] <davidm> infinity, unless smagoun is going to do the work
[16:00] <ogra_> the package cross build stuff was already discussed art ubuntu-devel
[16:00] <ogra_> which he apparently doesnt read, else he could have participated :)
[16:01] <ogra_> davidm, do we expect achiang to work on the spec he proposed ?
[16:01] <ogra_> i think he is oem
[16:01] <ogra_> else one of us has to take the firefox elfhack one
[16:02] <infinity> I think our time's up.
[16:02] <ogra_> well, that doesnt go anywhere here, lets adjourn, i'll assign specs that have no owner
[16:02]  * ogra_ thinks him holding monologues to the team with only infinity participating is a waste of time
[16:02] <ogra_> #endmeeting
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* None
