{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''August 31th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100824]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-2010907]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* NCommander to unbreak apport retracer (c/o)
* NCommander to discuss with linaro and asac on improved-generic-subarch-support
* NCommander to clean out the stale dove alternates
* NCommander to smoke test ubuntu-server dove alternates
* NCommander to flush antimony's expired images

=== Special Items ===

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html
* http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
** Bugs needing attention before A3:
*** Bug #605972 - Need to set hostname to ubuntu during first boot.
*** Bug #600359 - ureadahead generating oom messages during boot.
*** Bug #605831 - [omap3] Resolution should be taken from /proc/cmdline if provided
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[DavidSugar|dyfet]]</nowiki>)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business
** Kubuntu Mobile - Liquid update 

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[14:01] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:01. The chair is NCommander.
[14:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:01]  * GrueMaster yawns
[14:01] <dyfet> groans
[14:01] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100831
[14:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100831
[14:01] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to unbreak apport retracer (c/o)
[14:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to unbreak apport retracer (c/o)
[14:01] <NCommander> c/o
[14:02] <ogra> hey
[14:02] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to discuss with linaro and asac on improved-generic-subarch-support
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to discuss with linaro and asac on improved-generic-subarch-support
[14:02] <ogra> roll call perhaps ?
[14:02] <NCommander> co
[14:02] <ogra> dont always rush so fast :)
[14:02] <davidm> G'day
[14:02] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to clean out the stale dove alternates
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to clean out the stale dove alternates
[14:02] <NCommander> Done.
[14:02] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to smoke test ubuntu-server dove alternates
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to smoke test ubuntu-server dove alternates
[14:02] <NCommander> c/o
[14:02] <ogra> NCommander, the ww dir on antimony still looks really odd
[14:03] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to flush antimony's expired images
[14:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to flush antimony's expired images
[14:03] <ogra> *www
[14:03] <NCommander> postponed until after beta
[14:03] <NCommander> ogra: ogra in what way?
[14:04] <ogra> err, not the www one, the scratch one
[14:04] <NCommander> ogra: scratch needs a flush handle attached to it :-)
[14:04] <ogra> ogra@antimony:~$ ls /srv/cdimage.ubuntu.com/scratch/ubuntu-netbook/
[14:04] <ogra> daily-live  ports_daily  ports_daily-live  ports_daily-preinstalled  ports_preinstalled  ports_preinstalled-live
[14:04] <NCommander> ogra: I'll investigate
[14:04] <NCommander> [topic] standing items
[14:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  standing items
[14:05] <ogra> NCommander, also how is the work going with adding the manifest files for preinstalled builds ?
[14:05] <ogra> i know GrueMaster is waiting for that eagerly
[14:05] <NCommander> ogra: low enough on my TDOD that I won't hold your breath
[14:05] <ogra> (you said you'd care for it last meeting)
[14:05] <GrueMaster> yes.
[14:05] <NCommander> Someone else is going to have to fix it, or its going to have to wait
[14:06] <ogra> hmm, you sounded differently last week, ok
[14:06] <NCommander> I have no way of testing cdimage changes locally, and I rather not subject antimony to coding directly on it
[14:06]  * ogra does that ... ist bzr, you can roll back if your test build doesnt succeed
[14:06] <ogra> *it's
[14:07] <ogra> just dont do it during a milestone
[14:07] <NCommander> ogra: also, working on antimony from here requires 1-2 minuts to type a command due to lag
[14:07] <ogra> oh, its his fault ?
[14:07] <NCommander> (sometimes its slightly better)
[14:07] <ogra> well
[14:07] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:07] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:07] <GrueMaster> Sure, blame it on the aussie.
[14:08] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html
[14:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html
[14:08] <ogra> persia, how is the work on your last two items going ? did you polish the spirals ?
[14:09] <persia> I haven't tried a run since Thursday, which crashed fairly badly.  I'm hoping to get back to it in the next day or two (but have some testing to do first)
[14:09] <ogra> k, probably re-target the items then
[14:09] <persia> I'll do that now.
[14:09] <ogra> great
[14:10] <persia> The other one I can do for beta, if I prioritise it (and I will)
[14:10] <ogra> k
[14:11] <NCommander> [link] http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:11] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:11] <ogra> NCommander, bug 513728 ??
[14:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 513728 in erlang (Ubuntu) "[arm] needs porting to thumb2" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/513728
[14:11] <ogra> do you still plan to do that ?
[14:11] <NCommander> No.
[14:11] <NCommander> No time.
[14:12] <ogra> unassign it then :)
[14:12] <NCommander> k
[14:12] <ogra> bug 435046 is something i thought was solved long ago
[14:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 435046 in linux-mvl-dove (Ubuntu) "Ethernet port on the dove sometimes changes MAC addresses" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/435046
[14:12] <persia> ogra, I can't retarget it, but there's lots else TODO, and assigned to folks with no-time-before-beta, so I'm fairly confident it will move.
[14:12] <NCommander> it was solved by ignoring it
[14:12] <ogra> NCommander, there are a bunch of other thumb2 bugs assigned to you it seems
[14:13] <GrueMaster> I haven't seen it in a while.  My system is assigned an IP from the dhcp server based on mac addr.
[14:13] <ogra> persia, you should be able to re-target the sigle items on the whiteboard
[14:13] <ogra> GrueMaster, NCommander, well, then someone should close it :)
[14:14] <NCommander> can I move on?
[14:14] <persia> ogra, That spec isn't organised like that :)
[14:14] <ogra> heh, ok
[14:14] <ogra> NCommander, yup
[14:15] <ogra> please everybody check that list and see if the bugs you are assigned to are still valid
[14:15] <ogra> ...
[14:16] <NCommander> lag sucks
[14:16] <NCommander> (as in latency, not lag the enginneer)
[14:16] <lag> :0
[14:16] <NCommander> (sorry lag)
[14:16] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[14:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[14:16] <lag>  * Marvel (mvl-dove)
[14:16] <lag>    * MISC     : Now we have both mvl-dove branch in lucid and maverick, though it's moved straight
[14:16] <lag>                 from lucid to maverick (so it's 2.6.32 based) - thanks Tim/Brad/Andy Leann for this
[14:16] <lag>    * MISC     : Received LSP 5.3.3 from Marvell, 23 patches, some are minor feature change and do not
[14:16] <lag>                 qualify as SRU, will send my preliminary review out soon
[14:16] <lag>  * Freescale (fsl-imx51)
[14:16] <lag>    * Nothing new this week
[14:16] <lag>  * Texas Instruments (ti-omap)
[14:16] <lag>    * REBASE   : Updated to TI OMAP4 2.6.35 based kernel release, 2.6.35-903.8 was uploaded
[14:16] <lag>    * PATCH    : B613855 BB XM always boots with MMC as read-only due to incorrect GPIO settings
[14:16] <lag>    * ON GOING : B608266 fix submitted and accepted - still waiting for mobile team to test
[14:17] <lag>    * ON GOING : B563650 problem is not related to DPMS, but with VT driver entering power saving mode
[14:17] <lag>    * NEW      : B624652 new Panda version (ES2.0) needs a working bootloader
[14:17] <ogra> bug 613855 should be fixed, no ?
[14:17] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 613855 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "omap3 beagle XM MMC card always comes up readonly" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/613855
[14:17] <ogra> yeah, says fix released
[14:18] <GrueMaster> And it works here.
[14:18] <lag> When was that marked fixed released?
[14:18] <lag> Hold ot
[14:18] <ogra> bug 624652 is only paperwork, i think rsalveti has a working x-loader and the linaro omap4 u-boot shoudl work too
[14:18] <lag> on*
[14:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 624652 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu) "Panda ES2.0: No working bootloader" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/624652
[14:18] <lag> That's why it's marked as PATCH
[14:18] <ogra> lag, it was marked fix released when the upload happened :)
[14:19] <lag> ogra: It still needs to be done
[14:19]  * ogra wonders which bug we are currently talking about :)
[14:19] <rsalveti> ogra: yep, just waiting the 1gb patch to get accepted at gitorious tree
[14:19] <lag> ogra: The paperwork ..
[14:19] <rsalveti> and then we can just update the package
[14:19] <ogra> lag, ah, yeah
[14:19] <rsalveti> so it can be used by default for es2.0
[14:19] <lag> Good stuff
[14:19] <rsalveti> but also noticed they created a different patch for es2.0 8 layers :-(
[14:19] <lag> Let me know when it's fixed
[14:20] <ogra> rsajdok, did you test with the linaro u-boot ?
[14:20] <rsalveti> so will follow that later on to understand why
[14:20] <ogra> on es2
[14:20] <rsalveti> ogra: not yet
[14:20] <ogra> k
[14:20] <rsalveti> ogra: it's on my todo list, also a request from sakoman
[14:20] <ogra> we'll need to notify jcrigby if we see issues
[14:20] <rsalveti> sure
[14:21] <lag> Now who has tab issues
[14:21] <rsalveti> sakoman is looking forward to our test results
[14:21] <ogra> no hurry though
[14:21] <rsalveti> ok
[14:21] <ogra> its post beta stuff ... if we know during next week thats fine i guess
[14:21] <lag> I need to speak to sakoman
[14:22] <rsalveti> sure, np
[14:22] <ogra> lag, we wont stop you :)
[14:22] <lag> ogra: Let me know when you have his attention
[14:22] <lag> ;)
[14:22] <ogra> he is in #ubuntu-arm, feel free to do it yourself ;)
[14:23] <NCommander> can I move on?
[14:23] <lag> ..
[14:23] <ogra> ++
[14:24] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:25] <GrueMaster> Images are once again booting.
[14:25] <ogra> \o/
[14:25] <ogra> the session should be fine too now
[14:25] <GrueMaster> But I am now seeing an odd behavior.  After oem-config runs, the system comes up ok.  But if I reboot, the system hangs.
[14:25] <rsalveti> cool :-)
[14:25] <rsalveti> GrueMaster: beagle? panda?
[14:26] <GrueMaster> Just noticed this late in the evening, and haven't had a chance to explore it.
[14:26] <lag> GrueMaster: I have the opposite problem
[14:26] <GrueMaster> Beagle & Panda.
[14:26] <NCommander> GrueMaster: how ar ethings w/ dove?
[14:26] <ogra> panda works fine here since we switched u-boot
[14:26] <lag> Which uboot are we now using?
[14:26] <rsalveti> well, didn't test with today's image, but tested yesterday on beagle and panda
[14:26] <lag> When was the switch?
[14:27] <ogra> lag, linaros for omap4
[14:27] <GrueMaster> My BeagleXM hangs during boot before oem-config runs, with an alsa-utils error.  Same sd card w/o changes works fine on Beagle.
[14:27] <rsalveti> worked fine on both
[14:27] <ogra> lag, before beta freeze
[14:27] <lag> Can someone send me a copy?
[14:27] <ogra> lag, of what ?
[14:27] <rsalveti> lag: grab from the package
[14:27] <lag> The u-boot.bin you're using
[14:27] <lag> k
[14:27] <rsalveti> or from the latest image :-)
[14:27] <ogra> https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/u-boot-linaro/2010.06-695-gbd23130-linaro-0ubuntu1
[14:27] <lag> Thanks
[14:28] <GrueMaster> Dove fails to load the desktop/installer.  hangs in X w/ background.  I believe it may be trying to load the 3D stuff (clutter).  Will explore today.
[14:28]  * ogra wonders if we should switch omap3 too to not have to maintain the same stuff twice 
[14:28] <ogra> GrueMaster, thats very likely since it doesnt use jasper
[14:29]  * NCommander rips his hair out.
[14:29] <ogra> and the netbook images have no concept of switching the session at all
[14:29] <NCommander> ogra: ok, how do I get it to use 2D launcher?
[14:29] <ogra> so if you dont use jasper you are doomed to use unity
[14:29] <ogra> NCommander, look at the jasper-initramfs code
[14:29] <GrueMaster> ogra: Shouldn't that be added to the netbook-efl-settings postinstall script or something?
[14:29] <ogra> GrueMaster, no
[14:30] <rsalveti> ogra: I think we should, it works fine
[14:30] <ogra> GrueMaster, then it would switch back and forth depending on the order if the settings packages being installed
[14:30] <ogra> s/if//
[14:30] <ogra> i discussed that several times with didrocks, there is no proper way to do it
[14:30] <GrueMaster> Well, it should be somewhere in the image build process, and not some hackery in the preboot scripts.
[14:31] <ogra> it *doesnt* work if you have both installed
[14:31] <persia> "doomed to use unity" doesn't seem right.  Can we avoid that phrasing?
[14:31] <ogra> persia, i'm trying to ... :P
[14:31] <ogra> GrueMaster, all you can do is to select the right session at gdm
[14:32] <GrueMaster> Doesn't help for the live image.
[14:32] <ogra> ubuntu-netbook had a fallback concept in the past
[14:32] <NCommander> Whoever decided that we needed a script to decide how Unity is loaded (or not loaded) has in inhertantly broken design
[14:32] <ogra> but the desktoip team decided it would be bad to have that if the UIs dont lkook the same
[14:32] <NCommander> It needs to work automatically, or we need two seeds.
[14:32] <ogra> NCommander, talk to didrocks
[14:32] <ogra> or the desktop team in general
[14:33]  * ogra had the discussion several times since before the sprint ... all they agreed on was a popup message telling you that you have to switch the session manually
[14:33] <ogra> in case unity comes up with no GL support
[14:33] <GrueMaster> Which we don't even have that yet.
[14:33] <ogra> didrocks has a task for it
[14:34] <NCommander> can I move on?
[14:34] <ogra> yes
[14:34] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:34] <NCommander> Nothing to report on my end.
[14:34] <dyfet> we got telepathy-glib unblocked, though there were some questions remaining
[14:34] <ogra> dyfet, how goes commons-daemon ?
[14:35] <dyfet> but we were as noted able to get images to build :).  And yes, I got commons-daemon to build
[14:35] <ogra> yes, i know i uploaded the telepathy-glib workaround ....
[14:35]  * persia filed a sync request last week for commons-daemon
[14:35] <dyfet> and kdebindings is unblocked too
[14:35] <dyfet> But I found a new problem effecting rebuilds
[14:35] <dyfet> automoc now crashes for me
[14:36] <dyfet> I documented it last night
[14:36] <ogra> dyfet, bug 623979
[14:36] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 623979 in telepathy-glib (Ubuntu) "telepathy-glib fails to build on armel due to two unsuccessfull selftests" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/623979
[14:36] <ogra> could you take care for talking to upstream about it ?
[14:36] <ogra> seb128 asked that upstream fixes it properly
[14:36] <dyfet> I no longer have the self tests fail
[14:36] <ogra> can you read the bug first ?
[14:36] <Riddell> dyfet: a new problem in kdebindings?
[14:37] <dyfet> we need to figure out why it happens on your box and the porters box, ogra
[14:37] <dyfet> (still happens)
[14:37] <dyfet> Riddell: no, a problem with automoc
[14:37] <dyfet> (new problem)
[14:37] <ogra> dyfet, well, then research it, you have access to the porter box
[14:37] <dyfet> okay, fair enough
[14:37] <Riddell> dyfet: it crashes during build?
[14:38] <dyfet> automoc fails when used to build other packages
[14:38] <Riddell> hum
[14:39] <dyfet> so its blocking rebuilding other kde packages in universe for maverick
[14:40] <dyfet> but if NCommander needs to move forward, we can discuss after the meeting
[14:41] <NCommander> Lets move forward
[14:42] <NCommander> [action] dyfet and Riddell to cooridinate on automoc
[14:42] <MootBot> ACTION received:  dyfet and Riddell to cooridinate on automoc
[14:42] <dyfet> agreed
[14:42] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:42] <NCommander> they exist
[14:42] <NCommander> dove ones are broken. Will work with ogra on how we can force the session to 2D only on dove
[14:42] <ogra> omap should be fine
[14:42]  * NCommander is very annoyed that the autodetection was removed
[14:42] <NCommander> dove server ones should also be fine.
[14:43] <ogra> NCommander, unity is written from scratch
[14:43] <ogra> nothing was "removed" :)
[14:43] <NCommander> It was there, then it wasn't there
[14:43] <NCommander> That sure sounds like the definition of removed
[14:44] <ogra> and as i said above, desktop team a) refuses to have a differently looking 2D fallback ... and b) session handling is all in gdm now
[14:44] <persia> Rather, the folks that implemented the netbook solution didn't have time to port it to unity for maverick, and nobody else picked up the work.
[14:44] <persia> ogra: a) isn't true: it's a time availability thing.
[14:44] <ogra> persia, as far as i understood its not wanted
[14:44] <ogra> at least thats what i was told several times now
[14:44] <persia> Not considered critical != not wanted.
[14:44] <ogra> but as i said, feel free to talk to them yourself
[14:44] <persia> Or we've received different information.
[14:44]  * persia did, a few times, or wouldn't be commenting
[14:45] <ogra> funny that we did get different info then
[14:45] <NCommander> [topic] Any Other Business
[14:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business
[14:46]  * ogra will be away today after the meeting
[14:46] <ogra> just FYI
[14:46] <persia> A couple things.
[14:46] <persia> 1) The #ubuntu-mobile channel is no more (it was entirely unused, as far as I could tell)
[14:47] <persia> 2) kubuntu-mobile images are available for omap3, and the kubuntu-mobile folks could use help testing, if anyone has hardware/time.
[14:47] <ogra> wohoo !
[14:47] <GrueMaster> I have been trying the kubuntu-mobile images as time allows.
[14:48] <ian_brasil__> GrueMaster: with success?
[14:49] <GrueMaster> Not yet.  Oem-config crashed, but I had to move back to our images due to XM issues.
[14:49] <ogra> ian_brasil__, i doubt normal beagles will be great for testing them (256M only)
[14:49] <GrueMaster> Will track it down today.
[14:49] <ogra> you should make clear to recommend to use them only on XM
[14:49]  * ogra doubts kubuntu will be less RAM hungry than ubuntu-netbook here
[14:50] <ian_brasil__> ogra: we work on this for Natty
[14:50] <ogra> well, for natty you will have the XM in production out there, 512M should be fine for either of the images
[14:51] <ogra> the larger community will only have beagle Cx boards during maverick though ... thats likely to have OOM issues
[14:51] <persia> There's also the requirement for accelerated graphics...
[14:52] <ian_brasil__> regarding the images ...we want to file MIR bugs for packages currently in universe which  should be in the image ...these are kubuntu-mobile-default-settings , plasma-mobile and kdepim-mobile..rbelem offered to maintain them and riddell/ScottK will sponsor them.
[14:53] <ogra> oh, there is ?
[14:53] <ogra> we dont have any drivers in the archive
[14:53]  * ogra thought kubuntu-mobile can run without 3D accel
[14:53] <persia> It can, but ...
[14:54] <persia> ian_brasil__, I thought there already was MIR for plasma-mobile and kubuntu-mobile-default-settings.
[14:54] <ian_brasil__> yes..i am keeping people in the loop
[14:55] <persia> OK.  I feared I'd lost track :)
[14:55] <Riddell> I was expecting plasma-mobile and kubuntu-mobile-default-settings to remain in universe this cycle
[14:57] <persia> Riddell, https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kubuntu-meta/+bug/626543 has some of the discussion of what is required if the MIRs are not completed.  ScottK suggested a few MIRs might be less invasive.
[14:57] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 626543 in kubuntu-meta (Ubuntu) "kubuntu-mobile should be built against universe" [Undecided,New]
[14:57] <persia> Doesn't much matter which approach is taken, really.
[14:58] <ian_brasil__> the requirement for main is maintained and supported ..since we have both maybe main is ok since it makes cdimage happier
=== Ursinha is now known as Ursinha-afk
[14:58] <ogra> it surely makes NCommander happier :)
[14:58] <Riddell> mm yes, I remember
[14:58] <ogra> since he fiddles with the build scripts for it
[14:58] <persia> ian_brasil__, cdimage works against universe, but we incorrectly assumed that we could have one seed collection handle both universe and main images.
[14:58] <ogra> but iirc you can build images from universe
[14:58] <ogra> xubuntu does that all the time
[14:59] <persia> ogra, Only with a universe seed.
[14:59] <ogra> ah
[14:59] <persia> (and requires LP changes, etc.)
[14:59] <ian_brasil__> ogra: you cannot mix seeds
[14:59]  * ogra didnt know that, i never built images from universe ... 
[14:59] <NCommander> persia: ?, what was the issue with universe images?
[14:59] <NCommander> It built fine with packages from universe
[14:59] <persia> ogra, We all just discovered it in the past couple days.
[14:59] <ogra> luckily edubuntu decided to do that after i left :)
[14:59] <persia> NCommander, ogre-model on task generation
[14:59] <persia> Oh, and ogre-model on metapackage build.
[15:00] <NCommander> I'm afraid I might be missing something
[15:00] <ogra> NCommander, its like an onion you know :)
[15:00] <persia> ogra, edubuntu wouldn't be affected, as it was a clean transition: the issue is that kubuntu can't have *both* main and universe images.  needs two seed collections.
[15:00] <ogra> persia, yeah, understood
[15:01] <ogra> me points out that we're over time
[15:01] <ogra> not sure there is another meeting now though
[15:01] <persia> Anyway, two ways to sort it: the MIR folk and the cdimage folk can argue about who wants less inconvenience.  If ian_brasil__ and rbelem keep up the interest they've shown the last 2 cycles, I don't think main ought be an issue.
[15:01] <persia> Probably.
[15:01]  * persia stops
[15:01] <ogra> move to #ubuntu-arm ;)
[15:02] <ogra> NCommander, kill it !
[15:02] <davidm> NCommander, ???
[15:03] <NCommander> #endmeeting
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* NCommander to unbreak apport retracer (c/o)
* NCommander to discuss with linaro and asac on improved-generic-subarch-support
* NCommander to smoke test ubuntu-server dove alternates

=== Minutes ===
* dbus issues on omap + omap4 resolved
* kubuntu-mobile enabled for armel
* Discussion on 2D/3D launcher issue on UNE
* Discussion on automoc segfaults

== Weekly Reports ==

=== David Sugar ===
==== Mobile ====
* A lot of fun with getting kde related ftbfs's finally cleared in main
* Telepathy-glib cleared, unblocking image build.  Strange issues on some build machines.
* Identified new build problem; automoc4 crashing
* Review on universe kde ftbfs suggest many will now clear with simple casting issue fixes

=== Michael Casadevall ===
* Marvell co-location continues
* Dove installer hosed for beta, debugging with ev.
* Beta image work and supervising
