{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''August 14th, 2008, 12:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>
== People ==
=== Present ===
Chris Gregan
David Mandala
Emmet Hikory
Lo√Øc Minier
Steve Kowalik
Oliver Grawert

Ian Lawrence
Yannick Defais

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from August 7th, 2008 ===
* lool the investigation of xulrunner, langpacks and linux-lpia bits
=== Current Items ===
(If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.)
* status of  intrepid tasks: merge of ppa, installer, images etc. (davidm)
** StevenK status
    livecd-rootfs<<BR>>
    merges
** persia status
    installer<<BR>>
    merges
** lool status
** ogra status
    Classmate image

** Switch claws with modest/libwpeditor libwpeditor-plus?
** ian_brasil ...start the weekly team reports again?. Is there a need?

** Ekiga 3, LPIA (Yannick Defais)
** Bootspeed improvements in hardy, do we do SRUs ? 

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* lool the investigation of xulrunner, langpacks and linux-lpia bits [carry forward]
* lool to Debian to chase libwpeditor-plus + modest status
* lool to purchase USB web camera
* lool+davidm+... test new version of Ekiga (2.9) 
=== Minutes ===
<nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetinglogs/ubuntu-meeting.log.20080814_0700.html|Meeting Minutes]]</nowiki>
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
