{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''May 4th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100601]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting

** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100615]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from June 1th, 2010 ===
* GrueMaster to assemble list on what SRU is going on with kernel team
* NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
* NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
* Entire team to respond to davidm's email on meeting times

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

=== Action Items ===
* NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
* NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih

=== Minutes ===
* Preinstalled image support development continues
* NCommander blocked on implementing subarch support (needs review from cjwatson)
* ogra continues work on jasper

== Weekly Reports ==

=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
* Work on preinstalled image support continues.

<pre>
[14:00] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:00. The chair is NCommander.
[14:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:00] <NCommander> ping ogra, dyfet, GrueMaster,
[14:01] <mpoirier> o/ good morning.
[14:01] <NCommander> morning!
[14:01] <NCommander> morning GrueMaster
[14:01] <dyfet> morning
[14:01] <GrueMaster> meh
[14:01] <ogra> moo
[14:01] <ogra> hey mpoirier
[14:02] <mpoirier> hey ogra.
[14:02]  * NCommander suspects this is going tobe a short meeting
[14:02]  * ogra wonders if we get a link from NCommander 
[14:02] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100608
[14:02] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100608
[14:02] <ogra> sweet
[14:02] <NCommander> [topic] Action Items from June 1th, 2010
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Items from June 1th, 2010
[14:03] <ogra> heh
[14:03] <NCommander> [topic]GrueMaster to assemble list on what SRU is going on with kernel team
[14:03] <MootBot> New Topic: GrueMaster to assemble list on what SRU is going on with kernel team
[14:03] <ogra> poor GrueMaster
[14:03] <ogra> werent there c/o's from the former meeting too ?
[14:03] <NCommander> yup
[14:03]  * ogra doesnt see them
[14:04] <GrueMaster> Just a sec.  Still loading my brain.
[14:04] <NCommander> ugh, we'll be here for awhile then  :-/
[14:04] <GrueMaster> Ok, on dove we have bug 509006.
[14:04] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 509006 in linux-mvl-dove (Ubuntu Lucid) "[dove] hibernation failed to resume" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/509006
[14:05] <GrueMaster> On imx51 we have bug 559065 and bug 571192.
[14:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 559065 in linux-fsl-imx51 (Ubuntu Lucid) "ifconfig eth0 down will cause system hang after fec.c driver update" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/559065
[14:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 571192 in linux-fsl-imx51 (Ubuntu Lucid) "suspend/resume is currently broken on imx51" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/571192
[14:05] <ogra> NCommander, i see build-timeout discussion, and the linbnih/upstart issues on the c/o list but not on this weeks actions
[14:05] <NCommander> argh oops
[14:05] <ogra> (and response to davidms mail, but he's not here anyway)
[14:06] <ogra> i expect c/o's anyway for everything, but we should not lose them
[14:06] <ogra> GrueMaster, was the dsecond bug not depending on the first one ?
[14:06] <NCommander> ogra: fixed
[14:07] <ogra> thanks
[14:07] <NCommander> c/o on all three for me
[14:07] <ogra> indeed
[14:07] <ogra> no complaints
[14:07] <ogra> GrueMaster, were there no dove bugs ?
[14:07] <NCommander> [topic]  * NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
[14:07] <NCommander>  * NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
[14:07] <NCommander>  * Entire team to respond to davidm's email on meeting times
[14:07] <MootBot> New Topic:   * NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
[14:07] <GrueMaster> Not sure.  I do know that both bug 509006 and bug 559065 have tested patches that have not been released.
[14:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 509006 in linux-mvl-dove (Ubuntu Lucid) "[dove] hibernation failed to resume" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/509006
[14:07] <NCommander> oops
[14:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 559065 in linux-fsl-imx51 (Ubuntu Lucid) "ifconfig eth0 down will cause system hang after fec.c driver update" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/559065
[14:07] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[14:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[14:08] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:08] <ogra> we're above trend
[14:08] <ogra> we should do something about it :)
[14:08] <ogra> preferably before friday (release meeting)
[14:09] <ogra> we need to get 6-10 items done before that
[14:09] <NCommander> I'm blocked on cjwatson on subarch detection, but thats relatively quick to implement once he can review my design
[14:09] <ogra> to get below trend again
[14:09] <NCommander> ARM softbootloader remains the same as usual
[14:09] <ogra> NCommander, but you made a lot progress on image building
[14:09] <ogra> we should be able to close two to three items there
[14:10] <ogra> dyfet, how about you ? you have some very simple items on the imagebuilds without root spec
[14:10] <NCommander> ogra: not quite yet. post-boot-* stuff still isn't fully done.
[14:10] <ogra> NCommander, the missing bits are really trivial
[14:10] <ogra> should be doable before fri.
[14:10] <NCommander> ogra: ah, yes
[14:10] <GrueMaster> I'll see if I can't get a test plan into iso.tracker for the preinstalled-sd-card-images-for-omap bp this week.
[14:11] <ogra> i should be ready to provide a locally built image with jasper today or tomorrow
[14:11] <NCommander> GrueMaster: excellent
[14:11] <ogra> so you can play with something
[14:11] <GrueMaster> cool
[14:11] <ogra> the bad stuff about these images is that you have to dd them newly for each test
[14:11] <ogra> thats a bit time consuming
[14:12] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier) 
[14:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
[14:12] <mpoirier> omap4 kernel ?
[14:12] <ogra> nah
[14:12] <ogra> we're waiting for TI on that one
[14:12] <ogra> ndec isnt here though
[14:12] <mpoirier> yes indeed.
[14:12] <NCommander> ogra: I pinged him on it
[14:12] <ogra> i know cooloney is working to integrate the panda patches into his PPA omap4 build
[14:13] <mpoirier> correct.
[14:13] <ogra> NCommander, did you mail him as requested (right after last meeting)
[14:13] <ogra> so he actually knows about the meeting
[14:14] <NCommander> ogra: I don't remember, although I remember talking to him on IRC
[14:14] <ogra> NCommander, please mail him *NOW*
[14:14] <ogra> so he can adjust for next week at least
[14:15] <ogra> mpoirier, we have one XM bug with the omap3 kernel
[14:15] <mpoirier> I'm currently fighting an SD card bug.
[14:15] <ogra> do you know who in the omap team on kernel side has an XM ?
[14:15]  * ogra thinks he remembers lag
[14:16] <ogra> and there are bugs with the metapackage
[14:16] <mpoirier> nop, no XM to the extent of my knowledge.
[14:16] <mpoirier> I'll double check though.
[14:16] <ogra> it still pulls in the lucid kernel
[14:16] <ogra> i need to file them :P
[14:16] <mpoirier> yes please.
[14:17]  * ogra thinks thats all for kernel given cooloney isnt here 
[14:17] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:17] <ogra> i'll test our maverick omap3 kernel on the touchbook soon, but i dont expect it to actually work
[14:18] <ogra> i think we had QA above somehow :)
[14:18] <ogra> anything additionally GrueMaster ?
[14:18] <GrueMaster> Nothing to report here.  No new bugs that I have seen in the packages.
[14:18] <ogra> did you test maverick already ?
[14:18] <GrueMaster> Same old bugs still exist though.
[14:18] <ogra> i bet there are a ton :)
[14:18] <GrueMaster> Somewhat.  I am doing daily package updates.
[14:19] <ogra> wow, and nothing serious ?
[14:19] <GrueMaster> f-spot still crashes the same way, even though it has a new release.
[14:20] <ogra> pfft f-spot
[14:20] <ogra> afaik the desktop team plans to replace it ?
[14:20] <GrueMaster> I did not know that.
[14:20]  * ogra isnt sure thats a roumor though
[14:20] <ogra> ask them :)
[14:20] <ogra> -> #ubuntu-desktop is that way :)
[14:21] <GrueMaster> later, when I've had more caffeine.
[14:21] <ogra> not that we should stop caring about f-spot, but if they replace it i wont cry :)
[14:21] <ogra> NCommander, move ?
[14:21] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:22] <NCommander> (sorry, got a phone call I had to answer)
[14:22] <ogra> dyfet, any news ?
[14:22] <ogra> anything for us to sponsor
[14:23] <NCommander> (sorry, back, had to take this case)
[14:23] <NCommander> er
[14:23] <NCommander> call
[14:23] <ogra> thats fine
[14:24] <ogra> seems we lost dyfet
[14:25] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:25] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:25] <ogra> looks good :)
[14:25] <ogra> jasper doesnt though
[14:26] <NCommander> (sorry, back fully now, that was my vet)
[14:26] <ogra> but i think we should have images ready real soon
[14:26]  * ogra is trying to debug jasper atm, it does resize the partitions but not the filesystems for some reason
[14:27] <ogra> once thats done and once NCommander has finished the debian-cd scripts we should be good
[14:27] <ogra> there is a minor change to livecd-rootfs pending
[14:27] <ogra> thats all from me for images
[14:27] <ogra> NCommander, anything from you ?
[14:27] <NCommander> w.r.t. to d-cd code, its most there, with some last odds and evens, but its coming together
[14:28] <ogra> right
[14:28] <NCommander> and I'm going to turn my phone off whenever we have a meeting
[14:28] <ogra> we should have images by end of the week, latest start of next week
[14:28]  * NCommander knocks on wood
[14:28] <NCommander> [topic] Any Other Business
[14:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business
[14:28] <ogra> i'll be at LT from thu to sat so i probably cant merge the bits to make it this week
[14:29] <ogra> depends if we manage to land all pieces tomorrow
[14:29] <ogra> i have one organisational AOB for NCommander
[14:29]  * NCommander hides
[14:29] <ogra> the release meeting preparation meeting was somehow set to the same time we have a call on fridays
[14:30] <ogra> are you ok with moving it before that call ?
[14:30]  * NCommander looks at google cal
[14:30] <ogra> i dont want to prepare release reports during a customer call :)
[14:30] <NCommander> yeah, we can move that an hour back
[14:30] <ogra> great
[14:30]  * NCommander isn't thrilled at getting up early, but not a lot we can do
[14:31] <ogra> yeah, during call is surely bad
[14:31] <ogra> and the meeting is directly after the call
[14:31] <NCommander> ogra: ndec just got emailed
[14:31] <ogra> perfect
[14:31] <ogra> oh
[14:31] <NCommander> can I close it out?
[14:31] <ogra> one announcement !
[14:31] <NCommander> guess not
[14:31] <ogra> we are being renamed !
[14:31] <ogra> we're the "arm" team now
[14:31] <ogra> not mobile anymore
[14:32] <NCommander> Great. Now I just sent an email with the wrong team name in it
[14:32]  * NCommander headthunks
[14:32] <ogra> i'll walk through launchpad groups etc once david is back
[14:32] <ogra> lets keep mobile until david is back
[14:32] <ogra> it needs a lot organizational changes i suspect
[14:32] <NCommander> works for me.
[14:32] <ogra> also what do we do with #ubuntu-mobile ?
[14:33] <ogra> redirect it ?
[14:33] <ogra> leave it idling ?
[14:33]  * ogra wishes persia was here 
[14:33] <NCommander> ogra: we won't have persia for another two weeks
[14:33] <ogra> he loves such restructuring stuff
[14:33] <ogra> yeah
[14:33] <NCommander> (aren't Japanese holidays great?)
[14:33] <ogra> yeah
[14:33] <ogra> didnt you think about moving out of the US ?
[14:34] <ogra> seems a good place to live
[14:34] <NCommander> I got blocked by familial requirements
[14:34] <ogra> ah
[14:34] <NCommander> Very expensive place to live
[14:34] <NCommander> Still looking to move to Europe in due time though
[14:34] <ogra> anyway, lets close the meeting
[14:34] <NCommander> anyway
[14:34] <NCommander> I think we can close it out
[14:34] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[14:34] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 08:34.
</pre>
