{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Main Inclusion Report for partman-uboot ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://ports.ubuntu.com/pool/universe/p/partman-uboot]]</nowiki>; available on all architectures that need it
# ''Rationale:''
** This is a minor package used by the installer to determine the partitioning layout needed for armel+dove and do sanity checks.
** It is removed when ubiquity is removed in the live installer, and is never installed on the alternates
0. ''Security:''
** Nothing runs as suid/sgid, although d-i runs as root
** No network activity
** No binary data directly processed.
** Source code reviewed during creation of partman-uboot from partman-ext2r0
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package does no configuration, just adds additional checks to partman
** The package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'
** Package is not in Debian
** Upstream is Ubuntu Installer Team, and is calm
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-uboot|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 0
** Hardware: Package sets partman to properly create partitions on uboot devices, but doesn't touch any hardware directly
** No test suite
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized via debconf templates
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build: Yes
** End-user applications ship a desktop file: NO
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system: dh. Only creates a single udeb, no debs
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Depends on installer system in live environment
** All dependencies in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Simple package, will only need minor maintenance based on changes to u-boot and/or bugs found 
** Michael Casadevall (primary), the Canonical ARM Team, and the Ubuntu Installer team are responsible for this package.
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** Upstream calls this package partman-uboot
0. ''Internationalization:''
** No graphic apps

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/450605]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
