{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''August 24th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100817]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100831]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* NCommander to unbreak apport retracer (c/o)

=== Special Items ===

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html
* http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
** Bugs needing attention before A3:
*** Bug #605972 - Need to set hostname to ubuntu during first boot.
*** Bug #600359 - ureadahead generating oom messages during boot.
*** Bug #605831 - [omap3] Resolution should be taken from /proc/cmdline if provided
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[DavidSugar|dyfet]]</nowiki>)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business
** Kubuntu Mobile - Liquid update 

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[14:05] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:05] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:05. The chair is NCommander.
[14:05] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:05]  * NCommander grumbles
[14:05] <NCommander> sorry, alarm failed to go off
[14:05] <ogra> oh, i thought you had handed over to persia
[14:05] <persia> no grumbling :)
[14:05] <davidm> G'day all
[14:05] <NCommander> ogra: I took it back because my normal dinner plans were canceled
[14:05] <ogra> ah
[14:05] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100824
[14:06] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100824
[14:06] <ogra> no meow-burgers today ?
[14:06]  * NCommander throws his cat at ogra's head
[14:06] <ogra> heh
[14:06] <NCommander> [topic] Action Item Review
[14:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Item Review
[14:06] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to unbreak apport retracer (c/o)
[14:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to unbreak apport retracer (c/o)
[14:06]  * NCommander coughs
[14:07] <NCommander> This is poriving to be a damn pain because I can't rebuild the chroots on the porter box
[14:07] <ogra> does it still make sense to re-enable it ? we have beta soon :)
[14:07] <NCommander> and my bandwidth is ... limited
[14:07] <NCommander> so c/o
[14:07] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[14:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[14:07] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:07] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:08] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html
[14:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html
[14:08] <ogra> both look just horrid
[14:08] <ogra> please please please guys, get your items done or postponed
=== serfus_ is now known as serfus
[14:08] <GrueMaster> I should have my 1 item done today.
[14:09] <ogra> \o/
[14:09] <ogra> NCommander, how about yours ?
[14:09] <NCommander> there's been some VERY slow work on subarch, but I have to add additional work items because cjwatson wants me to review with d-boot before we implement in Ubuntu which is slowing things down
[14:09] <ogra> Have new warning message about usage of generic fallback code approved and implemented [1 day]
[14:09] <NCommander> so I can strrike two items, but I have to add two more in there place :-/
[14:09] <ogra> that doesnt look like it should take much time
[14:09] <NCommander> hrm, strike one
[14:10] <NCommander> ogra: it won't, but I've had to rebase some of my code against sid, and spin new patches to submit to d-boot for review
[14:10] <NCommander> Building a sid chroot on an internet connection that acan make dialup look fast is painful.
[14:10] <ogra> erm, wasnt that in flash-kernel ?
[14:10] <ogra> just put it into our tree
[14:11] <NCommander> ogra: I need an API change in libd-i
[14:11] <ogra> for the message ?
[14:11] <NCommander> cjwatson nixed any changes without discucsion from Debian.
[14:11] <NCommander> ogra: for the code that triggers the message
[14:11] <ogra> oh, ok, i thought it was a message inside flash-kernel
[14:11] <NCommander> ogra: thats just a warning that shows up on STDERR, we need one that pops up during install as well
[14:12] <ogra> NCommander, btw, asac and linaro have massive probs since your code was added to flash-kernel
[14:12] <ogra> it now runs in any case, even if you are in a build chroot
[14:12] <NCommander> ogra: have they filed a bug? :-)
[14:12] <ogra> no, they are working on fixes
[14:12] <NCommander> ogra: strikely speaking, that's the correct behavior
[14:12] <ogra> ha !
[14:12] <NCommander> *strictly
[14:12] <ogra> they just have
[14:12] <ogra> Have new warning message about usage of generic fallback code approved and implemented [1 day]
[14:12] <ogra> ugh
[14:13] <NCommander> yeah, I should change the time estimate
[14:13] <ogra> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/623375
[14:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 623375 in initramfs-tools (Ubuntu) "Skipping the bootloader installation when creating rootfs or installation media" [Undecided,New]
[14:13] <NCommander> probably looking a full week out
[14:13] <ogra> no, that was mis-pasted :)
[14:13]  * NCommander looks
[14:13] <ogra> f-k wasnt executed inside chroots before your change eneterd it
[14:13] <NCommander> well, it was
[14:13] <NCommander> f-k just exitted silently :-)
[14:14] <NCommander> if you have a chroot on a properly supported arch, it works as expected. The problem is our buildds aren't quite supported
[14:14] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to discuss with linaro and asac on improved-generic-subarch-support
[14:14] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to discuss with linaro and asac on improved-generic-subarch-support
[14:14] <ogra> it doesnt work "as expected"
[14:15] <ogra> since it tries to access the NAND of the buildd
[14:15] <NCommander> ogra: well .... er, crap
[14:15] <NCommander> yeah
[14:15] <NCommander> that's a bug
[14:15] <ogra> (if your buildd is omap3)
[14:15] <NCommander> It shouldn't try and do that on a generic fallback install
[14:15] <NCommander> yeah
[14:15] <NCommander> oops
[14:16] <ogra> well, lool and asac are looking into it atm
[14:16] <NCommander> ogra: I'll work with asac and linaro to get it sorted. My Beagle is in Texas, so someone else will have to test
[14:16] <ogra> we're simply not affected in livecd-rootfs because update.initramfs is diverted during the build
[14:16]  * NCommander avoided breaking the world by sheer luck :-/
[14:16] <ogra> anyway, lets not hold up the meeting
[14:16] <NCommander> yeah
[14:17] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[14:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[14:17] <NCommander> ^- ericm
[14:17] <ogra> hey
[14:17] <lag> * Marvel (mvl-dove)
[14:17] <lag>    * FIXED    : ABI bumping and module checking errors after the branch sync'ed with LSP 5.3.2
[14:17] <lag>    * MISC     : Discussion of moving forward mvl-dove branch into Maverick
[14:17] <lag>  * Freescale (fsl-imx51)
[14:17] <lag>    * Nothing new this week
[14:17] <lag>  * Texas Instruments (ti-omap)
[14:17] <lag>    * MISC     : lag's Panda is broken - awaiting replacement from davidm
[14:17] <lag>    * MISC     : Still waiting for TI to release L24.9 to us
[14:17]  * ogra wasnt done with specs
[14:17] <lag>    * FIXED    : B591941 work around applied - working on correct fix
[14:17] <lag>    * FIXED    : B608266 GPMC was not initialized before accessing NAND
[14:17] <ogra> sigh
[14:17] <lag>    * FIXED    : B608279 now able to read the EDID from userspace
[14:17] <lag>    * RESUMED  : B563650 problem can be reproduced on latest 2.6.35-18 with non-UNR file system
[14:17] <lag>    * ON GOING : B605488 still unable to reproduce - will test on full-build when new HW arrives
[14:17] <lag> ..
[14:18] <mpoirier> https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/608266 - waiting for mobile team to test
[14:18] <NCommander> ogra: er, whoops. I took "not hold up" as "move on" :-)
[14:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 608266 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "[regression] no more /dev/mtdblock devices on omap3 in maverick" [Medium,Fix released]
[14:18]  * NCommander will go back after kernel discussion
[14:18] <mpoirier> https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/608279 - Fix committed
[14:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 608279 in linux (Ubuntu) "i2c support for edid on armel" [Undecided,Fix committed]
[14:18] <ogra> soryy, i wasnt clear
[14:18]  * ogra hugs mpoirier 
[14:18] <mpoirier> ouf ...
[14:19] <mpoirier> ..
[14:19] <rsalveti> ogra: mpoirier: did you see my email?
[14:19]  * NCommander hugs mpoirier 
[14:19] <mpoirier> yes, did not read yet.
[14:19] <rsalveti> about edid parsing at u-boot
[14:19] <rsalveti> mpoirier: the code is basically from omap 4, so in the future it should be easy to port to omap 3
[14:19] <mpoirier> duly noted.
[14:19] <mpoirier> very interesting.
[14:20] <ogra> rsalveti, did dyfet work on that at all (after all its his spec)
[14:20] <mpoirier> there might be a little bit of time before aI get a new panda.
[14:20] <mpoirier> I'll look at it.
[14:20] <rsalveti> ogra: don't know, he's still sleeping it seems dyfet_sleeping :-)
[14:20] <ogra> hrm
[14:20]  * NCommander head thunks
[14:20] <rsalveti> ogra: and he was fixing other bugs
[14:21] <NCommander> does anyone want to call dyfet?
[14:21] <ogra> rsalveti, well ...
[14:21] <rsalveti> could be interesting for him, that's why I added him at the email
[14:21] <GrueMaster> I will test 608266 today and report back.
[14:22] <rsalveti> I'm getting i/o errors at mtd now
[14:22] <rsalveti> but should be normal, probably missing a correct partition table
[14:22] <rsalveti> [    4.979064] end_request: I/O error, dev mtdblock0, sector 128
[14:22] <ogra> the table is hardcoded in the kernel iirc
[14:22] <ogra> if you write to an mtdblock you need to zero it first
[14:22] <rsalveti> I know, but it's probably empty or never created
[14:22] <rsalveti> like uImage and rootfs partition
[14:23] <ogra> what does /proc/mtd report ?
[14:23] <ogra> if you see partitions there its fine
[14:23] <rsalveti> ogra: shows fine, because the partition table is in the kernel
[14:23] <ogra> right
[14:23] <rsalveti> probably it's trying to mount or something like that
[14:23] <rsalveti> need to check
[14:24] <ogra> yeah
[14:24] <rsalveti> let's also wait GrueMaster to test
[14:25] <ogra> right
[14:25] <rsalveti> lag: any news regarding TI tree?
[14:25] <ogra> and file bugs so mpoirier doesnt get bored :)
[14:25] <rsalveti> sure :-)
[14:25] <ogra> NCommander, so since we touched the EDID spec, there is no need to return to specs
[14:25] <lag> rsalveti: No, nothing :(
[14:25] <ogra> (and since dyfet_sleeping isnt here)
[14:26] <lag> rsalveti: We're waiting on sebjan
[14:26] <NCommander> ogra: np
[14:26] <rsalveti> lag: hm, ok
[14:26]  * NCommander still thinks someone should call dyfet_sleeping 
[14:26] <rsalveti> thanks, anyway :-)
[14:26] <NCommander> can I move on?
[14:26] <lag> rsalveti: There's nothing I can do ...
[14:27] <ogra> NCommander, if the kernel team is happy
[14:27] <lag> rsajdok: <rock> lag <hard place>
[14:27] <lag> Doh!
[14:27] <ogra> heh
[14:27] <rsalveti> lag: np :-)
[14:27] <lag> rsalveti: <rock> lag <hard place>
[14:27]  * ogra steals lag's tab key
[14:27] <lag> ogra: It was you who told me I could use tab
[14:27] <ogra> use tab enough times ;)
[14:28] <lag> heh
[14:28] <ogra> three tabs and you get what you need ;)
[14:28] <ogra> oh, i started to see a new bug
[14:29]  * NCommander files a bug on ogra and lag's use of tabs
[14:29] <ogra> seems neither omap nor omap4 reboot anymore if reboot is issued
[14:29] <ogra> at least in initramfs
[14:29] <rsalveti> ouch
[14:29] <NCommander> ogra: ugh.
=== Ursinha-afk is now known as Ursinha
[14:29] <ogra> i'm not sure yet if thats the kernel or the reboot command from busybox
[14:29] <NCommander> ogra: does it work in the userland?
[14:29] <ogra> NCommander, yes
[14:30]  * NCommander can't see it being a utiluty problem, busybox generally just does a syscall to reboot()
[14:30] <ogra> but not in initramfs
[14:30] <NCommander> ooh, ugh
[14:30] <NCommander> That's nasty
[14:30] <ogra> and initramfs uses a different reboot
[14:30] <NCommander> that's fugly
[14:30] <NCommander> ogra: have fun debugging it :-)
[14:30] <ogra> :P
[14:31] <rsalveti> but did we change busybox?
[14:31] <ogra> thats the issue, i dont think we did
[14:31] <ogra> and we had at least one kernel upload per subarch since i saw it working
[14:32]  * NCommander should check if it works on dove tomorrow
[14:32] <ogra> so i'm tending towards the kernel has changed
[14:32] <ogra> and busybox calls something it stopped understanding
[14:33] <ogra> something like that
[14:33] <lag> ogra: Blames the kernel - shock!
[14:33] <rsalveti> ogra: busybox (1:1.15.3-1ubuntu2) 19 Aug 2010
[14:33] <ogra> rsalveti, oh, thanks :)
[14:33] <ogra> yeah, that might be it
[14:33] <rsalveti> doesn't seems related, but anyway
[14:34] <ogra> "* armel seems to build fine without -marm nowadays, so remove it."
[14:34] <ogra> well
[14:34] <ogra> (from the changelog)
[14:34] <NCommander> that seems like a bug :-)
[14:34] <rsalveti> hm, true, was looking at previous upload message
[14:35] <ogra> so it builds ...
[14:35] <ogra> just doesnt run properly :P
[14:35] <rsalveti> but we can pretend it's a kernel issue so we can keep lag and mpoirier busy
[14:35] <rsalveti> hehe
[14:35] <rsalveti> ogra: haha :-)
[14:35] <GrueMaster> Are we still in meeting mode, or are we deep diving into bugs & possible workarounds?
[14:35]  * lag has enough to do
[14:36] <ogra> GrueMaster, meeting indeed
[14:36] <NCommander> can I move on to QA?
[14:36] <ogra> NCommander, move !
[14:36] <rsalveti> goes
[14:36] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:36]  * NCommander does as he is commanded
[14:36] <GrueMaster> Attended QA CoP sprint last week.  Lots of daily test tracking ideas were shared.  Will review and implement something hopefully before Beta.  Need to explore more in detail.
[14:36] <GrueMaster> Received # new platforms in the last week.  Working to rearrange office to accomodate by EOD.
[14:36] <GrueMaster> Filed bugs against Banshee and F-Spot.  Possibly mono specific, but I don't know.  Need test suite that can help narrow down mono specific bugs.
[14:36] <GrueMaster> No new images since Aug 19.
[14:36] <ogra> GrueMaster, yep
[14:37] <NCommander> GrueMaster: did you get dove stuff yet?
[14:37] <NCommander> ^- davidm too
[14:37] <ogra> GrueMaster, waiting for dyfet_sleeping to fix the FTBFS of telepathy-glib
[14:37] <GrueMaster> I have received a Dove A0 (part of total # new systems received)
[14:37] <GrueMaster> ogra: Is that why Empathy is not installing on the new image?
[14:38] <ogra> yep
[14:38] <GrueMaster> ok
[14:38] <NCommander> GrueMaster: good to know. We were still having some issues getting confirmation where they were
[14:38] <ogra> and it is why i asked him about 6 weeks ago to look at it :P
[14:38] <dyfet_sleeping> ogra: just rebuild from archive, it is no longer broken
[14:38] <NCommander> davidm: did you get the two boards sent to you?
=== dyfet_sleeping is now known as dyfet_waking
[14:38] <rsalveti> and there you go
[14:38]  * NCommander kicks the retry button
[14:38] <ogra> dyfet_waking, it is, i gave it back right after you pinged me today
[14:38] <ogra> and still fails with the same issues
[14:38]  * NCommander blinks
[14:38] <NCommander> ACK
[14:38]  * NCommander goes into shock from ia64 and sparc's deaths
[14:39] <dyfet_waking> ogra: what version did you build?
[14:39] <ogra> dyfet_waking, the one that failed
[14:39] <dyfet_waking> it's been updated in the archive
[14:40] <dyfet_waking> 0.11.13
[14:40] <NCommander> dyfet_waking: and what's what failed
[14:40] <GrueMaster> NCommander: Looks like the topic moved to FTBFS.
[14:40] <davidm> NCommander, I have all hardware now
[14:40] <ogra> dyfet_waking, 0.11.13-1ubuntu1 is what fails
[14:40] <NCommander> davidm: thanks. I'll inform the powers that be that everything was recieved
[14:40] <NCommander> dyfet_waking: are you building the source package?
[14:40] <dyfet_waking> Yes
[14:40] <NCommander> or are you building the upstream tarball?!
[14:41] <NCommander> dyfet_waking: how are you building it?
[14:41] <ogra> dyfet_waking, and the former debian sync also failed already since weeks
[14:41] <dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib-dev_0.11.13-1ubuntu1_armel.deb
[14:41] <dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib-dev_0.11.8-1_armel.deb
[14:41] <dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib-doc_0.11.13-1ubuntu1_all.deb
[14:41] <dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib-doc_0.11.8-1_all.deb
[14:41] <dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib0-dbg_0.11.13-1ubuntu1_armel.deb
[14:41] <dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib0-dbg_0.11.8-1_armel.deb
[14:42] <dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib0_0.11.13-1ubuntu1_armel.deb
[14:42] <dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib0_0.11.8-1_armel.deb
[14:42] <NCommander> 09:42:02 < dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib-dev_0.11.8-1_armel.deb
[14:42] <NCommander> 09:42:02 < dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib-doc_0.11.13-1ubuntu1_all.deb
[14:42] <NCommander> 09:42:02 < dyfet_waking> libtelepathy-glib-doc_0.11.8-1_all.deb
[14:42] <NCommander> argh
[14:42] <ogra> guys !
[14:42] <ogra> use a pastebin
[14:42] <NCommander> that was an accident
[14:42] <dyfet_waking> sorry :)
[14:42] <NCommander> irssi likes to paste when I middleclick
[14:42] <dyfet_waking> that was what I got to build this morning on arm on maverick
[14:42] <ogra> https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/telepathy-glib/0.11.13-1ubuntu1
[14:42] <NCommander> dyfet_waking: what platform are you building on?
[14:43] <dyfet_waking> beagle...it was slow :)
[14:43] <ogra> given back twice today, still failing on the same tests
[14:43] <dyfet_waking> lets discuss this after then...
[14:43] <GrueMaster> dyfet_waking: YOu should use the dove I have available.  Much faster.
[14:44] <NCommander> [action] dyfet and ogra to discuss telepathy-glib and report back
[14:44] <MootBot> ACTION received:  dyfet and ogra to discuss telepathy-glib and report back
[14:44] <ogra> anyway, beta is next thu,
[14:44] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:44]  * rsalveti is using his panda with usb disk, and it's fast
[14:44] <ogra> it needs to be fixed before friday
[14:44] <NCommander> I have nothing to report, I haven't had time to work on FTBFS
[14:44] <ogra> how is kde going dyfet_waking ?
[14:44] <dyfet_waking> I was going to work from what Michael gave me after waking :)
=== dyfet_waking is now known as dyfet
[14:45] <ogra> well, please priorize telepathy first
[14:45] <NCommander> dyfet_waking: please focus on telepathy
[14:45] <NCommander> d'oh
[14:45] <ogra> heh
[14:46] <NCommander> anyway
[14:46] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:46] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:46] <ogra> bad bad bad
[14:46] <NCommander> very bad
[14:46] <ogra> as you could see above already
[14:46]  * NCommander has some good though
[14:46] <ogra> but ...
[14:46] <ogra> oem-config has a fix thats pending upload
[14:46] <NCommander> wooo
[14:46] <rsalveti> cool
[14:46] <NCommander> if we could fix telepathy-glib, we can get our images going again
[14:46] <ogra> (i need to coordinate with cjwatson about uploading it soon)
[14:46] <ogra> yeah
[14:47] <ogra> well, there is also a filesystem corruption i have seen
[14:47] <NCommander> So, I have some news
[14:47] <NCommander> We've started building dove images again
[14:47] <ogra> with the preinstalled images
[14:47] <NCommander> currently only daily-live/ubuntu-netbook
[14:47] <ogra> lool even sees it *after* jasper has run
[14:47] <NCommander> I'll be re-enabling alternates sometimes this week for normal ubuntu, as building ubuntu-netbook alternates really goes south
[14:47] <cjwatson> ogra: coordinate with ev
[14:47] <ogra> cjwatson, will do
[14:48] <NCommander> speaking of ubuntu-netbook going south
[14:48] <GrueMaster> NCommander: Looks like alt-inst images are building too.
[14:48] <ogra> NCommander, we decided to not support alternates anymore
[14:48] <NCommander> GrueMaster: no, that was actually a separate issue
[14:48] <ogra> NCommander, can you instead enable server ?
[14:48] <GrueMaster> oh.
[14:48] <NCommander> ogra: cjwatson: can i delete these (http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/ports/daily/) out of www or do we need to do something special
[14:48] <ogra> NCommander, just rm it
[14:48] <NCommander> thanks
[14:49]  * NCommander didn't know if they were safe to RM directly, or if I would break image building, and get fired
[14:49] <cjwatson> I think I already said to rm -rf it
[14:49] <ogra> indeed, thats why i suggested it :P
[14:49] <NCommander> cjwatson: oh, I must have missed that. Sorry
[14:49] <cjwatson> no problems
[14:49] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to clean out the stale dove alternates
[14:49] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to clean out the stale dove alternates
[14:49] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to smoke test ubuntu-server dove alternates
[14:49] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to smoke test ubuntu-server dove alternates
[14:50] <ogra> NCommander, there are other dirs too that could need cleaning
[14:50] <ogra> seems someone tried to build daily-preinstalled in /
[14:50] <NCommander> ogra: indeed, but my link to antimony is so damn slow that I don't want to try to cleanout the www folder until I'm state side again
[14:50] <NCommander> the lag is so bad that typing something takes about 2-3 secends per char
[14:51] <ogra> yeah, just have a look around, there is other mess to clean up if you're at it :)
[14:51] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to flush antimony's expired images
[14:51] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to flush antimony's expired images
[14:51] <NCommander> :-)
[14:51] <ogra> ... and stale empty dirs :)
[14:51] <NCommander> ogra: IT SHALL BE DONE!
[14:51] <ogra> haha
[14:52] <NCommander> [topic] ABO
[14:52] <MootBot> New Topic:  ABO
[14:52] <ogra> stop shouting, move
[14:52] <ogra> bah
[14:52]  * NCommander wins
[14:52] <ogra> youre to fast :P
[14:52] <rsalveti> ian_brasil: ^
[14:52] <ian_brasil> rbelem patched startkde  (and this was accepted) to start the plasma-mobile desktop and kubuntu mobile default settings package just needs some marketing text changing now - so we are ready to start building images..well, we still need to change the text in the seed to actually call this new default settings and we need a small change to plasma board to add this to the mobile systray but these are very minor things..
[14:52] <NCommander> ian_brasil: what archs are you planning to build for?
[14:53] <ian_brasil> armel and i386
[14:54] <NCommander> ian_brasil: I ask that you only target armel+omap4 and armel+omap for now. We're somewhat strapped for buildd power. Once we get all the kinks worked out o dove images, we can add it
[14:54] <ogra> well, i wonder if you really want to attempt to run it on omap3
[14:54] <NCommander> (omap4 is on a dedicated builder, omap and dove are sharing one :-/)
[14:54] <ian_brasil> NCommander: Ok..we can do that
[14:54] <ogra> whats the ram requirements ?
[14:54] <ogra> beagle only has 256M
[14:55] <NCommander> ogra: I thought there were some omap3 platforms with 512M
[14:55] <ogra> there is the beagle XM but its still not on the market
[14:55] <NCommander> ogra: I thought it was out
[14:55] <ogra> essentially all omap3 512M platforms currently are unavailable
[14:55] <NCommander> ogra: ugh.
[14:55] <ogra> apart from the touchbook for which we dont have kernel patches
[14:56] <NCommander> ian_brasil: if you want to trade omap for dove (which is also not out on the market), that's fine :-)
[14:56] <ogra> the other 512M hw you saw was all prototypes or not on the market yet
[14:56] <NCommander> ogra: I never saw any 512M hw directly
[14:56] <ian_brasil> NCommander: thx
[14:56] <ogra> NCommander, you were in prague, no ?
[14:56] <ogra> i'm sure i showed you some :)
[14:57] <NCommander> ogra: I was working on omap4
[14:57] <NCommander> :-)
[14:57] <NCommander> anyway. I think that's everything
[14:57] <NCommander> anyone got anything else
[14:57] <ogra> nope
[14:57] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[14:57] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 08:57.
</pre>

=== Action Items ===

* NCommander to discuss with linaro and asac on improved-generic-subarch-support
* NCommander to clean out the stale dove alternates
* NCommander to smoke test ubuntu-server dove alternates
* NCommander to flush antimony's expired images

=== Minutes ===

* Dove enablement continues
* Images very broken due to archive churn, and dbus/oem-configu issues
* FTBFS list for KDE in bad shape 

== Weekly Reports ==

==== Michael Casadevall ====
* Dove enablement in China continues

==== David Sugar ====
* telepathy-glib eventually became buildable with introspection updates.
* lots of archive churn, focused on bugs.
* blocking edid kernel issues resolved.
