{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''October 5th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100928]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20101012]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* None

=== Special Items ===
* None

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
* http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[DavidSugar|dyfet]]</nowiki>)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[14:11] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:11] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:11. The chair is NCommander.
[14:11] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:11] <ogra_ac> question is if he stays awake :)
[14:11]  * NCommander had a time zone adjustment failure
[14:11] <GrueMaster> Does he ever?
[14:11] <ogra_ac> heh
[14:12] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20101005
[14:12] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20101005
[14:12] <NCommander> No Action items or special items from last week
[14:12] <NCommander> [topic] Burndown chart
[14:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Burndown chart
[14:12] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:12] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:13] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
[14:13] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
[14:13] <ogra_ac> OMG !
[14:14] <ogra_ac> we're deep red
[14:14] <NCommander> so there's one last action item left open, persia, can you close it? :-)
[14:14] <ogra_ac> persia, !!!
[14:14] <ogra_ac> NCommander, there are three
[14:14] <ogra_ac> (see the overall chart)
[14:16] <NCommander> [action] persia to close and/or postpone his remaining action items for 10.10
[14:16] <MootBot> ACTION received:  persia to close and/or postpone his remaining action items for 10.10
[14:16] <NCommander> anything else on the charts?
[14:16] <ogra_ac> what about the buglist ?
[14:16] <NCommander> [link] http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:16] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[14:16] <NCommander> ogra_ac: that's separate from the burndown charts no?
[14:17] <ogra_ac> k
[14:17]  * ogra_ac vaguely remembers an action item for NCommander that doesnt seem to have been transferred ;)
[14:17] <ogra_ac> regarding the bugs :)
[14:18]  * NCommander doesn't :-)
[14:18] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to unassign himself from bugs (c/o)
[14:18] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to unassign himself from bugs (c/o)
[14:18] <NCommander> anything else on the bug list?
[14:19] <NCommander> I guess not
[14:19] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[14:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[14:19] <mpoirier> been working on b637947 all week - nothing else to report.
[14:19] <mpoirier> ..
[14:19] <ogra_ac> NCommander, dont you run so fast !
[14:19] <ogra_ac> 7me was just typing :P
[14:19] <ogra_ac> anyway
[14:19] <GrueMaster> bug 637947, maybe?
[14:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 637947 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu Maverick) "no sound devices on current ES2.0 boards" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/637947
[14:20] <lag> o/
[14:20] <ogra_ac> we're working on it
[14:20] <ogra_ac> trying to get patches in today
[14:20] <ogra_ac> since thats the last chance to make the release
[14:21] <ogra_ac> can you guys make sure the kernel team is available for us to make uploads etc ?
[14:21] <NCommander> anything else from the kernel side?
[14:21] <lag> * Texas Instruments (ti-omap)
[14:21] <lag>    * PATCH    : IGEPv2's 6 patches are being worked into the SRU process (OMAP3)
[14:21] <lag>    * PATCH    : A new set of ftrace patches have been released - will integrate in Natty (OMAP3)
[14:21] <lag>    * PATCH    : Received patch from TI that enables passing the MAC address to the kernel from u-boot
[14:21] <lag>    * ON GOING : B637947 Latest sound patches are available from TI - configuration problem still exists
[14:21] <lag>    * ON GOING : B653002 Currently under investigation - TI suspects a silicone problem
[14:21] <lag>    * ON GOING : B637947 Still working on the userspace ALSA or PulseAudio configuration
[14:21] <lag>    * FIXED    : B647890 Fixed the building error
[14:21] <lag>    * WORKROUND: B633227 Applied patches from Nicolas to set memory 2G:2G - enabled the errata for PL310 lx20 cache controller
[14:21] <lag>    * MISC     : "fakeroot debian/rules binary-omap" seems to be broken on Natty - investigation is required
[14:22] <lag>    * MISC     : Some members of the Arm team received ES2.1 boards - so far it's as good as ES2.0
[14:22] <lag> ..
[14:22] <NCommander> ah, there's lag
[14:22] <lag> :D
[14:22] <lag> Hi ya
[14:22] <ogra_ac> yeah, we have slow network NCommander :)
[14:22] <ogra_ac> lots of lag :)
[14:22] <ogra_ac> lag, Natty ?!?!
[14:23] <ogra_ac> lag, please stop building omap3 in natty
[14:23] <ogra_ac> that either needs to go into a feature branch again or we need to swithc to linaro
[14:23] <lag> Speak to mpoirier
[14:23]  * ogra_ac will add a spec for that
[14:23] <mpoirier> ogra_ac: that's a company decision...
[14:23] <NCommander> ogra_ac: yes well, its not my fault you forgot to pack a high-speed interneet connection from Germany ogra_ac !
[14:23] <ogra_ac> mpoirier, no
[14:24] <ogra_ac> mpoirier, we cant work that way, omap3 needs fixes at times where the mainline kernel cant be uploaded anymore ...
[14:24] <ogra_ac> mpoirier, building omap3 delays the mainline kernel builds a lot
[14:24] <ogra_ac> both teams suffer from it being in the core tree
[14:25] <mpoirier> who's idea was it to put it in the core tree ?
[14:25] <ogra_ac> thats an unbearable situation, we either need to change it back or completely switch to linaro kernels
[14:25] <ogra_ac> mpoirier, lool's with agreement from the kernel team
[14:25] <mpoirier> I suppose it was put there for a reason...
[14:25] <ogra_ac> we tried it one release, its not workable
[14:25] <ogra_ac> yes, "because we can"
[14:26] <ogra_ac> its a test that failed badly
[14:26] <mpoirier> then let's get the concerned parties together and settle on the issue.
[14:26] <ogra_ac> we would have IGEP2 support properly working if we had a feature branch with separate policies
[14:26] <ogra_ac> mpoirier, thats what i said above
[14:26] <ogra_ac> i'll create a spec for discussion at UDS
[14:26] <NCommander> ogra_ac: mpoirier I think UDS would be the proper venue for this discussion TBH
[14:27] <NCommander> ah
[14:27] <ogra_ac> just dont waste time on natty branches now
[14:27] <NCommander> :-)
[14:27] <NCommander> anyway, can I move on?
[14:27] <ogra_ac> yep
[14:27] <ogra_ac> just again
[14:28] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:28] <ogra_ac> we need exceptoions and uploads
[14:28] <ogra_ac> *today*
[14:28] <GrueMaster> RC Testing went well.  No major issues found, except the missing installer icon on dove images, which is now fixed.
[14:28] <ogra_ac> please someone be available from the kernel team to do that
[14:28] <GrueMaster> Netboot image for omap was missing modules for usb.  No keyboard, no networking.  Colin has worked to fix this for release.
[14:29] <ogra_ac> \o/
[14:29] <mpoirier> GrueMaster: omap3 or 4 ? when was that discovered ?
[14:29] <ogra_ac> ast week
[14:29] <ogra_ac> *last
[14:29] <GrueMaster> omap/omap3/beagle.
[14:30] <ogra_ac> we dont build netboot for omap4
[14:30] <ogra_ac> and omap3 are just a nice to have goodie
[14:30] <ogra_ac> leftover from luicd
[14:30] <GrueMaster> This is not a kernel issue.  This was an issue with debian installer.
[14:30] <ogra_ac> right, that too
[14:30] <GrueMaster> The modules were not included in the netboot image.
[14:31] <ogra_ac> NCommander, move if there are no other questions
[14:32] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:32] <dyfet> We (ncommander and I) discussed plt-scheme yesterday
[14:32] <NCommander> FTBFS looks relatively happy on all architectures, not just ARM excluding openjjfk
[14:32] <ogra_ac> below 100 pkgs !!!
[14:32] <ogra_ac> thanks to doko !!!
[14:33] <ogra_ac> we owe him a lot, he's the only one really working actively on that list atm
[14:33] <NCommander> +1 beer to doko
[14:33] <ogra_ac> +3 from me :)
[14:34] <NCommander> :-)
[14:34] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:34] <ogra_ac> omap4 runs on panda ES2.1 !!!
[14:34]  * NCommander heard
[14:34] <GrueMaster> WOOT!
[14:34] <ogra_ac> all open RC bugs were fixed apart from sound
[14:34] <NCommander> Its great when hardware is properly designed to be relatively compatible and sane
[14:35] <NCommander> Dove is currently looking good, sound issue aside
[14:35] <ogra_ac> not sure about omap3 (i didnt test since a while) or dove
[14:35] <ogra_ac> GrueMaster, how did omap3 look last time you tested ?
[14:35] <NCommander> Installer icon shows up where it should be, and its relatively fast and responsive
[14:35] <GrueMaster> Looked good, other than the missing modules in the netboot image.
[14:35] <NCommander> cool
[14:36] <GrueMaster> Audio has the same issues across the board, though.
[14:36] <GrueMaster> omap, omap4, dove.
[14:36] <ogra_ac> omap and dove can have SRUs for that
[14:36] <ogra_ac> omap4 will get fixes today
[14:36] <NCommander> I think we're in very good shape at this point and I think armel+dove and possibly armel+omap can go out the door on 10.10.10
[14:36] <ogra_ac> (or workarounds)
[14:36] <ogra_ac> omap4 too
[14:36] <rsalveti> hopefully
[14:37] <ogra_ac> we only need the xloader patch
[14:37] <ogra_ac> that should be enough, workst case all other fixes can be SRUs
[14:37] <NCommander> ogra_ac: check thatwith davidm since thats contray to what I heard yesterday
[14:37] <ogra_ac> xloader and uboot are the things we cant update
[14:37] <NCommander> otherwise, WOO
[14:37] <ogra_ac> if they are in shape omap4 is ready for 10.10.10
[14:38] <ogra_ac> davidm, ^^^^
[14:38] <ogra_ac> please agree
[14:38] <NCommander> ogra_ac: why can't you update XLO or u-boot
[14:38] <ogra_ac> NCommander, because they are not handled by packages in the image
[14:38] <ogra_ac> we treat them like BIOS
[14:38] <NCommander> ogra_ac: ah. fair enough.We could fix it, but it would be fugly
[14:38] <ogra_ac> a way we inherit through using flash-kernel from debian
[14:38] <ogra_ac> NCommander, lets fix it in a non ugly way
[14:39] <ogra_ac> SPEC !!!
[14:39] <NCommander> ogra_ac: right
[14:39] <ogra_ac> will need good thinking through
[14:39] <NCommander> [action] ogra + davidm to determine armel+omap4 releasability and notify the release team with the result
[14:39] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra + davidm to determine armel+omap4 releasability and notify the release team with the result
[14:39] <ogra_ac> ++
[14:39] <ogra_ac> thanks
[14:39] <ogra_ac> i'll be able to tell tonight
[14:40] <NCommander> [topic] Any Other Business
[14:40] <MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business
[14:40] <ogra_ac> really depends on the kernel team
[14:40] <davidm> ogra_ac, theree were NO kernel changes for OMAP 4?
[14:40] <ogra_ac> we need an uploader for the sound fix
[14:40] <ogra_ac> davidm, apart from sound ? no
[14:40] <ogra_ac> davidm, es2.1 should work out of the box with the xloader changes
[14:40] <davidm> ogra_ac, lets have a talk later
[14:40] <ogra_ac> yep
[14:40] <ogra_ac> lets wait how today at TI turns out
[14:41] <ogra_ac> we can say for sure by end of day
[14:41] <rsalveti> robclark is just testing the instabilities issues we saw yesterday
[14:41] <rsalveti> so soon we should know better if it works or not
[14:41] <rsalveti> but I'd say that we just need x-loader fixes
[14:41] <ogra_ac> ++
[14:42] <NCommander> anything else left for this meeting?
[14:42] <NCommander> Or can I close it out?
[14:42] <rsalveti> nops, hopefully we'll be on-line sooner today
[14:42] <ogra_ac> activity reports !!
[14:42] <ogra_ac> dont foget them :)
[14:42] <rsalveti> I did mine ;-)
[14:42] <ogra_ac> rsalveti rocks
[14:42] <NCommander> rsalveti: maybe one of you should buy a prepaid broadband solutoin and make a hotspot
[14:42] <ogra_ac> (and he's the only one here)
[14:42] <ogra_ac> NCommander, THATS WHAT WE USE
[14:43] <ogra_ac> OOPS
[14:43] <rsalveti> yup :-)
[14:43] <ogra_ac> damned caps
[14:43] <NCommander> ogra_ac: so when you run out of bandwidth on AT&T they make you use all caps?< i didn't know that!
[14:43]  * NCommander runs.
[14:43] <NCommander> anyway, about to close the meeting
[14:43] <NCommander> going once
[14:44]  * ogra_ac slaps NCommander with a holiday inn pancake
[14:44] <NCommander> mmmmm, tasty
[14:44] <GrueMaster> So ogra_ac, does thisw mean you will do a status report too?
[14:44]  * ogra_ac slaps GrueMaster  with a holiday inn pancake
[14:44]  * GrueMaster has bacon and will slap back.
[14:45] <ogra_ac> greasy meeting !
[14:45]  * NCommander notes that ogra_ac and GrueMaster should get a room to save all our visions.
[14:45] <NCommander> anyway
[14:45] <ogra_ac> NCommander, quick close the meeting
[14:45] <NCommander> going once
[14:45] <NCommander> twice
[14:45] <NCommander> three times
[14:45] <NCommander> #endmeeting
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* persia to close and/or postpone his remaining action items for 10.10
* ogra + davidm to determine armel+omap4 releasability and notify the release team with the result
* NCommander to unassign himself from bugs

=== Minutes ===
* TI strike force in Dallas to help get ES 2.1 ready for release.
* Dove on target for release
* Spec drafting begins

== Weekly Reports ==

=== Michael Casadeval (NCommander) ===
==== This Week ====
* Testing Dove for release
* Reviewed and sponsored dyfet's plt'scheme, and reviewed changes with doko
* Spec drafting begins
==== Next Week ====
* Release!

=== Ricardo Salveti (rsalveti) ===
==== This Week ====
* Working with Bryan on bug #633227, found an errata that helps but doesn't seems to fix the issue. More debugging with TI on going.
* PowerVR SGX Omap 3 packages finally uploaded and working!
* Working with TI to improve the PowerVR SGX Omap 4 packages
* Tested PowerVR SGX Omap 4 with our image and clutk/mutter from asac, working better than expected (unity still doesn't work) 
* Build a kernel for bug 646368 with the proposed fix, waiting someone with IGEPv2 to test
* First draft of EDID parsing published at http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=rsalveti/ubuntu-maverick.git;a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/omap3-edid-parsing, discussion on-going with upstream
* Helped reviewing and testing Audio patches from Sebastien for Omap 4

==== Future ====
* Work to get the proper x-loader for ES2.0 and ES2.1
* Help TI with SGX packages
* Help debugging and fixing display issues with Panda
* Help bringing up ES2.1

=== David Sugar ===
==== This Week ====
* Thought I had resolved plt-scheme, it got reopened, resolved with Michael what I did was correct.
* Resolved and triaged a number of bugs and a few ftbfs's
==== Next Week ====
* Carefully review and annotate all Debian release critical "grave" issues that may apply to Maverick
* Review remaining assigned bugs make sure they have a disposition or clarify what they depend on
* Continue bug triage and ftbfs issues
* Motu application
