{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Overview ==

The Snowball is a small armel board from ST-Ericsson running the T-Ericsson Nova A9500 processor (Dual Cortex A9 + Mali 400 GPU) and includes a number of features; see http://igloocommunity.org/support/Main_Page for more details.

Snowball can boot over eMMC (internal flash), or using the embedded microSD card reader; these instructions are meant for microSD use. Should you want to proceed differently, you can follow the guide at http://igloocommunity.org/support/BSP_Quick_Start and will need to use a hwpack image from igloocommunity.org.

There are a few ways to install Ubuntu on the Snowball:

* Use the guides and images from igloocommunity.org (see <nowiki>[[http://igloocommunity.org/support/BSP_Quick_Start]]</nowiki>)
* Build and install your own image from the files at linaro.org
* Load a pre-installed image from Ubuntu (soon)
* Build everything from scratch

== Booting Snowball ==

=== Using files from Linaro ===

The documentation below assumes you want the install and test the very latest images possible. If not, then look through http://releases.linaro.org/ for the right files for you: you will need one hwpack and one rootfs tarball.

==== Required files ====

Get the latest hwpack from linaro: http://snapshots.linaro.org/11.05-daily/linaro-hwpacks/lt-snowball
You will need to scroll to the end, select the latest date, then click through to again, the latest directory (0, 1, etc), images, and download the gzipped tarball. For instance, http://snapshots.linaro.org/11.05-daily/linaro-hwpacks/lt-snowball/20110705/0/images/hwpack/hwpack_linaro-lt-snowball_20110705-0_armel_supported.tar.gz worked at the time of the writing.

If there is no directory called "images" as you click through, back up and select an earlier directory.

You will also need to retrieve the latest rootfs tarball; the same procedure applies. While writing this, the following was used to build a ubuntu-desktop image: http://snapshots.linaro.org/11.05-daily/linaro-ubuntu-desktop/20110630/0/images/tar/linaro-n-ubuntu-desktop-tar-20110630-0.tar.gz.

==== Building the board image from Linaro files ====

The next step is to build the actual booting image which will be written to a microSD card to run on the board.

First, install '''linaro-image-tools''' if you don't have it already. This is used to mix together the hwpack tarball (containing kernel, uboot image and a few other hardware-specific things) and the rootfs image (hardware-independent):

<pre>
sudo apt-get install linaro-image-tools
</pre>

Then, run '''linaro-media-create''' to build a raw image file that can be loaded on the SDcard that will be used to boot the Snowball board:

<pre>
linaro-media-create --image_file snowball.img --dev snowball_sd \
  --hwpack <path_to_hwpack_tarball> \
  --binary <path_to_rootfs_tarball>
</pre>

The will run for a few minutes, and generate ''snowball.img'' in the working directory.

Insert the microSD card in the system you created the image on; then:

<pre>
sudo dd bs=4M if=snowball.img of=/dev/<device name>
</pre>

Finally, you should be able to take the SDcard back into the Snowball board and boot with it; watch the serial console (see instructions below) to make sure the system boots, or to find out why if it doesn't.

=== Load a pre-installed image from Ubuntu ===

Pre-installed images are not yet available, but work is in progress. You can contact ''cyphermox'' on freenode who may be able to provide status information.

=== Building from scratch ===

{{{#!wiki warning
Section in progress
}}}

The following should allow creating a tarball with an Ubuntu rootfs, without kernel; that might be mixable with a hwpack to get something that works? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mathieu-tl]]</nowiki> 
''Following steps from ARM/RootfsFromScratch...''
<pre>
sudo rootstock \
        --fqdn ubuntu \
        --login ubuntu \
        --password ubuntu \
        --imagesize 2G \
        --seed ubuntu-desktop,openssh-server
</pre>

== Accessing the board ==

The Snowball board includes a mini-USB port for serial console. It is located to the *left of* (or below) the +5V power connector. It uses a speed of 115200 baud by default, 8 bits per byte, no parity, and no hardware or software flow control. It usually appears as ttyUSB0, but the number depends on your system.

For example, access the serial console (once the board is plugged in and booting) using ''screen'':
<pre>
screen /dev/ttyUSB0 115200,cs8,ixoff
</pre>
