{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''June 16th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100615]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100622]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from June 8th, 2010 ===
* NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
* NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

=== Action Items ===
* davidm to ship mpoirier a beagle C4
* davidm to ship mpoirier a XM board
* ogra to talk to persia about IRC channels

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
[14:00] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:00. The chair is NCommander.
[14:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:00] <davidm> G'day NCommander
[14:00] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100615
[14:00] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100615
[14:00] <NCommander> ogra: GrueMaster dyfet ping
[14:00] <NCommander> davidm: morning
[14:00]  * ogra refuses to take part in a meeting that wasnt announced :P
[14:00]  * GrueMaster mumbles
[14:00] <ogra> (you forgot the mail again) :)
[14:01]  * NCommander coughs 
[14:01] <NCommander> [topic] Action Items from June 8th, 2010
[14:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Items from June 8th, 2010
[14:01] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
[14:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
[14:02] <NCommander> I discussed it with him, but before we came to a conclusion, the troublesome package (qt4-x11) magically started building again ...
[14:02] <NCommander> so its fixed, though we're not sure why
[14:02] <ogra> well, we still need a proper solution for that
[14:02] <ogra> its not only one package that times out
[14:02] <NCommander> ogra: lamont has made it so its easier to update the build timeouts then before, so it can be changed with less pain
[14:03] <ogra> hmm, k
[14:03] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
[14:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
[14:03] <NCommander> libnih is no longer FTBFS so I'm dropping this item (I didn't get a chance to talk with him or do any FTBFS work all week)
[14:03] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[14:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[14:03] <ogra> err
[14:03] <NCommander> ogra: ?
[14:04] <ogra> libnih cant build because upstart ftbfs
[14:04] <ogra> be sure it will return
[14:04] <NCommander> oh, d'oh. why isn't it on the depwait list then :-/
[14:04] <NCommander> c/o on that item then
[14:04] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:05] <NCommander> We're making progress
[14:05] <ogra> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-maverick-alpha-2.html would be more intresting though
[14:05] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-maverick-alpha-2.html would be more intresting though
[14:05] <ogra> given thats our next milestone
[14:06] <ogra> if we get 4 todos done in that we'll look good for A2
[14:06] <ogra> 5 would be even better :)
[14:06] <NCommander> indeed
[14:07] <NCommander> I refactored and cleane dup the preinstalled d-cd branch last night, so its good for initial merging
[14:07] <ogra> great
[14:07] <ogra> give me something to review later today
[14:07] <GrueMaster> How close are we to having daily images?
[14:08] <ogra> debian-cd merge, cdimage merge of the publisher scripts
[14:08] <NCommander> GrueMaster: jasper needs to go in archive, we need an MIR, and I need to finish compressed image support
[14:08] <ogra> and some jasper fixes
[14:08] <GrueMaster> ok
[14:08] <ogra> NCommander, jasper is in the archive since 2 weeks
[14:08] <NCommander> ogra: d'oh
[14:08]  * NCommander dons dunce cap
[14:08] <ogra> but i cant test it without a working kernel
[14:08] <ogra> (which brings us to next topic i guess)
[14:08] <NCommander> I thought we had a working OMAP 3 kernel
[14:09] <GrueMaster> Not that I have seen.
[14:09] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
[14:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
[14:09] <ogra> the .34 omap3 kernels did work
[14:09] <ogra> with the switch to .35 they broke
[14:09] <mpoirier> i have yet to test.
[14:09] <mpoirier> should get to it today.
[14:09] <ogra> GrueMaster, where is the bug you wanted to file yesterday ?
[14:09] <mpoirier> in any case,
[14:10] <mpoirier> about SD card ?
[14:10] <ogra> no
[14:10] <GrueMaster> 594382
[14:10] <ogra> bug 594382
[14:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 594382 in linux-ti-omap (Ubuntu) "Wake up daisy chain activation failed on omap3" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/594382
[14:10] <mpoirier> haven't looked at it.
[14:10] <mpoirier> still on SD card.
[14:10] <GrueMaster> Oh, on the sd card.   I'll have to look
[14:10] <GrueMaster> I don't have it up atm.
[14:11] <mpoirier> fine, I'm looking at code at this time and can reproduce on my rig.
[14:11] <GrueMaster> bug 592688
[14:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 592688 in linux-ti-omap (Ubuntu Maverick) "Timing issues with certain SD cards on beagleboard" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/592688
[14:12] <mpoirier> yes, that is the one.
[14:12] <GrueMaster> Should I assign those to you?
[14:12]  * ogra comments on the bug and adds some pointers
[14:12] <ogra> (the daisy chain one)
[14:12] <davidm> mpoirier, you need an OMAP3 board correct?
[14:12] <mpoirier> I suppose you could.
[14:13] <mpoirier> Well, I could use a bb C4.
[14:13] <mpoirier> have C2 atm.
[14:14] <davidm> I'll send a C4 out today
[14:14] <mpoirier> very well thank you.
[14:14] <ogra> DavidLevin, do we still have spare XMs ?
[14:14] <ogra> err
[14:14] <ogra> davidm, ^^^
[14:14] <ogra> since i see massive issues there too with the curent omap3 kernel
[14:14] <davidm> ogra, I have 1 unit now
[14:14] <ogra> i think lag has one
[14:15] <davidm> I can ship that if you need it.
[14:15] <ogra> well, lag, amitk and me each have one unit, depends if mpoirier will work on XM issues too
[14:15] <davidm> NCommander, give me an action to ship mpoirier a C4 this week please
[14:15] <ogra> then it would make sense to ship one to him
[14:15] <NCommander> [action] davidm to ship mpoirier a beagle C4
[14:15] <MootBot> ACTION received:  davidm to ship mpoirier a beagle C4
[14:15] <davidm> NCommander, also add ship mpoirier a XM too
[14:16] <NCommander> [action] davidm to ship mpoirier a XM board
[14:16] <MootBot> ACTION received:  davidm to ship mpoirier a XM board
[14:16] <ogra> great
[14:16] <davidm> I think I'll cry, every time I get hardware I have to ship it out.....
[14:16] <GrueMaster> heh
[14:16] <ogra> heh
[14:17] <ogra> lag, any news about omap4 ?
[14:17]  * NCommander gives davidm a Babbage board
[14:17] <lag> News?
[14:17] <ogra> well, we're waiting for a binary package in teh arm team :)
[14:18] <lag> I have a working build
[14:18] <ogra> do you know whats the progress there is ?
[14:18] <lag> But I didn't build it
[14:18] <lag> I'm afraid cooloney is your man
[14:18] <ogra> yeah, i'm more intrested about something in the archive :)
[14:18] <lag> Nothing as yet
[14:18] <lag> AFAIK
[14:18] <ogra> ok
[14:19] <ogra> NCommander, move ?
[14:19] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:19] <GrueMaster> I have been doing a lot of testing and retesting of the image ogra handrolled last week on various sd cards.
[14:19] <ogra> GrueMaster, could we have a list of milestoned bugs on the meeting agenda ?
[14:20] <ogra> that would help a lot with the release meetign preparation and with keeping an easier overview
[14:20] <GrueMaster> I can add them later today.
[14:20] <ogra> only the critical and high ones that are milestoned
[14:20]  * GrueMaster needs coffee still.
[14:20] <GrueMaster> Ok.
[14:20] <ogra> should only be a few each week
[14:20]  * NCommander needs that magicial substance as well
[14:21] <ogra> NCommander, move ?
[14:22] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:22]  * NCommander has nothing to report since he hasn't had time to work on this
[14:22] <dyfet> Well, there are some items pending from upstream
[14:22] <dyfet> (glib2.0 and gobject introspection)
[14:22] <dyfet> I did work on others though as well, and did btrfs-tools
[14:23] <ogra> did you tak to seb128 about glib ?
[14:23] <dyfet> Yes
[14:23] <ogra> *talk
[14:23] <ogra> ok
[14:23] <dyfet> Thats why I did not submit my patch for it
[14:23] <ogra> anything NCommander or i need to sponsor ?
[14:24] <dyfet> I sponsored with rainct :)
[14:24] <dyfet> I may have openmpi resolved later today, but I know we need to get kde unstuck
[14:24] <ogra> can you make sure your name shows up in the uploads ?
[14:25] <ogra> else sponsored uploads wont help you with MOTU
[14:25] <dyfet> ok
[14:25] <dyfet> true :)
[14:25] <dyfet> I had to pass on glib2 since there was an upstream fix being merged...
[14:26] <ogra> what about compiz ?
[14:26] <dyfet> I can look at that later tonight or tomorrow
[14:26] <ogra> and xscreensave seems to have failed too
[14:27] <ogra> the rest looks like glib or qt fallout
[14:27] <dyfet> ok
[14:28] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:28] <ogra> pretty much covered above already ...
[14:28] <NCommander> indeed
[14:28] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[14:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[14:28] <ogra> we need functioning kernels
[14:29]  * ogra has an AOB topic :)
[14:29] <ogra> davidm, what do we do with the mailing list now that we're being renamed
[14:29] <ogra> and also with #ubuntu-mobile
[14:30] <NCommander> Well, with #ubuntu-mobile, I thinkw e can let it die, we use #ubuntu-arm mostly now
[14:30] <ogra> shuld #ubuntu-mobile become a redirect to #ubuntu-arm or do we leave it idling
[14:30] <ogra> NCommander, define "let it die" :)
[14:30] <NCommander> let it idle
[14:30] <ogra> just leaving it wont magically make it go away
[14:31] <davidm> ogra, I need to talk with IS about the mailing list
[14:31] <ogra> its a registered ubuntu channel
[14:31] <davidm> ogra, I'd leave #ubuntu-mobile idle I think
[14:31] <ogra> hmm, k
[14:31] <davidm>  there is value to it, just not for us right now
[14:32] <ogra> indeed, but someone needs to be the owner (and make sure to be able to OP when spamboats or trolls show up)
[14:32] <davidm> hmm, I did not realize it was a registered channel, is #ubuntu-arm registered?
[14:32] <ogra> i think it is
[14:32] <ogra> has a chanserv
[14:32] <davidm> We should likely make sure
[14:32] <ogra> yeah
[14:35] <ogra> i think persia cared for -arm back when we got it new
[14:35] <ogra> NCommander, action for me to talk to persia about IRC channels
[14:35] <NCommander> [action] ogra to talk to persi about IRC channels
[14:35] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra to talk to persi about IRC channels
[14:35] <NCommander> Can I close out the meeting?
[14:35] <ogra> yeah
[14:35] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[14:35] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 08:35.
</pre>

== Weekly Reports ==

=== Michael Casadevall ===
* Preinstalled image work continues

=== David Sugar ===
==== Mobile Team ====
* Resolved failed to builds; btrfs-tools resolved, glib2.0 and introspection pending on upstream fixes.  
* Investigated qt/kde and openmpi issues on arm.
* Worked on rootstock tasks related to Oliver; fuseext2 and gvfs support.
==== Other ====
* Motu related activity
==== Other ====
* Killed/had to re-install a machine...never delete a stale schroot session ;)
==== Anticipated ====
* fuseext2 gvfs to be closed
* Universe Contributor Application
* kde/qt arm issues
* More ftbfs

<pre>
</pre>
