{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


''Meeting Time Change was 17:00 UTC now one hour earlier'' '''16:00''' UTC<<BR>><<BR>>
'''April 10th, 2008, 16:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.<<BR>><<BR>>
''Meeting Time Change was 17:00 UTC now one hour earlier'' '''16:00''' UTC<<BR>><<BR>>

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from April 3rd 27th, 2008 ===
* (lool) add doc on moving to tarball releases for moblin modules to wiki
* rustyl_ to assign ppa packages updates for the new tarball based release process [cted as blocked by lool last week and the week before that...][cted]
* bspencer to list i18n status for Moblin project[cted]
* davidm to move meeting to 1 hour earlier and notify all [complete]
* mawhalen to reschedule on Intel side of earlier time change. [complete]
=== Current Items ===
Please add your name or IRC nick to the items you add.

* kyleN: moblin-applets delivers status bar icons into /usr/share/icons/hildon, but since we can't switch icon theme via gconf and etc, I don't know how to theme this part of the marquee. Maybe put them in /usr/share/icons/hicolor which is the default icon theme, to start, then at least we could theme it by putting different ones in hildon? 

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* rustyl_ to assign ppa packages updates for the new tarball based release process [cted as blocked by lool last week and the week before that...][cted][cted]
* bspencer to list i18n status for Moblin project[cted][cted]
* GrueMaster file a bug on helix build missing alsa support.
=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080410_1801.html
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
