{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Notes on using fuseext2 ===

The purpose is to be able to use fuse ext2 to mount and modify ex2 (or ext3) formatted images that may be written to sd or ramdisk without having to require root access.  fuse allows users to mount user mode file systems, and fuseext2 is a fuse usermode filesystem.

==== Creating an empty filesystem ====

First, lets create a small 1 megabyte image.  We will start by creating an empty allocated image by copying /dev/zero with dd:

<code>dd if=/dev/zero of=./testing bs=1042 count=1024</code>

Next, we will format the file system "image" for ext2. 

<code>mke2fs ./testing</code>

To access the file system we need to create a directory to act as a mount point:

<code>mkdir ./tester</code>

Next, we can mount the directory as a ext2 fs using fuseext2:

<code>fuseext2 -o rw+ ./testing ./tester</code>

We can use df to verify the filesystem is mounted and valid:

<code>df ./tester</code>

fuseext2 1040 40 948 5% ...

==== Issues ====

Known issues and limitations with fuseext2 will be listed here.

* Write support is experimental, some stability issues have been reported

* You may need to use mount option direct_io even for read stability
