{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

By default the Babbage Karmic image will run a live session that offers installation to USB disk/key or SD card.

This page describes how to switch a Babbage Desktop image to different variants of the Ubuntu installation process.<<BR>>
As the Ubuntu liveCD also the Babbage image knows different installation variants.<<BR>>
Due to redboot not having framebuffer support builtin we can not present a seclection menu on image boot.<<BR>>
The commands below will help to set an image or SD card up for certain installation variants.<<BR>>

 /!\ Replace /dev/mmcblk0 in the commands below with the device you have written your image to.

Note that you can also modify the image directly before writing it to SD by pointing both -d options in the command to your downloaded desktop image.

Make sure to have the redboot-tools package installed, the redboot-cmdline command is contained in there.

=== Only Ubiquity ===
No live session, just run the installer in fullscreen.
<pre>
sudo redboot-cmdline -w "$(echo $(sudo redboot-cmdline -r -d /dev/mmcblk0)|sed s/\\\//'\\'\\\//g) only-ubiquity" -d /dev/mmcblk0
</pre>

=== OEM Install (for manufacturers) ===
Do a cloneable installation that fires up a personalization and configuration helper on first boot (setting up user, language, timezone, machine name etc). 
<pre>
sudo redboot-cmdline -w "$(echo $(sudo redboot-cmdline -r -d /dev/mmcblk0)|sed s/\\\//'\\'\\\//g) oem-config\/enable=true" -d /dev/mmcblk0
</pre>

=== Integrity Check ===
Check image for defects
<pre>
sudo redboot-cmdline -w "$(echo $(sudo redboot-cmdline -r -d /dev/mmcblk0)|sed s/\\\//'\\'\\\//g) integrity-check" -d /dev/mmcblk0
</pre>
