{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''August 18th, 2009, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Action Items from August 11th, 2009 ===
* NCommander to investigate https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vnc4/+bug/338148 (co)
* !GrueMaster to retest on i386 https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/337809

=== Current Items ===

* Specification Review
* changing the form of the meeting: everybody would update its spec's status in the whiteboard and we'd review a page summarizing status
* adding work items to all specs which we work on;
* Any Other Business

== Action Items == 
* NCommander to investigate https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vnc4/+bug/338148 (co)
* !GrueMaster to retest on i386 https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/337809

=== Minutes ===
* Dove and imx51 images dep-wait replacement on new squashfs builder
* offline-installer-gui: Trying to find a fix for the missing sched_getaffinity() syscall in qemu-arm-static to make mono packages installable in armel chroots
* freescale-desktop: rtg is in the process of renaming the kernel packages as discussed ....
* lxde seed completed
* wubi recently received upstream changes to allow UNR to be installed with it
* mobile-marvell-desktop: design doc of how images are going to be laid out drafted and placed in spec as a guide to Marvell
* kernel packages in NEW queue
* LSB Testing continued as normal.  No new issues.
* Gruemaster currently testing Ubuntu Moblin edition (Ubuntu Moblin Remix) for Moblin compliance.  Will need to test against Moblin directly to establish a baseline.
* size-reduction spec: slow progress. But the rest things are easy. I'm putting my efforts to moblin things
* 10 new armel buildds arrived in data center hand-delivered by davidm
