{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''November 21st, 2007, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

* Dates of the mobile sprint are: January 28th 2008 through February 1 2008
* Specs deadline: November 22, 2007

=== Action Items from Nov 15th, 2007 ===
* bfiller to for looking into a better solution for a banner to be hidden or shown in hildon-desktop.
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works and suggest changes. for next week.
* Don_Johnson to investigate USB client use case and how to export ext3 filesystems to windows use case.
* carry over lool to upload an updated MIC which uses the PPA /by default/ to next week.
* smagoun Since my group needs this, I'll take an action item to test Intel's flavor of exa on top of gutsy.
* StevenK to get h-i-m included in the build so KyleN_ can test
* kyleN_ to email Kevin to understand his issues with h-i-m
* agoliveira mobile-applications spec should be updated to include two things: List of commited apps for Hardy, Analysis of "app critieria
* tonyespy - gnome-keyring & MID; to start or not to start...

=== Current Items ===
If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.
* smagoun - X fails to start on Crown Beach with recent images

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* carry over bfiller to for looking into a better solution for a banner to be hidden or shown in hildon-desktop.
* continue to hold open: bspencer & horaceli to verify the ubuntu branch works and suggest changes. for next week.
* USB client use case:
 Issue: Filesystem is ext3 and Windows is supposed to mount as a USB Mass Storage Device.  Windows can't mount ext3 only vfat or other MS filesystem.
** bspencer & Don_Johnson to clarify the process and deliverables.
** Don_Johnson I'll check I think this is an area where the expectation is that OEMs will customize the filesystems exported.
** bspencer I can take the assignment to find an owner from our side to update the USB specification.
* carry over smagoun Since my group needs this, I'll take an action item to test Intel's flavor of exa on top of gutsy.
* kyleN to test h-i-m and get back to StevenK on status
 Mobile Application spec:
* bspencer to email his suggested levels to this list shortly
* tonyespy to test if wifi keys & passphrases are remembered after reboot or resume if gnome-keyring is running
* smagoun - X fails to start on Crown Beach with recent images, will investgate further
* davidm to have amit contact smagoun when back from vacation.

=== Minutes ===
http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20071121_1712.html

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
