{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''March 9th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100302]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100316]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from March 2nd, 2010 ===
* asac to talk to team about training session
* asac and JamieBennett to triage netbook-launcher-efl bugs
* asac to blog about the ARM alpha-3 release
* ogra to file a bug on LP not tracking bug links to blueprints or sending emails
* NCommander to investigate KDE FTBFS issues
* GrueMaster to produce a daily report on image testing and add that to the weekly meeting page
* everyone to try rootstock GUI once its in the archive

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
** on imx51: waiting for regulator patch from upstream, work ongoing for carrier detect for fec driver; work ongoing on kexec backports
* QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
* ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
** How is the work on libplist and squid (bug #519897) going forward is any extrenal help needed ?
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|persia]]</nowiki>)
** 20100208 and 20100209 images failed due to gnome-keyring being out of sync and glib ftbfs
** gnome-keyring is in sync again, glib was given back, tonights image should be fine again
** General status of the images beyond the above seems to be ok
* Any Other Business
** Suggestions for gSoC projects

=== Action Items ===
* asac and JamieBennett to triage netbook-launcher-efl bugs
* ogra to file a bug on LP not tracking bug links to blueprints or sending emails
* ogra to forward cooloneys patch for bug #531696 to be included in the BSP
* ogra and asac raise regulator patch issue again with fsl
* ogra to check with ttx on what server team needs to help likewise testing on arm

=== Minutes ===
* Talk started with the teams current work items for the beta 1 release:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html. Things look in pretty bad shape according to the graph with web office and web email contributing to 50% of the work items remaining at time of writing. Other work items need a final push to get them ready for beta 1.
* NCommander informed the team that tuxdavis had taken over his task to investigate KDE fail to build issues. The team were happier with KDE on ARM as some problems had been fixed. Riddell mentioned that tuxdavis had concluded that there was a fault in the toolchain and kdebindings, kdeedu and other non kde packages were affected. Riddell had produced a fix for kdebinding by not compiling smoke on ARM.
* ogra mentioned that debootstap was broken at the moment due to glib which was being pulled into minimal builds because of plymouth.
* Talk moved to the state of the Freescale kernel. cooloney said he had sent a patch to ogra for bug #531696 which ogra committed to forwarding on. There was still work to be done on the regulators and patches were missing. cooloney went on to say that he had recieved a patch which would break the kernel and that he was working on bug 457878.
* cooloney continued his Freescale report by informing the team that he had to backport 5 patches from the 2.6.33 kernel to the Freescale 2.6.31 kernel to add kexec support for armv7.
* ericm reported on the state of the Marvell kernel. Apparently Marvell had release a set of patches this week and ericm had got them to apw in time for kernel freeze. The patches contained kexec fixes, basic Android support and block memory management functionality (a block memory management for physically contiguous memory allocation for their GPU/VPU acceleration).
* To continue, ericm stated that Marvell knew about recent sound issues (such as bug 528524) and were working on it.
* Sound issues seem to be prevalent on both boards, the team committed to looking closely into this.
* Talk moved to the status of QA. GrueMaster reported that image building was ‘hit and miss’. Hibernate was working on Dove and there were no real issues to report. iMX51 had no issues either apart from the reported sound problems. plars indicated that he was working on checkbox checks.
* GrueMaster said that he had been working on likewise testing. ogra stated that GrueMaster should coordinate with the server team as they also had a likewise effort.
* Porting and FTBFS issues was the next topic. asac mentioned that he had a fix for libpst and was working on a squid fix. asac highlighted other packages that needed attention and dyfet committed to looking into fixing them.
* Talk moved to the Google Summer of Code program. The team bounced around a couple of project idea’s but nothing concrete was finalized. 

== Weekly Reports ==
=== Jamie Bennett (JamieBennett) ===
==== This Week ====
* Worked on web office integration. 
** Finished the implementation, packaged and uploaded to http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/p/webservice-office-zoho. 
** A couple of rounds of minor fixes and now proposed for upload.
* Preliminary look at the FTBFS, highlighted candidates to fix.
** Produced a fix for fio to make if compile on ARMv7 and also make it SMP safe.
* iMX51 image testing, nice new artwork ;)
* Some Canola investigations to determine if we are to make an effort to upload to universe this cycle. Still undecided.
* Lots of machine bring-up after my laptop died last week and needed to be replaced :( 
==== Future ====
* More FTBFS work.

=== Paul Larson (plars) ===
==== This Week ====
* Tested installing to SSD drive with imx51
* spent a great deal of time investigating instability I've been noticing on dove
** after much frustration, and noticing that others are not able to reproduce my problems, I ran memtester and it fails about 50% of the time.  I now believe my issues may be hardware (possibly memory) related and specific to my system
* Opened an ftbfs bug against moserial which ceased to build recently, this is now fixed and awaiting sponsorship
* submitted merge request for suspend/resume testcases
* did some bug triaging
==== Future ====
* Fixes and cleanups for suspend/resume tests that fell out of the merge request
* bug triaging
* mobile-bringup baseline testing
* try to get my dove board fixed or memory replaced
* debugging on audio problems I'm seeing

=== Tobin Davis (GrueMaster) ===
==== This Week ====
* Installation testing with new SSD on imx51.  Decent speeds, but still limited by SOC architecture.
* Worked on getting Windows 2003 server setup for Likewise testing.  Brought in Windows expert at the cost of two beers to help.
* Installation images down most of the week due to dependency issues.  Spent most of the time updating existing installs and deep testing.
* Extensive testing and trace building on bug #530404 (Unable to handle kernel NULL pointer dereference) when running mplayer on dove.
 
==== Future ====
* Daily documentation of tests executed.
* Daily testing.

=== Alexander Sack (asac) ===
==== This Week ====
* out of office for half of week for a mini-summit
* thumb2 main rebuild
** prepare list of not yet rebuild packages with Architecture != all
** upload in two batches: 80 on monday, 240 on weekend
** collect build failures and file bugs
** fix libatomic-ops - lp:533629
** fix and upstream libgnome-keyring - lp:533998
** work on fixing klibc (no success) and libplist (success on armel)
* review webservice office
* get FFe for webservice office and email
* review gnash update - next: sponsoring
* weekly release team meeting and preparations

=== David Sugar (dyfet) ===
==== This Week ====
* testing ssd drive & lucid install with imx51
* some internal IT; rebuilt local cache server with lucid
* started lucid/armel packaging/verification for canola2 friday
* asterisk lucid baseline config
* investigated kde armel issues
==== Future ====
* finish canola2 rebuild, create new ppa, then submit for archive
* lubuntu lucid alpha 3 testing on armel
* final sipwitch submission for lucid beta
* more ftbfs/bug work, check remaining open porting issues

=== Emmet Hikory (persia) ===
==== This Week ====
* Fix python-apt to know which releases were on archive.u.c and which on ports.u.c
* Confirm partman-uboot is working
* Investigate partman-ubi work-in-progress and test ubi-on-nandsim for amd64/i386

=== Dave Martin (dmart) ===
==== This Week ====
* Proposed some x264 changes to enable NEON runtime detection.
* Still investigating SMP boot issues.
* Thumb-2 porting support; some SMP review and miscellaneous contributions
* Some time spent reporting and pursuing some gdb bugs.
==== Future ====
* Continue SMP boot investigation.
* Continue Thumb-2 porting support.

=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
==== This Week ====
* OpenOffice.org debugging continues
* Opened dialog with ARM toolchain engineers
* Began bisecting toolchain components between jaunty and karmic for OOo

==== Future ====
* OOo debugging continues

=== Steve Kowalik (StevenK) ===

* Thursday archive admin duties.
* NBS work.
* Sort out why images failed, giving a few things back.
   - A few times over.

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

* Done
** Went on researching the qemu hangs when installing big tasks no outcome yet, apt hangs, if i install teh dbgsym package it doesnt hang :(
** fixed remaining rootstock script bugs (one GUI bug still open)
** some more oem-config testing in rootstock images
** switched rootstock fully to archive (d-i netinst) kernel (needs some special handling under jaunty/karmic i.e. devtmpfs disabling)
* Todo
** final rootstock upload
** convert rootstock testplan to gui testplan once the final upload is done
** prepare for beta1 
** do some FTBFS list fixes
** add a failed/succeeded stamp to livecd-rootfs to have an easier log overview page

== Meeting Log ==
<pre>
12:59 < NCommander> #startmeeting
12:59 < MootBot> Meeting started at 07:02. The chair is NCommander.
12:59 < MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
12:59  * NCommander coughs
13:00 < JamieBennett> umm, no action items from last week?
13:00 < asac> hi NCommander ;)
13:00  * GrueMaster digs for #2 toothpicks and inserts them under eyelids.
13:00 < NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100309
13:00 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100309
13:00 -!- mok0 [~mok@ubuntu/member/mok0] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:00 < asac> JamieBennett: shoud i add ogras AR?
13:00 -!- anmar [~anmar@CPE001b63f29e4b-CM001ac318bd2a.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:01 < asac> i think i saw that in mail ;)
13:01  * JamieBennett didn't see that
13:01 < ogra> re
13:01 < asac> seems i dreamt that ;)
13:01 < asac> ok lets start  i guess :)
13:01  * ogra didnt send it yet ... there was a discussion about logs that kept me from sending it :P
13:02 < asac> [LINK] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
13:02 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
13:02 < NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
13:02 < MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
13:02 < asac> ogra: feel free to add to wiki directly ;)
13:02 < ogra> will do
13:02 < NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
13:02 < MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
13:02 < JamieBennett> NCommander: slow down ;)
13:03 < ogra> dude
13:03 < JamieBennett> Anything to comment on for work items?
13:03 < ogra> where are they ?
13:03 < asac> so for beta
13:03 < asac> besides from office/email ... what can we do for the other specs?
13:03 < asac> powermanagement has two bugs somehow
13:03 < asac> that stops it from being finished
13:03  * cooloney waves at ogra 
13:03 < ogra> (the action items from last meeting i mean)
13:03 < asac> ogra: ? are those valid to block this spec?
13:03 < asac> NCommander: roll back
13:03 < asac> we are at standing items review of beta work itmes ;)
13:04 < NCommander> [topic] Beta Work Items
13:04 < MootBot> New Topic:  Beta Work Items
13:04 < NCommander> There, now we're all on the same page :-)
13:04 < cooloney> for fsl-imx51, kernel just applied one patch to fix an subtle kernel oops bug found by jeremy kerr
13:04 < JamieBennett> lol
13:05 < cooloney> bug #531696
13:05 < ubottu> Launchpad bug 531696 in linux-fsl-imx51 "mc13892 LED driver oopses on trigger action" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/531696
13:05 < ogra> asac, regulators -> complete FSL patch missing ... not sure we *need* the fix actually ... based on FSL
13:05 -!- ericm_ [~ycmiao@112.65.48.82] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:05 < cooloney> and i did not get any feedback about one of my patch to fix the bsp building error
13:05 < ogra> asac, numbers for idle case -> depends on vendors and we wont do any code changes based on it -> DROP
13:05 < cooloney> i think we forward it to fls
13:05 < cooloney> fsl
13:06 -!- asac_ [~asac@debian/developer/asac] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:06 < ogra> asac, what other tiems are you referring to in that spec ?
13:06 < ogra> *items
13:06 < asac_> ok i had a reconnect :(
13:06 < asac_> can someone paste me the scroll back
13:06 < asac_> and cross fingers that i stay up now
13:08 -!- asac_ [~asac@debian/developer/asac] has quit [Client Quit]
13:08 < JamieBennett> asac_: http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/391746/
13:08 -!- asac_ [~asac@debian/developer/asac] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:08 < ogra> to late
13:08 < asac_> sorry folks. please run the meeting not relying on me
13:08 < StevenK> Or your ISP
13:08 < ogra> asac_, http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/391746/
13:08 -!- asac [~asac@debian/developer/asac] has quit [Ping timeout: 264 seconds]
13:08 < JamieBennett> :D
13:08 -!- asac_ is now known as asac
13:09 < asac> ok cross fingers
13:09  * ogra crosses fingers
13:09 < asac> id dint get the paste before either
13:09 < JamieBennett> OK, back to work items
13:09 < JamieBennett> asac: http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/391746/
13:09 < ogra> asac, so what items were you referring to in the spec ?
13:09 -!- ecanto [edson@unaffiliated/edson] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:09 < asac> ok so should those bugs be linked to spec?
13:09 < ogra> imho we can set them all to dropped unless something comes from FSL
13:09 < asac> or just tracked as bugs?
13:09 < asac> imo i would think that feature bugs should be linked
13:09 < asac> to specs, but not real bugs
13:10 < ogra> which bugs exactly ?
13:10 < asac> ok lets unlink them
13:10 < asac> hmm wasnt powermanagement spec linked to bugs?
13:10 < ogra> yes
13:10 < ogra> sadly the spec page gives no overview about the bug status :(
13:11 < ogra> i think most of them are fix released
13:11  * NCommander has the action items for this week once ogra releases the wiki page lock
13:11 < asac> bug 509006
13:11 < ubottu> Launchpad bug 509006 in linux-mvl-dove "[dove] hibernation failed to resume" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/509006
13:11 < ogra> i dont do anything on the page
13:11 < asac> thats still open
13:11 < ogra> NCommander, grab it
13:11 < asac> -> unlink
13:11 < asac> ?
13:12 < ogra> fix rather ?
13:12 < ericm_> that's not fixed
13:12 < plars> I think GrueMaster said he tested that yesterday, and that it was still broken
13:12 < asac> right. my question was if we should make specs for bug tracking
13:12 < ogra> well, we'Re in kernel freeze ?
13:12 < asac> if we cant close a spec if there are bugs left we can never finalize it for a milestone
13:12 < NCommander> action items up
13:12 < ericm_> asac, which spec depends on hibernation?
13:12 < GrueMaster> I tested both apw's kernel and the latest image.
13:12 < ogra> well, then unlink
13:12 < asac> if we say: its ok to be behind because we track bugs that come out of specs thats fine
13:12 < NCommander> we'll do those once we finish Standing Items
13:12 < asac> ericm_: power management
13:13 < ogra> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-per-soc-powermanagement
13:13 < GrueMaster> apw's kernel failed, but the latest image worked fine.
13:13 < ogra> GrueMaster, did you tell that apw ?
13:13 < asac> ok lets move on to another spec ;)
13:13 < ericm_> can we just unlink it, as I know hibernation shouldn't block power management
13:13 < ericm_> in other aspects
13:13 < GrueMaster> yes.  It should be in the irc log.
13:13 < asac> lets screw it ... i will approach you individually after the meeting ;)
13:13 < ogra> unlinked
13:14 < asac> too many reconnects ;)
13:14 < asac> ogra: thanks
13:14 < JamieBennett> asac: ++

13:14 < asac> NCommander: lets go on with standing items
13:14 < asac> ;)
13:14 < ogra> asac, action items first :)
13:15 < asac> right
13:15 < asac> those were not there when i last looked ;)
13:15 < ogra> whoops ... i didnt do mine :(
13:15 < ogra> asac, our chair is slacking :)
13:15 < NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
13:15 < MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
13:15 < ogra> NCommander, action items please
13:15 < NCommander> [topic] Action Item review
13:15 < MootBot> New Topic:  Action Item review
13:16 < NCommander> [topic] asac to talk to team about training session
13:16 < MootBot> New Topic:  asac to talk to team about training session
13:16 < asac> i started to write on alpha-3 stuff ... i think -efl bugs are not yet done
13:16  * NCommander was dealing with a very persistant cat
13:16 < asac> NCommander: i lost context on training session ;)
13:16 < ogra> we did one
13:16 < ogra> that was the thumb2 session
13:16 < asac> that was about the thumb2?
13:16 < ogra> yup
13:16 < asac> yeah then that was done two weeks ago ;)
13:16 < ogra> so strike
13:17 < JamieBennett> asac: (these action items are from 2 weeks ago)
13:17 < NCommander> [topic] asac and JamieBennett to triage netbook-launcher-efl bugs
13:17 < MootBot> New Topic:  asac and JamieBennett to triage netbook-launcher-efl bugs
13:17 < asac> keep bloggin and -efl bugs
13:17 < asac> cf
13:17 < NCommander> asac: cf?
13:17 < JamieBennett> carry forward
13:17 < asac> carry forward
13:17 < ogra> carry forward
13:17  * NCommander hears an echo
13:17 < ogra> or creepy fish
13:17 < asac> no need to make topics for each of the items ;)
13:17 < asac> but go ahead
13:17 < NCommander> [topic] ogra to file a bug on LP not tracking bug links to blueprints or sending emails
13:17 < MootBot> New Topic:  ogra to file a bug on LP not tracking bug links to blueprints or sending emails
13:17 < ogra> co
13:18 < NCommander> [topic] NCommander to investigate KDE FTBFS issues
13:18 < MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to investigate KDE FTBFS issues
13:18 < NCommander> tuxdavis took this one over, and found the kdebindings crash
13:18 < asac> the fix you mean?
13:18 < ogra> yeah, seems its fixed
13:18 < NCommander> s/crash/fix
13:18 < asac> right. last i looked there were not so many issues
13:18 < ogra> its not on the ftbfs list since some days
13:18 < asac> kdeedu was still unhappy
13:18 < NCommander> I'll look at it sometime this week
13:18 < NCommander> so I guess c/o on this one too
13:18 < NCommander> [topic] GrueMaster to produce a daily report on image testing and add that to the weekly meeting page
13:18 < MootBot> New Topic:  GrueMaster to produce a daily report on image testing and add that to the weekly meeting page
13:18 < GrueMaster> WIP
13:19 < NCommander> co?
13:19 < ogra> are you adding it atm ?
13:19 < GrueMaster> Started this week
13:19 < asac> thats fixed also
13:19 < asac> right GrueMaster and me discussed this and its moving ;)
13:20 < asac> i dont think we need to carry that forward
13:20 < NCommander> [topic] everyone to try rootstock GUI once its in the archive
13:20 < MootBot> New Topic:  everyone to try rootstock GUI once its in the archive
13:20  * ogra had feedback from asac so far on rootstock ui testing
13:20 < asac> we will see that when checking it
13:20 < asac> i tested it quite a bit
13:20 < asac> though not to full image ;)
13:20 < ogra> the rest of the team are slackers !
13:20 < asac> because of the qemu hangs
13:20 < ogra> right
13:20 < ogra> i'm hoping the recent upload changes something in qemu
13:20 < asac> is that fixed now ?
13:20 < ogra> no
13:20 < asac> hmm so the new image format didnt help?
13:20 < ogra> and i cant test until glib is built and promoted
13:20 < plars> I was told by ogra to wait for his fix :)
13:21 < Riddell> on the KDE compile failure tuxdavis concluded its a fault in the toolchain causing the segfault.  kdebindings, kdeedu and other non kde packages are affected.  I've worked out it in kdebindings by not compiling smoke on ARM
13:21 < ogra> nope, but there was a fix for disk IO tonight
13:21 < asac> ogra: you should really make alocal mirror out of a apt-cache
13:21 < ogra> plars, you can test minimal images once glib is there
13:21 < asac> Riddell: thanks!
13:21 < asac> Riddell: is that ok?
13:21 < asac> or a bad hack=?
13:21 < ogra> sadly glib breaks debootstrap atm
13:21 < ogra> (we now pull glib into minimal builds since recently )
13:21 < StevenK> Argh
13:22 < NCommander> ew
13:22  * ogra waits whan gtk will enter too
13:22  * StevenK didn't want to hear that bit
13:22 < StevenK> I just ate, damn it
13:22 < asac> hmm glib in minimal? what is pulling that?
13:22 < ogra> send flowers to plymouth :)
13:22  * NCommander seconds StevenK's emotion
13:22 < asac> oh
13:22 < asac> ok
13:22 < persia> !ohmy
13:22 < ubottu> Please remember that all Ubuntu IRC channels share the same attitude of providing friendly and polite interaction with all users of all ages and cultures. Basically, this means no foul language and no abuse towards others.
13:22 < asac> ok lets move on
13:22 < asac> summary: qemu is in bad state still :/ no idea whats going on
13:22 < ogra> right
13:22 < NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)

13:22 < MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm))
13:22 < Riddell> asac: it'll do for kdebindings but the problem is likely to reappear elsewhere
13:23 < ogra> well, i have a better idea
13:23 < asac> ogra: please try the file writing/reading loop
13:23 < asac> ;)
13:23 < cooloney> right,
13:23 < asac> in a qemu to check if its reproducible by that
13:23 < cooloney> it is our turn?
13:23 < ogra> asac, next aftzer stracing apt
13:23 < asac> cooloney: go ahead
13:23 < cooloney> for fsl-imx51, kernel just applied one patch to fix an subtle kernel oops bug found by jeremy kerr
13:23 < cooloney> bug #531696
13:23 < ubottu> Launchpad bug 531696 in linux-fsl-imx51 "mc13892 LED driver oopses on trigger action" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/531696
13:23 < cooloney> i think i sent this patch to ogra
13:24 < ogra> yeah, i need to forward it to paul still
13:24 < cooloney> it should be included in fsl's bsp
13:24 < ogra> wil do that before the call today
13:24 < cooloney> ogra: ok, thanks
13:24 < cooloney> and how about the regulator issue?
13:24 < ogra> given that next BSP is only plannae dfor end of may its not that urgent i think ...
13:24 < asac> ok so that patch came from fsl?
13:24 < ogra> cooloney, last call was skipped
13:25 < ogra> i'll bring it up today
13:25 < asac> ok
13:25 < cooloney> ogra: right, understand
13:25 < asac> whats the status on regulators?
13:25 < ogra> FSL is definately aware
13:25 < ogra> we had enough mails on that
13:25 < asac> still missing a patch?
13:25 < cooloney> yeah
13:25 < ogra> a part of the patch is missing
13:25 < asac> right. lets bring it up today
13:25 < ogra> right
13:25 < ogra> thats the plan
13:26 < cooloney> right, i just got one patch will will break our kernel
13:26  * ogra would still looooove to see a fix for bug 457878
13:26 < ubottu> Launchpad bug 457878 in linux-fsl-imx51 "imx51 on board ethernet plug/unplug events not detected" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/457878
13:26 < cooloney> and i also sent out a patch to fix the building error before
13:26 < asac> [ACTION] ogra and asac raise regulator patch issue again with fsl
13:26 < NCommander> +1 ogra
13:26 < cooloney> is that any feedback
13:26 < NCommander> [ACTION] ogra and asac raise regulator patch issue again with fsl
13:26 < MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra and asac raise regulator patch issue again with fsl
13:26 < ogra> but i'm not having high hopes
13:26 < cooloney> ogra:  i am working on that
13:26 < asac> cooloney: do you have any idea?
13:26  * ogra humps cooloney's leg
13:27 < cooloney> and is preparing a patch to add phylib support into fec.c
13:27 < asac> or waiting on fsl input?
13:27 < cooloney> becuase the upstream also like to see that
13:27 < ogra> asac, we know whats wrong, its just a hell lot of work
13:27 < cooloney> yeah,
13:27 < cooloney> but if we switched to generic phylib
13:27 < cooloney> it is better for every one who use fec.c
13:28 < ogra> and FSL just didnt do it yet
13:28  * ericm_ wonders why fec.c still hasn't been linked with phylib
13:28 < cooloney> ericm_: no idea
13:28 < ogra> ericm_, especially since that bug is known since jaunty
13:28  * persia doesn't press the ohmy button again, as it's too soon, but ...
13:28 < asac> ok. if there is info you need from fsl to work on this let us know offline
13:28 < cooloney> asac: no problem
13:28 < asac> anything else on imx51?
13:28 < ogra> persia, what for would you pressi it ?
13:28 < cooloney> oh, we found necessary patches for kexec
13:29 < asac> interesting. how intrusive are those?
13:29 < cooloney> but still need finalize
13:29 < asac> ok. is there a place to track that ?
13:29 < ogra> asac, they are in already as i understood
13:29 < ogra> (kexec patches)
13:29 < ericm_> cooloney, what's there still need finanlize?
13:29 < cooloney> back ported 5 patches to add kexec supporting for our armv7
13:29 < cooloney> ericm_: we still need patch kexec-tools
13:29 < ogra> oh from .32 to .31
13:30 < cooloney> or just kexec vmlinux
13:30 < cooloney> need a solution
13:30 < ogra> note that its fine to have but we wont do anything for lucid with kexec
13:30 < asac> when is the deadline for getting this in?
13:30 < cooloney> ogra: no, backport from .33 to .32 and .31
13:30 < ogra> we will do a lot with it in L+1 if its there though
13:30 < cooloney> so versatile, dove and imx51 can support that
13:30 < persia> Cool!
13:30 < ogra> since NCommander  will revive softbootloader then
13:30 < ericm_> cooloney, ah right - we might need an updated kexec-tools
13:31 < ogra> so dont put kexec on higher prio than the other bugs please
13:31 < NCommander> ogra: I already had managed to get softbootloader working on dove partially weeks ago. I shelved the work this cycle after talking with asac
13:31 < cooloney> and i think ericm_ already pushed the kexec to lucid
13:31 < asac> i agree with ogra, lets not drop other stuff for kexec
13:31 < cooloney> i will do that later
13:31 < asac> ok
13:31 < ogra> they RC bugs are more important
13:31 < asac> cooloney: when is the last upload deadline?
13:32 < ericm_> 11th is the deadline for kernel freeze
13:32 < ogra> i think that was today
13:32 < ogra> or yesterday
13:32 < cooloney> ericm_: right, thanks
13:32 < ogra> apw said 8th
13:32 < ogra> to get everything ready before freeze
13:32 < ericm_> oh, I'm lucky then send him the git pull yesterday
13:32 < asac> ok so on imx51 we wait for regular patch, work on carrier detect for fec and look into kexec backports
13:33 < asac> anything else?
13:33 < ogra> (for packaging and testing etc)
13:33 < cooloney> so i need to do that soon,
13:33 < cooloney> at least for kexec patches
13:33 < asac> regulator
13:33 < cooloney> asac: good summary
13:33 < cooloney> right
13:33 < asac> ok ericm_ ;) ... your turn!
13:33 < ericm_> cooloney, right - we might want to get the basic stuffs in - anything broken can be fixed later
13:33 < cooloney> ericm_: exactly
13:33 < apw> freeze is thursday ... to get things up and built before then i 'closed' yesterday
13:34 < ericm_> ok, Marvell made another drop of patchset this week, and I was able to get them in in the git-pull to apw yesterday
13:34 < apw> is there something i am missing whcih is needed for freeze
13:34 < ericm_> basically, there will be three parts of changes
13:34 < cooloney> apw: so i missed that
13:34 < ogra> apw, yeah, we decided to switch FSL to .33 :P
13:34  * apw dies
13:34  * ogra hides
13:34 < plars> heh
13:35 < ericm_> kexec + basic Android support (not necessarily turned on in our kernel but to keep our code as close as possible to theirs)
13:35 < asac> apw: nothing planned, but you never know ;)
13:35 < ericm_> + BMM (a block memory management for physically contiguous memory allocation for their GPU/VPU acceleration)
13:35 < asac> ericm_: basic android support? what size is that patch?
13:35 < ericm_> and turning off OABI_COMPAT as discussed
13:35 < asac> right. thanks for that
13:35 < asac> ;)
13:35 < ericm_> asac, it's a series of patches
13:36 < ericm_> asac, but we didn't turn on any Android related options - so to keep the impact to minimized
13:37 < asac> ericm_: right. wonder what size are those patches?
13:37 < asac> whats the topic? powermanagement?
13:37 < ericm_> asac, it's not much, lemme check
13:38 < ericm_> asac, < 1M, oh my
13:38 < asac> ok
13:38 < asac> lets take that offline
13:39 < asac> any important issues outstanding for dove?
13:39 < asac> what about bug 528524: pulseaudio "Sound not working in all apps on dove"
13:39 < ubottu> Launchpad bug 528524 in totem "Sound not working in all apps on dove" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/528524
13:39  * ogra saw something similar for imx51 today ? 
13:40 < asac> plars: is it really a regression compared to x86?
13:40 < ericm_> mmm.. and mplayer crashes in sound as well - Marvell is working on this
13:40 < asac> ok so thats still on the radar?
13:40 < GrueMaster> Yes.  But it may be driver related.
13:40 < plars> asac: it seems specific to that board
13:40 < asac> ok good
13:40 < plars> asac: but we have another similar (but different) pulseaudio issue on imx51
13:40 < asac> let me add the kernel package
13:40 < asac> just in case
13:40 < ogra> Bug 534815
13:41 < ubottu> Launchpad bug 534815 in pulseaudio "imx51 some audio files play, others do not" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/534815
13:41 < asac> ericm_: do you know where they want to fix it? in kernel?
13:41 < asac> ogra: some audio files? e.g. codecs?
13:41 < asac> or apps?
13:41 < ericm_> asac, the crash looks like a kernel bug, so yes - most likely
13:41 < ogra> asac, no idea, not my bug
13:41 < plars> ogra: right
13:41 < plars> I spent a good deal of time looking at that one yesterday
13:42 < GrueMaster> the mplayer crash on dove is definitely kernel related.  mplayer segfaults when opening the audio device.
13:42 < asac> plars: so on imx51 all apps play sound ... just some codec/format/frequency doesnt work well?
13:42 < asac> GrueMaster: ok thanks. so the dove thing is kernelish ... done.
13:43 < cooloney> ogra: never looked at that bug before
13:43 < plars> asac: actually that seems to be the case on both boards, but the sampling rates at which they will play is different
13:43 < asac> hmm
13:43 < ogra> cooloney, reported 11h ago :)
13:43 < ogra> cooloney, nobody expected you to look yet :)
13:43 < asac> interesting bug. we should keep that on the radar
13:43 < ogra> ++
13:43 -!- bladernr_ [~bladernr@nc-71-54-45-201.dhcp.embarqhsd.net] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
13:44 < asac> targetted for lucid
13:44 < cooloney> ogra: oh, thanks,
13:44 < asac> ok anthing else for dove?
13:44 < ericm_> asac, nope
13:44 -!- bladernr_ [~bladernr@nc-71-54-45-201.dhcp.embarqhsd.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:45 < asac> lets move on ;)
13:45 < asac> NCommander: ^
13:45 < NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
13:45 < MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
13:45 < GrueMaster> Image builds continue to be hit and miss.  Currently, 3/7 is the last image built.
13:45 < GrueMaster> Tested hibernate multiple times on Dove with latest available image, no issues to report.
13:45 < GrueMaster> Tested image install on Babbage 3, no immediate issues seen during imaging.  Sound still appears to be an issue.  System sounds are ok, but no playback from alsa tools.
13:45 < GrueMaster> That's all from yesterday.
13:46 < plars> Looks like the suspend/resume tests may go into checkbox main, but I have some things to fix/cleanup on it based on a review I got back from Marc yesterday, so I'll be taking a look at that this week
13:46 < ogra> how about test kernels (which are due to be uploaded today)
13:46 < GrueMaster> I need to backtrack and put some notes together for last week.
13:46 < ogra> if you get such things it would make sense to add them to the report
13:46 < GrueMaster> ok
13:46 < asac> GrueMaster: today we had no image?
13:46 < GrueMaster> Nope.
13:46 < asac> what is currently out of sync?
13:46 < ogra> asac, see the page :)
13:46 < ogra> i reported it
13:47 < ogra> under image status
13:47 < asac> kk
13:47 < asac> ok thanks plars and GrueMaster
13:47 < asac> plars: will check with you on the final work items of suspend resume
13:47 < asac> offline ;)
13:47 < plars> sounds good
13:47 < asac> ok next
13:48 < asac> NCommander: ^^
13:48 < NCommander> [topic] ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
13:48 < MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
13:48 < GrueMaster> I also spent a good chunk of Sunday trying to get likewise working.  First order is to get it working on x86.  Still no luck, even with the help of a Windows guru.
13:48 < JamieBennett> Looking OK, netbook-launcher-efl has a few bugs but nothing out of the ordinary
13:48 < asac> GrueMaster: do you have a win server for likewise testing?
13:48 < ogra> GrueMaster, thats been moved to the server team last week
13:48 < GrueMaster> yes
13:48 < asac> ok cool. i dont think its high priority though
13:48 < ogra> GrueMaster, please coordinate with them and comment on the bug if you test it
13:49 < GrueMaster> Does the server team have access to arm?
13:49 < asac> what we want to tes tis whether it doesnt crash ;)
13:49 < asac> GrueMaster: we can run the tests for them if they make a proper server setup available with instructions how to setup the client
13:49 < asac> ;)
13:49 < ogra> GrueMaster, we offered them help so if you have a setup that would be good
13:49 < asac> so we dont need to fiddle until x86 works first
13:49 -!- mok0 [~mok@ubuntu/member/mok0] has quit [Quit: Leaving.]
13:49 < GrueMaster> ok
13:49 < ogra> but let them know and ask what they need
13:49 -!- rgreening [~rgreening@198.165.63.165] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
13:49 < GrueMaster> Client side is easy.  Getting an NT server going is hard.
13:50 < asac> [ACTION] ogra to check with ttx on what server team needs to help likewise testing on arm
13:50 -!- Adri2000 [~adri2000@ubuntu/member/adri2000] has quit [Ping timeout: 276 seconds]
13:50 < ogra> NCommander, ^^
13:50 < NCommander> [topic]
13:50 < MootBot> New Topic:
13:50 < NCommander> er
13:50 < ogra> heh
13:50 < NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
13:50 < MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
13:50 < NCommander> C&P fail
13:50 < ogra> err
13:51 < asac> libplist -> i have that fixed for armel
13:51 < NCommander> [ACTION] ogra to check with ttx on what server team needs to help likewise testing on arm
13:51 < MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra to check with ttx on what server team needs to help likewise testing on arm
13:51 < ogra> [ACTION] ogra to check with ttx on what server team needs to help likewise testing on arm
13:51 < ogra> thanks
13:51 < asac> squid i havent done yet
13:51 < ogra> asac, oh, dyfet wanted to look at squid and libpt
13:51 -!- Adri2000 [~adri2000@ubuntu/member/adri2000] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:51 < ogra> err libplist
13:51 < asac> i did plist over the weekend
13:51 < asac> i can keep it private ;)
13:51 < ogra> right, dyfet whats the status for squid then ?
13:51 < asac> anyway, there are plenty of ftbfs so fix
13:52 < asac> libpst
13:52 < asac> iirc
13:52 < ogra> right, last week there were only these two pressing
13:52 < dyfet> ogra: sorry, missed squid...
13:52 -!- highvoltage [~highvolta@ubuntu/member/highvoltage] has quit [Ping timeout: 258 seconds]
13:52 < asac> libgtk2-perl and libpst
13:52 < asac> dyfet: can you work on one of these today?
13:53 < asac> and squid ;)
13:53 < dyfet> asac: yes, I can
13:53 < asac> libtommath libtunepimp and ossp-uuid
13:53 < ogra> great
13:53 < asac> also look like worthwhile candidates
13:54 < asac> ok lets move on
13:54 -!- highvoltage [~highvolta@ubuntu/member/highvoltage] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:54 < GrueMaster> Not sure if it is helpful (and I don't have all the details), but apparently there is a fix for gcc for the -fPic issue.
13:54 < asac> i think the image status is quite well documented on the wiki
13:54 < asac> i dont have questions. anyone?
13:54 < GrueMaster> upstream in svn.
13:54 < asac> GrueMaster: which -fPIC issue?
13:54 < NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, persia)

13:54 < MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, persia))
13:55 < ogra> GrueMaster, talk to doko ?
13:55 < asac> 4:57 < asac> i think the image status is quite well documented on the wiki
13:55 < asac> 14:57 < asac> i dont have questions. anyone?
13:55  * ogra doesnt :P
13:55  * StevenK neither
13:55 < NCommander> [topic] Any Other Business
13:55 < MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business
13:55 < persia> We only currently have server images, but expect to have Ubuntu netbook ones tomorrow.
13:56  * ogra wonmders how server could build
13:56 < StevenK> No glib gets dragged in
13:56 < ogra> if basic debootstrapping doesnt work
13:56 -!- njpatel_ [~njpatel@5ac61426.bb.sky.com] has quit [Ping timeout: 265 seconds]
13:56 < ogra> weird
13:56 < StevenK> ogra: Ah, because the server is alternate
13:56 < ogra> server uses plymouth
13:56 < asac> yeah. alternate probably does the trick
13:56 < asac> do we still produce them?
13:56 < ogra> server
13:56 < StevenK> It would fail to install, but it would still build
13:57 < StevenK> asac: Yes
13:57 < ogra> yeah, right
13:57 < ogra> anyway, we'Re at AOB ...
13:57 < ogra> did anyone have an idea for gSoC
13:57 -!- rgreening [~rgreening@198.165.63.165] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:57 < ogra> or do we have intrested students attending that would like to run a gSoC project ?
13:58 < ogra> (and look for a mentor in the mobile/arm area)
13:58 < asac> porting the rest of thumb2 ;)
13:58  * ogra was pondering to put rootstock up for gSoC
13:58 < ogra> asac, that doesnt fit the timeframe :)
13:58 < ogra> gSoC will be L+1
13:58 < asac> 3 month? full time ;)?
13:58 < asac> ogra: universe will have plenty of stuff left
13:58 < GrueMaster> Too bad it is restricted to current students.  I have someone that would be interested otherwise, but won't be going to college until fall.
13:59 < ogra> GrueMaster, i'm not sure its restricted that closely
13:59 < StevenK> Neither
13:59 < GrueMaster> It is, we checked.
13:59 < ogra> probably its enough to prove that you are starting to study soon
13:59 < ogra> gah
13:59 < asac> i think a "flexible image building" project would be helpful ... or softbootloader maybe
13:59 < GrueMaster> Need to be enrolled.
13:59 < ogra> elasitc images, heh
14:00 < GrueMaster> Does that mean they bounce back after a hard crash?
14:00 < ogra> yeah !
14:01 < asac> ok
14:01 < ogra> well, doesnt look like we have anything concrete yet
14:01 < asac> so one more thing: next week part of the team will be in london for training
14:01 < asac> so probably out of office from mon to wed
14:01 < ogra> yeah
14:01 < asac> i think persia likes the idea to write meeting minutes ;)
14:01 < asac> or someone else :)
14:02 < asac> out of office will be asac, jamie and ogra
14:02 < persia> I think them to have been written.  I'll write them if nobody else does, but it's easier to write when people stay on topic.
14:02 < persia> s/think/like/
14:02  * persia doesn't really like writing minutes in the middle of the night
14:03 < asac> persia: for today? i mean next week when we are in london ;)
14:03 < asac> ok. i think thats it ;)
14:03 < persia> Oh that's fine.  Have fun :)
14:03 < asac> lets go back working/sleeping ;)
14:03 < ogra> zzzzZZZZ
14:03 < asac> whatever is appropriate for the timezone you are in ;)
14:03 < ogra> damned
14:04  * ogra had hopes
14:04  * persia hopes the chair will exercise the MootBot command soon
14:05  * StevenK too
14:05 < asac> NCommander: ^^ #endmeeting please, sir
14:05  * ogra thinks the chair is not looking
14:06 -!- ericm_ [~ycmiao@112.65.48.82] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
14:06 < ogra> NCommander, E N D M E E T I N G !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
14:07 < NCommander> #endmeeting
14:07 < MootBot> Meeting finished at 08:09.
</pre>
