{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''June 29th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100622]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100629]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from June 8th, 2010 ===
* davidm to ship mpoirier a beagle C4
* davidm to ship mpoirier a XM board
* ogra to talk to persia about IRC channels

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

=== Action Items ===
* ogra to talk to persia about IRC channels

=== Minutes ===
* Publishing scripts merged on antimony for preinstalled images
* ARM FTBFS work continues.
* ogra continues work on jasper to support preinstalled images
* omap3 booting again

== Weekly Reports ==

=== Michael Casadevall ===
* Finished pre-installed image branch and passed to ogra to merge
* Resolved kdebase-workspace FTBFS
* Looked at other ARM FTBFS

<pre>
[13:59] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[13:59] <MootBot> Meeting started at 07:59. The chair is NCommander.
[13:59] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[13:59] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100622#preview
[13:59] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100622#preview
[14:00] <NCommander> GrueMaster: ogra dyfet davidm ping?
[14:00] <GrueMaster> yep
[14:00] <cooloney> NCommander: i am here
[14:00] <davidm> NCommander, G'day
[14:00] <ogra> moop
[14:00] <NCommander> hey cooloney.
[14:00] <mpoirier> NCommander: me too.
[14:00] <mpoirier> full house this morning.
[14:01]  * NCommander gives ogra coffee to turn that moop into something else
[14:01] <NCommander> indeed
[14:01] <NCommander> lets get right into it
[14:01] <NCommander> [topic] Action Item Review
[14:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Item Review
[14:01] <NCommander> [topic] davidm to ship mpoirier a beagle C4
[14:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  davidm to ship mpoirier a beagle C4
[14:01] <mpoirier> got the beagle board but USB port seems dead.
[14:02] <mpoirier> ordered another one from Sparkfun.
[14:02] <NCommander> [topic] davidm to ship mpoirier a XM board
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  davidm to ship mpoirier a XM board
[14:02] <mpoirier> got the XM board.
[14:02] <NCommander> excellent
[14:02] <NCommander> [topic] ogra to talk to persia about IRC channels
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  ogra to talk to persia about IRC channels
[14:03]  * NCommander suspects this is a c/o. ENOPERSIA
[14:03] <ogra> right
[14:03] <ogra> no idea why he's not around
[14:03] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[14:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[14:03] <NCommander> ogra: his internet connection is down; as is his IRC proxies
[14:03]  * NCommander talked to him yesterday
[14:03] <ogra> ah, great
[14:03] <NCommander> er, maybe not his internet, but something got mangled
[14:04] <persia> my servers
[14:04] <NCommander> [topic] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:04] <NCommander> persia: ah, where did you come from?
[14:04]  * NCommander didn't see you join
[14:04] <ogra> NCommander, can you also add the WI chgart for the next milestone to the agenda ?
[14:04] <davidm> I spoke with persia last night, he is home working
[14:04] <NCommander> ogra: NP
[14:04] <ogra> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-maverick-alpha-2.html
[14:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-maverick-alpha-2.html
[14:05] <ogra> (for today, next week its A3)
[14:05] <NCommander> we're looking good on both charts overall
[14:05] <ogra> well, we could look better :)
[14:05] <ogra> hacking around in jasper for days stole a lot of my time
[14:05] <NCommander> ogra: its not the usual "OMG, ONE WEEK TO RELEASE AND ITS ALL RED"
[14:06] <ogra> but its fixed now
[14:06] <persia> I don't actually expect to finish the jasper review by Thursday.
[14:06] <persia> Probably next week: should that be retargeted?
[14:06] <ogra> persia, then postpone your item
[14:06] <persia> OK
[14:06] <ogra> i'll do the same for the docs part
[14:06] <NCommander> anything else to be brought up?
[14:06] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
[14:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
[14:06] <NCommander> er
[14:06]  * NCommander didn't mean to press enter
[14:07] <mpoirier> submitted temporary fix for b594382 - daisy chain.
[14:07] <NCommander> yay!
[14:07] <ogra> \o/
[14:07] <ogra> so we should have booting omap3 again :)
[14:07] <mpoirier> b591941 - SD card is on hold until previous is resolved.
[14:08] <ogra> could you also take a look at the XM issue ?
[14:08] <mpoirier> yes, after these two bugs are resolved.
[14:08] <ogra> bug 589624
[14:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 589624 in linux (Ubuntu) "[Maverick] omap flavour does not work on beagle XM board" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/589624
[14:08] <ogra> (if you type out the word "bug" you get a nice bot response btw ;) )
[14:09] <ogra> how is the status on omap4 ?
[14:09] <ogra> i saw an upload
[14:09] <ogra> but no metapackage or anything yet
[14:10] <mpoirier> lag is working on omap4 - should have touched base with him.
[14:10] <mpoirier> will do for the next meeting.
[14:10] <lag> I am not working on OMAP4
[14:10] <ogra> well, we would need a kernel (including metapackage) by thursday
[14:10] <lag> I have a board
[14:10] <lag> And a bootable kernel
[14:10] <lag> But I have not been actively working on it
[14:10]  * cooloney lol 
[14:11] <ogra> alpha release is coming and we are committed to release our first images by then
[14:11] <davidm> Who is working on OMAP4?
[14:11] <cooloney> ogra: rtg is working on the metapackage for ti-omap4 branch
[14:11] <ogra> cooloney, great
[14:11] <cooloney> davidm: i am working on it, but don't have board
[14:11] <ogra> cooloney, has the kernel in the archive been tested
[14:11] <NCommander> is the kernel in the archive Panda safe?
[14:12] <lag> I am doing cooloney's testing
[14:12] <cooloney> ogra: i think only sebjan from TI and lag test that
[14:12] <cooloney> lag: thanks for the testing
[14:12] <lag> His board by proxy
[14:12] <ogra> great
[14:12] <cooloney> and ti-omap4 branch was merged into our maverick kernel now
[14:12] <ogra> i think u-boot needs an update, the current omap4 version only boots blaze atm
[14:12] <cooloney> it is based on TI 2.6.34 omap4 release
[14:12] <ogra> yeah
[14:13] <ogra> will switch to .35 before kernel freeze
[14:13] <cooloney> and TI will provide the .35 based omap4 branch at the mid of Aug
[14:13] <ogra> right
[14:13] <cooloney> sebjan told us that
[14:13] <cooloney> and for lucid fsl-imx51
[14:13] <ogra> NCommander, btw, was ndec officially invited to the meeting now ?
[14:14] <ogra> lucid fsl ?
[14:14] <cooloney> kernel was in the -proposed, and pitti asked for testing
[14:14] <ogra> what do you update there ?
[14:14] <NCommander> ogra: he was
[14:14] <ogra> ok
[14:14] <cooloney> GrueMaster: could you help on that?
[14:14] <ogra> cooloney, yeah, thats for GrueMaster
[14:14] <cooloney> bug #559065
[14:14] <ogra> but i guess it will be covered in QA anyway
[14:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 559065 in linux-fsl-imx51 (Ubuntu) "ifconfig eth0 down will cause system hang after fec.c driver update" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/559065
[14:14] <ogra> once that topic is up :)
[14:14] <GrueMaster> I didn't see any updates or emails, but will test asap.
[14:15] <NCommander> can I move on?
[14:15]  * ogra saw a lot bug status changes last week
[14:15] <ogra> move !
[14:15] <cooloney> GrueMaster: yeah, i will email you soon
[14:15] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:15] <cooloney> yeah, i am done
[14:15] <GrueMaster> Not much to report here.  I've ripped apart the hand made image ogra sent me last week as many ways as I possibly can.
[14:16] <ogra> i'll have a new one later today for you :)
[14:16] <ogra> finally with most bits working
[14:16] <GrueMaster> I'm currently trying to hand-build my own images so I can get familiar with the tools and build process.
[14:16] <GrueMaster> ok
[14:18] <GrueMaster> All the bugs I was going to cover have been touched on, so, next.
[14:19] <ogra> NCommander, ?
[14:19] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:19] <NCommander> I smashed kdebase-workspace over the weekend to fix a large chunk of KDE FTBFS
[14:20] <ogra> there is a lot of new stuff
[14:20] <ogra> evo ...
[14:20] <ogra> libbonoboui
[14:20] <ogra> xscreensaver !
[14:21] <NCommander> ogra: partial fallout from gobjection-inspector and a few others being broken :-/
[14:21] <ogra> few other things ?
[14:21] <davidm> dyfet, status on gobject-introspection?
[14:22] <ogra> libgtkhtml-editor-dev: Depends: libgtkhtml-editor0
[14:22] <NCommander> ogra: thought I saw s afe wlibraries in the list, but I'm kinda half awake ATM
[14:22] <ogra> ^^^ evo
[14:23] <NCommander> dyfet: ping?
[14:23] <ogra> bonobo looks like a give-back
[14:23]  * ogra tries that
[14:23] <GrueMaster> You should post the link to the ftbs sheet.
[14:23] <NCommander> I'll be looking at nursing the FTBFS list this week since basics for preinstalled images are done, and we need to have a happier archive for A2
[14:23] <dyfet> Back
[14:23] <davidm> dyfet, will be here in a moment
[14:24] <ogra> ubuntu-artwork: Depends: light-themes <-- xscreensaver
[14:24] <dyfet> I am still working on gobject-inspection
[14:24] <ogra> we'll start building images tomorrow
[14:24] <davidm> dyfet, do you understand what is going wrong?
[14:25] <dyfet> I originally thought it was bison, because the source parser was producing invalid results
[14:25] <ogra> did you talk to seb128 or didrocks ?
[14:25] <dyfet> I think now it is something specific to gobject-inspection and gcc
[14:26] <dyfet> and not the dependencies
[14:26] <NCommander> dyfet: have you tried building with different GCC flags or other GCC versions?
[14:26] <dyfet> Thats what I was starting on this morning
[14:27] <dyfet> I noticed we have gcc-4.5 in Maverick, too...
[14:27] <ogra> i dont think we default to it though
[14:28] <dyfet> ogra: no we do not
[14:28] <persia> We don't
[14:28] <ogra> right
[14:28] <NCommander> so anything else to bring up or can I move on?
[14:29] <ogra> well, we need to get that fixed
[14:29] <ogra> and a bunch of other FTBFS stuff too
[14:29]  * ogra just gave back evo 
[14:30] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:30] <ogra> well
[14:30] <ogra> i'm behind on the publishing scripts review
[14:31] <ogra> will finish that today
[14:31] <ogra> jasper kheld me up a lot
[14:31] <ogra> or rather vfat did
[14:31] <NCommander> _\o/_
[14:31] <ogra> but i just solved that bit before the meeting
[14:31] <NCommander> ogra: so resizing works now?
[14:31] <ogra> jasper MIR is still not done (i hope we manage that in time)
[14:31] <ogra> resizing works fine on two SD cards i tried it on
[14:32] <ogra> the partition table is clean before and after and the vfat stays bootable
[14:32] <NCommander> ogra: maybe you should delgate the MIR to someone else
[14:32] <ogra> i'm just doing a full image test before spinning a new one for GrueMaster to test
[14:32] <ogra> NCommander, i'll ask asac once the code is ready
[14:33] <ogra> i dont want to push for a MIR review for half finished code
[14:33] <NCommander> ogra: probably worth to MIR now so we don't get ourselves in trouble down the road. YMMV
[14:33] <asac> ++
[14:33] <ogra> its MIRed since two weeks
[14:33] <ogra> but i didnt subscribe the MIR team to it yet
[14:33] <ogra> since i want the code done first
[14:33] <ogra> the vfat issues held me up for about four days
[14:34] <ogra> which is very unfortunate
[14:34] <NCommander> :-/
[14:34] <ogra> so given jasper gets in, the RT is processed for BuildLiveCD and i got the publishing scripts merged, we're ready to roll
[14:35] <ogra> (modulo unknown bugs ... we never tested all bits together yet :) )
[14:35] <NCommander> _\o/_ \o_ _o/ \o/!
[14:35] <NCommander> ogra: well, we didn't break normal dailies with the d-cd merge. That's a good first sign
[14:35] <ogra> i hope what comes out at the rear end will actually be what we expect :)
[14:36] <NCommander> ogra: a pile of expections?
[14:36]  * NCommander runs
[14:36] <NCommander> anyway
[14:36] <ogra> expections or exceptions ? :)
[14:36] <NCommander> [topic] Any Other Business
[14:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business
[14:36]  * ogra likes to do exceptional work *g*
[14:37] <NCommander> heh
[14:37]  * NCommander thinks davidm had somethng he wanted to brin gup
[14:38] <davidm> NCommander, nope I was interesting in FTBFS
[14:38] <NCommander> ok
[14:38] <NCommander> closing meeting in
[14:38] <NCommander> 3
[14:38] <NCommander> 2
[14:38] <NCommander> 1
[14:38] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[14:38] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 08:38.
</pre>
