{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''March 10th, 2011, 15:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110324]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2011-20110407]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* None

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
* Unity 2D Status
* Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, janimo)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[16:00] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[16:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:00. The chair is NCommander.
[16:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:00]  * NCommander mutters something about the sun
[16:01] <ogra_> its called oracle nowadays, no ?
[16:01] <NCommander> ogra_: that pun made my head hurt
[16:01] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110331#
[16:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2011/20110331#
[16:01] <davidm__> ogra_, true enough, I think they are selling off the sun.com domain
[16:01] <NCommander> Need a moment to fix it, the page didn't save last night
[16:02] <NCommander> there are no standing items
[16:02] <ogra_> wohoo
[16:02] <NCommander> er
[16:02] <NCommander> action items
[16:02] <NCommander> [topic] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel.html
[16:02] <NCommander> and http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/ubuntu-armel-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
[16:02] <ogra_> no action items, working images ....
[16:02] <ogra_> we should all go on holiday immediately !
[16:03] <ogra_> :)
[16:03] <NCommander> ogra_: indeed
[16:03] <NCommander> Burndown charts look good
[16:03]  * ogra_ twiddles thumbs waiting for FF
[16:03] <NCommander> although I don't know when I got this work item:
[16:03] <NCommander> "other-design-n-china	Undefined	Elliot Murphy, Michael Casadevall: Ensure that it becomes easy to download Ubuntu and updates within China
[16:03] <NCommander> "
[16:03] <ogra_> FF4 on 512M is really painful
[16:03] <janimo> ogra_, what about chromium?
[16:04] <NCommander> ogra_: we should ship chromium out of the box, maybe a bug for UDS
[16:04] <ogra_> janimo, neon issues i think, SIGILL on startup
[16:04] <janimo> ogra_, ah, tegra
[16:04] <ogra_> i havent researched yet since i'm not sure its tegra specific
[16:04] <rsalveti> :-)
[16:04] <highvoltage> any full-featured web browser will be tough on 512MB, it's not a browser issue, it's the data you load with it
[16:04] <ogra_> FF3 is fine
[16:04] <highvoltage> web pages are fhuge
[16:04] <ogra_> actually a lot better than 4
[16:05] <ogra_> swaps a lot less
[16:05] <janimo> ogra_, I wonder what FF4 for android does - although those phones may have more than 512M
[16:05] <ogra_> so our reputation for beta 2 fully hangs on ricardo :)
[16:05] <GrueMaster> I forgot to close out my 1 outstanding item (add headless to iso tracker).  Closed now.
[16:05] <rsalveti> well, not my nexus s
[16:05] <rsalveti> and it runs quite well
[16:05] <NCommander> rsalveti: thought you had a samsung galaxy S
[16:05] <rsalveti> had :-)
[16:06]  * NCommander has 512MiB on his Nexus One, and 256 on his G1 and they were both good
[16:06] <rsalveti> ogra_: yeah :-)
[16:06] <NCommander> rsalveti: so you replaced your phone ... with the same phone?
[16:06] <rsalveti> but actually depending on progress by linaro
[16:06] <ogra_> anyway, lets move on, there are some kernel bugs we need to talk over
[16:06]  * janimo is yet to own a phone that knows better than grayscale and have > 2" screen
[16:06] <rsalveti> NCommander: yup, but naturally with a newer android version
[16:06] <rsalveti> so, move
[16:07] <NCommander> [topic] Unity 2D Status
[16:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Unity 2D Status
[16:07] <ogra_> fine so far, i will get the final code dump from upstream on the 7th
[16:07] <ogra_> final freeze is the 10th btw
[16:08] <ogra_> kate moved it forward
[16:08] <davidm__> Nice, they look to be closing bugs pretty well now
[16:08] <ogra_> oh, i had a list even
[16:08]  * ogra_ digs
[16:09] <ogra_> https://launchpad.net/unity-2d/+milestone/3.8.2
[16:09] <ogra_> thats it for u-2d
[16:09] <ogra_> if you find any additional bugs you want fixed, raise them with upstream please
[16:10] <ogra_> move (unless there are questions)
[16:11] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, rsalveti)
[16:11] <rsalveti> Ubuntu-2.6.38-1207.10 finally hit the archive for omap4
[16:11] <ogra_> pgraner gave me a list of bugs from beta teating he wants to have properly adressed ...
[16:11] <rsalveti> with display and hdmi audio fixes included
[16:11] <ogra_> bug 746133
[16:11] <GrueMaster> Need more fixes in both areas.
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 746133 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu) "Video loses sync on omap4" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/746133
[16:11] <ogra_> bug 746137
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 746137 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu Natty) "Page allocation failure on omap4" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/746137
[16:12] <rsalveti> yeah, luckily GrueMaster was able to hit display issues with this kernel
[16:12] <rsalveti> as nobody had any issues
[16:12] <ogra_> he also mentioned bug 651302 but there shouldnt be any kernel stuff to do
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 651302 in Ubuntu Natty "No sound in omap (beagle, beagleXM)." [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/651302
[16:12] <rsalveti> not for beagle
[16:12]  * ogra_ didnt have a single display issue with headless ;)
[16:12] <GrueMaster> Wrong bug
[16:12] <rsalveti> the page allocation failure I'm waiting a new test
[16:13] <ogra_> well, thats not true, i did
[16:13] <rsalveti> that I requested at the bug
[16:13] <GrueMaster> bug 746023
[16:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 746023 in alsa-lib (Ubuntu) "No sound on omap4" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/746023
[16:13] <GrueMaster> That one I filed against alsa-lib (UCM).
[16:13] <rsalveti> again we should spend some time fixing the audio issues for both boards
[16:13] <ogra_> GrueMaster, in any case there shouldnt be any kernel work even for trhat one
[16:13] <ogra_> right
[16:14] <ogra_> rsalveti, well, for panda its a matter of getting the UCM config file
[16:14] <GrueMaster> There shouldn't be kernel work for either board sound issues.
[16:14] <ogra_> yeah
[16:14] <GrueMaster> Beagle works with minor tweaks in alsamixer.
[16:14] <ogra_> we should also get the highmem issue higer on someones todo
[16:15] <ogra_> doesnt really feel like anyone looks into it
[16:15] <rsalveti> well, current status is that it appears in some boards
[16:15] <ogra_> agreen always starts talking about bluetooth if you ask him about highmem :)
[16:15] <rsalveti> because he's unable to reproduce it with his board
[16:15] <ogra_> yeah
[16:16] <ogra_> but everyone else is, no ?
[16:16] <rsalveti> so it's possible to be related with the hardware
[16:16] <ogra_> his might be broken in a fixing way ;)
[16:16] <rsalveti> ogra_: not everyone else, some people from the community are also unable to reproduce it
[16:16] <ogra_> ah
[16:16] <ogra_> weird
[16:17] <rsalveti> yeah
[16:17] <NCommander> can I move?
[16:17] <ogra_> but losing 256M on the buildds is bad
[16:17] <rsalveti> not yet
[16:17] <janimo> rsalveti, so I should set panda mem use in boot.scr to 1G if I want to test this?
[16:17] <rsalveti> janimo: yes
[16:17] <ogra_> for that we should really have some kind of fix or workaround in place
[16:17] <rsalveti> it'd be good if everyone could help testing it
[16:17] <ogra_> NCommander, action :)
[16:18] <rsalveti> and on other topic, robclark published the drm driver for omap
[16:18] <ogra_> nice
[16:18] <rsalveti> to be used at omap 4 so we can have xrandr at the xserver driver
[16:18] <NCommander> [action] janimo to test panda with mem=1G
[16:18] <MootBot> ACTION received:  janimo to test panda with mem=1G
[16:18] <rsalveti> as it also probes for edid, I'm testing the dvi support
[16:18] <rsalveti> and porting it to be used by omap 3 as well
[16:18] <rsalveti> so we can also have edid parsing and proper resolution setting
[16:18] <ogra_> NCommander, s/janimo/everyone with a panda/
[16:18] <davidm__> perhaps we need to send agreen a board that shows the highmem problem
[16:19] <janimo> rsalveti, what kind of loads make the highmem issue appear? I mostly do builds
[16:19] <ogra_> janimo, builds do
[16:19] <rsalveti> current status is the drm driver is working with omap3, but still needs more debugging at the edid parsing for dvi
[16:19] <ogra_> ;)
[16:19] <rsalveti> janimo: mostly builds
[16:19] <rsalveti> janimo: we used to build kernel
[16:19] <rsalveti> after 2, 3 builds it fails
[16:20]  * rsalveti looking for the bug number
[16:20] <rsalveti> bug 633227
[16:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 633227 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu Natty) "instabilities with highmem activated" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/633227
[16:21] <rsalveti> any other question for kernel?
[16:21] <NCommander> [action] everyone with a panda to test panda with mem=1G
[16:21] <MootBot> ACTION received:  everyone with a panda to test panda with mem=1G
[16:21]  * NCommander is mentally lagging, too early
[16:21] <rsalveti> not that related but I should be updating the x-loader package soon
[16:21] <rsalveti> so we can have es2.2 support
[16:22] <ogra_> i dont think mem=1G is the right arg
[16:22] <janimo> what is the missing 512M-460M in the first address region is for? Video?
[16:22] <rsalveti> ducati
[16:22] <ogra_> you need to respect the memory hole for ducati
[16:22] <janimo> mem=460M@0x80000000 mem=512M@0xA0000000
[16:22] <rsalveti> if you're just building, no problem
[16:22] <janimo> from the bugreport
[16:22] <ogra_> right,
[16:22] <rsalveti> you can get everything for you
[16:22] <rsalveti> janimo: that would be the args we'd use at the netbook image
[16:22] <rsalveti> so we can have everything working
[16:23] <rsalveti> but for this test you can simply use 1g
[16:23] <ogra_> ah, good
[16:23] <janimo> rsalveti, but I can use 1G@0x80000000 on headless?
[16:23] <rsalveti> janimo: yup
[16:23] <janimo> or with not address at all even?
[16:23] <janimo> rsalveti, ok thanks. Will do
[16:24] <rsalveti> move?
[16:24] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[16:25] <ogra_> just pre-published for beta :)
[16:25] <ogra_> nothing else to report ...
[16:25] <ogra_> well
[16:25] <ogra_> we need the TI icon back and dont have a bug for that yet
[16:26] <GrueMaster> Why was it even removed?  It could have been left in place with nothing to install.
[16:27] <ogra_> GrueMaster, persia insisted it shouldnt live in jasper
[16:27] <ogra_> it was one of my items in the jasper rewrite spec
[16:28] <ogra_> we have a package for it now, but i need to MIR it and see that i integrate the bits and pieces in jasper again
[16:28] <ogra_> (since they live in different places now)
[16:30] <NCommander> (can I move?)
[16:30] <ogra_> sure
[16:30] <GrueMaster> So, what should the bug be filed against?
[16:31] <ogra_> GrueMaster, hmm, good question
[16:31] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:31] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[16:31] <ogra_> ti-omap4-software-channel is the new package
[16:32] <GrueMaster> With all of the major changes just before Beta 1 release, a lot of deep testing has to be restarted.  Minimal testing was done for the release to ensure no major show-stopper bugs existed.
[16:33] <rsalveti> tested omap 3 and omap 4 while doing the drm stuff and they seems fine
[16:33] <GrueMaster> I have not had a chance to really deep dive into unity-2d or to see what other kernel issues I can dig up yet due to release testing.
[16:33] <rsalveti> besides the audio issues and the display ones you saw
[16:34] <GrueMaster> On a good note, banshee played (silently) through the night on my panda.
[16:34] <GrueMaster> No crashes.
[16:35] <ogra_> well, it did that before on my tegra :P
[16:35] <ogra_> we just support the wrong smp HW it seems :)
[16:35] <GrueMaster> I don't consider your tegra a valid test due to the ancient kernel & unsupported system.
[16:36] <ogra_> system is the same as omap
[16:36] <GrueMaster> As I was able to reproduce the crash on my tegra dev platform with a newer kernel.
[16:36] <ogra_> but yeah, the kernel is old
[16:37] <GrueMaster> That's all I have to report.
[16:38] <ogra_> NCommander, ?
[16:38] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[16:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[16:39] <ogra_> specs ?
[16:39] <ogra_> do we have a wikipage or something to collect them ?
[16:39] <rsalveti> for uds?
[16:39] <rsalveti> something we should start working on soon
[16:39] <ogra_> yes
[16:39] <ogra_> at least collect some rough ideas
[16:40] <rsalveti> don't think we have a wiki for that yet
[16:40] <davidm__> I have a request
[16:40] <ogra_> hmm, usually persia sets up that stuff, but i dont think he has time for it atm
[16:41] <davidm__> I'd like to see us document our final releases very well, what works, what does not any thing we have found out over the development time
[16:41] <davidm__> have a specific web page, more then release notes
=== davidm__ is now known as davidm
[16:42] <davidm> make that wiki page
[16:42] <rsalveti> make sense, would be good to have
=== davidm is now known as Guest93656
[16:42] <Guest93656> persia is having severe connectivity problems and I don't know when that will change
[16:42] <ogra_> yeah
[16:42]  * ogra_ wouldnt expect different
[16:42] <GrueMaster> I should be able to start on that next week while I am temporarily layed up.
[16:43] <rsalveti> action?
[16:43] <ogra_> GrueMaster to create OnericIdeas wikipage :)
[16:43] <ogra_> NCommander, ^^
[16:43] <GrueMaster> Actually, I was referring to davidm's stuff.
[16:44] <ogra_> how do we call the other one ?
[16:44] <ogra_> oh, i was getting to that ;)
[16:44] <ogra_> NattyKnownIssues ? NattyReleaseStresstested ?
[16:44] <Guest93656> I think its specific to each SoC so we need an OMAP  3 Beagle and Beagle xm and an OMAP 4 Panada page
[16:44] <GrueMaster> Natty Nigglets
[16:45] <NCommander> [topic] GrueMaster to create OnericIdeas wikipage
[16:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  GrueMaster to create OnericIdeas wikipage
[16:45] <NCommander> er
[16:45] <NCommander> [action GrueMaster to create OnericIdeas wikipage
[16:45] <rsalveti> :-)
[16:45] <Guest93656> Natty Image Status
[16:45] <ogra_> natty niglets sounds nice ;)
[16:45] <NCommander> [action] GrueMaster to create OnericIdeas wikipage
[16:45] <MootBot> ACTION received:  GrueMaster to create OnericIdeas wikipage
[16:46] <ogra_> NCommander, [action] everyone, add spec ideas to that wikipage
[16:46] <NCommander> [action] everyone to add spec ideas to wikipage
[16:46] <MootBot> ACTION received:  everyone to add spec ideas to wikipage
[16:46] <Guest93656> NCommander, [ACTION] GrueMaster to document released images
[16:48] <NCommander> [ACTION] GrueMaster to document released  images
[16:48] <MootBot> ACTION received:  GrueMaster to document released  images
[16:48] <NCommander> Anything else
[16:48] <NCommander> or can I close the meeting?
[16:48] <davidm> That was the main thing from me
[16:48] <ogra_> nothing here
[16:48] <davidm> finally I got my nick back
[16:48] <rsalveti> ok by me
[16:49]  * ogra_ finds it ok too that davidm got his nick back :)
[16:49] <NCommander> closing in 3
[16:49] <NCommander> 2
[16:49] <NCommander> 1
[16:49] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[16:49] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:49.
</pre>

=== Action Items ===

== Weekly Reports ==
=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
* Mono workaround completed, tested, and deployed

=== Minutes ===
