{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''March 5th, 2009, 12:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>
== Agenda ==
=== Action Items from Feb 26th, 2009 ===

* persia to file bugs to fix mobile-setup-wizard issues (co)
* persia to post install testcases for MID and UNR (co)
* persia to put vfp spec on the roadmap. (co)
* persia to finish pouslbo-packaging spec draft and add to roadm (co)
* NCommander to reset arm-softboot-loader to "Drafting", and work towards a solution in #ubuntu-arm over the next week. (co)
* NCommander to finish drafting arm-softboot-loader (co)
* NCommander to report installer bugs with logs from jax10 install
* NCommander to test packaged kexec() for arm-softboot-loader research
* NCommander to test arm-softboot-loader ideas also on x86
* StevenK to file poulsbo packaging bugs (co)
* ogra to investigate 328167
* lool to spec ec2-package-builder for jaunty+1

=== Current Items ===

* Review <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki> progress
* Discuss moving meeting time to be more convenient for those in UTC-5 through UTC-8
* Any Other Business

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===

* persia to post install testcases for MID and UNR (co)
* NCommander to reset arm-softboot-loader to "Drafting", and work towards a solution in #ubuntu-arm over the next week. (co)
* NCommander to finish drafting arm-softboot-loader (co)
* NCommander to test packaged kexec() for arm-softboot-loader research
* NCommander to test arm-softboot-loader ideas also on x86
* NCommander to post dmesg for jacx10 to 280669
* NCommander to confirm changes in performance between apw's kernel and stock kernel
* lool to spec ec2-package-builder for jaunty+1
* ogra to take charge of Babbage enablement

=== Minutes ===

Action item review went better this week, with most actions completed.  OEM installations are UI blocked by Bug:309396, jax10 installer works, Bug:335276 was filed for poulsbo, and Bug:328167 was replicated and forwarded upstream.

The status of most Roadmap items was unchanged.  UbuntuSpec:unr-handling-jaunty was implemented, and significant progress is being made with UbuntuSpec:arm-library-optimisation.  Bug work was in better shape.  Many previous bugs were dropped from the roadmap as resolved.  Bug:299847 continues to evade precise detection.  Bug:280669 needs lots more testing and information collection.

NSLU2 Enablement is mostly complete, with a few outstanding bugs, but progress has stalled, with focus on Babbage Enablement, which has lots of progress, if not entirely coordinated.  Oliver will take charge of coordination of Babbage Enablement, for clearer reporting next week.

In discussion about moving the meeting to better suit people in UTC-5 through UTC-8, proposals included 20:00 UTC and 21:00 UTC, the rationale being that people active in the IRC channels were in Australia, the Americas, and Europe, and these times were not common sleeping times for any of these regions.  The point was raised that daylight savings changes would be occuring over the following six weeks, which may cause some shifts in individual schedules during that time.  This topic will be raised again next week for further discussion.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
