{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''May 4th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100504]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting

** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100525]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from May 4th, 2010 ===
** None Outstanding

=== Current Items ===
* Meeting Time

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

=== Action Items ===
* ogra to SRU bug #568736
* NCommander to invite ndec to meeting
* NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
* Mobile team to have spec completed by next week

=== Minutes ===
* omap kernel will continue for OMAP3 series boards, omap4 will be for OMAp4 until kernel trees are unified
* Special 10.07 release to support TI panda and blaze
* Discussion on new meeting times to take place next week

== Weekly Reports ==

=== Michael Casadevall ===
* Drafted all specs for UDS
* Began modification of image build infrastructure for creating preinstalled images

== Meeting Log ==
<pre>
[14:00] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:00. The chair is NCommander.
[14:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:00] <ogra> rool call first ?
[14:00] <davidm> G'day NCommander
[14:00] <ogra> *roll
[14:01] <asac> o/
[14:01] <NCommander> who's here?
[14:02] <NCommander> GrueMaster: you here?
[14:02] <GrueMaster> yep
[14:02] <davidm> dyfet, you about?
[14:02] <ogra> persia, ?
[14:03] <NCommander> no dyfet or persia :-/
[14:03] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100518
[14:03] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100518
[14:03] <asac> (i think cooloney also attends for kernel parts still)
[14:04] <NCommander> There are no outstanding action items from last week
[14:04] <NCommander> (there were all checked and completed)
[14:04] <ogra> the work item link is wrongi think
[14:04] <ogra> should be rather http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
[14:04] <ogra> (not that it matters since there isnt anything on it anyway atm)
[14:05] <asac> I think we should use QA Status standing item to talk about SRU targets or something until first milestone for maverick is out
[14:05] <asac> GrueMaster: ^^?
[14:05] <asac> what do you think?
[14:06] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney)
[14:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney)
[14:06] <ogra> oh, right, i have an action item to add for myself for next meeting
[14:06] <GrueMaster> Well, since I don't have a current image, I have nothing to report on image status.
[14:06] <cooloney> oh, actually, nothing new from my side about fsl-imx51
[14:06] <cooloney> kernel
[14:06] <ogra> i talked to slangasek at UDS, we're allowed to SRU bug #568736, NCommander please add an action item for me that i take care
[14:06] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 568736 in netbook-meta "Having Evolution installed along with Desktop-Email is pointlessly redundant" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/568736
[14:07]  * NCommander coughs
[14:07] <ogra> we'll need it for our PPA build
[14:07] <NCommander> Stay on topic people :-)
[14:07] <ogra> cooloney, i think OMAP is the kernel topic for now :)
[14:07] <NCommander> [action] ogra to SRU bug #568736
[14:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra to SRU bug #568736
[14:07] <cooloney> ogra: ok, got it
[14:07] <ogra> thanks
[14:07] <cooloney> just discussed with amitk
[14:08] <cooloney> so we are going to use .33 based omap4 kernel code for 10.07
[14:09] <ogra> right
[14:09] <cooloney> and for 10.10, we will have one more flavor in our kernel master branch named omapmainline
[14:09] <GrueMaster> fyi 2.6.34 is out,
[14:09] <cooloney> which will contains upstream omap3/omap4
[14:09] <cooloney> GrueMaster: since 10.07 is critical, and we will try to use the lucid ti-omap branch code base
[14:09] <cooloney> so .33 is much easier
[14:09] <ogra> not only that
[14:09] <GrueMaster> Ok.
[14:10] <ogra> 10.07 is lucid
[14:10] <cooloney> and ti's git tree is also based on .33
[14:10] <cooloney> yeah
[14:10] <cooloney> 10.07 is lucid
[14:10] <asac> cooloney: will we use -omap (for 3) and -omap4 as subarch in kernel package names?
[14:10] <asac> or also rename to -omap3?
[14:10] <ogra> u-boot uses -omap3 currently btw
[14:10] <cooloney> asac: actually, i plan to use -omap4
[14:11] <ogra> cooloney, any keep -omap
[14:11] <ogra> ?
[14:11] <NCommander> Its a pain to rename for 10.07 if we do omap3 there, but we should rename the image for maverick
[14:11] <asac> right. my question was if you are going for -omap3 or still to -omap for 3 (for maverick that is)
[14:11] <ogra> NCommander, 10.07 is out of discussion
[14:11] <cooloney> but -omap or -omap4 is not a big problem for me
[14:11] <ogra> asac, i think the masterplan is to have one -omap kernel in the end (maverick+1)
[14:12] <cooloney> asac: yeah,
[14:12] <ogra> so the version based fully on mainline should probably stay -omep
[14:12] <ogra> heh
[14:12] <ogra> -omap
[14:12] <cooloney> at end, the omap kernel will be in mainline supporting omap3 and omap4
[14:12] <asac> ok that would be a good line
[14:12] <cooloney> it will be just a flavour
[14:12] <cooloney> not a branch
[14:12] <asac> fine with me
[14:13] <cooloney> but before that, we will have a topic branch named omap4patchdump for sync up with ti's patch drop
[14:13] <asac> what about uboot? do we need to rename that using the same rule?
[14:13] <ogra> for u-boot you will have -omap3 and -omap4 packages
[14:13] <ogra> no
[14:13] <asac> or will it always be -omap3 vs. -omap4 vs. -omap5?
[14:13] <asac> etc
[14:13] <ogra> because they are completely different versioned sources
[14:13] <asac> kk
[14:13] <cooloney> so, ogra, for 10.07, is -omap4 for PPA better or just -omap
[14:13] <ogra> *if* we can have one u-boot source i'll consider calling it -omap
[14:13] <davidm> asac, OMAP 3 is planned for 10.10 if at all possible
[14:14] <asac> yep.
[14:14] <ogra> cooloney, i think -omap4 might be better wrt upgrades to maverick
[14:14] <slangasek> ogra: allowed to SRU> I think I suggested getting a second opinion from pitti or cjwatson, first?
[14:14] <ogra> since 10.07 will be installed from scratch we save one package transition
[14:14] <davidm> I don't want to drop the community, the Gumstix and Beagle boards are very nice and OMAP 3
[14:14] <cooloney> ogra: ok, got it.
[14:14] <asac> davidm: ++
[14:14] <ogra> slangasek, yes, but i'm good at bribing :)
[14:15] <davidm> The 512M Gumstix board is NICE
[14:15] <cooloney> currently, i git clone the branch from ti's git tree
[14:15] <cooloney> and rebased to our ti-omap branch
[14:15] <cooloney> now fixed the kernel config
[14:15] <ogra> right, so name the resulting binary -omap4
[14:15] <ogra> for future consistency
[14:15] <cooloney> during the building, met some compiling issues which should be ti omap4 code's problem
[14:16] <ogra> talk to ndec about that please (and put me on CC)
[14:16] <ogra> we should probably invite him to this meeting
[14:16] <ogra> NCommander, can you take an action for that ?
[14:16] <cooloney> so now, i am closed to build a omap4 kernel package
[14:17] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to invite ndec to meeting
[14:17] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to invite ndec to meeting
[14:17] <ogra> makes sense to have him around if he has time
[14:17] <ogra> cooloney, cool !
[14:17] <ogra> as soon as you have something to test, NCommander and i have the HW to test it ...
[14:18] <ogra> cooloney, what target SoCs did you enable yet ?
[14:18] <cooloney> ogra: is the kernel and header .deb enough for your testing?
[14:18] <ogra> no need for the header for now
[14:18] <NCommander> cooloney: yes
[14:18] <ogra> i wont build modules
[14:18] <cooloney> ogra: i imported the omap4 defconfig
[14:18] <ogra> hmm
[14:18] <ogra> i wonder if there are differences between blaze and panda
[14:18] <ogra> perferably we want to have both supported
[14:19] <ogra> mpoirier, !!
[14:19] <ogra> welcome !
[14:19] <mpoirier> good morning all
[14:19] <zyga> hello
[14:19] <NCommander> welcome
[14:19] <cooloney> omap_4430sdp_defconfig
[14:19] <cooloney> ogra: ^^
[14:19] <ogra> cooloney, sounds pretty generic
[14:19] <asac> heh
[14:19] <davidm> welcome mpoirier
[14:20] <ogra> cooloney, for the omap3 kernel in maverick we seem to lack some patches btw
[14:20] <cooloney> ogra: yeah, DSS patches?
[14:20] <ogra> cooloney, i tried the lucid kernel and cant get the display to work on the touchbook
[14:20] <ogra> right
[14:20] <ogra> there is a bug for that
[14:20] <cooloney> amitk added them
[14:20] <ogra> between lucid and today ?
[14:21] <cooloney> oh, sorry, not that
[14:21] <ogra> right
[14:21] <cooloney> ok, after i build the package i will take a look
[14:21] <ogra> there might also be patches for zoom2 that we are missing
[14:21] <cooloney> for the omap config,
[14:21] <ogra> (also omap3)
[14:21] <ogra> (and also display related)
[14:21] <cooloney> ogra: do you have the working kernel config for your hardware?
[14:22] <ogra> cooloney, nope, for the zoom i know XorA has it, we can ask him in #ubuntu-arm after the meeting
[14:22] <ogra> for the touchbook i have to dig it up, but their current kernel is something like 2.6.29
[14:23] <cooloney> ogra: good. so for 10.07, which one is our target hardware?
[14:23] <ogra> we have general touchbook and zoom2 support in the lucid kernel
[14:23] <ogra> both boot fine
[14:23] <ogra> its just the display
[14:23] <ogra> for 10.07 its panda and blaze
[14:23] <ogra> both omap4
[14:24] <cooloney> so, we don't have the kernel configs i guess
[14:24] <ogra> 10.10 omap3: beagle, zoom, gumstix, touchbook .... 10.07 omap4: blaze, panda
[14:24] <NCommander> anything else or can I moveon?
[14:24] <ogra> cooloney, we have them enabled already
[14:24] <ogra> cooloney, (omap3 that is)
[14:25] <cooloney> ogra: understand
[14:25] <ogra> cooloney, for omap3 only DSS2 patches seem to be missing
[14:25] <cooloney> NCommander: i am done, nothing more now
[14:25] <ogra> and probably sound
[14:25] <ogra> cooloney, for omap4 we need to get them from TI
[14:25] <NCommander> QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:25] <ogra> if there are any specific items at least
[14:25] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:25] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:26] <GrueMaster> I thought we were skipping this?
[14:26] <ogra> why should we ? :)
[14:26] <cooloney> ogra: ok, i see
[14:26] <dyfet> NCommander: sorry was late getting back
[14:26] <GrueMaster> Because there is nothing to report at this time.
[14:27] <ogra> GrueMaster, so any masterplan for omap testing ?
[14:27] <GrueMaster> Give me boards, testing will happen.
[14:27] <asac> i really think we should keep SRU stuff on topic for QA
[14:27] <ogra> note that the images will be different
[14:27] <GrueMaster> That's the current plan.
[14:27] <asac> so nothing SRU worthy ? fine.
[14:27] <zyga> what is your testing plan if I may ask?
[14:27]  * zyga looks from ubuntu-on-arm qa perspective
[14:28] <ogra> right, i'd like to hear about that too ... but GrueMaster is right, no testing without HW ...
[14:28] <NCommander> msg davidm do we *really* want ubuntu-on-arm mixing with mobile right now?
[14:28] <NCommander> argh
[14:28] <NCommander> fuck me
[14:28] <GrueMaster> I don't know how to define "SRU worthy" wrt the bugs in Lucid.  There are a lot of bugs that need fixing, but I don't know how they affect contract status, etc.
[14:28] <ogra> GrueMaster, so you should get a gumstix and we need to get you a beagle XM at least for the omap3 testing
[14:28] <davidm> NCommander, I'm not sure I understand your question
[14:29] <GrueMaster> ogra: That would help, yes.
[14:29] <ogra> GrueMaster, for omap4 we need to wait for the pandas
[14:29] <GrueMaster> I am going to look into the gumstix later today.
[14:30] <ogra> zyga, do you have any suggestions for testing ?
[14:30] <GrueMaster> As to SRU issues, My main issues are kernel on dove & babbage related.
[14:31] <ogra> whats open there ?
[14:32] <GrueMaster> I'll have to dig up a list, but off the top of my head, bug 559065 and bug 509006.
[14:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 559065 in linux-fsl-imx51 "ifconfig eth0 down will cause system hang after fec.c driver update" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/559065
[14:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 509006 in linux-mvl-dove "[dove] hibernation failed to resume" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/509006
[14:32] <ogra> ah, good
[14:33] <ogra> GrueMaster, given that we wont build installer images this time, your testing will likely become a bit different
[14:33] <GrueMaster> Had I known we were going to look at SRU bugs, I would have compiled a more detailed list.
[14:33] <ogra> if you work out test plans, try to take that into account
[14:33] <GrueMaster> Yes, I understand that.
[14:33] <ogra> you will dd a fully installed system to SD with the new images that are coming
[14:34] <ogra> though oem-config might need special attention here
[14:34] <GrueMaster> So, I have a new server that is currently actively mirroring ports.  I also am mirroring cdimage.ubuntu.com for daily image builds.
[14:34] <ogra> great
[14:34] <NCommander> nifty
[14:34] <GrueMaster> That will help immensly.
[14:34] <ogra> our images will likely also be a lot bigger
[14:34] <zyga> sorry I had a call
[14:35] <ogra> so that should help you a lot
[14:35] <zyga> ogra, not really, I'd like to see what you do currently and how it fits into our plans, perhaps there is some common effort or piece of technology
[14:35] <GrueMaster> As to actual image testing, daily (as long as there is a new image to test) boot testing, then into deep testing with installed apps & some app testing from main.
[14:35] <ogra> zyga, well, see above, i'm not sure how comparable our images will be to yours
[14:36] <ogra> GrueMaster, oem-config testing too
[14:36] <GrueMaster> Give me a honey-do list, and I'll get a round to-it.
[14:36] <ogra> the image will be preinstalled, extend itself to the full SD card size on first boot and fire up oem-config to set upÃ¼ the user etc
[14:36] <zyga> ogra, so all testing you do is manual, correct? (unless I missed something)
[14:37] <ogra> so the special code that resizes needs special attention as well as the setup
[14:37] <ogra> zyga, yes, its mainly for milestone tests
[14:37] <GrueMaster> What is the plan for maximum image size ?
[14:37]  * zyga has to go away now, darn
[14:37] <ogra> since for daily the archive is unreliable anyway
[14:37] <NCommander> GrueMaster: probably 1GiB ish
[14:37] <ogra> GrueMaster, we dont have one ...
[14:37] <zyga> I'll read the backlog when I get back from lunch
[14:37] <NCommander> compressed
[14:37] <ogra> 1G would be nice to have
[14:38] <GrueMaster> 1G is easy.  Leaves room for language support in the image.
[14:38] <NCommander> GrueMaster: not quite, there is no squashfs
[14:38] <ogra> GrueMaster, the plan is to compress out all spare space and then to extend the system partition to max size of the SD on first boot
[14:38] <ogra> we dont know yet how well it will be compressed
[14:39] <ogra> there wont be language support beyond english
[14:39] <ogra> that will be installed by oem-config in case a network connection exists
[14:39] <ogra> if not it has to stay english
[14:39] <GrueMaster> No squashfs?  I would recommend it as it makes for easier recovery methods.
[14:39] <ogra> no
[14:40] <ogra> we dont have an installer
[14:40] <ogra> no squashfs
[14:40] <NCommander> GrueMaster: this is a completely new type of image.
[14:40] <ogra> its and "oem" image :)
[14:40] <GrueMaster> Not really.  This is similar to a Moblin 1.0 image.
[14:40] <ogra> what you dd to the SD card is your install
[14:40] <ogra> right
[14:40] <GrueMaster> And Moblin 1.0 used squashfs.
[14:40] <ogra> its in some areas similar to a moblin image
[14:41] <ogra> you cant use squashfs in a sane way
[14:41] <GrueMaster> I'm just suggesting that we can still use squashfs.
[14:41] <ogra> for installed systems
[14:41] <NCommander> folks
[14:41] <GrueMaster> No?
[14:41] <ogra> no
[14:41] <NCommander> lets take this offline and bring it back later
[14:41] <ogra> right
[14:41] <ogra> lets move on
[14:41] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:41] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:42] <NCommander> Nothing to report, archive still is in too much churn to really see whats broken
[14:42]  * ogra sees libnih, apr, eglibc, kde4libs
[14:42] <ogra> the first three definately need some research
[14:42] <ogra> well, libnih and eglibc
[14:42] <NCommander> ogra: crap, those must be new from last night :-/
[14:42] <ogra> they are there since about two weeks
[14:42] <ogra> eglibc failed with the first upload
[14:42]  * NCommander sighs and thinks he's gone blind
[14:43] <ogra> libnih failed short before uds
[14:43] <NCommander> is doko sitll maintaining the armel toolchain?
[14:43] <ogra> i would hope so
[14:43] <ogra> asac, ?? Â°Â°
[14:43] <ogra> ^^
[14:43] <ogra> do you know ?
[14:43] <asac> yes, for now he is our contact
[14:43] <ogra> ok
[14:44] <ogra> asac, do you know if anyone from your lside will care for things like eglibc ?
[14:44] <ogra> given that its quite essential to have it build
[14:44] <ogra> or do we need to take action here
[14:45] <asac> same as for toolchain. things might change as we move on, but atm its doko
[14:45] <ogra> ok
[14:45] <doko> the eglibc build failure can be ignored for now
[14:45] <ogra> ok
[14:45] <ogra> that leaves libnih
[14:45] <ogra> NCommander, dyfet, can one of you contact Keybuk ?
[14:46] <ogra> iirc we had a similar timeout issue before with it
[14:46] <ogra> (its hitting the 150 minutes barrier)
[14:46] <ogra> not sure why though
[14:46] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
[14:46] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
[14:47] <NCommander> anything else to bring up?
[14:47] <ogra> not here
[14:47] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:47] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:47] <NCommander> ogra: I have livecd-rootfs voodoo for you
[14:47]  * ogra hangs his head in shame for not having the spec ready yet
[14:48] <NCommander> ogra: which spec?
[14:48] <ogra> NCommander, i saw, i need to go over it a bit deeper ... i'm not really happy with your getopts stuff
[14:48] <ogra> NCommander, for the image
[14:48] <NCommander> ogra: lamont thought it was fine, but feel free to abuse it :-)
[14:48] <ogra> if lamont says its fine i'm fine too :)
[14:49] <NCommander> ogra: BuildLiveCD is a manual merge anyway on the buildds
[14:49] <ogra> i'm not such a big fan of getopts in shell scripts where you can solve it with a simple case
[14:49] <NCommander> ogra: the simple code was causing my eyes to bleed
[14:49] <ogra> its what we use everywhere
[14:49] <NCommander> livecd.sh uses getopts
[14:49] <ogra> since case is fast and doesnt require external deps
[14:50] <NCommander> er
[14:50] <NCommander> getopts is a bash builtin
[14:50] <ogra> yes, thats historically from infinity
[14:50] <ogra> nope not that one
[14:50] <NCommander> mcasadevall@daybreak:/home/buildd/src/chroot-scripts$ which getopts
[14:50] <NCommander> mcasadevall@daybreak:/home/buildd/src/chroot-scripts$ getopts
[14:50] <NCommander> getopts: usage: getopts optstring name [arg]
[14:50] <NCommander> Its not a built-in?
[14:50] <ogra> getopt is builtin
[14:51] <ogra> and getopts is a standlone prog iirc
[14:51] <NCommander> ogra: you've got it backwards
[14:51] <NCommander> getopt is standalone, getopts is built in
[14:51] <NCommander> (do which getopt)
[14:51] <ogra> hmm, k
[14:51] <ogra> anyway, if lamont is happy i'm happy too
[14:51] <NCommander> woo, we're all happy!
[14:52] <ogra> i'll write up the spec before next meeting
[14:52] <ogra> so we have work items etc
[14:52] <NCommander> cool
[14:52] <NCommander> anything else on this topic?
[14:52] <ogra> btw, you skipped the work item review
[14:52] <NCommander> ogra: bit hard to do it if the burndown charts are broken
[14:52] <ogra> we have at least three specs and i know persia was planning on more
[14:53] <ogra> they arent broken
[14:53] <NCommander> the main page is empty
[14:53] <ogra> we dont have any specs submitted yet
[14:53] <NCommander> Oh
[14:53] <ogra> davidm needs to approve etc etc
[14:53] <NCommander> [topic] Work Item Review
[14:53] <MootBot> New Topic:  Work Item Review
=== Ubot-Tn is now known as MaWaLe
[14:53] <ogra> but indeed we need to have them written and workitems added etc first
[14:53] <ogra> so i have three to add here
[14:54] <ogra> one is the rootfs building without root permissions
[14:54] <ogra> one is upanel
[14:54] <ogra> and one is the new image
[14:54] <ogra> does anyone else have any specs that will be on the tracker ?
[14:54]  * pitti waves
[14:54] <ogra> as i said i know persia had some planned
[14:55] <NCommander> arm softbootloader
[14:55] <kees> heya piit
[14:55] <ogra> but i dont know which
[14:55] <NCommander> improved arm subnarch
[14:55] <kees> er, pitti
[14:55] <ogra> NCommander, does that make any sense ? if we only support one arch ?
[14:55] <dyfet> while it was done under the arm track, I am not sure where the ofono spec will be under...
[14:55] <ogra> (softbootloader i mean)
[14:55] <ogra> dyfet, arm i guess
[14:55] <ogra> dyfet, talk to asac about it
[14:56] <dyfet> ogra: ok, let's assume that for now then...and I will discuss with asac separately
[14:56] <ogra> NCommander, also did cjwatson have a look at your plans to change the installer for subarch ?
[14:57] <NCommander> ogra: not yet, will do this week
[14:57] <ogra> great
[14:57] <ogra> so lets make sure we have them given to davidm by next meeting for approval
[14:58] <ogra> can you make an action for all of us to have all specs ready for the tracker by next week ?
[14:58] <NCommander> [action] Mobile team to have spec completed by next week
[14:58] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Mobile team to have spec completed by next week
[14:58] <NCommander> done
[14:58] <ogra> preferct
[14:58] <NCommander> Ok, we're short on time :-/
[14:58] <ogra> or so
[14:58] <ogra> right, but we're done, no ?
[14:58] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[14:59] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[14:59] <NCommander> I wanted to discuss changing the meeting time
[14:59] <ogra> ..
[14:59] <NCommander> but we don't have time this meeting
[14:59] <ogra> right and no persia around
[14:59] <ogra> lets defer that
[14:59] <NCommander> so if you have a suggestion for a new meeting time, email it to me, and we'll vote next week
[14:59] <NCommander> I think that's eventhing
[14:59] <ogra> ++
[14:59] <NCommander> g'night folks
[14:59] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[14:59] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 08:59.

</pre>
