{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''September 21th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100914]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100928]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===

* NCommander to smash antimony's crontab's with a big large golden brick
* EVERYONE to put their status on the wiki

=== Special Items ===
* None

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
* http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[DavidSugar|dyfet]]</nowiki>)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[14:01] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[14:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:01. The chair is NCommander.
[14:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:02] <NCommander> (sorry for being slightly late, had some issues getting it to assiocate with my AP)
[14:02] <davidm> G'day
[14:02] <mpoirier> o/
[14:03] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100921
[14:03] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100921
[14:03] <NCommander> Who's about?
[14:03] <dyfet> where about everyone's whereabouts?
[14:03]  * rsalveti waves
[14:04]  * GrueMaster groans lifelessly.
[14:04]  * NCommander pokes ogra
[14:04] <ogra> ouch
[14:05] <NCommander> [topic] Action Items from last meeting
[14:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Items from last meeting
[14:05] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to smash antimony's crontab's with a big large golden brick
[14:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to smash antimony's crontab's with a big large golden brick
[14:05] <NCommander> Did it, crontab is normal, and all dove images are being ubilt again
[14:05] <NCommander> [topic] EVERYONE to put their status on the wiki
[14:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  EVERYONE to put their status on the wiki
[14:06]  * NCommander did it
[14:06]  * rsalveti just did it
[14:06] <rsalveti> for this week :-)
[14:06]  * ogra did it
[14:07] <ogra> dyfet, ugh
[14:07] <ogra> dyfet, where do you see telepathy-glib fail again ?
[14:07] <NCommander> right, everyone make sure its there for last week, and do it for this week too
[14:07] <ogra> (its not on the ftbfs list)
[14:07] <NCommander> moving on
[14:07] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[14:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[14:08] <NCommander> [topic] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:08]  * ogra notes that "this week" means last monday to last friday
[14:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
[14:08] <ogra> by an old definition we had
[14:08] <ogra> (just for the new guys on the team :) )
[14:08] <dyfet> ogra: I saw it in the bug report you commented on
[14:08] <NCommander> [topic] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
[14:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.10.html
[14:09] <ogra> dyfet, i asked you about 2 months ago to talk to upstream and pointed you to the bug i just commented on (and now assigned to you)
[14:09] <ogra> to make sure it gets fixed upstream
[14:09] <ogra> please read what i wrote again
[14:09] <ogra> on that bug
[14:09] <dyfet> ok
[14:10] <ogra> rsalveti, EDID starts getting urgent if you still want to have it in the release
[14:10] <ogra> RC freeze will be soon
[14:10] <NCommander> [action] dyfet to talk with upstream to merge fix and work with ogra on it
[14:10] <MootBot> ACTION received:  dyfet to talk with upstream to merge fix and work with ogra on it
[14:10] <rsalveti> ogra: yep, I know, I'm working on it just for this week
[14:10] <ogra> and i'm about to switch to linaro u-boot
[14:10] <rsalveti> or go for release, or postponed with a solution
[14:10] <ogra> NCommander, no
[14:10] <rsalveti> ogra: don't worry
[14:10] <ogra> NCommander, dyfet has a bug task for it, i'm not involved
[14:11] <NCommander> [action] dyfet to talk with upstream to merge fix
[14:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  dyfet to talk with upstream to merge fix
[14:11] <ogra> NCommander, no
[14:11] <NCommander> no?
[14:11] <ogra> just dont make any action item for that
[14:11] <NCommander> ok
[14:11] <NCommander> [action] disregard last two actions
[14:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  disregard last two actions
[14:11] <ogra> there is a bug with a request from upstream to test their fix
[14:11] <ogra> thats all
[14:12] <ogra> bugt is assigned with a clear reqest what to do ... no need for an action
[14:12] <NCommander> [topic] Assigned Bugs (http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html)
[14:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Assigned Bugs (http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html)
[14:12]  * NCommander has a few for dove installer issues, but nothing critical
[14:13] <ogra> how about the assigned bugs
[14:13] <NCommander> anything else on this topic or can I move on?
[14:13] <ogra> you had an action to clear that up
[14:13] <ogra> for the vintage thumb2 issues you dont plan to work on
[14:13] <NCommander> ogra: gah, whoops.
[14:13] <ogra> :)
[14:14] <NCommander> [action] NCommande rto clear out assigned bugs (c/o)
[14:14] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommande rto clear out assigned bugs (c/o)
[14:14] <ogra> everyone else ... please look over that list
[14:14] <ogra> unassign bugs you wont work on
[14:14] <ogra> (and leave a comment )
[14:14] <ogra> rsalveti, i belive bug 626795 should be fix released
[14:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 626795 in linux-ti-omap4 (Ubuntu) "Missing LED support for Pandaboard" [Low,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/626795
[14:15] <ogra> not sure why it didnt get autoclosed
[14:15] <NCommander> can I move onto kernel status?
[14:15] <rsalveti> ogra: sure, me neither
[14:15] <ogra> oh, because its filed against linux-ti-omap4 not against linaros u-boot :)
[14:15] <ogra> NCommander, go for it
[14:15] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[14:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[14:16] <ogra> mpoirier, got your panda working ?
[14:16] <mpoirier> yes,
[14:16] <mpoirier> got the board going yesterday.
[14:16] <mpoirier> got sound
[14:16] <ogra> how ?
[14:16] <ogra> just out of the box ?
[14:17] <mpoirier> running the scipts in the bug.
[14:17] <ogra> or with patches/changes
[14:17] <mpoirier> that is step 1.
[14:17] <ogra> ah, k
[14:17] <rsalveti> ogra: but we had a bug for kernel and another for u-boot :-)
[14:17] <ogra> you cant revert the alsa changes
[14:17] <rsalveti> anyway
[14:17] <ogra> so you need to re-flash to get it virgin again
[14:17] <mpoirier> next is to put the default setting in the kernel.
[14:17] <ogra> (just as a note)
[14:18] <mpoirier> ogra: I'll touch base with you after on that "note".
[14:18] <ogra> k :)
[14:18] <mpoirier> got GSX working with rsalveti's help.
[14:18] <mpoirier> work postponed to N.
[14:18] <ogra> with the default packages and no manual work ?
[14:19] <ogra> (from the PPA)
[14:19] <rsalveti> ogra: what should be postponed is to get the kernel modules at our kernel
[14:19] <ogra> if that works we can pull them into the archive
[14:19] <ogra> rsalveti, right
[14:19] <ogra> but the DKMS version should be fine
[14:19] <rsalveti> ogra: sure
[14:20] <ogra> if that works OOTB and we hear back from all testers we can request inclusion
[14:20]  * ogra only waits for alf
[14:20] <NCommander> alf?
[14:20] <mpoirier> lag is in taipei - I didn't have time to get the omap4 status from him.
[14:20] <rsalveti> ogra: yep, alf seems to be testing right now
[14:20] <mpoirier> ..
[14:20] <ogra> right
[14:20] <ogra> mpoirier, no worries :)
[14:20] <NCommander> argh, brain fart ;-/
[14:20] <ogra> ansthign from cooloney ?
[14:20] <ogra> NCommander, we have a direct line to melmarc now
[14:21] <ogra> :P
[14:21] <ogra> just use the red phone for requests :P
[14:21] <NCommander> neat
[14:21] <NCommander> can I move on?
[14:21] <ogra> mpoirier, anything from cooloney wrt any changes in TI land upstream ?
[14:22] <mpoirier> nop - not that I'm aware of.
[14:22] <ogra> and i also think we should have the SRU request for the final kernel ready in advance
[14:22] <ogra> (for omap4)
[14:22] <ogra> given that we might get it on hard freeze day or some such
[14:22] <ogra> please forward that as a discussion point in your teasm
[14:22] <ogra> *team
[14:23] <mpoirier> yes.
[14:23]  * ogra will care for the bootloader side
[14:23] <ogra> its not clear yet when the final silicon will be there
[14:23] <ogra> not sure davidm wants to elaborate on that here and now
[14:24] <davidm> current date is a little less then 2 weeks away
[14:24] <ogra> (i suppose we can release with a buggy kernel as long as it boots and push fixes into post release SRUs)
[14:24] <ogra> but it needs to boot and be able to connect to the net for updating
[14:25] <ogra> NCommander, move if nobody else has any kernel related bits
[14:25] <mpoirier> ogra: do you see a problem with connecting after installation ?
[14:25] <ogra> mpoirier, no, but i havent seen the future HW yet :)
[14:25] <mpoirier> ah.
[14:25] <rsalveti> I fixed yesterday an issue with IGEPv2
[14:25] <mpoirier> ok.
[14:26] <ogra> if there are changes that break USB or some such ...
[14:26] <rsalveti> should now have a working display, but still waiting someone who has the board to test it, before pushing to the kernel team
[14:26] <ogra> i think i saw it being discussed somewhere
[14:26]  * ogra look sat the kernel ML
[14:27] <ogra> hmm, no, not there
[14:27] <ogra> anyway
[14:27] <ogra> NCommander, ?
[14:28] <ogra> NCommander, what about the new audio bugs i saw for dove today ?
[14:28] <ogra> are they anyhow kernel related ?
[14:28] <ogra> (or probably GrueMaster knows since he filed ...)
[14:29] <rsalveti> it seems now we have audio issues with every board we work on :-)
[14:29] <GrueMaster> I was just getting ready to report on it as part of my report (next topic).
[14:29] <persia> The dove audio bugs were reported as *regressions*
[14:30] <ogra> GrueMaster, well, if there are no kernel bits, lets wait for NCommander to move on :)
[14:30] <ogra> if he didnt fall asleep
[14:30] <GrueMaster> yes, they were.  I retested Beta and basic audio works.  It fails on 20100920 image.
[14:30] <ogra> NCommander, WAKEUP !!!
[14:30]  * ogra lokks for a trumpet
[14:30] <ogra> honk honk
[14:31]  * davidm wonders if NCommander disconnected from his AP again
[14:31]  * davidm is checking
[14:31] <ogra> bad, he owns the bot ... :)
[14:31] <NCommander> back
[14:31] <NCommander> internet hates me
[14:32] <ogra> hate it back :)
[14:32] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:32] <GrueMaster> sigh
[14:32] <GrueMaster> fail
[14:32] <davidm> NCommander, did you miss info on Marvell regressions? (Audio)
[14:32] <ogra> GrueMaster, yeah, who needs QA :P
[14:32] <ogra> NCommander, ^^^
[14:33] <NCommander> davidm: oh,I saw that, was working with GrueMaster on it last night somewhat
[14:33] <ogra> NCommander, can you fix the topic ?
[14:33] <ogra> you skipped tobin
[14:33] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:34] <ogra> :)
[14:34] <GrueMaster> Found some regressions in alsa on dove from beta to recent, going to retest on Beagle as well to see if there are regressions there.  Bug 644028 & bug 644037
[14:34] <GrueMaster> BeagleXM (prerelease version) is now unstable for me as of Friday morning.
[14:34] <GrueMaster> Getting overwhelmed with outside-of-image test requests.
[14:34] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 644028 in linux-meta-mvl-dove (Ubuntu) "Audio regression on Marvell Dove images" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/644028
[14:34] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 644037 in pulseaudio (Ubuntu) "defaults need adjustment for Dove A0 for audible audio" [Undecided,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/644037
[14:34] <ogra> oh, 644037 looks liek fun
[14:34] <ogra> *like
[14:34] <GrueMaster> The regressions in the kernel are that basic audio worked in Beta and now does not in 20100920.
[14:34] <ogra> i wonder if its introduced by persia's changes to pulse
[14:34] <ogra> since default.pa uses omap4 settings on armel
[14:35] <ogra> i wonder if tehy also work on dove
[14:35] <GrueMaster> The regression in Pulse Audio is that it used to have controls available to switch from speakers to headphone, now it doesn't.
[14:35] <persia> Wouldn't, as ALSA is broken.
[14:35] <ogra> oh, on dove as well ?
[14:35] <ogra> tahts bad
[14:35] <persia> Anyway, the changes I made for armel aren't board-specific: reducing the number of in-flight samples and using a fixed-point codec will be better for all current-generation ARM chips.
[14:36] <ogra> ok
[14:36] <ogra> thats what i wanted to hear :)
[14:37] <ogra> GrueMaster, anything for omap4 ?
[14:37]  * persia wouldn't push hardware-specific patches to packages into the archive, and would probably do something odd to them even if pushing to a PPA so that they didn't work in the archive
[14:37] <GrueMaster> I have not been successful geting audio working on omap4 yet, but have not applied any external scripts yet either.
[14:38] <ogra> well, did you test the images lately ?
[14:38]  * ogra wasnt referring to audio
[14:38] <GrueMaster> I got as far as booting omap4 on 20100920 image, and then focused on audio issues on dove & beagle.
[14:38] <GrueMaster> I was also spending some time trying to get my beagleXM working again.
[14:38] <ogra> hmm, k
[14:39] <ogra> please test the new favorites stuff on omap4 ...
[14:39] <ogra> specifically the PPA icon
[14:39] <GrueMaster> Since Thursday, I have received 4 out-of-image test requests that take a lot of time.
[14:39] <ogra> also if anyone still sees something in the launcher we can assign to devilshorns, please dont hesitate :)
[14:40] <NCommander> can we move on?
[14:40] <GrueMaster> That brings up some other issues I discovered last week.
[14:40] <ogra> i'm pondering if we shouldnt drop the film reel completely
[14:40] <ogra> we have the apps in the panel anyway
[14:40] <ogra> seems pointless to have an emblem on the icon
[14:40] <GrueMaster> Working with devilhorns, I discovered a disparity between une and une-efl in the font handling.
[14:41] <ogra> and doesnt looks very good non-animated imho
[14:41] <ogra> GrueMaster, do we have a separate bug for that ?
[14:41] <ogra> oh, and could you teach devilshorns a bit about bug filing ?
[14:41] <GrueMaster> Spent several hours tracking that one, and yes there is a bug filed. (don't have the # offhand).
[14:41] <ogra> he tends to attach all his fixes to the same bug
[14:41] <ogra> would be better to have them separate
[14:42] <GrueMaster> I'll try.
[14:42] <ogra> since not all fixes apply to freeze exceptions
[14:42] <ogra> thanks :)
[14:42] <NCommander> can I move on?
[14:42] <GrueMaster> Go
[14:42] <ogra> ++
[14:42] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:42] <ogra> nothing in main \o/
[14:43] <ogra> well, nothing *we* have to touch
[14:43] <NCommander> :-)
[14:43] <ogra> openoffice requires testing
[14:43] <NCommander> :-(
[14:43] <ogra> please, everybody who has some spare time, install it and test
[14:43] <ogra> its in the archive now
[14:43] <ogra> but untested yet
[14:44]  * persia would appreciate someone testing krita also
[14:44] <ogra> also doko created a ton of bugs for universe packages
[14:44] <ogra> for ftbfs'es
[14:44] <ogra> i assigned some to dyfet but there are likely more
[14:44] <ogra> so if you feel like investing some time, look over them please
[14:45] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:45] <ogra> failed tonight
[14:45] <ogra> thanks to antiomony being upgraded to lucid
[14:45] <ogra> but its fixed now
[14:46] <ogra> the current omap images create swap again
[14:46] <ogra> which takes about 3 minutes
[14:46] <ogra> i'm still pondering how to do it during image creation without having to fiddle with the partitioning
[14:46] <ogra> jasper should also spawn a getty on serial consoles if you have set console= on cmdline
[14:47] <rsalveti> cool
[14:47] <ogra> please someone test that (requires editing boot.scr twice)
[14:47] <rsalveti> saw that
[14:47] <ogra> it will only put it in plce if boot.scr on firstboot has it
[14:47] <ogra> and for second boot you need to edit /boot/boot.script and re-run flash-kernel to add it again
[14:48] <ogra> still looking into ho i fix that issue best
[14:48] <GrueMaster> ogra: I have a few ideas.  Will discuss after meeting.
[14:48] <ogra> beyond that the favorites have an apturl icon for TI PPAs now
[14:48] <ogra> that exposes some bugs in software-center :)
[14:48] <ogra> which got fixed today by the tireless mvo
[14:49] <ogra> davidm, i will need an icon from TI for that
[14:49] <ogra> davidm, as well as a list of binary packages and eula text
[14:49] <ogra> currently it just uses the unknown app icon
[14:50] <ogra> beyond that, the omap4 images are ready for release i think
[14:50] <rsalveti> ogra: regarding eula, is it needed to access the ppa or to install the packages?
[14:50] <rsalveti> or both
[14:50] <ogra> oh, and i also plan to work on fixing the "all armel headers installed" issue before release
[14:50] <rsalveti> cool
[14:51] <ogra> rsalveti, no, its just a descriptive text shown when you enable the PPA
[14:51] <ogra> its nbot really an "accept/cancel" thing
[14:51] <rsalveti> ogra: hm, ok, so it should be a huge text with all licenses for all packages
[14:51] <ogra> sw-center doesnt have that yet
[14:51] <ogra> for packages that require a real eula it still should happen in preinst
[14:51] <ogra> like java does
[14:52] <rsalveti> ogra: oh, got it
[14:52] <rsalveti> makes sense
[14:52] <ogra> it would be great if we could just do everything in the sw-center eula
[14:52] <ogra> but i doubt that can happen in time for maverick
[14:52] <ogra> since lawyers will be involved in any change here
[14:52] <rsalveti> probably only for N
[14:53] <ogra> or N+1
[14:53] <ogra> depends on the lawyers :)
[14:53] <rsalveti> could be, if we involve lawyers
[14:53] <rsalveti> yep :-)
[14:53] <ogra> hehe
[14:53] <ogra> NCommander, dove status ?
[14:53] <ogra> any release blockers there ?
[14:53] <rsalveti> NCommander: ?
[14:53] <ogra> fell asleep again :)
[14:53] <GrueMaster> For the most part, dove image is looking good.
[14:54] <GrueMaster> Missing icon for installer from live image.  And of course audio issues.
[14:54] <NCommander> argh
[14:54] <NCommander> what Tobin said
[14:54] <GrueMaster> :P
[14:54] <ogra> bootloader issues are fixed now ?
[14:54] <GrueMaster> That is on Avenger only, which is not supported.
[14:55] <ogra> i thought ubiquity messed it up in the past on dove too
[14:55] <ogra> trying to install grub or something
[14:55]  * ogra was rather referring to that one
[14:55] <GrueMaster> Oh, yea that was fixed wit hthe recent ubiquity.
[14:55] <ogra> not to avenger
[14:55] <ogra> awesome !
[14:55] <ogra> NCommander, move !
[14:56] <GrueMaster> Yesterday's image installed w/o error (other than no icon to launch it)
[14:56] <ogra> pfft icons are overrated
[14:56] <ogra> they are for your mom !
[14:56] <ogra> *g*
[14:56] <NCommander> [topic] ABO
[14:56] <MootBot> New Topic:  ABO
[14:56] <ogra> GrueMaster, persia ... your reports are still missing
[14:56] <GrueMaster> Well, I feel like my mom when I am low on caffeine.
[14:56] <ogra> heh
[14:57] <GrueMaster> Yea, will get to it later today.
[14:57]  * persia doesn't participate in that sort of thing
[14:57] <GrueMaster> Meeting post was at 12:33am my time.
[14:57]  * ogra slaps persia 
[14:57] <ogra> we should make sure to have them on the wiki before the meeting next week
[14:57] <GrueMaster> (needs to be 24 hours earlier).
[14:58] <ogra> (indeed that requires that NCommander sends out the announcement early enough and that the wikipage exists)
[14:58] <GrueMaster> I have requested time and again that the meeting notice with wiki attachment goes out 24 hours before the meeting.
[14:58] <ogra> NCommander, can we make it 24h earlier so tobin doesnt suffer?
[14:58] <persia> NCommander, Go make a wiki page now :p
[14:58] <ogra> ++
[14:59] <ogra> yeah, creating it right after the meeting would surely be best
[14:59]  * NCommander coughs
[14:59] <davidm> NCommander, at the conclusion of this meeting you need to wrap the page and make the next one please
[14:59] <NCommander> k
[14:59] <NCommander> can I close it?
[14:59] <NCommander> er, the meeting?
[15:00] <persia> Please.
[15:00] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[15:00] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 09:00.
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* NCommander to clear out assigned bugs (c/o)

=== Minutes ===
* ARM audio images persist
* No installer icon persists

== Weekly Reports ==

=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
==== This Week ====
* Dove acceleration work continues
* Worked with Tobin on ubiquity and ALSA bugs on dove
* Shelved improved subarch detection to the point it will reach for this cycle
* Final bug fixes towards release

=== Ricardo Salveti (rsalveti) ===
==== This Week ====
* Found a kernel patch and created another to fix display at IGEPv2 boards, still to be tested and submited (bug #607250)
* Finished PowerVR SGX packaging. Pushed to internal PPA and waiting Tobin to test and Oliver to push them.
* Working to get the correct solution for EDID blueprint.
* Still working with Bryan on bug #633227, testing and trying to reproduce upstream

==== Future ====
* Work with Oliver to have the PowerVR SGX packages submitted to our repository
* Continue working at the EDID blueprint.
* Continue debugging memory and display issues on Panda
* Fix some reported bugs at Rootstock

=== David Sugar ===
==== Current ====
* Investigated and provided patches for hdf5 and gcl, both of which have thumb2 specific build issues.
* Investigated several other packages release critical, including eclipse and fpc.
==== Future ====
* Anticipate working on more release critical packages, whether arm specific or general
* Telepathy-glib is failing again.

=== OliverGrawert ===
==== This Week ====

* Preparation for final freeze
* Sponsoring of netbook-launcher-efl fixes
* Fixes to the efl default settings
* Implementation of PPA support though apturl
* Debugging of apturl breakage in software-center
* Debugging of OMAP4 sound issues

==== Next week ====

* More jasper fixes
* More work on PPA support in OMAP4 images
* Getting ricardos 3D drivers for omap3 into the archive
* Adding teh same apturl support to omap3 images for 3D driver installation

=== Tobin Davis ===
==== This Week ====
* Daily images were down most of the week.  Tested through updates only.
* Testing base installed applications, very slow and tedious.  Some bugs that are hit are not reportable through apport, mainly due to pool flux, requiring updates & retesting to try to reproduce the failure.  This can take days to try to get through.
* Found some bugs in the functionality of netbook-launcher-efl through comparing it with Lucid netbook-launcher on x86.  Things like font settings and drag-n-drop adding to favorites.  Worked with devilhorns to identify the issues.
* out-of-image test request for libmad exposed regressions in audio on dove and omap platforms (omap4 hasn't worked yet).  Testing focus has shifted to audio currently.
* Power glitch on Friday knocked out power to entire neighborhood for about 10 seconds.  Took about an hour to get all systems back online.  Semi-stable pre release XM board did not survive, despite being behind two higher end surge suppressors.  Spent good part of Friday zeroing and reflashing microSD cards with known good images to try to recover.  Consistently random failures.
* Spent a little more time looking into creating a useful bug list web page.  Lot of learning curve required.
 

==== Next Week ====
* Focus on alsa issues.
* Try to whittle down growing test request list.
* Continue to work on bug list web page.
* Attempt to get through an entire checkbox session on either dove or omap4.
