{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page describes how tonstall a babbage board headless and remotely but using the desktop image with ubiquity

=== Requirements ===
You need another computer running ubuntu and a serial console for this setup.
Make also sure to attach your babbage board to the network for the ssh connection we will use for installation.

First grab the karmic desktop image from http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/ and write it to a SD card using dd.

Install the redboot-tools package on your system to have the tools available for changing cmdline options on the SD card.

=== Preparing the image for remote headless install ===
Modify the cmdline with redboot-cmdline and switch on a serial tty as well as the textmode (please adjust the device for your SD card naming scheme):

<pre>
ogra@osiris:~$ sudo redboot-cmdline -w "$(sudo redboot-cmdline -r) serialtty=ttymxc0 text" -d /dev/mmcblk0
</pre>

=== Preconfiguring the running image ===
Attach the serial cable to the bababge board and plug in the SD card.
Now fire up your serial terminal program, after a while you will get a shell prompt.

Install openssh-server:
<pre>
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install openssh-server
...
Starting OpenBSD Secure Shell server sshd        [ OK ]
</pre>

Create a password to be used for the ssh session:
<pre>
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ passwd
...
passwd: password updated successfully
</pre>

=== Run the install ===
From a terminal on the ubuntu desktop you use you can now fire up ubiquity remotely

<pre>
ogra@osiris:~$ ssh -X ubuntu@ubuntu.local ubiquity
</pre>

Now ubiquity will just start on your desktop, just do an install as if you would sit in front of the babbage screen.
