{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''October 18th, 16:00 UTC''' in #ubuntu-mobile.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from last week ===
* Topic: private builds
** tfheen to get download area for proprietary builds set up. (still open)
* Topic: TODO for gutsy
** lool to prepare new hildon-desktop and friends (still open, issues, mjg59 uploaded a new hildon-desktop)
*** davidm, tfheen to test lool's updates
** bspencer and ToddBrandt to sync up on what components from Todd should be uploaded to gutsy
** Peter_u3 to talk to telepathy upstream about new libtelepathy.

=== Current Items ===
If you add items to the list, please add your name to it.

* Pre-Alpha status (tfheen)
* Intel participation on UDS (agoliveira)
* Application development and upstream (bspencer)
* Expected USB Client functionality for customer (kyle)
* Organize the next meetings as we will be at UDS/All Hands (agoliveira).

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
 '''Continued from last week:'''
* Topic: private builds
** tfheen to get download area for proprietary builds set up. (carried forward)
 '''New to this week:'''
* Topic: TODO for gutsy
** lool will look at the current issues with hildon-desktop this coming week.
** Intel should verify the ubuntu branch works and suggest changes.
** bspencer to resolve issue with hildon-desktop configuration files and separate packages
* Topic: Pre-Alpha status
** davidm, Review test place at UDS
** davidm, Review UI issues at UDS
** davidm, further discussion of Application development and upstream at UDS
* Topic: Organize the next meetings as we will be at UDS/All Hands
** davidm, look into what and and how to have status meetings
* Topic: Expected USB Client functionality for customer
** Don_Johnson to investigate USB client issues.

=== Minutes ===

http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20071018_1701.html

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
