{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Pre-Installed OMAP/OMAP4 Images ==

This page links to the processes of using the OMAP preinstalled images for OMAP3 and OMAP4 based boards on different Ubuntu releases.

=== Desktop Images ===
==== Precise Pangolin (12.04) ====

* Images can be downloaded at http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04/release/

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/OmapDesktopInstall | Installation Instructions]]</nowiki>

=== Server Images ===

==== Precise Pangolin (12.04) ====

* Images can be downloaded at http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04/release/

* <nowiki>[[..-OMAPHeadlessInstall | Installation Instructions ]]</nowiki>

==== Netboot Images ====

Netboot images are now available for OMAP4.
* Images can be downloaded at: http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/dists/precise/main/installer-armel/current/images/omap4/netboot/
* There is a currently known bug that partman will not create a proper boot partition for guided partitioning if installing on SD. During the partitioning step, you must select manual partitioning, then create a 72 MiB FAT32 partition, with no mount point, and the Bootable flag must be set to 'on'. This partition must be the first partition on the device. flash-kernel-installer will be able to find the partition on its own.

==== Community Development ====

Scripts to create an image for the N900 can be found <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~xintx-ua/ubuntu-n900/ubuntu-n900-installer | here]]</nowiki>.
