{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''September 28th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20101109]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20101123]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from last meeting ===
* ogra to track down why NCommander's specs aren't on the tracker and to have that fixed
* NCommander to supervise pre-installed omap4 images for Alpha 1

=== Special Items ===
* canonical-mobile was completely deleted and replaced by canonical-arm
** there might be some fallout, please everyone check if i.e. PPA access for important PPAs is missing etc.
** the assigned bug report below needs to point to a new team, can Tobin take care for that ?

* closing down of the ubuntu-mobile mailing list
* New meeting time
* the return of openoffice on arm images due to desktop team merging the seeds

=== Standing Items ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-arm.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-arm-natty-alpha-1.html
* http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

<pre>
[13:00] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[13:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 07:00. The chair is NCommander.
[13:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[13:00] <NCommander> bot is laggy this morning
[13:00] <ogra_ac> roll call ?
[13:00] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20101116
[13:00] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20101116
[13:00] <NCommander> If your not here, say I
[13:00]  * ogra_ac added some topics today
[13:00] <GrueMaster> I
[13:01] <ogra_ac> the indentation of bullet lists is broken :'-(
[13:01] <ogra_ac> with the new theme ...
[13:01] <rsalveti> :-(
[13:01]  * NCommander didn't notice
[13:01] <davidm> I am not here
[13:01] <NCommander> <- *doesn't use the standard theme :-(*
[13:02] <NCommander> oh good, davidm is not here, we can skip the meeting :-)
[13:02]  * NCommander runs
[13:02] <ogra_ac> nah, we cant
[13:02]  * NCommander pokes persia 
[13:02] <NCommander> damn it, I was tlaking with him less than an hour ago
[13:02] <NCommander> meh
[13:02] <NCommander> anyway
[13:02] <NCommander> [topic] Action Item Review
[13:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Item Review
[13:03] <NCommander> [topic] ogra to track down why NCommander's specs aren't on the tracker and to have that fixed
[13:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  ogra to track down why NCommander's specs aren't on the tracker and to have that fixed
[13:03] <NCommander> Resolved. ogra told me I have to have them set for Approved
[13:03] <ogra_ac> done, davidm needs to approve for natty
[13:03] <ogra_ac> (i would have done it but i dont have the lever)
[13:03] <rsalveti> I also have one that I just noticed that needs to be approved for natty
[13:03] <ogra_ac> approver needs to do it
[13:04] <rsalveti> davidm: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/multimedia-arm-gles-in-ubuntu :-)
[13:04] <rsalveti> didn't got on my list when i send you to approve because asac created it just before uds
[13:04] <NCommander> davidm: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-arm-n-userland-subarch-detection & https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-arm-natty-improved-subarch-detection
[13:04] <NCommander> :-)
[13:05] <NCommander> anyway
[13:05] <ogra_ac> userland is fine
[13:05] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to supervise pre-installed omap4 images for Alpha 1
[13:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to supervise pre-installed omap4 images for Alpha 1
[13:05] <NCommander> We hav eimages!
[13:05]  * ogra_ac did that
[13:05] <NCommander> indeed
[13:05] <NCommander> nice work :-)
[13:05] <ogra_ac> yes, but only through an evil hack lool did
[13:05] <rsalveti> heheh
[13:06] <NCommander> ogra_ac: there's another type of hack?
[13:06] <ogra_ac> i hope we can keep it until the bug is fixed
[13:06] <NCommander> ogra_ac: what's the hack for reference sake?
[13:06] <ogra_ac> Bug 674146
[13:06] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 674146 in dpkg (Ubuntu Natty) "dpkg segfaults during debootstrap on natty armel" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/674146
[13:06] <NCommander> ugh
[13:06] <NCommander> I saw that one
[13:06] <ogra_ac> yes
[13:06] <rsalveti> ugly one
[13:06] <NCommander> that's a hack
[13:06] <rsalveti> interesting compiler behavior
[13:06] <ogra_ac> images build now though
[13:06] <NCommander> x-loader is also FTBFS. I looked at it for a bit but didn't get anywhere
[13:07] <ogra_ac> NCommander, my job
[13:07] <davidm> rsajdok, NCommander BP taken care of
[13:07] <rsalveti> I can help fixing x-loader too
[13:07] <NCommander> Qt should get resolved sometime this week.
[13:07]  * NCommander is thorugh most of his email and is just summerizing
[13:07] <NCommander> so I think we're actually on track to meet alpha 1
[13:07] <ogra_ac> rsalveti, would you take that, and also re-integrate lools changes to the packaging ?
[13:07] <rsalveti> ogra_ac: no news from qt with full neon support
[13:07] <NCommander> (that's a first)
[13:07] <rsalveti> ogra_ac: sure, np
[13:07] <ogra_ac> rsalveti, i'll re-upload the static no-NEON build on friday
[13:08] <rsalveti> ogra_ac: nice
[13:08] <ogra_ac> ScottK, ^^^^
[13:08] <rsalveti> unfortunately the neon automatically detection is broken upstream
[13:08] <ogra_ac> yes
[13:08] <rsalveti> nobody ever tested it
[13:08] <ogra_ac> and likely in natty as well
[13:09] <rsalveti> so it's not something that will be easily backported
[13:09] <rsalveti> sure
[13:09] <NCommander> rsalveti: qt has a few growing pains when dealing with various ARM configuraitons.
[13:09] <ogra_ac> though i hope upstream will have fixed it within natty timeframe
[13:09] <ogra_ac> what do we do about natty though ?
[13:09] <rsalveti> NCommander: interesting that nokia pays to be well supported at arm :-)
[13:09] <ogra_ac> keep it broken or do the same static fix until upstream tells us its fixed ?
[13:09] <NCommander> rsalveti: no comment.
[13:10] <ogra_ac> davidm, ^^^ any suggestion ?
[13:10] <NCommander> ogra_ac: static fix? (I'm blanking on what your referring to)
[13:10] <ogra_ac> NCommander, read the bug :P
[13:10] <rsalveti> ogra_ac: for natty I'd say we could go with a similar fix
[13:10] <rsalveti> we don't have the post release regression on it
[13:10] <ogra_ac> Bug 664431
[13:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 664431 in qt4-x11 (Ubuntu Maverick) "QT on armel is built with NEON by default" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/664431
[13:10] <NCommander> oh
[13:10] <NCommander> that bug
[13:11] <NCommander> ugh
[13:11] <ScottK> ogra_ac: Can we publish NEON .debs somewhere for the people wher are using Qt on NEON devices?
[13:11] <rsalveti> so we're ok to disable it for now, and then enable it as an additional feature
[13:11] <NCommander> explains why KDE segfaulted on Dove
[13:11]  * NCommander coughs
[13:11] <ogra_ac> ScottK, as soon as davidm's PPA spec is implemented we can offer a PPA
[13:11] <rsalveti> ScottK: I can put it on a ppa and post the link
[13:11] <ogra_ac> or what rsalveti says
[13:11] <rsalveti> can get that action
[13:11] <ogra_ac> ScottK, plan for natty is to have public arm PPAs for everyone
[13:12] <davidm> The PPA spec is in progress but it's going to take a couple of months to get the hardware all in
[13:12] <ogra_ac> so you should then just be able to do it yourself
[13:12] <ogra_ac> davidm, what about neon ?
[13:12] <ogra_ac> (see above)
[13:12] <ScottK> ogra_ac: I understand, but I'm concerned about the regression for people with NEON devices running Qt (of which I know there are some).
[13:12] <ogra_ac> ScottK, yes, understood, rsalveti will do a build in our team PPA and make that public
[13:13] <ogra_ac> NCommander, action ^^^
[13:13] <NCommander> davidm: I looked at the spec, and I have some places where I need to make changes, but I need to talk with IS and the LP gearheads to make sure all my ducks are in a row before I'll have the implementation part finalized for you
[13:13] <ScottK> BTW, my latest Qt build finished in less than 12 hours with three systems sharing the build via icecc.
[13:13] <NCommander> [action] rsalveti to create NEON enabled Qt build and post it publicly
[13:13] <MootBot> ACTION received:  rsalveti to create NEON enabled Qt build and post it publicly
[13:13] <NCommander> ScottK: Qt works great with icecc. OO.o, not so much :-(
[13:14] <rsalveti> ogra_ac: then lets push the same fix for natty, at least for now
[13:14] <ogra_ac> gah, i had another point i missed to add to the meeting page
[13:14] <rsalveti> we'll have more people using it as ac100 is all around
[13:14] <ogra_ac> rsalveti, yes, i wanted to hear that from davidm
[13:14] <ogra_ac> :)
[13:14] <ogra_ac> i think we both agree, but i want some higher authority to blame ;)
[13:15] <rsalveti> haha :-)
[13:15] <rsalveti> fair enough
[13:15]  * NCommander coughs andmoves on
[13:15] <NCommander> [action] ogra_ac and rsalveti to talk to davidm on proper approach to fix Qt
[13:15] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra_ac and rsalveti to talk to davidm on proper approach to fix Qt
[13:16] <NCommander> [topic] Special Items
[13:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Special Items
[13:16] <NCommander> [topic] canonical-mobile was completely deleted and replaced by canonical-arm
[13:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  canonical-mobile was completely deleted and replaced by canonical-arm
[13:16] <NCommander> why is this on here?
[13:16] <NCommander> This is the Ubuntu Mobile meeting, not the Canonical ARM one.
[13:16] <rsalveti> well, we can change ;-)
[13:16] <NCommander> (incidently, the work item tracker needs to be changed to track ubuntu-armel, and NOT canonical-arm)
[13:17] <ogra_ac> NCommander, ubuntu-mobile doesnt exist anymore
[13:17] <NCommander> ogra_ac: so the name of the meeting is an artifact
[13:17] <NCommander> that can be fixed, its the Ubuntu ARM Meeting now :-P
[13:17] <ogra_ac> the next two points would have been indended suppoints
[13:17] <ogra_ac> *sub
[13:18] <GrueMaster> That's how they appear here.
[13:18] <ogra_ac> and are the actual bulletpoints
[13:18] <ogra_ac> GrueMaster, not with the new theme
[13:18] <NCommander> ogra_ac: some of us have custom themes set
[13:18] <NCommander> anyway
[13:18] <davidm> ogra, neon needs to be in libs not hard compiled in
[13:18] <ogra_ac> davidm, thanks !
[13:18] <ogra_ac> so: there might be some fallout, please everyone check if i.e. PPA access for important PPAs is missing etc.
[13:18] <NCommander> GrueMaster: can you look at the bug lists, and make sure we have ubuntu-armel properly subscribed?
[13:18] <davidm> until there is no hardware that does not support neon that is how it has to be
[13:19] <NCommander> (it should be in all places, since that team wasn't renamed, but ...)
[13:19] <ogra_ac> right
[13:19] <ogra_ac> please everyone check their PPA accresses etc
[13:19] <ogra_ac> since there might have been team PPAs we could access through canonical-mobile membership
[13:19] <ogra_ac> if you find anything, please ping me
[13:19] <ogra_ac> NCommander, action for all ^^^
[13:19] <NCommander> ogra_ac: wrong venue for ~canonical-mobile/~canonica-arm stuff.
[13:19] <NCommander> Seriously
[13:20] <NCommander> [topic] cloosing down of the ubuntu-mobile mailing list
[13:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  cloosing down of the ubuntu-mobile mailing list
[13:20] <NCommander> do we have an ubuntu-arm(el) mailing list?
[13:20] <ogra_ac> no
[13:20] <lool> ogra_ac: [ Ain't a hack and ain't that evil! ]
[13:20] <rsalveti> no yet
[13:20] <ogra_ac> lool, heh
[13:20] <lool> Just a taste thing
[13:21] <ogra_ac> we wont have an arm ML
[13:21] <ogra_ac> doesnt make sense
[13:21] <ogra_ac> adn with the vanishing of ubuntu-mobile the ML needs to go
[13:21] <NCommander> lool: I'm guessing evil in France is different than evil in the rest of the world ;-)
[13:21] <ogra_ac> davidm wants to close it down soon
[13:21]  * NCommander runs
[13:21] <rsalveti> why don't we have a m-l?
[13:21] <rsalveti> I mean, an arm one
[13:21] <NCommander> ogra_ac: I'd like a mailing list for armel (or at least ports in general)
[13:21] <davidm> there is virtually no traffic except spam on the ML
[13:21] <ogra_ac> what for would we need one ?
[13:21] <NCommander> davidm: well, that and the mailing annoucements
[13:21] <ogra_ac> we dont have an amd64 one either
[13:22] <ogra_ac> nora a sparc or hppa one
[13:22] <NCommander> ogra_ac: cause amd64 is a mainline arch
[13:22] <davidm> the ubuntu-devel is more then good enough
[13:22] <NCommander> powerpc has one
[13:22] <ogra_ac> ubuntu-devel and ubuntu-devel-discuss should serve our needs
[13:22] <davidm> so?
[13:22] <NCommander> fair enough
[13:22] <NCommander> Who's tasked with shooting the u-mobile list dead?
[13:22] <ogra_ac> davidm
[13:22] <davidm> I can file the rt ticket to kill it
[13:23] <ogra_ac> NCommander, just make sure to send the meeting announcements to -desvel now
[13:23] <NCommander> [action] davidm to archive the ubuntu-mobile mailing list
[13:23] <MootBot> ACTION received:  davidm to archive the ubuntu-mobile mailing list
[13:23] <NCommander> ogra_ac: will do
[13:23] <ogra_ac> action ?
[13:23] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to send mailing list annoucements to u-devel
[13:23] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to send mailing list annoucements to u-devel
[13:23] <ogra_ac> :)
[13:23]  * NCommander doesn't quite type that fast
[13:23] <NCommander> :-P
[13:23] <ogra_ac> btw, i added another bullet point after meeting time
[13:23] <NCommander> [topic] New meeting time
[13:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  New meeting time
[13:23] <ogra_ac> (please reload wiki if you havent)
[13:24] <NCommander> Since we've recently had some regulars in this change and/or relocated, I think we should look at moving the metting
[13:24] <ogra_ac> the metting ;)
[13:24] <ogra_ac> (mett is chopped meat in german ;) )
[13:24] <NCommander> (plus those of us on the pacific time or further west have been shafted now for the last 6 months, someone else needs this pain)
[13:25] <NCommander> I'm proposing we simply move the meeting by 12 hours
[13:25]  * rsalveti doesn't like that
[13:25] <ogra_ac> well, lets ask persia
[13:25] <davidm> NCommander, I recomend we shelf this untl next week
[13:25] <ogra_ac> 12h ?!?
[13:25] <NCommander> davidm: fair enough
[13:25] <ogra_ac> thats 2am in europe
[13:25] <NCommander> ogra_ac: yeah, that would be 17:00 here
[13:25] <davidm> And we need to look at all times not a 12 hour shift
[13:25] <GrueMaster> persia is looking into available timeslots with the idea of being more TI friendly.
[13:25]  * ogra_ac refuses to have two nightly meetings
[13:26] <NCommander> right, so here's what we do
[13:26] <ogra_ac> GrueMaster, TI is mainly Nice nowadays
[13:26] <GrueMaster> We had a discussion about this last night.
[13:26] <NCommander> [action] everyone to put proposals of new times (and days) on the wiki
[13:26] <MootBot> ACTION received:  everyone to put proposals of new times (and days) on the wiki
[13:26] <ogra_ac> so it should be european workhours
[13:26] <NCommander> [action] davidm + persia to get input from TI on recommended times
[13:26] <MootBot> ACTION received:  davidm + persia to get input from TI on recommended times
[13:26] <NCommander> And then next week we're determine when is the best time.
[13:26] <NCommander> k?
[13:26] <ogra_ac> ++
[13:27] <NCommander> moving on :-)
[13:27] <NCommander> [topic] the return of openoffice on arm images due to desktop team merging the seeds
[13:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  the return of openoffice on arm images due to desktop team merging the seeds
[13:27] <ogra_ac> just a warning ;)
[13:27]  * NCommander goes to cry in the corner with this topic
[13:27] <ogra_ac> for the OO.o lovers among us
[13:27] <NCommander> Please, don't let Oracle touch me. It burns!
[13:27] <ogra_ac> -desktop team will merge the seeds
[13:27] <ogra_ac> and only build a single image
[13:27] <ogra_ac> we might or might not differ in that
[13:27] <NCommander> ogra_ac: sounds like we need to get spice seeds this cycle then to prevent this. OO.o + ARM sucks
[13:28] <ogra_ac> i have a workitem on their spec to research that
[13:28] <NCommander> or at least an architecture specific exclusion
[13:28] <GrueMaster> I believe it was announced that we will be moving to LibreOffice.
[13:28] <davidm> Sounds like we are going to need an ARM seed to me
[13:28] <ogra_ac> NCommander, we might need to build desktop images this cycle
[13:28] <NCommander> ogra_ac: well persia came up with a possible lead to find the missing notes so we might get lucky
[13:28] <ogra_ac> davidm, i wouldnt like that if we can avoid it
[13:28] <NCommander> ogra_ac: *wince*. Bad things happen when we try and remove OO.o from desktop
[13:28] <ogra_ac> not anymore
[13:28] <NCommander> ogra_ac: would or wouldn't?
[13:28] <ogra_ac> wouldnt
[13:28] <davidm> I don't want OO back on the build it takes to much room
[13:29] <ogra_ac> i'd like to go with one seed
[13:29] <NCommander> I don't want OO.o cause we're almost out of cows to sacirife to keep it going
[13:29] <davidm> I'd love to go with one seed if it meets our needs, which OO does not
[13:29] <ogra_ac> but the question is how technically hard that is
[13:29] <NCommander> ogra_ac: I'll take this action item
[13:29] <ogra_ac> davidm, on desktop images ?
[13:29] <davidm> Also we don't have mono working still
[13:29] <NCommander> and research if we can sanely exclude OOo if we build desktop in fair of something (anything) else
[13:29] <NCommander> davidm: OOo doesn't depend on mono (yet), just java
[13:29] <davidm> ogra, not at the moment
[13:29] <ogra_ac> NCommander, preferably i dont want us to have the extra work to keep seeds in sync
[13:29] <NCommander> though I think openjdk is kinda foobar'ed
[13:30] <ogra_ac> ??
[13:30] <davidm> NCommander,  but the new audio player for desktrop does I think
[13:30] <ogra_ac> openjdk is fine
[13:30] <NCommander> ogra_ac: what I'm hoping is we can do one seed, but get OOo off our images
[13:30] <ogra_ac> we can
[13:30] <ogra_ac> thats no prob
[13:30] <NCommander> ogra_ac: I'll look into it, I have to touch germinate anyway for other stuff
[13:30] <ogra_ac> we fixed that in lucid
[13:30] <NCommander> ogra_ac: oh, is it more of a question "do we want to exclude it?"
[13:30]  * GrueMaster shudders at the QA implications of OO.o on the images.
[13:30] <ogra_ac> NCommander, right
[13:30] <ogra_ac> NCommander, and accroding to davidm we dont want OO.o
[13:30] <NCommander> GrueMaster: we'll have to sacrifice one of the bodies to keep the beast happy
[13:31] <davidm> and we don't want mono apps
[13:31] <ogra_ac> we need to take care for OO.o anyway
[13:31] <ogra_ac> if its on the images or not
[13:31] <davidm> seperate problem but a problem non the less
[13:31] <ogra_ac> so i dont see the issue why it matters if we have it on the desktop images
[13:31] <NCommander> If there is no contractual requirement for Canonical-provided images, and if there's no demand for it on community-provided images, then I'm happy to leave it off
[13:31] <NCommander> ogra_ac: out of site, out of mind ;-)
[13:31] <ogra_ac> NCommander, we still need to take care for it
[13:32] <NCommander> ogra_ac: although granted, with the migration to libreoffice, at least we can drop most of the patches since we won't have issues with upstream
[13:32] <ogra_ac> its a main app we are bound to make sure works
[13:32] <NCommander> ogra_ac: yes, but if its on the image, we have to make sure it works well :-P
[13:32]  * ogra_ac doesnt see much difference between libre and openoffice yet
[13:32] <ogra_ac> i assume for natty the code wont much differ
[13:32] <NCommander> ogra_ac: its more that we won't have issues with getting upstream to accept patches
[13:33] <ogra_ac> we always have to make sure it works well
[13:33] <NCommander> Sun's upstremaing guidelines were ... painful
[13:33] <ogra_ac> ah, yeah, patching should be easier
[13:33] <NCommander> ogra_ac: indeed
[13:33] <NCommander> I'm of leaving it off the images
[13:33] <ogra_ac> i dont really care
[13:33] <NCommander> *for
[13:33] <ogra_ac> i wouldnt mind having it on desktop images
[13:34] <ogra_ac> not on netbook though
[13:34] <NCommander> davidm: do we care about OOo being shipped? We can exclude it on a per-architecture basis and re-add it on a per image basis (if spice seeds materialize) if we need it
[13:34] <davidm> Currently we are not planning on desktop images
[13:34] <ogra_ac> (its not clear yet if we *will* build desktop at all)
[13:34] <ogra_ac> right
[13:34] <davidm> For ARM netbooks OO was overkill
[13:34] <ogra_ac> yes
[13:35] <NCommander> ogra_ac: I think we should stick a pin in this discussion and only revisit of desktop images materialize
[13:35] <NCommander> davidm: s/was/is/g
[13:35] <ogra_ac> i just would like to sick as close to the desktop seed as possible for images
[13:35] <ogra_ac> NCommander, good idea
[13:36] <NCommander> I think we're all agreed that we're not putting OO.o on the netbook images short of a contractual requirement to do so (or strong community demand which I consider unlikely)
[13:36] <NCommander> BTW
[13:36] <NCommander> In response to earlier feedback
[13:36] <ogra_ac> no, no OO.o on netbook, in any case
[13:36] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to eBay his soul to fix mono on ARM
[13:36] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to eBay his soul to fix mono on ARM
[13:36] <NCommander> :-)
[13:36] <ogra_ac> heh, who would bid on that ?
[13:36] <NCommander> ouch.
[13:36] <rsalveti> heheh, true
[13:37] <ogra_ac> or do you plan a buy now offer ?
[13:37] <rsalveti> and you're brave to try to fix mono
[13:37] <NCommander> With friends like you, who needs enemies?
[13:37] <NCommander> :_p
[13:37] <ogra_ac> heh
[13:37] <ogra_ac> we love you, you know that :)
[13:37] <NCommander> rsalveti: meh. mono isn't a re-implementation of Windows COM. It at least has comments in the code base
[13:38] <ogra_ac> in any case rhythmbox will stay in the supported set of apps
[13:38] <rsalveti> NCommander: but is a pain :-)
[13:38] <NCommander> ogra_ac: all abusers say that :-P *runs*
[13:38] <ogra_ac> so we can happily go on shipping it
[13:38] <NCommander> rsalveti: I did some work on mono on ARM last time it blew up
[13:38] <NCommander> so I have a general idea of what might be going wrong
[13:38] <rsalveti> oh can, I'm happy I'm not the one to fix it
[13:38] <ogra_ac> tomboy is the only mono app we currently have
[13:38] <rsalveti> *oh, ok
[13:38] <NCommander> oh crap
[13:38] <NCommander> damn it
[13:38] <ogra_ac> in our images
[13:38] <ogra_ac> hmm, and gwibber possibly
[13:38] <NCommander> why didn't I drink coffee earlier, I just enlisted for a world of pain :-/
[13:39] <NCommander> ogra_ac: we want it fixed anyway :-/
[13:39] <ogra_ac> we do
[13:39] <ogra_ac> though
[13:39] <NCommander> mono been mostly foobar'ed since karmic(?)
[13:39] <ogra_ac> please coordinate with linaro
[13:39] <NCommander> none of us could really look into it lucid
[13:39] <ogra_ac> specifically with slangasek's team
[13:39] <NCommander> ogra_ac: has anyone in linaro looked into it?
[13:39] <ogra_ac> no, but the linaro platform team cares for such stuff
[13:39] <rsalveti> no one is interested, I believe
[13:39] <ogra_ac> so work together with them
[13:40] <ogra_ac> i pointed slangasek to it last release, but i think nobody had time over there
[13:40] <ogra_ac> so i guess they appreciate if you work on it
[13:40] <NCommander> ogra_ac: where's the existing mono is broken bug
[13:40] <ogra_ac> use their resources if you need to though
[13:40] <ogra_ac> no idea from the top of my head
[13:41] <ogra_ac> let me look that up after meeting
[13:41]  * GrueMaster looks.
[13:41] <ogra_ac> or that ;)
[13:41] <NCommander> right
[13:41] <NCommander> anyway
[13:41] <NCommander> moving on, I don't want to run over
[13:41] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[13:41] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[13:41] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-arm.html
[13:41] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-arm.html
[13:41] <GrueMaster> (mono) Bug #561874
[13:41] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 561874 in f-spot (Ubuntu) "NULL Reference exception in F-Spot" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/561874
[13:41] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-arm-alpha-1.html
[13:41] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-arm-alpha-1.html
[13:41] <ogra_ac> did GrueMaster take the action for fixing the assigned bugs list above ?
[13:42] <ogra_ac> the WI list isnt complete yet
[13:42] <ogra_ac> needs another tracker run
[13:42] <GrueMaster> Will do.  Actually I need to ping marjo for this.
[13:42] <ogra_ac> GrueMaster, thanks
[13:42] <ogra_ac> NCommander, action ^^^
[13:42] <NCommander> [action] GrueMaster to fix assigned bugs
[13:42] <MootBot> ACTION received:  GrueMaster to fix assigned bugs
[13:42] <GrueMaster> (mono) Bug #619981
[13:42] <NCommander> hrm
[13:42] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 619981 in banshee (Ubuntu Maverick) "Banshee crashed while sitting idle on omap4" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/619981
[13:42] <NCommander> That action item seems like it could be worded better :-)
[13:42] <ogra_ac> lol
[13:43] <ogra_ac> well, i dont mind
[13:43] <ogra_ac> you should say "assigned to ubuntu-armel" ;)
[13:43] <GrueMaster> Yea, and you want them fixed...when?
[13:43] <ogra_ac> alpha 1 please
[13:43] <NCommander> GrueMaster: tonight preferable ;-)
[13:43] <ogra_ac> :P
[13:43] <NCommander> [topic] http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[13:43] <MootBot> New Topic:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-mobile-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[13:43] <ogra_ac> that will break with the next run
[13:43] <NCommander> k
[13:43]  * GrueMaster increases rent, decreases heat upstairs.
[13:43] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[13:43] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier, lag)
[13:44] <ogra_ac> canonical-mobile doesnt exist anymore
[13:44] <ogra_ac> NCommander, that needs cleanup
[13:44] <NCommander> GrueMaster: don't worry, I have all your hatred aimed at me to keep me warm
[13:44] <ogra_ac> no mpoirier or lag anymore
[13:44] <NCommander> yay, we fixed the issue of lag on the internet!
[13:44] <ogra_ac> we moved the lag to linaro ;)
[13:45] <NCommander> that explains so much
[13:45] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[13:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[13:45] <GrueMaster> Nothing to report.  Checkbox customization is WIP.
[13:45] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander)
[13:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander)
[13:45] <NCommander> not quite a diaster as when I left on VAC, thanks ogra
[13:46] <ogra_ac> I don't have time to wait for the right point in the meeting as I'm about to leave here.  I wanted to make sure people knew that Bug #675347 is now the blocker for Qt/KDE stuff on arm and hopefully you can convince someone to fix it soon.
[13:46] <NCommander> Once Qt is fixed, KDE should just build with a few minor whacks. ScottK is handling this mostly
[13:46] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 675347 in gcc-4.5 (Ubuntu Natty) "volatile int causes inline assembly build failure" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/675347
[13:46] <ogra_ac> from ScottK
[13:46] <ogra_ac> (he pinged me in PM)
[13:46] <NCommander> ogra_ac: thanks
[13:46] <ogra_ac> so thats one biggie
[13:46] <NCommander> Right, other than that, the list is pretty simple, and not too many ARM specific in main
[13:47] <NCommander> Once Qt/KDE gets fixed, I'm going to ask for a universe mass-giveback as theirs a lot of breakage there that's just archive skew
[13:47] <ogra_ac> nothing blocks image builds atm at least
[13:47] <NCommander> indeed
[13:47] <NCommander> so, moving on
[13:47] <ogra_ac> we need to look into it nontheless
[13:47] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[13:47] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[13:47] <ogra_ac> we have omap4
[13:47] <NCommander> WE HAVE IMAGES! (thanks ogra)
[13:47] <ogra_ac> for omap3 the kernel status isnt clear yet
[13:48] <ogra_ac> (see my discussion on the MLs)
[13:48] <ogra_ac> someone needs to take security responsibility for omap3
[13:48] <ogra_ac> then we can use linaros kernel
[13:48] <ogra_ac> until thats clear we wont have omap3
[13:48] <NCommander> [action] ogra to follow up on omap3 situation with Linaro's kernle team
[13:48] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra to follow up on omap3 situation with Linaro's kernle team
[13:48] <ogra_ac> (sorry for the image build mails until then)
[13:49] <rsalveti> actually this needs to be followed with ubuntu's kernel and security team
[13:49] <ogra_ac> NCommander, has nothing to do with linaros kernel team
[13:49] <ogra_ac> please remove that action
[13:49] <NCommander> striken
[13:49] <ogra_ac> (and read the ML thread first :P )
[13:49] <NCommander> ogra_ac: I did, I thought Linaro was saying they were going to take the kernel.
[13:49] <ogra_ac> ubuntus kernel and security teams have the ball atm
[13:49] <ogra_ac> as rsalveti said
[13:49] <NCommander> d'oh
[13:50] <NCommander> [action] ogra_ac to follow omap3 kernel situation
[13:50] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ogra_ac to follow omap3 kernel situation
[13:50] <ogra_ac> and nobody but manjo answered the thread yet
[13:50] <ogra_ac> (with an unrelated comment)
[13:50] <ogra_ac> the kernel team is well aware
[13:51] <ogra_ac> i raised it in their last meeting
[13:51] <ogra_ac> but dont have a solution either yet
[13:51] <ogra_ac> and no manpower
[13:51] <rsalveti> probably only after getting those 2 new guys around
[13:51] <ogra_ac> yes
[13:51] <rsalveti> ogra_ac: and about the newer guy from our team?
[13:52] <ogra_ac> no idea when he starts
[13:52] <ogra_ac> davidm will know soon i guess
[13:52] <ogra_ac> and tell us then ;)
[13:52] <rsalveti> oh :-)
[13:52] <rsalveti> and just a note, I'll be at vacation next week
[13:52] <ogra_ac> k
[13:52] <ogra_ac> slacker !
[13:52] <NCommander> [topic] Any Other Business
[13:52] <MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business
[13:53] <ogra_ac> everyone: finish workitems !
[13:53] <ogra_ac> :)
[13:53] <rsalveti> ogra_ac: haha, and you'll be forced to be out during december ;-)
[13:53] <ogra_ac> yeah, i guess
[13:53] <NCommander> anything else
[13:53] <NCommander> will close in 3
[13:53] <NCommander> 2
[13:53] <NCommander> 1 1/2
[13:53] <NCommander> 1
[13:53] <NCommander> #endmeeting
</pre>

=== Action Items ===
* rsalveti to create NEON enabled Qt build and post it publicly
* ogra_ac and rsalveti to talk to davidm on proper approach to fix Qt
* GrueMaster to fix assigned bugs list
* ogra_ac to follow omap3 kernel situation
* NCommander to eBay his soul to fix mono on ARM

=== Minutes ===
* NCommander continuing to chase mono breakage
* omap3 images move to community support
* Linaro working to provide omap kernel tree
* Checkbox customization WIP

== Weekly Reports ==
=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
* Began mono debugging
* Killed dove images
