{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''February 12th, 2009, 12:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>
== Agenda ==
=== Action Items from Jan 29th, 2009 ===
* persia to get initial results from mobile-setup-wizard (co)
* NCommander to take over driving ship-seed-for-mobile-images to close it (co)
* NCommander to reset arm-softboot-loader to "Drafting", and work towards a solution in #ubuntu-arm over the next week. (co)
* persia to request conclusions from application research delegates for UbuntuSpec:mobile-applications (co)
* davidm to target mid-screen-rotation for A5
* davidm to explore eee PC WiFi with pgraner this week

=== Current Items ===

* Review <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki> progress
* Any Other Business

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===

* persia to file bugs to fix mobile-setup-wizard issues
* NCommander to take over driving ship-seed-for-mobile-images to close it (co)
* NCommander to reset arm-softboot-loader to "Drafting", and work towards a solution in #ubuntu-arm over the next week. (co)
* davidm to update roadmap to reflect specs targeted for jaunty
* persia to post install testcases for MID and UNR
* persia to put vfp spec on the roadmap.
* StevenK to file poulsbo packaging bugs
* persia to finish pouslbo-packaging spec draft and add to roadm
* ogra to add nslu2 enablement to the Roadmap
* lool to follow up with NCommander to further extend the r
* NCommander to test fix for 280699
* lool to remind NCommander of previous action
* NCommander to finish drafting arm-softboot-loader

=== Minutes ===

None of the assigned testers prepared any results for mobile-applications, and the spec was deferred for the next cycle.  There were significant changes to prioritisation and approval status of blueprints to reflect a focus on netbooks, causing a significantly reduced roadmap review: the roadmap is expected to catch up for the next meeting.  Eee testing is proceeding well, and appropriate bugs have been filed.

UbuntuSpec:offline-installer has a POC on a wiki page, and may be implemented as a wiki page for the Jaunty cycle due to approaching FeatureFreeze.  UbuntuSpec:unr-handling-jaunty proceeds apace, and UbuntuSpec:selection-of-arm-images is somewhat stuck pending kernel availability for target hardware.

Additional discussion included better means of tracking some activities not listed on the Roadmap, with actions assigned to improve tracking.  Help was needed to verify the fix for bug #280669, and there was discussion of the need to complete the drafting phase for all specifications.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
