{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''February 14th, 2008, 17:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-mobile'''.

== Agenda ==

=== Action Items from Feb 07th, 2008 ===
* ChickenCutlass to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB. (carried over for next week)
* cwong1, looking into i18n for midbrowser (closed)

=== Current Items ===
* Just clarifying: intel status on gettext impl of i18n in all software, including midbrowser, media player, control panel applets, etc. kyleN
* Language packs for mobile. Can/should there be mobile specific language packs with only relevant packages to decrease footprint. kyleN
* Does the Hardy UserInterface freeze of Feb 24 mean launchpad can't be used for translation of UI changes that occur after that? kyleN
* Ownership needs to be assigned to get remaining Hildon 2.0 packages into Hardy (bfiller)
* smagoun: Status of Intel projects to be moved to PPA/Hardy
* smagoun: PPA needs to be functional at all times

=== Action items from this weeks meeting ===
* ChickenCutlass to to produce boot charts for squashfs vs ext3 for hardy CB. (carryover)
* cwong1 to to look into languages pack differences between midbrowser and firefox and report back next week.
* kyleN to follow up with ToddBrandt offline on control panel i18n status.
* Mithrandir and lool to determine what is the best solution for "the probability that there will be significant user interface string changes post freeze that will need to be translated"
* Mithrandir to split up remaining Hildon packages that need to be upgraded amongst everybody except people who claim they are busy with other things.
* Mithrandir to nag about the import; we have it set up already but it's just in testing.
=== Minutes ===
<nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~davidm/mootbot/meetings/ubuntu-mobile.20080214_1700.html|: 14 Feb Minutes]]</nowiki>
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUME]]</nowiki>
