{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''March 23rd, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100316]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100330]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from March 16th, 2010 ===
* GrueMaster & plars to investigate imx51 suspend issue
* persia to bring remove any unneeded images from antimony 

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-2.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
* QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
* ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[EmmetHikory|persia]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==
=== Action Items ===
* cooloney to get karmic-proposed imx51 kernel with NEON fix in
* ncommander to extend invite to ericm and amitk to report on kernel status
* plars to follow up with crimsun on the sound bug and report back
* asac to upload libplist with -marm
* asac and dmart to get firefox rendering issue upstreamed

=== Minutes ===
* plars informed the team that the iMX51 suspend issue seemed to be fixed now after recieving a new kernel.
* Unneeded images on antimony had been culled by StevenK and persia this week. ubuntu-desktop and alternative were the ones to go.
* asac asked StevenK about the status of webservice-office-zoho's inclusion into main, StevenK committed to promoting it as soon as possible.
* asac also asked dyfet about the status of the Canola packaging effort. Some discussion around upstream supporting future work on Canola happened with the conclusion that more commitment is needed from upstream before it can be included.
* Talked moved onto kernel status. cooloney confirmed plars recent comments that suspend was fixed on iMX51. cooloney also took the action item to investigate NEON optimizations for Karmic kernels.
* The next subject was QA status. GrueMaster stated that beta 1 images looked 'very solid' but plars added that netboot still failed badly. Some bugs were still present but no blockers. 
* There were still sound issues present, probably pulseaudio related, but these were being worked on. Talk digressed into details, GrueMaster offered to test the latest ALSA tree but asac wanted more audio experts to comment on the bug first. plars took the action item to work with crimsun on the issue.
* dyfet mentioned that he had done a number of FTBFS related fixes. asac asked him to push these more to be sponsored.
* A more worrying FTBFS issue arose. The non-thumb2 supporting builders were failing to build libplist. asac suggested compiling with -marm instead until thumb2 builders become available.
* ogra reported that iMX51 and Dove images were stable and had been for a number of days. OMAP was still being prepared and x-loader and u-boot were in the archive but needed MIR'ing to main. A working kernel was not present so no images could be produced at the moment. 
* Discussion then centered around web browsers. dmart and asac stated that they had seen issues with Google Maps on Firefox. asac committed to working with dmart to get the issue pushed upstream.

== Weekly Reports ==
=== Paul Larson (plars) ===
==== This Week ====
* Beta 1 testing on imx51 and dove
* SRU verification of imx51 kernel to fix bug #507416 - it was discovered that CONFIG_NEON was not being set in the config
* Suspend/Resume testing and posting of results
** Suspend/Resume tests announced on QA mailing list
* Chromium testing
* Netperf and other performance testing on karmic with and without NEON enabled

==== Future ====
* More testing
* Bringing up some new hardware

=== Alexander Sack (asac) ===
==== This Week ====
* 3 days on lean training
* help jamiebennett localize the webservice-office-zoho package
* uploaded libmad to #lucid fixing two armel ftbfs bugs lp:513734 lp:534287
* upload libplist - investigated why it fails on builders, but not here; seems we are finally struck by builders not supporting thumb2; workaround would be to use -marm or wait till new thumb2 enabled builders are up (i prefer the latter)
** forwarded endianess for floating point patch to debian
* get overlay archives for supported SoCs setup
* investigate mono issues with upstream - cherry-picked a backported patch to fix 6 more test failures; rest is supposed to be fixed in 2.6 and backports seem to be too hard.
* get thunderbird 3.0 sdk packaged to unblock enigmail
** redo enigmail based on that
* help coordinate thunderbird 2 security update
* help chris cheney on epiphany backport to hardy. resolved a few issues and gave pointers on how to proceed.
* release team meeting
* some multi-soc archive discussion

=== Emmet Hikory (persia) ===
==== This Week ====
* Investigate schroot FTBFS (dot issues)
* Track down unnecessary armel images
* Try to identify outstanding issues for lubuntu as a flavour
* Retry some FTBFSs

=== Dave Martin (dmart) ===
==== This Week ====
* Ongoing SMP investigations (slowed down by some non-Ubuntu-specific platform problems)
* Last bits of OpenOffice bug wrangling

==== Future ====
* Continue SMP work.
* Continue Thumb-2 porting support.

=== David Sugar (dyfet) ===
==== This Week ====
* A number of broken dependencies and failed to builds fixed or otherwise patched, including squid, ziproxy, mgltools, and plasma-widget-message-indicator
* A number of additional ftbfs and broken dependencies also investigated
* sipwitch bugfix update for beta
* lightmediascanner salvageable from canola2 work as a new package submission
* Away end of week at Harvard Conference

==== Future ====
* Away part of Monday
* Beta1 testing
* More ftbfs/build issues to be investigated and fixed

=== Jamie Bennett (JamieBennett) ===
==== This Week ====
* Two days lean training.
* Translation support research.
* Initial implementation of translation and distutils support for webservice-office-zoho. Lots of experimenting until finally a good solution was found using python-distutils-extra.
* FTBFS investigations but nothing concrete produced.

==== Future ====
* Final push to get webservice-office-zoho into main.
* Triage and fix packages from the FTBFS list.

=== Tobin Davis (GrueMaster) ===
==== This Week ====
* Beta 1 testing.  One respin.  Fairly solid overall.
* Audio testing on Dove and imx51 platforms.  Still issues with Pulse Audio.
** On Dove, playing 44100hz audio fails unless the user deletes everything in ~/.pulse.  
** Some apps refuse to work through pulse, but work with alsa directly ok (totem, mpg123), where others work fine (ogg123).
* Tested suspend/resume on Dove with standard kernel and a test kernel supplied by apw.  Need to do more thorough testing and get results to ericm next week.
* Started rough documentation for building and running lsb lib tests that we have.  Still seeing errors, and I have no way of knowing if they are our errors or the test suite.  Will finish up documenting and mark this as a good idea, but failed due to upstream.

==== Future ====
* Network testing on Babbage.  Try to determine what the issues are with downloading from a Windows server vs a Linux server.
* More snapshot testing.
* Hope to get some real usage model testing done (Bluetooth audio & controller functionality, App testing, etc).

=== Michael Casadevall (NCommander) ===
* Marvell optimization continues
* OOo testing continues
* FTBFS fixing continues

==== Future ====
* Finish Marvell optimization
* Fix more FTBFSes

=== Steve Kowalik (StevenK) ===

* Thursday archive admin duties.
* Fight to keep images building.
* Carried out OMAP enablement to build images for them.

== Meeting Log ==
<pre>
12:57 < NCommander> #startmeeting
12:57 < MootBot> Meeting started at 08:00. The chair is NCommander.
12:57 < MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
12:58  * ogra waves
12:58 < JamieBennett> moo
12:58  * GrueMaster blinks
12:58 < NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100323
12:58 < MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100323
12:58 < dyfet> rubs eyes
12:58 -!- dmart [~chatzilla@fw-tnat.cambridge.arm.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:58 < NCommander> [topic] Action Item Review
12:58 < MootBot> New Topic:  Action Item Review
12:58 < NCommander> [topic] GrueMaster & plars to investigate imx51 suspend issue
12:58 < MootBot> New Topic:  GrueMaster & plars to investigate imx51 suspend issue
12:58 < plars> seems to be fixed, from my perspective
12:58 < plars> tested a new kernel
12:59 < plars> this time, not just backing out patches, but with an actual fix
12:59 < plars> in both cases, I am no longer able to reproduce the bug
12:59  * davidm needs coffee
12:59 < ogra> ++
12:59 < GrueMaster> davidm: grab me a cup, please.
12:59 < plars> GrueMaster: ? are you still seeing it though?  iirc you were still able to reproduce it even with some of the kernels where I was not seeing it
13:00 < GrueMaster> I was going to look yesterday, but got pulled away.  I'll look at it now.
13:00 -!- ZirconCode [~d3025be6@gateway/web/freenode/x-wrmaokexwyurbeep] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:00 -!- hyperair [~hyperair@ubuntu/member/hyperair] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:01 < GrueMaster> yesterday's image works for me.
13:01 < GrueMaster> I'll run your checkbox test later for more thorough testing.
13:02 < asac> hi
13:02  * NCommander waits for the goahead to move on
13:02 < plars> great!
13:02 < asac> NCommander: sending a round ping to all before starting would be a good addition to your services
13:02 < GrueMaster> Roll on one.
13:02 < asac> :)
13:02 < plars> NCommander: I think we're done
13:02 < NCommander> [topic] persia to bring remove any unneeded images from antimony
13:02 < MootBot> New Topic:  persia to bring remove any unneeded images from antimony
13:02 < persia> StevenK: killed the last of them yesterday.
13:03 < persia> We ended up a bit delayed because of beta, but we're down to six images.
13:03  * ogra will add more :P
13:03 -!- worellana [~worellana@unaffiliated/worellana] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:03  * persia dreams of kernel unification
13:03  * NCommander +1s that dream
13:04 < StevenK> Yes, it will jump up to 9
13:04 < StevenK> Soon
13:04 < asac> persia: what images got killed?
13:04 -!- anmar [~anmar@CPE001b63f29e4b-CM001ac318bd2a.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:04 < StevenK> asac: ubuntu-desktop alternate
13:04 < ogra> well, if we ever get a working kernel for omap at least
13:04 < asac> kk
13:05 < asac> ok
13:05 < asac> can we move on?
13:06 < NCommander> [topic] Standing Item Review
13:06 < MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Item Review
13:06 < NCommander> [topic] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
13:06 < MootBot> New Topic:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile.html
13:06 < NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-2.html
13:06 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-mobile-ubuntu-10.04-beta-2.html
13:07 < asac> ok seems all is waiting for me ;)
13:07 < asac> StevenK: is the webservice office part seeded?
13:07 < ogra> slacker !
13:07 < ogra> :)
13:07 < plars> heh
13:07 < StevenK> Is it in main yet?
13:07 < asac> StevenK: it has an approved MIR
13:07 < asac> dyfet:  Package and maintain Canola and deps in a ppa
13:07 < asac> whats going on there?
13:08 < StevenK> asac: Okay, give me the bug number and I'll sort it out tomorrow
13:08 -!- ZirconCode [~d3025be6@gateway/web/freenode/x-wrmaokexwyurbeep] has quit [Quit: Page closed]
13:08 < StevenK> Promotion, seeding, etc, etc
13:08 < asac> StevenK: guess the only bug open against webservice-office-zoho ;)
13:08 < dyfet> We are not packaging the current canola stuff
13:08 < StevenK> I was guessing you had the bug number handy. Guess not. :-P
13:08 < dyfet> At least outside of a ppa
13:08 < JamieBennett> StevenK: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/webservice-office-zoho/+bug/537323
13:08 < ubottu> Ubuntu bug 537323 in webservice-office-zoho "[MIR] Main inclusion request for webservice-office-zoho" [High,Fix released]
13:09 < asac> dyfet: that task is about getting the stuff in a ppa
13:09 < dyfet> It is in a ppa now for lucid :)
13:09 < asac> dyfet: which ppa?
13:09 < dyfet> We were hoping to archive it for lucid though
13:09 < asac> no archive was off the plate for a bit
13:09 < dyfet> It's a temporary one I setup...I can send you the url in just a sec
13:10 < asac> dyfet: please post that as a status update to the blueprint and set your work item to DONE
13:10 < dyfet> asac: https://launchpad.net/~dyfet/+archive/canola2 - okay, will do
13:10 < asac> dyfet: are all the packages in there, not in the archive?
13:10 < asac> or are some updates/patched packages?
13:11 < dyfet> They are all there and updated for current packaging policies
13:11 < dyfet> Originally I was hoping to push them to revu...
13:11 < asac> dyfet: i mean: is there any package in the ppa that isnt in the archvie?
13:11 < asac> err
13:11 < ogra> heh
13:11 < asac> any package that also is in the archive ;)
13:11 < dyfet> Probably not
13:11 < asac> i want to understand if all packages are NEW
13:11 < dyfet> Yes they are all new
13:12 < asac> ok
13:12 < asac> dyfet: so what makes you think this is not going to happen in the archive?
13:12 < dyfet> Because most are packages that are now abandoned
13:12 < asac> i dont understand that
13:12 < asac> please elaborate ;)
13:12 < dyfet> That is canola2 is being written using different dependencies
13:12 < dyfet> (re-written)
13:12 < asac> who is leading that effort
13:12 < dyfet> So episilon and all the etk stuff are dead-end packages
13:12 < asac> ?
13:13 < dyfet> I have to go back into my email...
13:13 < asac> lets take that offline
13:13 < asac> thanks for the update
13:13 < dyfet> okay :)
13:13 < NCommander> can I move on?
13:13 < asac> yes next standing item please
13:14 < NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
13:14 < MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, ericm)
13:14 < cooloney> hi guys
13:14 < asac> hi cooloney
13:14 < cooloney> no much from my side
13:14 < asac> cooloney: one question
13:14 < cooloney> i think we fixed the suspend/resume regression
13:14 < cooloney> asac: yeah,
13:14 < asac> cooloney: do you have getting the NEON thing into karmic-proposed on your plate?
13:14 < asac> the kernel was dropped because of security update
13:15 < asac> and now we need to get that in again as some folks need that ;)
13:15 < ogra> asac, i thought smb wanted to care for it
13:15 < cooloney> asac: i did not track that, i assume it was in karmic-proposed already
13:15 < asac> ogra: nothing happened
13:15 < cooloney> right, smb helped that i think
13:15 < asac> cooloney: it was in tehre, got dropped and yesterday nothing has happened
13:15 < asac> cooloney: can you drive this? e.g. poke smb etc.?
13:16 < cooloney> actually, i did not test karmic for several weeks
13:16 -!- nigelb [~nigelb@ubuntu/member/nigelb] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:16 < cooloney> asac: no problem, please an action item for me
13:16 < cooloney> s/an/add
13:16 < asac> [ACTION] cooloney to get karmic-proposed imx51 kernel with NEON fix in
13:16 < ogra> i just pinged him in the other channel, please take over  :)
13:16 < asac> NCommander: ^
13:16 < cooloney> ogra: thanks man
13:16 < asac> cooloney: suspend/resume: did you close the bug?
13:16 < asac> ;)
13:17 < cooloney> asac: yeah, it should be close since the patch was merged
13:17 < asac> found that kernel bugs often dont get closed when they are fixed
13:17 < asac> cool
13:17 < NCommander> [action] cooloney to get karmic-proposed imx51 kernel with NEON fix in
13:17 < MootBot> ACTION received:  cooloney to get karmic-proposed imx51 kernel with NEON fix in
13:17 < GrueMaster> asac: Little premature.  Let me run the test suite today first.
13:17 < asac> cooloney: ok.thanks
13:17 < asac> ericm isnt here
13:17 < asac> lets  move on then
13:17 < plars> GrueMaster: I believe it's just going into proposed at this point
13:17 < ogra> amitk isnt either :(
13:18  * ogra would like an update on the omap kernel
13:18 < ogra> we need to invite him for future meetings
13:18  * asac takes care that they get in next time
13:18 < asac> [ACTION] ncommander to extend invite to ericm and amitk
13:18 -!- meanburrito920_ [~john@unaffiliated/meanburrito920] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:18 < NCommander> [ACTION] ncommander to extend invite to ericm and amitk
13:18 < MootBot> ACTION received:  ncommander to extend invite to ericm and amitk
13:18 < NCommander> asac: ericm should be here
13:19 < ogra> he has a standing invite
13:19 < asac> NCommander: not for me ;)
13:19 < NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
13:19 < MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster, plars)
13:19 -!- DavidLevin [~DavidLevi@67-210-33-186.ul.warwick.net] has quit [Quit: DavidLevin]
13:19  * asac hands mic to GrueMaster 
13:20  * ogra moves to the edge of his seat in awe and excitement
13:20 < GrueMaster> Beta 1 looks very solid.  Still some bugs to work on, but major progress towards image stability has been made.
13:20 < plars> beta testing done, netboot images failed pretty badly, other than that, and a carried over bug on imx51 (dup of a non-arm specific bug) images were in pretty good shape
13:20 < plars> suspend/resume results have started to show up on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Testing
13:21 < asac> GrueMaster: any bugs of particual interest that need to be worked/discussed?
13:21 < ogra> cooloney asked about a graphics issue on imx51 recently
13:21 < ogra> that seemsed to show up since plymouth changed
13:21 < plars> I was unable to reproduce that on babbage 3, but he mentioned that he was on 2.5
13:22 < cooloney> ogra: sorry,
13:22 < GrueMaster> We are still having sound issues on Dove.
13:22 -!- DavidLevin [~DavidLevi@67-210-33-186.ul.warwick.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:22 < cooloney> i did apt-get dist-upgrade
13:22 < cooloney> now it works fine
13:22 < ogra> ok
13:22 < ogra> then i'll count that as a non-issue :D
13:22 < plars> GrueMaster: sound issues are on both imx51 and dove
13:22 < asac> same issues?
13:22 < plars> but yes, I've done some more debugging on the dove one, and need to go get straces now
13:22 < asac> all pulseaudio related?
13:22 < plars> unless someone beats me to it
13:23 < plars> seems so,k yes
13:23 -!- leoquant [~leor@ubuntu/member/leoquant] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:23 < cooloney> ogra: do you have any feedback about the regular issue from fsl?
13:23 < asac> plars: do we have simple test cases in the bugs?
13:24 < plars> asac: yes
13:24 < cooloney> regulator
13:24 < cooloney> sorry
13:24 < plars> very
13:24 < ogra> cooloney, nope, we pointed it out in the last call but no answer yet
13:24 < ogra> asac, ^^^ lets poke again tonight
13:24 < cooloney> ogra: got you
13:24 < asac> yeah
13:24 < ogra> and start considering it as nice-to-have probably
13:25 < GrueMaster> The sound bug on Dove is Bug #528524
13:25 < ubottu> Launchpad bug 528524 in pulseaudio "Sound not working in all apps on dove" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/528524
13:25 < ogra> i.e. make it vanish from the action items
13:25 < ogra> s/action/work/
13:25 < asac> plars: the checkbox result pacge.
13:25 < asac> maybe this can have an executive summary on top?
13:26 < asac> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Testing/SusresResults/imx51-20100318
13:26 < asac> thats where i am looking at
13:26 < plars> asac: the easiest thing to do is to click on "questions"
13:26 < plars> and focus on that section for results
13:26 < persia> Sound issues on specific hardware are very unlikely to be related to pulseaudio in anyway.  It's most likely an ASoC issue or some mismatch between ALSA lib versions.
13:26 < plars> I basically just convert the output to a wiki format as best as possible with my rudimentary knowledge of xslt
13:27 < asac> well. pulse needs some sophisitaction of the drivers
13:27 < asac> mighzt be that ours are just too dumb ;)
13:27 < asac> plars: yeah tahts fine
13:27 < asac> plars: what are we doing with those that failed?
13:27 < persia> asac: pulse *doesn't* have drivers.  ALSA/ASoC do.
13:28 < asac> persia: yes, but the issue is still a pulse issue as its unconvered by it ;)
13:28 < asac> sure its a driver issue in the end
13:28 < asac> just a pulse specific one ;)
13:28 < plars> asac: bugs are in for them, I'll try to go back and update with the bug #'s... at least one failed because of something I need to fix in the test.  I'll get that fixed up and update
13:28 < asac> (if its pulse related at all)
13:28 < persia> I guess, but it can't be fixed in pulseaudio, so I still say the bug isn't targeted properly :)
13:28 -!- jMyles [~justin@rrcs-24-39-111-40.nyc.biz.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:28 < asac> plars: the "wait a bit after resume so the CPU settled" fix?
13:29 < plars> asac: yes, exactly
13:29 < plars> really just needed in that one case
13:29 < plars> because of timing
13:29 < asac> persia: well. pulseaudio folks are best to analyze that imo as they are the ones that know what the driver needs to support ...
13:29 < asac> persia: but yeah we can move it to alsa
13:29 < asac> the alsa folks should be aware now ;)
13:29 < asac> ok lets move on
13:29 < persia> Is it ALSA or ASoC for that board?
13:30 < asac> cooloney: ?
13:30 -!- njpatel_ [~njpatel@91.189.88.12] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:30 < cooloney> persia: is ASoC
13:30 < cooloney> actually ASoC is a sub system of ALSA in kernel
13:30 < asac> what does it stand for?
13:30 < persia> Right, so let's retarget it to "linux-mvl-..."
13:30 < cooloney> it's good for SoC's
13:31 < persia> ALSA System On a Chip
13:31 < cooloney> ALSA SoC = ASoC
13:31 < cooloney> yeah
13:31 < cooloney> System on Chip
13:31 < asac> if we target it aganist linux-mvl- ... this has to be fixed by mvl
13:31 < asac> if we use alsa, some random guy might have some ideas - guess the code is public
13:32 < ogra> linux-mvl- is too
13:32 < asac> ogra: yes, but noone knowing anything about sound is subscribed to that package
13:32 < persia> And it's 90% likely to be an issue with quirking in the ASoC stuff.
13:32  * GrueMaster is going to regret this but...
13:32 < persia> asac: If you want crimsun to look at the bug, that's just a matter of asking :)
13:33 < GrueMaster> How about if I check the latest alsa?
13:33 < persia> GrueMaster: That's another good idea.
13:33 < asac> GrueMaster: how much time would that take?
13:33  * asac doorbell
13:33 < ogra> ALSA or ASoC dorbell ?
13:34 < GrueMaster> asac: I don't know off hand.  Need to download the code and build against current kernel.  Also will need the existing audio disabled in the kernel.  two days for build time?
13:34 < asac> lets first get crimsun etc. comment on the bug
13:34 < persia> GrueMaster: Take care: if it's ASoC, ALSA trunk won't help much.
13:34 < asac> and then decide what to do
13:34 < plars> asac: he has been looking at it
13:34 < GrueMaster> persia: why do you say that?
13:35 < asac> plars: what did he say?
13:35 < plars> asac: next thing he asked for was a stack trace
13:35 < plars> that was last night, and I haven't had a chance yet
13:35 < asac> ok cool. do what he says for now
13:35 < persia> GrueMaster: Last I heard, ASoC included a number of patches to some ALSA stuff that meant it was better to pull ASoC trunk than ALSA trunk to play.  I may not be current, or I may even be wrong.
13:35 < plars> asac: I will do it this morning
13:36 < asac> [ACTION] plars to follow up with crimsun on the sound bug and report back
13:36 < asac> NCommander: ^^
13:36 < asac> thanks
13:36 < asac> lets move on ;)
13:36 < GrueMaster> I've seen a bunch of ASOC patches fly through the alsa mailing list recently.
13:36 < NCommander> [topic] ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
13:36 < MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Application status (JamieBennett, dyfet)
13:36 -!- ubuntujenkins [~Luke@rutherford-221-4.halls.student.lut.ac.uk] has quit [Quit: Off to do more work]
13:36 < NCommander> [ACTION] plars to follow up with crimsun on the sound bug and report back
13:36 < MootBot> ACTION received:  plars to follow up with crimsun on the sound bug and report back
13:36 < cooloney> yeah, ASoC is in the heavy development
13:36 < cooloney> since it supports hundreds of SOC and hundreds of CODEC
13:37 < persia> Yeah.
13:37 < JamieBennett> Not much to report, webservice-office-zoho needs seeding and this branch needs sponsoring: https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~jamiebennett/+junk/webservice-office-zoho.auto.distutils
13:37 < persia> Moving on ...
13:37 < cooloney> but for userspace, it is supposed to be the same as alsa
13:37 < cooloney> ok
13:37 < asac> JamieBennett: can you produce the packaging?
13:38 < asac> e.g. the three pieces?
13:38 < JamieBennett> asac: OK
13:38 < asac> we have to redo the branches and kill the debian/ part of it so i can sponsor it ;)
13:39 < JamieBennett> asac: OK I'll chat after the meeting about it
13:39 < JamieBennett> move on?
13:39 < asac> yes
13:39 -!- tremolux [~glasker@pool-71-174-55-121.bstnma.fios.verizon.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:40 < JamieBennett> NCommander: ^
13:40 < JamieBennett> heh
13:41 < ogra> can someone call his mobile ? :P
13:41 < JamieBennett> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet) 
13:41 < plars> yeah, sec
13:41 < ogra> we need a remote controlled ship-horn near his laptop :)
13:41 < dyfet> I did a number of ftbfs/missing deps last week.  I will list them on the status page
13:42 < asac> dyfet: did those get uploaded?
13:42 < StevenK> ogra: "foghorn"
13:42 < NCommander> sorry
13:42 < ogra> StevenK, ah, that was the word, yeah
13:42 < dyfet> I know NCommander offered to sponsor a few
13:42 < NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
13:42 < MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
13:42 < asac> dyfet: please more aggressively request sponsorship from me too
13:42 < dyfet> okay :)
13:42 < ogra> StevenK, publically accessible via a webpage (and i'll blog about it :) )
13:43 < asac> things shouldnt wait for an upload longer than half a day
13:43  * NCommander got distracted by his other half
13:43 < asac> dyfet: which packages are those you fixed? anything from main still?
13:43 < StevenK> Huh? ECONTEXT
13:43 -!- dmart [~chatzilla@fw-tnat.cambridge.arm.com] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
13:43 < dyfet> A couple were from main, including a kde related package
13:43 < NCommander> OOo's fix uploaded, and the build broke. Seems to be buildd instability, but will have to watch closely
13:44 < ogra> did you see likewise FTBFS ?
13:44 -!- tremolux [~glasker@pool-71-174-55-121.bstnma.fios.verizon.net] has quit [Client Quit]
13:44  * ogra gave it back, seemed to be a segfault
13:44 < ogra> please keep an eye on it though
13:44 < NCommander> ogra: do I hadn't
13:44 < NCommander> *no
13:45 -!- dmart [~chatzilla@fw-tnat.cambridge.arm.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:45 -!- robbiew [~RobbieWil@99-156-85-10.lightspeed.austtx.sbcglobal.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:45  * dmart reconnects
13:45 < asac> so for libplist we ended up in a situation where builders fail
13:45 < NCommander> anything else?
13:45 < asac> because they dont have thumb support
13:45 < ogra> ugh
13:45 < asac> its testcases that get sigill
13:45 < asac> so its the first time we have that
13:45 < ogra> thats the first package we have failing like that
13:45 < dmart> Aren't the builders v7?
13:46 < ogra> snap
13:46 < asac> dmart: kernel isnt
13:46 < asac> dmart: i would think
13:46 < asac> its pegatron
13:46 < NCommander> ogra: can't we disable sigill?
13:46 < NCommander> er
13:46 < asac> so we can wait for the builder upgrade
13:46 < NCommander> *cough*
13:46 < NCommander> the test case
13:46  * asac pokes lamont again
13:46 < ogra> asac, can we ?
13:46 < asac> or use -marm to get that built
13:46 < dmart> Thumb-2 in userspace should still be supported.
13:46 < ogra> when is that due ?
13:46 < dmart> Localised -marm might be OK as a solution
13:46 < asac> dmart: it definitly isnt on those machines. it works well here on bbg/dove and in chroots on both
13:46 < dmart> Is libplist important?
13:46 < asac> when logging into the pegatrons i get SIGILL
13:46 < asac> dmart: its in main
13:47 < asac> dmart: i fixed endianess for floating point, so at least we should use -marm
13:47 < dmart> I mean, is it performance- or code-size- critical in any way?
13:47 < ogra> unlikely
13:47 < asac> dmart: i dont think so
13:47 < asac> its used by:
13:47 < asac>   python-imobiledevice
13:47 < asac>   libplist-utils
13:47 < asac>   libimobiledevice-utils
13:47 < asac>   python-gpod
13:47 < persia> It's really only important for dealing with client iPods.
13:47 < asac>   libplist-dev
13:47 < asac>   libplist-dbg
13:47 < asac>   libplist++1
13:47 < dmart> -marm is probably OK then
13:47 < asac>   libplist++-dev
13:48 < asac>   libimobiledevice0
13:48 < asac>   libgpod4-nogtk
13:48 < asac>   libgpod4
13:48 < ogra> Description: Library for handling Apple binary and XML property lists
13:48 < asac>   libgpod-common
13:48 < persia> !paste | asac
13:48 < ubottu> asac: For posting multi-line texts into the channel, please use http://paste.ubuntu.com | To post !screenshots use http://tinyurl.com/imagebin | !pastebinit to paste directly from command line | Make sure you give us the URL for your paste - see also the channel topic.
13:48 < asac> (sorry for the ast)
13:48 < asac> yeah pod
13:48 < asac> dmart: ok. lets do that and retry without when we have the bbg builders
13:48 < asac> persia: you just created additional noise
13:48 < dmart> OK
13:48 < asac> for no news ;)
13:48  * asac will upload with -marm
13:48 < asac> ok thats it from my side
13:48 < ogra> move on ?
13:48 < NCommander> [action] asac to upload libplist with -marm
13:48 < MootBot> ACTION received:  asac to upload libplist with -marm
13:49 < NCommander> [topic] Any Other Business
13:49 < MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business
13:49  * ogra kicks NCommander 
13:49 -!- leoquant [~leor@ubuntu/member/leoquant] has quit [Quit: leaving]
13:49 < ogra> move one back
13:49 < asac> what did he skip?
13:49 < ogra> image status
13:49 < NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status
13:49 < MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status
13:49 < ogra> heh
13:49  * NCommander is not with it this morning
13:49 < ogra> imx51 and dove images build stable since several days and look good
13:50 < ogra> omap is in preparation
13:50 < ogra> x-loader and u-boot are in the archive, MIRs will be filed today
13:50  * dmart has an AOB (delayed by looking up the bug number)
13:50 < asac> when do we expect the first images to become available?
13:50 -!- Rafik [~29e58c82@ubuntu/member/rafik] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:50 < asac> dmart: thats next ;)
13:50 < ogra> i'll shove them on asac's desk then
13:50 < asac> thanks
13:50 < dmart> k
13:50 < ogra> the kernel isnt there yet
13:50 < ogra> so without kernel no images
13:51 < ogra> as soon as its there its a matter of 1-2 days
13:51 < asac> ogra: thought the kernel just didnt boot ;)=
13:51 < ogra> me working out the image concept and testing it, StevenK committing it to the builders
13:51 < asac> e.g. we could get images with a non-booting kernel
13:51 < ogra> asac, it has tons of bugs
13:51 < ogra> its not in the archive
13:51 < asac> right. just wonder why waiting for the kernel blocks finishing all the imaging stuff
13:51 < ogra> i wouldnt mind having buggy images
13:51 < asac> ah
13:51 < ogra> but it needs to be uploaded and go through NEW
13:51 -!- wet [~young98@112.201.195.215] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
13:52 < ogra> and we dont have a meta yet
13:52 < ogra> which d-i needs
13:52 < ogra> for our fallback images
13:52 < ogra> everything blocks on that atm
13:52 < StevenK> asac: Because I need to see where the kernels lands, main or universe for my livecd-rootfs changes
13:52 < StevenK> And a meta package for the kernel
13:52 < ogra> StevenK, will be main
13:52 < asac> main yeah
13:52 < ogra> but meta needs to be there and we need the debian-cd patches
13:53 < ogra> or cdimage ... fwiw
13:53 < StevenK> Both
13:53 < StevenK> I'll upload livecd-rootfs tomorrow
13:53 < StevenK> Er, today
13:53 < ogra> great
13:53 < StevenK> At some point in the next diurnal period
13:53 < ogra> so i can roll squashfs'es for testing
13:53 < ogra> as soon as we have a kernel
13:53 < StevenK> You can't, since it will want the kernel
13:53 < StevenK> Ah
13:53 < ogra> yeah
13:54 -!- tremolux [~glasker@pool-71-174-55-121.bstnma.fios.verizon.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:54 < ogra> for image building we should be able to abuse the code dove uses
13:54 < asac> ok so imx51/dove are good and we should have an omap image by end of week. sounds good ;)
13:54 < ogra> just adding two cp's to get MLO and u-boot in place
13:54 -!- ameetp [~ameetp@24.174.63.29] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:54 < ogra> right
13:54 < ogra> move on
13:54 < NCommander> [topic] Any Other Business
13:54 < MootBot> New Topic:  Any Other Business
13:54 < asac> dmart: ^
13:55 < dmart> Thanks ;)
13:55 < dmart> I just reconfirmed this one - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/443147
13:55 < StevenK> ogra: I think about the only thing is how to make the image bootable
13:55 < ubottu> Ubuntu bug 443147 in firefox-3.5 "Firefox inappropriately adds scroll bars to many frames and images" [Medium,Triaged]
13:55 < dmart> It applies to 3.6 too
13:55 -!- worellana_ [~worellana@unaffiliated/worellana] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:55 -!- worellana [~worellana@unaffiliated/worellana] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
13:56 -!- Claudinux [~claudio@unaffiliated/claudinux] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:56 < asac> hmm
13:56 < dmart> I'm wondering whether the priority should be bumped
13:56 < asac> found issue?
13:56 < ogra> StevenK, right, the vfat might need to be special (active and marked bootable or some such)
13:56 -!- worellana_ is now known as worellana
13:56 < asac> let me try
13:56 < dmart> The pain really starts when Google maps starts drawing balloons
13:56 < StevenK> ogra: Anyway, you and I can sort that out once we have a kernel
13:56 < ogra> StevenK, beyond that we only need to copy the two binaries into the vfat in the right order (MLO needs to be in the first sectors of the image)
13:57 < ogra> right
13:57 < asac> dmart: i dont see it if i start it through ssh
13:57 < asac> dmart: thats bbg?
13:58 < dmart> Yes, hang on I'll see what happens with ssh for me...
13:58 < asac> the chromium dove issue definitly persists through ssh
13:58 -!- DavidLevin [~DavidLevi@67-210-33-186.ul.warwick.net] has quit [Quit: DavidLevin]
13:58 < asac> so if this doesnt it means its coming from X server somehow
13:58 -!- wet [~young98@112.201.195.215] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
13:58 < asac> try setting browser.zoom.full to false in about:config
13:58 < asac> and zoom out using ctrl--
13:59 < asac> maybe it goes away with smaller fonts?
13:59 < asac> hmm i see it on google maps
13:59  * NCommander notes we're now over
13:59 < NCommander> asac: can you take this discussion offline?
13:59 < asac> yeah. that bug should get upstreamed
14:00 < asac> and so on
14:00 < asac> wilil follow up
14:00 < NCommander> anything else to be brought up quickly?
14:00 < asac> nope
14:00 < asac> go ahead and close the meeting ;)
14:00 < NCommander> [action] asac and dmart to follow up on firefox bug
14:00 < MootBot> ACTION received:  asac and dmart to follow up on firefox bug
14:00 < NCommander> #endmeeting
14:00 < MootBot> Meeting finished at 09:02.
14:00 < dmart> asac, I'll follow up with you on this in a moment
14:00 < asac> yeah
14:00 < GrueMaster> Also, I will hopefully have the equipment to reproduce/debug Bug #519905 this week.
14:00 < ubottu> Launchpad bug 519905 in linux-fsl-imx51 "Slow Ethernet throughput and framing errors when connected via a hub" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/519905
</pre>
