{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''May 4th, 2010, 13:00 UTC''' in '''#ubuntu-meeting'''.<<BR>>

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Links ===
* Link to previous meeting 
** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100518]]</nowiki>
* Link to next meeting

** <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Meeting-2010-20100601]]</nowiki>

=== Action Items from May 18th, 2010 ===
* ogra to SRU bug #568736
* NCommander to invite ndec to meeting
* NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
* Mobile team to have spec completed by next week

=== Current Items ===
* Meeting Time

=== Standing Items ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-mobile.html
* Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
* QA Status (GrueMaster)
* ARM Porting/FTBFS status (<nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>, dyfet)
* ARM Image Status (<nowiki>[[OliverGrawert|ogra]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichaelCasadevall|NCommander]]</nowiki>)
* Any Other Business

== Meeting Outcome ==

=== Action Items ===

* NCommander to make sure his specs are valid for tracker
* GrueMaster to assemble list on what SRU is going on with kernel team
* NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
* NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
* Entire team to respond to davidm's email

=== Minutes ===

* TI kernel for 10.07 will use 2.6.32 and 2.6.35 for 10.10
* Qt still failing with a build time, NCommander to review and advise correction actions.

== Weekly Reports ==

<pre>
[13:59] <NCommander> #startmeeting
[13:59] <MootBot> Meeting started at 07:59. The chair is NCommander.
[13:59] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:00] <NCommander> ogra: GrueMaster: persia, dyfet, ping
[14:00] <dyfet> pong
[14:00] <ogra> poop
[14:01]  * GrueMaster wheezes, coughs, and sputters in.
[14:01] <ogra> NCommander, you missed davidm :)
[14:01] <davidm> G'day all
[14:01] <NCommander> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100525
[14:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Meeting/2010/20100525
[14:01] <NCommander> ogra: d'oh
[14:01] <ogra> grr, where is my spec gone
[14:02] <NCommander> [topic] Action Item Review
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action Item Review
[14:02]  * ogra tries to find https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-arm/+spec/arm-m-image-builds-without-root
[14:02] <NCommander> [topic] ogra to SRU bug #568736
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  ogra to SRU bug #568736
[14:02] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 568736 in netbook-meta (Ubuntu Maverick) "Having Evolution installed along with Desktop-Email is pointlessly redundant" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/568736
[14:02] <ogra> done
[14:02] <ogra> uploaded to proposed, seeds for lucid and maverick were changed
[14:03] <NCommander> [topic] NCommander to invite ndec to meeting
[14:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  NCommander to invite ndec to meeting
[14:03] <ogra> did you ?
[14:03] <persia> He's not here
[14:03] <NCommander> I poked him on IRC once or twice, but kept missing them
[14:03] <persia> And he wasn7t on the ping list
[14:03] <ogra> there is that awesome thing called email
[14:03] <ogra> heard about it ? :P
[14:04] <NCommander> I'll c/o this
[14:04] <NCommander> Also a c/o on NCommander to poke Keybuk on libnih
[14:04] <NCommander> [topic] Mobile team to have spec completed by next week
[14:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Mobile team to have spec completed by next week
[14:04]  * NCommander has his done
[14:04]  * ogra has one out of three done
[14:05] <ogra> davidm, https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/preinstalled-sd-card-images-for-omap is ready to go
[14:05] <ogra> i fail to find https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-arm/+spec/arm-m-image-builds-without-root and havent done https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-arm/+spec/arm-m-lightweight-panel-for-efl yet
[14:06] <ogra> somehow the ubuntu-arm team is shuffling everything around atm
[14:06] <NCommander> [topic] Standing Items
[14:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Standing Items
[14:07] <ogra> nothing on the workitem tracker yet
[14:07] <NCommander> indeed
[14:07] <ogra> NCommander make sure to have davidm make your specs valid for it
[14:08] <NCommander> [topic] Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
[14:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Kernel Status (cooloney, mpoirier)
[14:08] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to make sure his specs are valid for tracker
[14:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to make sure his specs are valid for tracker
[14:08] <ogra> did you invite mpoirier ?
[14:09]  * NCommander didn'thave an action to
[14:09] <ogra> sigh
[14:09] <ogra> can you send out the two necessary invites today ?
[14:09] <ogra> ndec and mpoirier
[14:09] <ogra> by mail
[14:10] <NCommander> will do
[14:10] <ogra> thanks
[14:10] <ogra> so kernel status on omap4 is so-lala
[14:10] <NCommander> cooloney isn'taround :-/
[14:10] <ogra> it works but i see bus errors if i do heavy compile jobs
[14:10] <persia> Interesting traffic on the ubuntu-kernel mailing list.  Looks like we'll have *two* OMAP trees.
[14:11] <ogra> cooloney is trying to upload the kernel to the canonical-arm-dev PPA atm
[14:11] <ogra> persia, we do
[14:11] <ogra> one for omap3 and one for 4
[14:11] <ogra> NCommander, please test that kernel too asap
[14:11] <persia> Are they both topic branches, or can we build the omap3 one from the linux source package?
[14:11] <ogra> so we have more data points
[14:11] <ogra> persia, no idea, ask kernel team
[14:11] <ogra> i think omap3 is supposed to be from mainline
[14:12] <ogra> with some cherrypicks from linux-omap
[14:12] <ogra> omap4 is completely TI rebased against our tree
[14:12] <persia> I thought omap4 was our tree rebased against TI's kernel
[14:12] <ogra> other way round :)
[14:13] <ogra> omap4 is TI rebasing their patchset against the maverick kernel
[14:13]  * persia is confused by different contents from different sources, and hopes that someone will make it all clear in the future
[14:13] <ogra> easy :)
[14:13] <ogra> 10.07 -> TI 2.6.32 with ubuntu configs
[14:14] <ogra> 10.10 omap3 and 4 both against 2.6.35 ... omap3 built from mainline, omap4 TI rebased against out tree
[14:14] <ogra> clearer ?
[14:14] <NCommander> ogra: mind if I move on?
[14:15] <persia> Not in any way, because it failed to have any reference to the actual source packages, but that7s OK: the folks who can give me the answer I want aren7t here.
[14:15] <ogra> well, can you commit to do some omap4 kernel testing ?
[14:15] <ogra> it would really help if more then one person does it
[14:15]  * GrueMaster would but ENOHW.
[14:16] <ogra> persia, source is at omapzoom.org for the 10.07 and at kernel.ubuntu.com in git for 10.10
[14:16] <NCommander> ogra: sure, I'lltestmore kernels as well
[14:16] <ogra> (or at least its supposed to end up there)
[14:16] <ogra> NCommander, thanks
[14:16] <ogra> move !! :)
[14:16] <ogra> GrueMaster, well, you can test omap3 ... i think amitk had something for us
[14:17] <NCommander> [topic] QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Status (GrueMaster)
[14:17] <ogra> ask in #ubuntu-kernel or -arm
[14:17] <GrueMaster> cool
[14:17] <ogra> GrueMaster, how is the SRU front looking ?
[14:17] <GrueMaster> qa status:  Currently working on internal infrastructure improvements and starting to test app builds this week.
[14:17] <GrueMaster> SRU front?
[14:18] <ogra> yeah
[14:18] <ogra> there are still a bunch of SRUs for lucid, no ?
[14:18] <ogra> especially for kernel stuff iirc
[14:19] <GrueMaster> I don't know.  All kernel issues from 10.04 were for platforms that are apparently not supported by us as of now.  Haven't heard from any kernel devs about any test kernels since prior to release.
[14:19] <ogra> you pointed at them last meeting
[14:19] <ogra> GrueMaster, these platforms are supported for 18 months
[14:20] <GrueMaster> ok.
[14:20] <ogra> and you pointed out the SRUs yourself last meeting
[14:20] <ogra> i.e. the eth0 issues on babbage
[14:20] <GrueMaster> I'll have to dig up the list again and see if anyone has moved on them.
[14:20] <ogra> ok
[14:20] <GrueMaster> I know I haven't seen anything from the kernel team.
[14:20] <ogra> if not we need to kick some butts :)
[14:21] <ogra> right, can you take an action to clearify who is working on what wrt SRUs in the kernel team ?
[14:21] <NCommander> can I move on, or are we waiting for an SRU list?
[14:21] <ogra> i guess its all smb but i doubt he'll write the patches himself
[14:21] <ogra> NCommander, an action :)
[14:21] <ogra> then move onm
[14:21] <ogra> i'm happy to be in the action together with GrueMaster
[14:22] <NCommander> [action] GrueMaster+ogra to compose list of notiable SRUs for lucid
[14:22] <MootBot> ACTION received:  GrueMaster+ogra to compose list of notiable SRUs for lucid
[14:22] <ogra> nah
[14:22] <NCommander> no?
[14:22] <ogra> <ogra> right, can you take an action to clearify who is working on what wrt SRUs in the kernel team ?
[14:22] <NCommander> oh
[14:22] <ogra> (that was initially to GrueMaster )
[14:22] <GrueMaster> sure.
[14:22] <ogra> but you can action him to assemble a list too :)
[14:23] <ogra> since i only operate from the top of my head which isnt very reliable ;)
[14:23] <NCommander> [action] GrueMaster to assemble list on what SRU is going on with kernel team
[14:23] <MootBot> ACTION received:  GrueMaster to assemble list on what SRU is going on with kernel team
[14:23] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Porting/FTBFS status (NCommander, dyfet)
[14:24] <NCommander> toolchain is no longer broken, but Qt is busted. Will review this failure this week and attempt to resolve, as this is breakinga lot fo rdepends
[14:24] <ogra> yeah kde looks bad
[14:24] <ogra> as usual
[14:24] <ogra> and still libnih
[14:24] <NCommander> indeed
[14:24] <ogra> that will get us bad days wrt images
[14:24] <persia> As usual?
[14:24] <ogra> persia, yeah
[14:25] <NCommander> ogra: its only broken cause Qt FTBFSed
[14:25] <ogra> we didnt have a cycle yet where kde/qt wasnt at least broken once
[14:25] <NCommander> and that looks like a timeout
[14:25] <ogra> right
[14:25] <NCommander> ogra: yeah well, GNOME breaks itself as often, no?
[14:25] <ogra> i saw the discussion with lamont in ubuntu-release
[14:25] <NCommander> its broken right now!
[14:25] <persia> Let's not have a toolkit war.
[14:25] <ogra> nah
[14:25] <ogra> anyway
[14:25] <persia> We need both for the flavours built.
[14:26] <ogra> lamont asked that the package gets a pinger mechanism
[14:26] <persia> So they need be fixed.  Moving on...
[14:26] <ogra> for QT
[14:26] <NCommander> [topic] ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  ARM Image Status (ogra, NCommander)
[14:26] <ogra> instead of working around the timeout
[14:26] <NCommander> nothing new to add on my side
[14:26] <ogra> so someone has to add such a mechanism
[14:27]  * ogra points to #ubuntu-release around 22:00 UTC last night
[14:27] <NCommander> ogra: can you sum up for those who weren't there?
[14:27] <ogra> <lamont> ScottK: this early in the cycle, could we just fix the package please?
[14:27] <ogra> <ScottK> It's not clear what 'fix' would mean in it's current state since the dbg really takes that long to build.
[14:27] <ogra> <ScottK> We are promised qt4-x11 getting more modular, but it hasn't happened yet.
[14:27] <ogra> <lamont> something that makes sure we spit something out to stdout every 120 min or so, after verifying that the build is, in fact, progressing
[14:27] <ogra> <lamont> take a look at the compilers :-(
[14:27] <ogra> <ScottK> Sigh.
[14:27] <ogra> <lamont> ScottK: as in this is what I get for bending over and violating rules just to avoid rebuilding oo.o everywhere
[14:27] <ogra> sorry ScottK ...
[14:28] <ogra> so the request is to not add more timeout override handlers on the buildds but to fix the packages
[14:28] <ogra> we need some generic mechanism we can put on a wikipage for that i think
[14:28]  * NCommander disagrees ...
[14:28] <ogra> for people being hit by these timeouts
[14:29] <ogra> NCommander, can you take that on with lamont ?
[14:29] <NCommander> I hate the idea of patching a package so it builds just because its slow
[14:29] <NCommander> will do
[14:29] <ogra> he's the one to have to do that work all the time
[14:29] <ogra> thanks
[14:29] <NCommander> [action] NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
[14:29] <MootBot> ACTION received:  NCommander to discuss build timeout with lamont
[14:29] <NCommander> ogra: anything else?
[14:29] <ogra> nope
[14:29] <NCommander> (damn this meeting is goingby fast)
[14:29] <ogra> so wrt image status
[14:29] <ogra> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/preinstalled-sd-card-images-for-omap is ready
[14:29] <NCommander> \o/
[14:29] <ogra> NCommander, persia and me have workitems there
[14:30] <ogra> please everyone have a look and agree/disagree :)
[14:30] <NCommander> cool
[14:30] <NCommander> ogra: is that it?
[14:30] <ogra> GrueMaster, we probably need a specific testing plan since the image operates totally different from what we know
[14:30] <ogra> NCommander, yeah, any additions ?
[14:31] <persia> Why not combine the two livecd-rootfs tasks, or at least assign the same person?
[14:31] <persia> Avoids handoff complexities.
[14:31] <GrueMaster> From a boot up standpoint it shouldn't be too different from live images.
[14:31] <NCommander> Just that I'm slowing rolling along with d-cd changes
[14:31] <ogra> persia, well, i'd rather leave the jasper stuff in one hand
[14:32] <ogra> GrueMaster, well, there is a lot that can go wrong with these images
[14:32] <persia> ogra: Also, I thought we were splitting the d-i vs. jasper stuff into two tasks, for scheduling reasons.
[14:32] <GrueMaster> Other than the initial setup that shouold run at first boot.
[14:32] <ogra> basically its not different from what casper does, but the results are more harmful if something fails
[14:32] <ogra> persia, d-i vs jasper ?
[14:32] <persia> I'm still not entirely happy with the VFAT solution, but will withold detailed complaint until I can come up with something better.
[14:33] <ogra> there is no other solution
[14:33] <persia> ogra: my/your task.
[14:33] <ogra> its a HW limitation
[14:33] <persia> You're addressing the wrong complaint :)  Wait until I have some alternate to propose, or ignore me :)
[14:33] <ogra> persia, ah, i dont know if the WI tracker will still pick it up, feel free to split it
[14:33]  * persia tries
[14:33] <ogra> i was inclined to add both of us in front
[14:34] <GrueMaster> ogra: Why not add a testplan line to the blueprint and assign it to me.
[14:34] <ogra> persia, point is that the u-boot versions we currently have can only read fat
[14:34] <ogra> GrueMaster, would you work out a testplan based on the spec ?
[14:34] <persia> GrueMaster: I'm done editing: your turn :)
[14:34] <NCommander> ogra: persia: please take it offline, then come back?
[14:34] <ogra> like "check that the blah worked by looking at blupp"
[14:34] <GrueMaster> I can.  NCommander:  AR time.
[14:34] <persia> NCommander: Please.
[14:35] <NCommander> persia: please what?
[14:35] <ogra> random expression of politeness ? :)
[14:35] <NCommander> works me
[14:35] <ogra> works you eh ? :)
[14:35] <NCommander> er
[14:36]  * ogra grins
[14:36] <NCommander> works for me
[14:36]  * NCommander needs more sleep
[14:36] <NCommander> which brings me to
[14:36] <NCommander> [topic] Meeting Time
[14:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Meeting Time
[14:36] <NCommander> So
[14:36] <ogra> anyway nothing else from me for images
[14:36] <ogra> i think davidm started a discussion by mail about that one
[14:36] <NCommander> there's no real better time unless either ogra or persia is willing to be shafted with an ungoldly meeting hour.
[14:36] <NCommander> ogra: I didn't see an email
[14:36]  * ogra did
[14:37] <NCommander> ugh, must not be awake enough to remember it
[14:37] <NCommander> Anyway
[14:37] <ogra> subject: 	Team meeting times
[14:37] <NCommander> oh
[14:37] <NCommander> I remember that
[14:37] <NCommander> Ok
[14:37] <ogra> nobody spoke up
[14:37] <ogra> so i guess we'll stay at what we have
[14:37] <NCommander> Anyway, to sum up, there's no real better thime for this unfortunately, so meeting time is unmoved
[14:37] <ogra> its a week old
[14:37] <NCommander> [topic] AOB
[14:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
[14:38] <GrueMaster> gee, thanks guys.
[14:38] <persia> Is there really no better time?
[14:38] <ogra> GrueMaster, ?
[14:38] <GrueMaster> 6am here.
[14:38] <NCommander> Just one thing folks; please remember to post your ARs for previous weeks and such.
[14:38] <persia> I'd be really happy to shift it by ~12 hours.
[14:38] <ogra> persia, dunno, nobody answered davids mail
[14:38]  * NCommander would be happy by ~12 hour shift, but I thought that put ogra at a poor time
[14:38] <ogra> GrueMaster, ^^^
[14:39] <ogra> lets keep it on that mail
[14:39] <ogra> and revisit next week
[14:39] <NCommander> [action] Entire team to respond to davidm's email
[14:39] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Entire team to respond to davidm's email
[14:39] <GrueMaster> fair enough.
[14:39]  * persia tends to be more flexible than most, so leaves the decision to others
[14:39] <NCommander> :-)
[14:39] <NCommander> anything else, or can I close out the meeting
[14:39] <NCommander> going once
[14:39] <NCommander> twice
[14:40] <NCommander> good night folks
[14:40] <NCommander> #endmeeting
[14:40] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 08:40.
</pre>
