{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== ARM Info ==

=== 12.04 Release ===
* OMAP: <nowiki>[[ARM-OMAP|Texas Instruments OMAP]]</nowiki> page
* Tegra (AC100): <nowiki>[[ARM-TEGRA-AC100 | Toshiba AC100 Nvidia Tegra 2]]</nowiki> page
* IMX53: <nowiki>[[ARM-MX5 | Freescale IMX53 QuickStart Board]]</nowiki> Page
* ARM Server: <nowiki>[[ARM-Server| ARM Server]]</nowiki> Page

=== General Information ===

===== Team =====

* <nowiki>[[ARMTeam | Ubuntu ARM Team]]</nowiki>

===== Bugs =====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arm|~ubuntu-arm]]</nowiki>

===== Fail to build list (ftbfs) =====
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/ftbfs/|Fail list]]</nowiki>

===== Build Farm Status =====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/builders|Builders]]</nowiki>

===== Participating Flavours =====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/business/desktop/overview|Ubuntu Desktop]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/business/server/overview|Ubuntu Server]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Core|Ubuntu Core]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org/|Kubuntu Desktop]]</nowiki>
 

==== Release Targeted Information: Oneiric ====
===== Work Items (Roadmap) =====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html|Full cycle burndown chart]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-1.html|Alpha 1 burndown chart]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-2.html|Alpha 2 burndown chart]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel-oneiric-alpha-3.html|Alpha 3 burndown chart]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-arm-ubuntu-11.10-beta-1.html| Beta 1 burndown chart]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-arm-ubuntu-11.10-beta-2.html|Beta 2 burndown chart]]</nowiki>
==== Release Targeted Information: P ====
===== Blueprint Ideas =====
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/PBlueprintIdeas|Blueprint Ideas for P release]]</nowiki>
==== Obsolete Projects ====
* <nowiki>[[MobileTeam-Mobile-| Mobile Project]]</nowiki> (no longer maintained)

=== ARM Processor ===
ARM is a processor architecture used in a variety of applications, such as:

* Handheld Computers (Nokia n900, n95, etc.)
* Network Devices (Genesi Efika MX Nettop, Wyse T50, CompuLab TrimSlice, etc.)
* Project development boards (Beagleboard, Pandaboard, Quickstart, etc.)
* Subnotebooks (Sharp Netwalker, etc.)
* Netbook/Notebooks (Genesi Efika MX Smartbook, Toshiba AC100, etc.)

Ubuntu targets the ARMv7 and above Application Processor family (Cortex A8, A9 and above).  Currently the archive supports ARM EABI, with an expectation of minimum compliance with the ARMv7+VFP ISA.  Where possible Ubuntu targets the <nowiki>[[ARM-Thumb2|Thumb2]]</nowiki> instruction set.

~-Limited support for earlier instruction sets (ARMv5t, ARMv6) was available in early releases of the ARM port (jaunty, karmic).-~

==== Status ====

* Much of the application porting is complete
* Installation images are available for selected boards
* kernels for a variety of sub-architectures are available
* Much of SMP validation complete
* Continued porting and optimization is underway

==== Current Images ====
===== ARM Team =====
* OMAP: <nowiki>[[ARM-OMAP|Texas Instruments OMAP]]</nowiki> page
* Tegra (AC100): <nowiki>[[ARM-TEGRA-AC100 | Thosiba AC100 Nvidia Tegra 2]]</nowiki> page
* IMX53 QuickStart: <nowiki>[[ARM-iMX5 | Freescale IMX53 QuickStart Board]]</nowiki> Page
* Server images (Marvell Armada XP) <nowiki>[[ARM-Server]]</nowiki>

===== Community Images =====

=== FAQ ===
==== Is Ubuntu validating low power server images ====
While there is no server class hardware available today work is being done to validate server loads so that when such hardware is ready, Ubuntu will be ready to run on it. See the <nowiki>[[ARM-Server|Server]]</nowiki> page for information on this project.

==== How do i build an armel rootfs from scratch ====

Please see the <nowiki>[[ARM-RootfsFromScratch|Create a root file system from scratch]]</nowiki> page, or if you prefer you can use the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Core|Ubuntu Core]]</nowiki> root file system. 

==== How do I install Ubuntu on my device ====

For some devices, installation images are available from releases.ubuntu.com or cdimage.ubuntu.com  For other devices, netinstalls are recommended, although this will require a custom kernel/debian-installer build for your target device.  Please share your experiences with successful installs (and instructions) on the <nowiki>[[ARM-DeviceSupport|Device Support]]</nowiki> page.

==== How does this differ from Debian's armel port? ====

The primary difference is the ISA and instruction set targeted in Ubuntu (ARMv7 mostly Thumb2), rendering nearly all packages incompatible at a binary level.  As with the rest of Ubuntu, typically the source packages are identical, so most of the remaining differences are the same as differences generally between Debian and Ubuntu.

==== Where can I get help? ====

If it's ARM specific, stop by #ubuntu-arm on freenode.  If it's not ARM specific, the regular Ubuntu support channels will provide better support.

==== What kernel flavours are available? ====

Available kernels have varied by release, as follows:

* lucid: dove, imx51, omap, versatile
* maverick: dove, omap, omap4, versatile
* natty: n900, omap, omap4, versatile

If you have a working kernel and wish to support it in Ubuntu, please contact the <nowiki>[[KernelTeam|Ubuntu Kernel Team]]</nowiki> about configuration requirements and sponsoring procedures.

==== How can I help? ====

** As a user: Try Ubuntu ARM on your device.  Report any bugs to https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs.  Report working hardware to <nowiki>[[ARM-DeviceSupport]]</nowiki>
** As a developer: Try Ubuntu ARM for your use case.  Fix anything that doesn't work.  Submit the patches for upload. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/FTBFS
** As a porter: Review applications not yet available for armel.  Find out why.  Port it, and submit the patches.  Known issues are tracked at <nowiki>[[ARM-PortingIssues]]</nowiki>
** As a tester: Try following the Ubuntu test cases on an ARM device.  Report any regressions from other architectures.
** As an author: Document installation procedures for various devices.

==== How to run Ubuntu ARM build rootfs in qemu? ====
** Build your own rootfs, either qemu image or rootfs tarball will be fine and run it as described on <nowiki>[[ARM-RootfsFromScratch]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUbuntuTeams<<BR>>
CategoryWebsite
