{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

The Ubuntu ARM Team is responsible for delivering the <nowiki>[[ARM|Ubuntu ARM Project]]</nowiki>, This is built from many component projects, most of which are built by free software developers around the world. We select the best available packages for the job, and mold them into a clean, free, well-integrated system, making changes where required to meet our high standards of quality and ease of use. We work with developers in the free software community to support their interests as well as Ubuntu's.

== Contact ==

* IRC: `#ubuntu-arm` on `irc.freenode.net`.
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-arm
* Bugs filed with the `armel` and `armhf` tags

== How to Contribute ==

* Test an installation of Ubuntu on your device, and update the <nowiki>[[ARM-DeviceSupport|Device Support]]</nowiki> page
* Review open bugs for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=armel|armel]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=armhf|armhf]]</nowiki> and prepare solutions or workarounds.
* Participate in our <nowiki>[[ARM-QA|Quality Assurance]]</nowiki> efforts.
* Review packages that <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/ftbfs/|fail to build from source]]</nowiki>

== Launchpad Membership Policy ==

All are welcome to join the ARM Team.  We ask that you first spend some time working on the <nowiki>[[ARM|Ubuntu ARM Project]]</nowiki>, and are able to reference some of your work that is delivered in the Ubuntu repositories or other Ubuntu resources.

If you'd like to be added to the team, add your name to the <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-NextAgenda|next meeting agenda]]</nowiki> as a candidate, and current members of the team will review your activity, and, if there is meeting consensus, you'll be added as member of the team.

Active members of the ARM Team seeking <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki> are encouraged to document their work in the ARM Team, and solicit endorsements from other team members.

== Meetings ==

Meetings are held every Thursday at 15:00 UTC.  If you would like to discuss a specific point, please add it to the <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting-NextAgenda|next meeting agenda]]</nowiki>.  A <nowiki>[[ARM-Meeting|complete list]]</nowiki> of prior meetings with summaries is available.

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
