{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Matrix Council Application ==

'''I, Aaron Rainbolt, hereby nominate myself to become a member of the Ubuntu Matrix Council.'''

=== Who I am ===

As far as my role in the Ubuntu community, I am a Lubuntu Member, an Ubuntu Developer with MOTU upload permissions, and a Matrix Operator. I first started contributing to Ubuntu in April of 2022, very shortly after the release of 22.04 LTS, and got to help with the development of the Kinetic and Lunar releases. During this time, I ended up running into Nils (a.k.a ravage), made friends, helped out in the (then unofficial) Ubuntu support room on Matrix... and one day was informed that I had been given moderator permissions without request. I quickly put them to good use, as the room had been coming under attack by crypto scammers spamming ads, and that's how I ended up getting involved in Ubuntu's Matrix presence. During my initial period of contributions, I was made a Lubuntu and Ubuntu Member, then later after that a Lubuntu Developer.

In early 2023, I ended up being elected to the Lubuntu Council, where I intended to help shape the future of the then-next release, 23.10. Shortly before the Mantic archive opened, however, an unexpected series of events took place in my life that resulted in me having to take a six-month break from contributing to Ubuntu (a break I had initially thought was permanent, though thankfully it turned out to be otherwise). I had to resign from the Lubuntu Council in May of 2023, and during that time my status as a Lubuntu Developer, as well as my Lubuntu and Ubuntu Membership, expired.

At the tail end of the Mantic cycle, however, things started to let up a bit, and I was able to observe Lubuntu development, assist in minor ways, and eventually came back full force before the Noble archive opened. Since that time, the Lubuntu team has been gracious enough to restore my Lubuntu Membership and my privileges as a Lubuntu Developer, and Simon Quigley has even helped me to become an Ubuntu MOTU via training and endorsement, greatly increasing my ability to assist in various areas of Ubuntu. Miraculously, I was still even a moderator of the Ubuntu Matrix room when I came back, and was able to resume assisting with moderation and technical support there.

Not too long after rejoining Ubuntu, I noticed that Ubuntu's presence on Matrix was beginning to become official, and I witnessed the community I once helped as a "side project" becoming an integral part of the Ubuntu ecosystem. During that time I volunteered to help moderate some of the additional rooms that were forming in addition to the core support room, and in an interesting turn of events I became an Ubuntu Matrix Operator, allowing me to assist in the moderation and anti-spam defense of a vast number of Ubuntu-related rooms (and the anti-spam defense of a large number of rooms outside of Ubuntu's scope as well thank to the Community Moderation Effort banlist which Ubuntu both uses and contributes to). While I was not selected as a member of the temporary Ubuntu Matrix Council, I have worked closely with them to help get the project off the ground, and am currently the only Ubuntu Matrix Operator who is not also an Ubuntu Matrix Council member.

I'm excited to see where things go from here, and am interested in continuing to help shape the future of Ubuntu's Matrix presence, whether I become a member of the Matrix Council or not.

=== Why I would like to be on the Matrix Council ===

Experience aside, my main reasoning for wanting to be on the Matrix Council is simple - I want to see the initiative the temporary Matrix Council started continue to move in the direction they got it going in. It is definitely critical for the Council to be made up of people from different backgrounds and experiences, but I think it is equally critical for it to be at least partially composed of the same core group that got it started. The direction the existing Council is taking things is good in my opinion, and I wish for it to remain that way. As I have worked closely with the entire temporary Matrix Council, I believe I can help continue the work they started.

Additionally (and somewhat secondarily), I want to help ensure that Ubuntu's Matrix presence does ''not'' become an analogue of Ubuntu's existing primary chat platform, IRC. Due to its long history and technical nature, Ubuntu's IRC channels are, I feel, slightly hostile to new users, and slightly too toughened for sensitive users to use with minimal issues. As Ubuntu was designed to bring the power of Linux to the everyday user without excessive "rough patches", my hope is for Matrix to bring the power of our volunteers to a place where we can collaborate effectively, enjoyably, and efficiently, without excessive "rough patches". At the same time, I fully recognize the value of the history and culture Ubuntu's IRC channels have grown over the years, and wish to help Ubuntu's Matrix initiative integrate with IRC in a way that allows Matrix to preserve its user-friendly nature while also preserving IRC's rich history and culture.

==== What I can offer ====

Trying to juggle work, personal life, and Ubuntu contribution is not easy, but as my workplace happens to be Linux-focused and closely related to Ubuntu, I have the luxury of being able to be present on Matrix for most of the time I'm awake. I also am able to make time to participate in meetings, discuss complex issues, announce new developments, handle bans and ban appeals, and enforce final decisions made by the Council. Given the time I have spend with the existing Matrix Council, and the time prior to that I assisted in moderating the Ubuntu Support room on Matrix, I believe I have enough experience and skill to be able to accomplish these tasks successfully.

==== What I probably can't offer ====

While I am a skilled software developer and would love to assist in the development of bots, I sadly usually have too much work to be able to commit to that reliably. I also have been known to be particularly bad at sysadmin wprl, so I probably can't help with hosting bots for testing purposes. (I'm happy to help test bots on the client side, though.)

=== Final notes ===

While I am not Jewish, I do observe the Sabbath and the Jewish feasts (though I generally observe them at slightly different times than they are usually observed). As a result, I will be absent from sunset on Friday to sunset on Saturday every week, according to the sunset times at my location, and will also be absent a few other days in the year. I expect to be able to provide notice about when I will be absent and for how long about a week in advance.

Due to my surroundings, it is difficult for me to participate in live voice and video chats with camera and/or microphone enabled. During meetings, I usually use Google Meet's integrated chat panel to participate, which has been working out so far in the meetings I've participated in. Despite this, I expect to be able to chair meetings as necessary by preparing in advance my messages for bringing up each topic on a meeting agenta. I can also type pretty quickly (100+ WPM if my focus is good).

Thank you for your consideration, and I look forward to continuing to contribute to Ubuntu's Matrix initiative!
