{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Community Council Application ==

'''I, Aaron Rainbolt, hereby nominate myself to become a member of the Ubuntu Community Council.'''

=== Introduction ===

Hello, and thanks for taking the time to read this! I'm Aaron, an Ubuntu Matrix Council Member, Lubuntu Council Member, and Ubuntu MOTU.

My first contact with Ubuntu was made some time in 2019, when I first started to dabble in this "Linux" thing that I had read about in programming books but had never seen in action before. Around 2020 I discovered the Ubuntu ecosystem and quickly found myself using it for daily work, then ended up switching to Kubuntu as my primary OS. In April of 2022 I first made contact with the Lubuntu team, interested in helping write documentation. That quickly led me down the path to becoming a Lubuntu Member (and by extension an Ubuntu Member), then a Lubuntu Developer, then a Lubuntu Council Member over the space of a year. I had to take a six-month hiatus due to personal circumstances at that point, but quickly regained my previous privileges upon returning around October 2023, then became an MOTU not too long thereafter.

I had always had some interest in the community side of Ubuntu ever since helping out in the support IRC channels. A desire to keep spaces friendly led me to want to help with moderation. I had some experience with Matrix moderation from my time helping moderate the (then-unofficial) Ubuntu Support room on Matrix, but wanted to help out with more. An opportunity to do that presented itself when Mauro Gaspari and other people from Ubuntu came onto Matrix with the intent of making an official Ubuntu presence on Matrix. I offered to help moderate some of the additional rooms that were being created very early on, which ended up with me becoming an Ubuntu Matrix Operator, then an Ubuntu Matrix Council Member. Since that time I've become deeply involved in moderating and cultivating the (now relatively massive) community, and have also gotten deeply involved in the Community Moderation Effort, allowing me to help keep a huge portion of the Matrix ecosystem defended from spam.

This time in Matrix has confirmed what I hoped was true when I got started - ''I love working with the community, even when it requires handling delicate and heated situations.'' Everything from battling massive spam waves, to discussing critical topics with the Council, to navigating tricky situations with community members, it's all been awesome. It's definitely stressful, but so far the stress has been something I can cope with. I enjoy working as a conflict resolver and community defender/caretaker enough that I want to do more. With this in mind, I'd like to offer my time and abilities to the Ubuntu Community Council.

=== Experience ===

While I cannot detail some of the trickier situations I've helped navigate over time without leaking sensitive info in public, I can mention the situations themselves to give reviewers an idea of what I've worked with so far.

* I played a role in the development of the Ubuntu Community on Matrix, helping discuss policies, bring rooms and spaces into compliance with those policies, onboard new rooms and spaces, and keep spam as low as possible.
* I acted as a contributing member of the Community Moderation Effort (CME), battling spammers and spam waves across the Matrix federation, and helping develop solutions to problems.
* I helped the Lubuntu project to stay alive and functioning well through the trials of the (rather rough) Ubuntu 24.04 development cycle.
* I've previously assisted in de-escalating situations between members of the Ubuntu Community, with varying degrees of success depending on the situation. (In all instances, it seems that no enemies were made :D)
* I've helped the Ubuntu Matrix Council discuss sensitive matters with other groups.
* In the interest of preserving the Ubuntu Flavors, I helped push through last-minute bug fixes for multiple flavors prior to release day for multiple releases of Ubuntu. (This is mainly development-related but has some community aspect to it too, so I thought I'd mention it.)
* I've done technical support for frustrated Ubuntu users on IRC, Matrix, and the mailing lists (although due to my involvement in other areas of Ubuntu I haven't had a whole lot of time for that lately).

Naturally this is not an exhaustive list, and there are many smaller interactions that aren't worth mentioning here.

=== Goals for the Community ===

As a general rule, I try to ''not'' go into any community-related project with the intention of spearheading major changes or overhauling existing systems. When change needs to be made, it will be clear to more than just myself, I don't need to "take things by storm". With that in mind, this is the impact I want to have on the community if I am given the opportunity to serve on the Ubuntu Community Council:

* In as much as the project is healthy (which it appears to be in almost all respects), I want to help maintain that. Whether that means de-escalating conflict, connecting communities that need help with individuals that can help, or something else, I want to make sure that things are at least no worse at the end of my term than when I started.
* I'm interested in helping improve transparency between the Canonical and the Ubuntu Community where it is beneficial and safe to do so, reducing confusion and helping development processes move more smoothly.
* I'm not exactly sure how this would be done, but I've heard from at least some people that there's a need for more contributors to the community to help sustain some of the projects that already exist. I have some rather nebulous ideas on this topic (better tooling? better docs? easier ways for contributors to find us?), and would be interested in discussing them so that new contributors can have a smooth, productive, fulfilling experience.

That's about it. I'm well aware of the fact that what I actually end up doing will depend on the needs of the community, and likely will not reflect my initial ideas. I'm very willing to adapt to those needs as they arise.

=== References ===

The following is a list of people I've worked with extensively in Ubuntu, who I believe can give a fair assessment of my behavior in the community, and who I feel comfortable using as references. Names are in alphabetical order.

* Chris Guiver
* Dan Simmons
* Mauro Gaspari
* Merlijn Sebrechts
* Nils Buechner
* Thomas Ward

The following are people I've worked with who may not know me as well, but who have interacted with me in a significant manner. Names are in alphabetical order. List is non-exhaustive.

* Bashing-om (IRC nick, no idea what his real name is)
* Jeremy Bicha
* Leó Kolbeinsson
* Łukasz 'sil2100' Zemczak
* Marc Giligan
* Rick Timmis
* Rik Mills
* Rudra Saraswat
* Scarlett Moore
* Seth Arnold
* Unit193 (IRC nick, no idea what his real name is)
* Walter Lapchynski

=== Potential disadvantages ===

I don't imagine that I'm the perfect candidate for any job, so I figure it's probably a good idea to be up-front about my weaknesses so that others can properly judge my suitability.

* I sometimes am too quick to talk, especially when I'm trying to make a joke. This hasn't caused any serious problems to date, but it has resulted in me embarrassing myself more than once. I see this as a character flaw and am actively working to resolve it.
* I have a tendency to be afraid of community members who I perceive as more powerful than myself, either in authority or in respect. When it comes to code-of-conduct issues I'm generally able to push through that fear and make good but difficult decisions even when I know they could come with backlash, but when it comes to more technical areas of policy I have a hard time acting as an enforcer on my own. This is likely the result of past trauma, so I may have a hard time overcoming this and could use help from others in those situations.
* I'm very busy, and while I try to be available any time an urgent matter requires my attention, sometimes I'm not always in the right place at the right time. I suspect this is a problem many of us have, but it's worth mentioning.
* I'm objectively bad at remembering meeting times. I really need to get a reminder system set up on my computer, like yesterday. I'll probably do that once I'm done writing this :P

Obviously this isn't an exhaustive list either, but I think these are the things that have caused issues in my interactions with the community most frequently. To my awareness none of these issues have been severe, but they have been inconvenient or non-ideal. I'm working on resolving these.

=== Final notes ===

Due to my surroundings, it is difficult for me to participate in live voice and video chats with camera and/or microphone enabled. During meetings, I usually use the chat feature of whatever meeting platform is in use. So far, this has worked out just fine during my time on the Ubuntu Matrix Council.

Thank you for taking the time to read this, and I look forward to continuing to contribute to Ubuntu!
