{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 17.10 Artful Aardvark ==

Please see <nowiki>[[ArtfulAardvark-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

Ubuntu Studio shares some of the desktop features with Xubuntu. Please see <nowiki>[[http://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/17.10/release-notes | Xubuntu release notes]]</nowiki> for additional information.

== Getting Ubuntu Studio Artful Aardvark (17.10) ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/17.10/release/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/17.10/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Changes for this release (compared to Zesty Zapus 17.04) ==
 
== Additions and Changes ==

=== General ===

The Ubuntu Studio Controls package has been updated to provide an option to set the CPU governor to performance mode. This is important for recording. At the moment, the setting is not persistent, and needs to be reset at every reboot. BIOS settings may need to be changed for this setting to take effect. 

=== Audio ===

* Removed zynjacku as this is no longer maintained software 

=== Graphics ===

* No changes

=== Publishing ===

* no changes

=== Video ===

* no changes

== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blender | Blender]]</nowiki> v2.78.c
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenlive | KDEnlive]]</nowiki> v17.08.2
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/krita | Krita]]</nowiki> v3.2.1
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp | Gimp]]</nowiki> v2.8.20
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qjackctl | qJackCtl]]</nowiki> v0.4.5
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ardour | Ardour]]</nowiki> v5.11.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scribus | Scribus]]</nowiki> v1.4.6
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/darktable | Darktable]]</nowiki> v2.2.5 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pitivi | Pitivi]]</nowiki> v0.98.1
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/inkscape | Inkscape]]</nowiki> v0.92.2

== Known Problems ==

* None so far

== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio Artful Aardvark (17.10) will be supported for 9 months until July 2018. If you need Long Term Support, it is recommended you use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuStudio | Ubuntu Studio Xenial 16.04 LTS]]</nowiki> instead.

== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
