{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 17.10 Artful Aardvark Beta 2 ==

Please see <nowiki>[[ArtfulAardvark-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

We are preparing Ubuntu Studio Artful Aardvark (17.10) for distribution on  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtfulAardvark/ReleaseSchedule | October 19th, 2017]]</nowiki>. With this '''Beta 2''' pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights, known issues and other information. 

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Beta 2 Release. 
Ubuntu Studio '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu Studio Beta Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu Studio developers

== Getting Ubuntu Studio Artful Aardvark (17.10) Beta 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/17.10/beta-2/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/17.10/beta-2/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Known Problems ==

* Software gives GDBUS.Error:org.freedesktop.Dbus.Error.ServiceUnkown Error message on first launch and when software sources changed (Bug:1713009)
 
== Additions and Changes ==

=== General ===

* The Ubuntu Studio Controls package has been updated to provide an option to set the CPU governor to performance mode. This is important for recording. At the moment, the setting is not persistent, and needs to be reset at every reboot. BIOS settings may need to be changed for this setting to take effect.

=== Audio ===

* Removed zynjacku as this is no longer maintained software

=== Graphics ===

* No changes

=== Publishing ===

* No changes

=== Video ===

* No changes

== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blender | Blender]]</nowiki> v2.78.c
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenlive | KDEnlive]]</nowiki> v17.08.0 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp | Gimp]]</nowiki> v2.8.20
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qjackctl | qJackCtl]]</nowiki> v0.4.5
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ardour | Ardour]]</nowiki> v5.11.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scribus | Scribus]]</nowiki> v1.4.6
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/darktable | Darktable]]</nowiki> v2.2.5 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pitivi | Pitivi]]</nowiki> v0.98
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/inkscape | Inkscape]]</nowiki> v0.92.2 

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu Studio '''Artful Aardvark (17.10)''' is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date and you're installing the '''latest build'''.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/dvd/current/ | Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

I can be faster to update your previously downloaded image to the latest build using zsync. Further instructions on using zsync can be found on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ZsyncCdImage/ | Zsync community help]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu Studio ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TestingDocumentation | More Information about Testing Ubuntu Studio is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are here]]</nowiki>
