{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Ubuntu Budgie 17.10, Artful Aardvark, for distribution in October 2017. With this first and final alpha you will see the beginnings of what the next version will contain. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information.

'''NOTE:''' This is the Alpha 2 pre-release. 
Ubuntu Budgie Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues.
* Anyone who needs a stable system.
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system.
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable.

Ubuntu Budgie Alpha 2 pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs. You can find more about helping to test and bug triage at <nowiki>[[https://ubuntubudgie.org/testing| Ubuntu Budgie testing]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu Budgie developers.
* People wanting to see and test how the current snapshot of Ubuntu Budgie 17.10 will look and behave.

=== Getting Ubuntu Budgie 17.10 Alpha 2 ===

The full listing of available images is <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-budgie/releases/17.10/alpha-2/ | here]]</nowiki>. You must <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM|check]]</nowiki> both the download and then the ''' check install media''' on 1st boot before attempting an install. Instructions for burning the image to a CD / DVD or copying to a USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

==== Upgrading from Previous Versions ====

We need feedback as to upgrading from Ubuntu Budgie 17.04.

=== Alpha 2 Highlights ===

* Dropbox icon correctly displayed in the panel
* GNOME-Control-Settings icons are now accessible via the menu
* Extra terminals uxterm and xterm are no longer shown in the menu
* Reduced memory idle usage by dropping tracker related applications.
* Dropped GNOME Contacts, GNOME Documents and GNOME Photos
* Replaced GNOME Photos with gThumb
* Nautilus 3.24 support
* One click switch between IBUS and FCITX
* Budgie-welcome now has proper headerbars so can move the window!
* Budgie-welcome now translated now displays in French, Spanish, Polish, Lithuanian and Hungarian thanks to  our fantastic transifex translation team.  Superb job to you all.  You have done us proud :)
* Budgie-welcome default settings now have stylish and extended makeovers - some makeovers are waiting for Artful support currently so will not install (available from beta 1 onwards).
* Budgie-welcome includes new link to shop
* Budgie-welcome can now install third-party budgie applets (available from beta 1 onwards)
* Budgie-welcome included links to snap and flatpak websites for extra software install options
* One-click theming has better font support for Material design - fonts are better sized.
* Budgie Desktop 10.3.1 uplift from 10.2.9 - lots of bug fixes
* Supports customisable date and time display
* Stylish Alt-Tab support
* Raven now supports Spotify
* Switch windows controls to the left or right support
* Places now supports encrypted volumes and SMB shares and other fixes.
* Debian wallpaper is no longer shipped with Ubuntu Budgie
* Added a material design inspired wallpaper - used when using budgie-welcome makeovers.
* Display video thumbnails in Files
* Support compilation of broadcom drivers from the live ISO
* Move from Terminix to Tilix for the terminal emulator
* Disable default Guest Session
* Revamped Panel Icons - stylish support for common applications such as Caffeine and Dropbox
* Plymouth now correctly displays the crypt password entry field for when drives are encrypted.
* Can now remove default installed applications without removing all key budgie desktop applications.
* login screen changed from lightdm-gtk-greeter to slick-greeter 

----

== Known Problems ==

=== Ubuntu Budgie Applications ===
This is our list of known bugs affecting applications that Ubuntu Budgie uses but relies on others to maintain.

* none known currently

=== Ubuntu Budgie-specific Bugs ===
These are maintained by the Ubuntu Budgie team.

* none known currently

=== Ubuntu Budgie Desktop Installer ===

* Ubuntu Budgie - slideshow pictures do not match the words (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu/+bug/1659329|1659329]]</nowiki>).

===== All Desktop images require a DVD or USB. =====

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu Budgie 17.10, the Artful Aaardvark, is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day. Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up-to-date. For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntubudgie/daily-live/current/|Daily created images for standard PCs, laptops and netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to join our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~budgie-remix-bug-busters|testers]]</nowiki> and give us your feedback.
