{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== What is Ubuntu Kylin ? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users. We are committed to provide you with a delicate, thoughtful and fully customized Chinese user experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing a desktop user interface localized in Chinese and installing common software that Chinese users commonly use by default. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since <nowiki>[[UbuntuKylin | Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> 13.04. 
Now, we are preparing Ubuntu Kylin 17.10, Artful Aardvark, for distribution in October 2017. 

'''Note:''' this is an alpha pre-release, which is not suitable for normal users, but for Ubuntu Kylin developers and users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and fixing bugs.

== Support ==

* Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Project page: http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* Bug tracker: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* IRC channel: <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntukylin-devel|irc.freenode.net #ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntukylin-devel | ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Chinese QQ Group: 
** Developers: 125729037
** Users 1: 262012757
** Users 2: 306929327
** Users 3: 75642661
** Users 4: 398104181
** Users 5: 8010855 
* Weibo: http://weibo.com/u/3265288504
* Wechat: UK201304
* Business Email: contact@ubuntukylin.com

== Download ==

The Alpha 1 ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/artful/alpha-1/ | here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

Below is the list of prominent bugs that are existing in Alpha 1:
* Failed to show the lock screen when the screen is locked.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1686639|1686639]]</nowiki>)
* Failed to eject by clicking "eject" one time.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1691616|1691616]]</nowiki>)
* No temperature shows up beside the weather icon.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1686869|1686869]]</nowiki>)

For issues related to Ubuntu itself, please refer to the Ubuntu project at Launchpad.

== Thanks ==
Thanks to everyone involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 17.10 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide and https://developer.ubuntukylin.com.
