{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

After having discovered Ubuntu back at 6.06, it didn't take long until I quickly moved from the ordinary user to the more advanced user and contributor in every way I was able to.
I spend a lot of my time either writing about Ubuntu, creating scripts or programs to make Ubuntu users lives much easier, or spreading the Ubuntu philosophy to whoever gives me the chance.
I try and help users using many forms of social media, and just help people spread the Ubuntu love.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~arthur-moore85
|-
| IRC
| vianocturna85
|-
| GTalk
| arthur.moore85
|-
| Email
| arthur.moore85@googlemail.com
|-
| Website
| http://ubuntuarmy.wordpress.com
|-
| Ubuntu Forums
| Xtremesupremacy3
|-
| AskUbuntu
| http://askubuntu.com/users/57196/xtremesupremacy3
|-
| Google+
| arthur.moore85
|}

=== Contributions ===

I have helped people in the forums and on the IRC channels whenever I could, I have also written scripts for making various tasks for new Ubuntu users and I have converted many people to Ubuntu.
Another contribution I have provided is the bug reports and testing of the past two releases of Ubuntu while in Alpha/Beta stages and translations from English to Dutch.
I have also created an application for backing up users installed applications, as mentioned as a winning app on The Linux Action Show.
I am also working on a few projects to try and fill the gap.

After achieving my Linux Professional Institute 1 diploma, I spent more time trying to make Ubuntu easier for everyone to use.

=== Future Goals & my vision of Ubuntu ===

I aim to continue to help the community and bring Ubuntu to the mainstream. I will continue to work on tests in the future to make sure Ubuntu is as well as it can be.

In my view, Ubuntu is at a crossroads, breaking away from it's Debian roots and changing our understanding of computing. As convergence is coming closer, Ubuntu will be seen on more devices, in many ways, but with the same interfaces. I imagine that within 5 years, most people will have seen people using Ubuntu either on their phone or on a desktop or perhaps even on their favourite console.
I also think Ubuntu will work with big companies to bring Linux to the forefront.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
