{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| arthurL
|-
| Location
| Wales UK
|-
| Forum Profile
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=455757| CLomax]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad Profile
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~c-lomax-uk|c-lomax-uk]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC
| arthurL on irc.freenode.net
|-
| Email
| c.lomax.uk@googlemail.com
|}

=== About Me ===
I'm a computing enthusiast from the Wales, United Kingdom currently studying Artificial Intelligence and Robotics at Aberystwyth University, Wales.

While my experience of programming is limited to a number of small projects in languages such as Pascal and the PIC microprocessor's assembly, I try to refine my competence and abilities with programming whenever I can. I am currently studying Java and Python hoping to gain confidence programming in the OOP methodology.

When away from a computer - once in a blue moon - I am found socialising with my close circle of friends with whom I discuss taboo subjects and ideas such as political correctness, men's rights (being incredibly anti-feminist) and how Western society is, quite frankly, going to the toilet. I guess that makes me politically orientated in some way.

While not partial to sports I can rarely say no to a spot of tennis or football. I also have placed a foot on the ranks whilst training in Ninjutsu, being 9th kyu at present, and have represented my home town, Neath, in track athletics as well as having represented my school in cross-country often finishing within the top 50 out of 200 runners.

I like to think I'm musically inclined being a guitar player myself, self taught, for over 4 years and enjoy a considerable range of different genres from Tommy Emmanuel's blues and rock to Annihilator's thrash metal. I have performed in the past in front of sizeable audiences and somehow did OK.

When away from a computer - once in a blue moon - I am found socialising with my close circle of friends with whom I discuss taboo subjects and ideas such as political correctness, men's rights (being incredibly anti-feminist) and how Western society is, quite frankly, going to the toilet. I guess that makes me politically orientated in some way.

While not partial to sports I can rarely say no to a spot of tennis or football. I also have placed a foot on the ranks whilst training in Ninjutsu, being 9th kyu at present, and have represented my home town, Neath, in track athletics as well as having represented my school in cross-country often finishing within the top 50 out of 200 runners.

I like to think I'm musically inclined being a guitar player myself, self taught, for over 4 years and enjoy a considerable range of different genres from Tommy Emmanuel's blues and rock to Annihilator's thrash metal. I have performed in the past in front of sizeable audiences and somehow did OK.

I was aware of Ubuntu's existence as far back as 2006, however, it wasn't until once upon a midnight dreary in December 2007 that I decided to try it since I conveniently, and quite literally, stumbled upon the Ubuntu home page. I can only say that I'm sorry I passed the chance before. While Windows met most of my needs I found Ubuntu to be far more stable and met, and continues to meet, my current needs. I have coerced (and annoyed) 7, and counting, of my friends and family into trying it with all round positive results. While I still get calls of assistance every now and again, they are unerringly easy problems to solve as well as enjoyable as I like helping people.

While spending 6 weeks in Lampeter university, summer 2008, for a presentation assignment, I publicised the advantages many people find by switching to open source software. It went rather well.

=== Contributions ===
I have been fairly active in Welsh translation for Ubuntu - as well as various applications such as GnomeDo - in Launchpad's Answer Tracker for Ubuntu and the Welsh loco team <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WelshTeam|Ubuntu Cymru]]</nowiki>. Alongside that, I have helped numerous new users in the forums.
