{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{
 IN PROGRESS
 }}}

== Artoolkit on Ubuntu ==

This is the page for discussing <nowiki>[[http://artoolkit.sf.net|ARToolkit]]</nowiki> *debianization* project.

=== What is it ? ===

Based on a initiative of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/cprov|Celso Providelo]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/theseinfeld|Peter Antoniac]]</nowiki>, the project goal is to integrate the current production of ARToolkit Development Team into a high-quality Linux distribution like Ubuntu platform.

Our starting priorities are to apply efforts in higher modularisation, smarter configuration and code quality of the current available code.

The motivation behind this project is to make the current free development environment more accessible to non-experienced users, also promote a free, stable and reliable environment where the developers can ship their applications to the end users.

We see a lot of potential for educational application using AR resources in Edubuntu, or simply associated with high-quality, intuitive graphical platform like Kubuntu.

=== Ideas ===

* Directions (!)
* FAQ (!)
* Mailinglist (!)

=== Contact ===

Most of this project tasks are done via <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/artoolkit/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> infrastructure, specifications, bugs, branches, etc.

Further discussion happen in ''#artoolkit on irc.freenode.net''.
