{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Artoolkit Packaging Strategy ==

=== Summary ===

This specification should describe the improvements we would like to introduce before packaging the upstream code.
Things like reliable configuration system, maybe by adding Autoconf/Automake support, improving the modularisation, so the users can install only the right video_backend for their system and so on.

=== Implementation ===

We will start by the least intrusive approach, where we build an static configuration based on the current shipped interactive configuration script.

By having the source configured automatically we can already package the very first version of the package, artoolkit-dev where we will ship: 

* headers at /usr/include/artoolkit
* static libraries at /usr/lib/artoolkit
* and binaries at /usr/share/artoolkit-dev

==== Static Configuration ====

* Architecture: i386 only (to use optimized color conversion code)
* Video Environment: Video4Linux
* GL: no texture-retangle support (no nvidia optimized support)

With these options we expect to reach the most common and simplest environment.

=== Results and Prospects ===

The first result is the ''artoolkit-dev'' binary for i386 architecture, later we intend to have:

* ''artoolkit-examples'' containing the sourcecode examples.
* ''artoolkit'' containing shared objects (or maybe simply the static libraries as the upstream code).

It would be nice if we can add Autoconf & Automake support to the upstream code, then we can go for more advanced debianization approaches and also multi architecture and multi video support.

/!\ Beta-Available ->  http://www.gwyddion.com/~cprov/files/artoolkit-dev_2.72-ubuntu1_i386.deb
