{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Artur Rona, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Artur Rona
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ari-tczew|ari-tczew]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArturRona|ArturRona]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
''Only that we have for free what we do ourselves.''

This is my motto for contributing to Ubuntu.

My name is Artur and I study logistics. I'm from Tczew and my moniker is Ari - so these are components of my nickname.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I did first run Linux in 2005. This was Aurox, a Polish distribution (currently commercialized). I got a kernel panic and my Aurox crashed forever. Then I heard about Ubuntu as user-friendly distro based on great Linux server system which is Debian. I bought a second HDD and I installed there Ubuntu 6.06 LTS. I ran Linux occasionally. Since December 2007 I started using Ubuntu as my main operating system on my PC. 

Since March 2009 I've started learn about packaging Debian/Ubuntu packages.
----

== My involvement ==

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/334164|334164]]</nowiki> - first expierence with packaging, cooperate with Alessio Treglia and Benjamin Drung
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/339661|339661]]</nowiki> - fix issue for kadu - messenger from my country
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/427539|427539]]</nowiki> - help in getting maven into karmic
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/521666|521666]]</nowiki> - involvement in the discussion about fakesyncs
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/538376|538376]]</nowiki> - coordinate contact to fix broken package
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/421684|421684]]</nowiki> - fix very ardous issue in obexd by SRU
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/549009|549009]]</nowiki> - help in getting clementine-player into Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/574262|574262]]</nowiki> - fix GDM issue by SRU

=== Areas of work ===
* Merges
* Syncs
* Security Uploads

=== Things I could do better ===
* Debian packages management
* Minimalize Ubuntu's delta
* Full Ubuntu security sector support
----

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===
I want to invite contributors from my country and help them with start packaging. Besides this, I want to implement <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArturRona/QuickResponse|Ubuntu Quick Response Strategy]]</nowiki> (my own).

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I'm concerned of:
* unactive sponsors since joined MOTU
* too long response from sponsors for main and SRU due to many bugs subscribed
I want to encourage the implementation of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArturRona/QuickResponse|Ubuntu Quick Response Strategy]]</nowiki>.

----
== Comments ==

''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

=== Kees Cook ===
* Artur has done some security updates in universe (e.g. drupal) which have worked out well.  He contributes to the Ubuntu CVE tracker, and looks for packages to fix.  While not his native language, he's working to improve his use of English.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kees]]</nowiki> 
* Artur has continued to do lots of work with universe security. I'm quite happy with the work I've seen. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kees]]</nowiki> 

=== Jamie Strandboge ===
* I've worked with Artur on a handful of items, specifically a couple sponsored security updates and the Ubuntu CVE tracker. On the few things I've seen, his work has been good. I encourage him to continue improving his English as well. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jdstrand]]</nowiki> 
* Since my last comments I have not sponsored any more of his work. In reviewing the universe security updates that he has done since then, his work seems to have improved. He has continued to contribute to the Ubuntu CVE Tracker and he is responding well to developer feedback. Thanks for all your contributions Artur! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jdstrand]]</nowiki> 
 
=== Marc Deslauriers ===
* Artur has been doing a lot of good universe security contributions lately, and I hope to see him continue in the future. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mdeslaur]]</nowiki> 
* The quality of work being done by Artur has improved lately, and his attitude regarding criticism has also. I think he's ready to be a MOTU. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mdeslaur]]</nowiki> 

=== Iain Lane ===
* Full disclosure: See previous revisions of this wiki page for my previous comment on this application. Since I wrote this comment, I haven't noticed so much negative behaviour from Artur. But I have noticed some. He still seems to feel very victimised by the system, and that it is working against him. There is a lack of respect for our freezes and processes which concerns me. For example there was a recent discussion regarding the point of Feature Freeze which contained a threat to stop work if exceptions were required. So while I see progress towards improved patience and tolerance, I feel that Artur is still not at a place where I would be comfortable speaking positively, or even neutrally about his application. -- [IainLane]

=== John Dong ===
* I've worked with Artur, reviewing a large chunk of his SRU submissions. On a technical basis, I've found him very capable of producing reasonable SRUs that pass review without trouble. I have not worked with Artur with regards to other MOTU tasks, so I cannot provide useful feedback there. As mentioned by some other commentors, from time to time Artur can be very persistent at pushing his tasks through queues. While this persistence can be a good trait if used in an appropriate matter, there have been occasions where I've felt that it was conducted in a way slightly disruptive to the process. Overall, though, I have had positive experiences working with Artur on SRUs and commend him for taking an interest in the SRU and sponsorship processes. -- [JohnDong]

=== Scott Kitterman ===
* A month ago  I made this comment: "He is clearly NOT ready to be a MOTU.  I just had a long disucssion with him about knowingly marking bugs invalid that aren't (he feels that server related bugs for Dapper should be marked invalid because "I think that there are not servers using dapper".  He then argues my opinion doesn't matter unless I fix such bugs.  The defensiveness of his reaction and his unwillingness to productively discuss the issue are clear evidence his ability to work in the community is questionable and his judgement is not mature enough to be granted upload rights." Since then, I have noticed an improvement in his interactions with people. I am still concerned about the sufficiency of his ability to work in the community, but less so than before. -- [ScottKitterman]

=== Rohan Garg (shadeslayer) ===
* Artur has helped me solve many packaging issues i had during my initial days as a packager.I cant really comment on his work as a packager, but he is quite helpful in #ubuntu-motu. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rohangarg]]</nowiki> .

=== Micah Gersten ===
* I sponsored 2 simple merges (<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/conkeror/0.9.2+git100804-1ubuntu1 | conkeror]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/miro/3.0.1-2ubuntu1 | miro ]]</nowiki>) for Artur.  I'm not comfortable giving an "Endorsement" yet since I only have a small package set of upload rights, but I did want to comment on his overall improved attitude.  He is very eager to help.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:micahg]]</nowiki> 
=== Krzysztof Klimonda ===
* During last month or so I've noticed that Artur is working on both his attitude towards others developers and his English skills. While both still could a little bit of work I feel that he's going to work on them continuously. I like his dedication to fixing both Security and SRU bugs - we could use more people like him. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kklimonda]]</nowiki> 
=== Didier Roche ===
* I've sponsored few of packages from Artur (4). All were more or less easy (dropping a build-dep for a FTBFS, one postinst config change) but another one was just retaking the work from a previous people, bumping to latest release in debian/changelog. I credited the first patch posted and there, Artur began to have a very negative behavior against myself. I tried to explain him the pros and cons and most of people on #ubuntu-motu agreed. I'm not sure that Artur understood and seemed to feel victimized. So, not sure about his skill on working as a team.
* On another side, I reviewed a new package from him and his work was very good on that. I just noticed a few area of improvements like adding a get-origin-source to repackage upstream tarball automatically and the answers were only "is it necessary?". And as I told "no" for each of them, I think he wouldn't do it. After some discussion and reaction about that remark, he finally did those changes. Consequently, I think he improved in that area and knows now that if people are making some remarks, it's not the "less effort" which is important, but rather, trying to understand why people ask for that. So good point in that domain.

=== Jonathan Thomas ===
* I've only sponsored a few fakesyncs for Artur, but I do see him quite often in #ubuntu-motu. He is involved and would make a good MOTU on a participation/team integration level. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:echidnaman]]</nowiki> 
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Benjamin Drung ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored great many sync requests and some merges (more than 80 and counting). They were well described and I had nothing to criticize. I think that Artur is a great asset for the MOTU team. We need more people, who help reducing the sponsors queue.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

These bugs worked well:

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mochikit/+bug/524926|524926]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/421684|421684]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pyelemental/+bug/521411|521411]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pyclamd/+bug/521337|521337]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lineak-kdeplugins/+bug/502589|502589]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xsmbrowser/+bug/502579|502579]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/raul/+bug/521656|521656]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ampache/+bug/521395|521395]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnu-fdisk/+bug/521329|521329]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kadu/+bug/521220|521220]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/liblo/+bug/514491|514491]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/llvm-gcc-4.2/+bug/512597|512597]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ldtp/+bug/500580|500580]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/raul/+bug/500561|500561]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/x86info/+bug/499930|499930]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtads/+bug/499895|499895]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pycxx/+bug/499887|499887]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/py-sendfile/+bug/499882|499882]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/imhangul-status-applet/+bug/499794|499794]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dosbox/+bug/499646|499646]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/powerman/+bug/498898|498898]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/twisted-conch/+bug/576592|576592]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/commons-pool/+bug/576679|576679]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cmake/+bug/576681|576681]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pwrkap/+bug/578364|578364]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rkhunter/+bug/580911|580911]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/concurrent-dfsg/+bug/580108|580108]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lazarus/+bug/580099|580099]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/phppgadmin/+bug/580950|580950]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/live-f1/+bug/580936|580936]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cpufreqd/+bug/580956|580956]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mako/+bug/580062|580062]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pycha/+bug/580962|580962]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/puf/+bug/580973|580973]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mtools/+bug/581257|581257]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/shutter/+bug/581273|581273]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/trove/+bug/581276|581276]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/c3p0/+bug/581246|581246]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-bsddb3/+bug/581244|581244]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pastescript/+bug/581242|581242]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libvorbis/+bug/581236|581236]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glpk/+bug/581226|581226]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apcupsd/+bug/581221|581221]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/obexd/+bug/581228|581228]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/junitperf/+bug/521390|521390]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/directvnc/+bug/581307|581307]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apgdiff/+bug/584186|584186]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/redland-bindings/+bug/584176|584176]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/junitperf/+bug/584174|584174]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geronimo-activation-1.1-spec/+bug/584585|584585]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtkparasite/+bug/584589|584589]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gyp/+bug/584591|584591]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hildon-theme-tools/+bug/584599|584599]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ipwatchd/+bug/584611|584611]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ipwatchd-gnotify/+bug/584617|584617]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nfs4-acl-tools/+bug/584625|584625]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/posterazor/+bug/584691|584691]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xmlbeans/+bug/584696|584696]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kalternatives/+bug/591212|591212]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pyclamd/+bug/591289|591289]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mistelix/+bug/591342|591342]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dkms/+bug/594363|594363]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xapian-bindings/+bug/596209|596209]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ca-certificates-java/+bug/596217|596217]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libjdepend-java/+bug/596230|596230]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libmx4j-java/+bug/596240|596240]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltspfs/+bug/596300|596300]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtkglext/+bug/596590|596590]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libuuid-perl/+bug/605139|605139]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libplist/+bug/605144|605144]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bugzilla/+bug/606309|606309]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libgtk2-perl/+bug/606431|606431]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ent/+bug/607957|607957]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libvisual/+bug/609612|609612]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/codeville/+bug/610577|610577]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/commons-daemon/+bug/610966|610966]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/maven-repo-helper/+bug/611034|611034]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tex4ht/+bug/611918|611918]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libept/+bug/611920|611920]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scim-python/+bug/611922|611922]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/drivel/+bug/611929|611929]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/powder/+bug/614091|614091]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libaws/+bug/614602|614602]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acct/+bug/609754|609754]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/excalibur-logkit/+bug/614691|614691]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jasperreports/+bug/614683|614683]]</nowiki>

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Artur put a lot of work into Ubuntu Development and has improved his skills a lot in the last few months. I almost exclusively reviewed syncs/merges/etc from Artur and hope that he is involved in other tasks of day-to-day maintenance too.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus-image-converter/+bug/615048
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ssl-cert/+bug/615579
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geronimo-j2ee-connector-1.5-spec/+bug/521312
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lm-sensors-3/+bug/519400
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python3-defaults/+bug/517288
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dnsjava/+bug/505599
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/doxygen/+bug/505565
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libpgjava/+bug/498812
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bc/+bug/498790
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bonnie++/+bug/498682
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xcursor-themes/+bug/498250
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ttf-liberation/+bug/498217
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/loggerhead/+bug/493682
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ethtool/+bug/489535
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wsdl4j/+bug/489513
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cacao-source/+bug/485116
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/java-access-bridge/+bug/485110
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ecj/+bug/485100
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libbsf-java/+bug/485095
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libcommons-codec-java/+bug/484916
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libgnumail-java/+bug/484912
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libelf/+bug/484906
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libcommons-net-java/+bug/484894
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libjaxen-java/+bug/484890
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pinentry/+bug/481422
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wvstreams/+bug/414264
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/connman/+bug/579593
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libaopalliance-java/+bug/579567
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libcommons-attributes-java/+bug/579563
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/policycoreutils/+bug/612126
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libindicator/+bug/610255
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xemacs21/+bug/611931
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lockfile-progs/+bug/596523
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ilohamail/+bug/596577
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/skyeye/+bug/588011
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/starplot/+bug/587627
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jasperreports/+bug/605959
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gpredict/+bug/606056

==== Areas of Improvement ====
There are a few examples where Artur was not careful enough. While a lot of these mistakes can happen to everybody, it'd be good to put some additional effort into being super-extra-careful in the future, particularly when about to drop previous changes. This has improved in the past few weeks though.

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ttf-sil-scheherazade/+bug/517297
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xcursor-themes/+bug/498250
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/junitperf/+bug/521390
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libaopalliance-java/+bug/489517

Unnecessary merge:
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/swig1.3/+bug/612130

=== Fabrice Coutadeur (fabrice_sp) ===
==== General feedback ====
Artur is putting a lot of work into Ubuntu (I sponsored almost 30 sync / merge during last cycle + 5 sync during maverick cycle). His level of English improved a lot lately, but there is still situations in which it makes more complex to work with him because of that.
In general, I'd like him to work on more diverse topics, other than sync and merge (that may be the case, but I didn't sponsored one)

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python3-profiler/+bug/517872
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-mhash/+bug/512558
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/freetalk/+bug/504091
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtkhash/+bug/502504
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eikazo/+bug/499666
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gedit-latex-plugin/+bug/499653
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/igstk/+bug/493738
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/connman/+bug/493688
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/agg/+bug/484694
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bitpim/+bug/486046
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/maven-docck-plugin/+bug/486031
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-mechanize/+bug/484775
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mpop/+bug/484765
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jabsorb/+bug/484691
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/aspectc++/+bug/484673
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bitstormlite/+bug/484544
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/btscanner/+bug/483894
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/classworlds/+bug/483815
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postgresql-debversion/+bug/483804
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtractor/+bug/483370
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ffproxy/+bug/482278
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kadu/+bug/427886
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/junitperf/+bug/584174
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wininfo/+bug/584575
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tortoisehg/+bug/584642
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/junior-doc/+bug/584699
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/coderay/+bug/584703

==== Areas of Improvement ====
cases that could have been handled better:
* sync FTBFS: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glunarclock/+bug/484682
* merge instead of sync: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xpn/+bug/510139
* sync not coordinated: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gpsd/+bug/508013
* merge instead of a sync: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gliv/+bug/482657
* Forgot FFE: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libpano13/+bug/440177
* About to drop changes in a merge: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hugin/+bug/439396
* Work more with Debian: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-main-menu/+bug/428860

Everybody makes mistakes, but my feeling is that Artur should be more careful.

Also, I still remember him being upset because he wasn't able to find available sponsors for Main. He should be more patient (even a MOTU needs to be patient sometimes :-) ).

=== Michał Zając (Quintasan) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored only two of Artur's contributions. I don't have any complaints about the quality of them. Working with him was fast and efficient. It's worth mentioning that he is quite active in our Polish LoCo IRC.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* sync ok: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/liblo/+bug/514491
* merge: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pyalsaaudio/0.5+svn36-1ubuntu1

=== Stefan Ebner (sebner) ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored only one sync which was okay, so I can't really judge his skills. He is now quite some time around in #ubuntu-motu and really motivated to do some work and/or to help others though.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* sync: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/egroupware-egw-pear/+bug/414265

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I can't really say much here but I've also experienced him being too impatient sometimes.

=== Thierry Carrez (ttx) ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored a dozen uploads from Artur. Those were mostly fakesyncs, with a couple of simple merges. Those were executed correctly. I cannot really judge his work on more complex issues (bugfixes) or his knowledge of more difficult procedures (SRU), since I haven't sponsored any of those.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libaxiom-java/+bug/521666
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxml-security-java/+bug/511448
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libcommons-attributes-java/+bug/515259
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geronimo-jacc-1.1-spec/+bug/512430
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geronimo-jms-1.1-spec/+bug/512430
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geronimo-ejb-3.0-spec/+bug/512430
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geronimo-jta-1.0.1b-spec/+bug/512430
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mingw-w64/+bug/591268
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/exifprobe/+bug/591259
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/colorblind/+bug/591216
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/myspell-sk/+bug/591192
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pyexiv2/+bug/596592
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ttf-sil-scheherazade/+bug/596595
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/maven-ant-helper/+bug/610994

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Artur covered a lot of merges/syncs and was a great asset for that period. I'd really like him to participate more in the rest of a MOTU's life (creating new packages, proposing SRUs, pushing bugfixes) and show as much energy on those other tasks :)

=== Stefano Rivera (stefanor) ===
==== General feedback ====

Artur's work is technically very good. Almost all everything I've seen from him 
has been flawless. Sponsoring his work is enjoyable and usually results in an upload. 

He is normally pretty quick to respond and very active on IRC. Artur is highly 
motivated and does an impressive amount of syncing and merging and I'm glad to
have him around. In fact, he's responsible for getting me to join the sponsors 
team. Thanks.

OTOH, I can understand why people have issues with Artur's communication. One 
of my first memories of him was him complaining to the DMB about not getting
his application reviewed in a meeting, that they were wasting his time. I 
thought this rather arrogant. And yes, he can be quite demanding (I don't know 
how much of this comes down to second language).

I have seen much improvement in this area. I don't worry that Artur will 
scare away newbies :)

I was in the disscussion IainLane mentions about Feature Freezes Exceptions, 
and was not impressed with Artur's attitude. However, I recall it mostly
being about the length of the sponsor queue - I don't think Artur will ignore
FFe processes as a MOTU, he hasn't as a sponsoree.

To be clear, I endorse this application.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Bug'''
| '''Action'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-fgfs-atlas | fgfs-atlas ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-fgfs-atlas-0.3.1-2 | 0.3.1-2 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-602461 | #602461 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-sgb | sgb ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-sgb-1:20090810-1 | 1:20090810-1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-614689 | #614689 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-the | the ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-the-3.3~b4-1 | 3.3~b4-1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-602437 | #602437 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-gnu-fdisk | gnu-fdisk ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-gnu-fdisk-1.2.4-3 | 1.2.4-3 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-599002 | #599002 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-libxmlada | libxmlada ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-libxmlada-3.2-5 | 3.2-5 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-614756 | #614756 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-python-xattr | python-xattr ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-python-xattr-0.4-5 | 0.4-5 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-602450 | #602450 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-fsl | fsl ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-fsl-4.1.6-1 | 4.1.6-1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-602846 | #602846 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-libgtkada2 | libgtkada2 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-libgtkada2-2.14.2-4 | 2.14.2-4 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-623372 | #623372 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-tumgreyspf | tumgreyspf ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-tumgreyspf-1.35-4 | 1.35-4 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-603349 | #603349 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-xmp | xmp ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-xmp-3.2.0-0.1ubuntu1 | 3.2.0-0.1ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-604235 | #604235 ]]</nowiki>
| merge
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-kadu | kadu ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-kadu-0.6.5.4.ds1-3ubuntu1 | 0.6.5.4.ds1-3ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-602465 | #602465 ]]</nowiki>
| merge
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-libsmbios | libsmbios ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-libsmbios-2.2.26-0ubuntu1 | 2.2.26-0ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-591017 | #591017 ]]</nowiki>
| upgrade
| Needed some extra love and python-specific knowledge
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-masqmail | masqmail ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-masqmail-0.2.27-1 | 0.2.27-1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-614726 | #614726 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-celestia | celestia ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-celestia-1.6.0+dfsg-2 | 1.6.0+dfsg-2 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-614792 | #614792 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-clustalx | clustalx ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-clustalx-2.0.12-3 | 2.0.12-3 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-614700 | #614700 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-mtd-utils | mtd-utils ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-mtd-utils-20100706-1 | 20100706-1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-614788 | #614788 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-ydpdict | ydpdict ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-ydpdict-1.0.0-2 | 1.0.0-2 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-624312 | #624312 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-ddd | ddd ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-ddd-1:3.3.12-1ubuntu1 | 1:3.3.12-1ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-614766 | #614766 ]]</nowiki>
| merge
| I spotted a sync regression, thus the merge.
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-libpam-afs-session | libpam-afs-session ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-libpam-afs-session-1.7-2 | 1.7-2 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-624309 | #624309 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-talksoup.app | talksoup.app ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-talksoup.app-1.0alpha-32-g55b4d4e-1.1 | 1.0alpha-32-g55b4d4e-1.1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-625372 | #625372 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-gwget2 | gwget2 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-proposed-+source-gwget2-1.0.4-1.1ubuntu0.1 | 1.0.4-1.1ubuntu0.1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-617614 | #617614 ]]</nowiki>
| sru
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-gwget2 | gwget2 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-gwget2-1.0.4-1.1ubuntu2 | 1.0.4-1.1ubuntu2 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-621497 | #621497 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-python-virtualenv | python-virtualenv ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-python-virtualenv-1.4.9-3 | 1.4.9-3 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-623381 | #623381 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-agg | agg ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-agg-2.5+dfsg1-3ubuntu1 | 2.5+dfsg1-3ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-393923 | #393923 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-agg | agg ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-proposed-+source-agg-2.5+dfsg1-3ubuntu0.1 | 2.5+dfsg1-3ubuntu0.1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-393923 | #393923 ]]</nowiki>
| sru
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-agg | agg ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-proposed-+source-agg-2.5+dfsg1-1ubuntu1.9.10.1 | 2.5+dfsg1-1ubuntu1.9.10.1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-393923 | #393923 ]]</nowiki>
| sru
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-drupal6 | drupal6 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-drupal6-6.18-1 | 6.18-1 ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-bugs-624016 | #624016 ]]</nowiki>
| sync
| 
|}

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Ask for help when you run into issues.
The libsmbios issue was complained about (E) by lintian, in a binary package that isn't in Debian.
Artur did ask for help after I told him to fix this, but he could have possibly spotted the issue by himself.

Double check those uploads, The ddd sync would have been an ubuntu regression, 
and the merge diff he provided had two typos in one line of changelog :)

=== StefanPotyra ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored one sync:
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-old-doctools/+bug/521405
and reviewed the following FFe's (which however is often not done in depth wrt. packaging, e.g. I rarely build any packages when judging a FFe):
* <nowiki>[[ https:--bugs.launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-kadu-+bug-268692 ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--bugs.launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-foolscap-+bug-420270 ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--bugs.launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-kadu-+bug-427886 ]]</nowiki>

all were technical fine.

I also recall that Artur sometimes overreacted a little bit instead of taking advice. He certainly improved in this regard. Altogether, I'm positive towards Artur's MOTU-ship. Since however I only sponsored one upload, I must also admit that I'm probably not the best person to give a recommendation.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Artur could improve his English :).

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
