{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



There is currently no meeting scheduled.

All meetings happened in #ubuntu-meeting at irc.freenode.net.

=== Friday, September 12th, 2008 at 19:00 UTC ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=9&day=12&year=2008&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|19:00 UTC around the world]]</nowiki>

Agenda:
* Default theme, wallpaper
*** Status Report, issues

* Community theme package
*** Add wallpapers?
*** Themes that are in now, how to help each other, fix final bugs, etc.

* Breathe Icon Set work
*** perspective
*** palette (or lack there of)
*** lighting
*** submission process
*** What Mark would *like* to see.
*** Where info will be. (answer is here but is very early:
      https://launchpad.net/breathe-icon-set
      https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/BreatheIconSet)

=== March 8th, 2008, 21:00 UTC ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=3&day=8&year=2008&hour=21&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|21:00 UTC around the world]]</nowiki>

Agenda: 

* GDM
** getting the bg inline with the wallpaper
** new icons

* GTK
** tweaking the gtk themes / progress 
** discussing clearlooks vs. murrine

* DESKTOP
** Wallpaper tweaks
** Discussing current state
** Ideas for moving forward

* ICONS Needed! 
** Update icon in Human style for panel
** Scale and Expose icons
** General state of human refresh and simple panel icons

* 8.10
** Discuss current ideas and how to move forward

=== January 10th, 2008, 18:00 UTC ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=1&day=10&year=2008&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|18:00 UTC around the world]]</nowiki>

Agenda:

* Theme/Icons roadmap for hardy and hardy+1
  (It looks like we should talk about the next 2 default themes)

* Art direction
  If it stands by then, to fill in the gaps, clear things up.
  Otherwise it's only the question: When?
** Client and decision making process
** Audience
** Background information, statistics
** The competition as context
** where do we stand?
** Where do we want to be?
** Strategic goals
** Message
*** possible means to bring it across
** Already made decisions about style
** Technical limitations, if we want to push some, can we? how?
*** per-pixel alpha
*** menus with rounded corners
*** unified window/menu-bar, menu and toolbar in one row
** Schedule (also above)
** Involvement:
    Where/how list members can and should actually get involved
** Do any of the mockups contain suitable elements?

* Theme teams

----
CategoryArtwork
