{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Artwork/Incoming/HardyIdeas
== This is the place to post your ideas for the Gutsy artwork, most importantly the wallpaper. ==
Description of the theme will be handled by kwwii or someone important ( not you ).
Please keep productions compliant with the palette located with the rules below.
please keep the size of any finished artwork below 3 MB in file size. I recommend actual size to be ~1MB.

== Rules ==
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/WallpaperRules contains a list of suggestions for your creation.
Please feel free to comment on the accuracy of them and even submit a petition for alteration.
You may wish to examine it for the instruction it provides will apply very well to all of the art created on this page.
They are not yet fully the de facto standard , please help me make them it.
Add your ideas below. For more detailed discussion and feedback please join the ubuntu art mailing list at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-art .

== Wallpapers below here ==
Please keep file size to a minimum as this speeds loading of this page.
Resolutions not 3:4 or widescreen are going to look BAD.

== GDM themes below here ==
Gdm themes here please. Please make your theme in 1600x1200 for maximum compatibility on all resolutions.
http://live.gnome.org/GnomeArt/Tutorials/GdmThemes will tell you how to make one. Use an example theme file if needed.
For screenshots please use the .jpg format , and keep your total archive size within above specifications.

=== Icon themes below here ===
Icon themes here please. Make your theme in svg format only please. Doing so is simply a smart choice.
Refer to http://live.gnome.org/GnomeArt/Tutorials/IconThemes for help. Use an example theme file if needed.

=== GTK 2 ===
Any suggestions as to GTK2 themes are also acceptable art. Please include a screenshot 
and only pick themes with adjustable colors that can be installed with little or no work.
GTK2 engines must be pre-compiled by you into a .deb archive as some themes have been
previously suggested that did not compile on all systems, as some of our participants do not know ./configure && make ;-)
Do not suggest GTK 1.0 themes , please.

== Sounds == 
Although strange , a suggestion to use an alternate set of sounds is something palatable.
Please include a whole range of sounds including a login and logout sound that last 2-7 seconds.
All sounds in your theme shall be in .wav format until further notice.
For assistance in making and altering files to your taste I recommend the use of Audacity.
