{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Tasks to be done by community members:

=== Artwork tasks ===

* Create backgrounds and themes and package them.
* Create countdown banners (wait for the call, as the specifics might change).
* Create templates for release-party posters and flyers and advertise them.
* Look at Ubuntu bugs tagged <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=needs-artwork|`needs-artwork`]]</nowiki>  for open tasks.
* Help fill upstream <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/GnomeArt/ArtRequests|GNOME art requests.]]</nowiki>

=== Wiki tasks ===

Please send a mail to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-art|ubuntu-art list]]</nowiki>, if you pick up work on one of these:

* Improve the <nowiki>[[Artwork]]</nowiki> page to make it an ideal starting point for newcomers. At least link to good introductions to wikis, mailing-lists and IRC.
* Improve the Software page such that someone who has never heard of any of our tools will
** find out about them
** be able to associate them with similar commercial tools,
** understand what they do even if they didn't know what bitmaps 
     and beziers are,
** have links to the finest tutorials.
* Cover topics like color theory, composition, drawing in 
  perspective ... a few high-quality links should do.
* Fill in the missing releases in <nowiki>[[Artwork-Archives|Archives]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryArtwork
