{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width:40px; border:none; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topleft:15px;">
| <style="width:20%; border:none; font-size:0.90em; font-weight:bold; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topright:15px;" ><nowiki>[[Artwork|Howdy]]</nowiki>
| <style="border:none">
| <style="width:40px; border:none; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topleft:15px;">
| <style="width:20%; border:none; font-size:0.90em; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topright:15px;" ><nowiki>[[Artwork-Tasks|Projects]]</nowiki>
| <style="border:none">
| <style="width:40px; border:none; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topleft:15px;">
| <style="width:20%; border:none; font-size:0.90em; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topright:15px;"><nowiki>[[Artwork-Specs|Specifications]]</nowiki>
| <style="border:none">
| <style="width:40px; border:none; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topleft:15px;">
| <style="width:20%; border:none; font-size:0.90em; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topright:15px;" ><nowiki>[[Artwork-Accolades|Accolades]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width:100%; border:none; background-color:#772953; line-height:5em;">
|}

<<BR>>

==== LibreOffice Artwork ====
* '''Sponsor''': LibreOffice Community

=== Testimonials ===

'''Date''': Thu, Nov 25, 2010<<BR>>

Hi, :-)

On Thu, Nov 25, 2010 at 10:58, j_baer <baerjj@gmail.com> wrote:
> Thank you for showing your support with your submission for this important
> community project.

+1 indeed :-)

The input from you guys of Ubuntu Artwork is bringing really valuable
results in the LibO project.

Thanks for all your support, too, John. Your goodwill and ideas were
what got the whole thing moving in the first place.

Thorsten, your creative and organisational proposals are very valuable for LibO.

If you have time, guys, I hope it will be an on-going thing. :-)

Please do persevere, even in the face of any inertia you encounter.

David Nelson

<<BR>><<BR>>
----
<<BR>><<BR>>

'''Date''': Thu, Nov 18, 2010<<BR>>
'''Team Member''': Thorsten Wilms

<<BR>>

Wow, Thorsten.

Now this is something we can work with. Tomorrow I will try to integrate
this into the wiki, and as I have some time free I will launch into
designing an artwork workflow and publication system that complies with your
requests.

Thank you very much for this very specific feedback, you will not
be disappointed with the outcome.

If anyone else has proposals like this, the Drupal website design team is
more than willing to bend over backwards to accommodate your requests. Keep
them coming
<<BR>><<BR>>
Michael Wheatland

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="border=none; border-color:#f7f7f7; color:#f7f7f7;">xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
|}
