{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This is a theme engine for the gtk toolkit which uses CSS, SVG and bitmaps to create a unique look.

Homepage: http://www.gnome.org/~robsta/gtk-css-engine/info.html

As this project is still under way this page will change over time. Currently this is a place for instructions on how to get things up and running for testing/development.

/!\ NOTE THAT THIS SOFTWARE IS IN THE EARLY STAGES - YOU SHOULD NOT EXPECT THIS TO WORK AT ANY GIVEN TIME - THIS IS NOT A SUPPORT FORUM /!\

=== Installation instructions (Draft) ===

Starting from a 9.04 Ubuntu installation, you will probably need to add a few packages. Open a Terminal (Applications menu: Accessories: Terminal) and type:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install gtk-doc-tools libcroco3-dev libgsf-1-dev librsvg2-dev
</pre>

Then you need a development version of librsvg from trunk:

<pre>
cd ~
git clone git://git.gnome.org/librsvg
cd librsvg
./autogen.sh
make
sudo make install
</pre>

You also need Libccss:

<pre>
cd ~
git clone git://anongit.freedesktop.org/git/ccss.git/
cd ccss
./autogen.sh
make
sudo make install
</pre>

Finally the engine itself. It needs to be installed to /usr instead of the default /usr/local, as otherwise the themes and engine will be invisible to thewidgetfactory and Appearance settings.

<pre>
cd ~
git clone git://git.gnome.org/gtk-css-engine
cd gtk-css-engine
./autogen.sh --prefix=/usr
make
sudo make install
</pre>
