{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== down with tango up with human, down with metacity up with emerald. ==

why on earth are people still creating their mockups etc. using tango? im sorry, its lost the battle, it just looks nowhere near as good as human, i meen just compare the curves, gradient and shapes of human's default folder icon with tango's simplistic, pseudo 3d one and human very, very clearly wins hands down. i think alot of the support tango gets is just down to it being seen as an underdog and a way of making mockups and things seem ever so slighly more individualistic but look let's just let it go and try and just improve human rather than waste our time on tango.

second of all, and i think more importantly i think its about time we started using emerald themes, for reasons i dont quite understand its gone out of fashion recently and i really cant understand why. now look i dont want to offend anyone and suffocate under a barrage of angry comments but although the default human metacity theme is probably as impressive as a metacity theme can be, without multiple gradients, translucency, translucency gradients etc. (that is to say glassy and shiny effects) you cant possibly expect to impress any random computer user, even if they still use xp or even earlier systems people have still at least seen vista and osx with their more interestingand complex window borders. i accept that not everyone can use emerald due to the age of their system but rather than go at the pace of the slowest i suggest using a tier system upon installation where the user can decide because just expecting the people who want emerald to install it themselves obviously gets rid of any possibility of creating a standardised ubuntu default emerald theme which i certainly think that there should be, (its also annoyingly tricky to change to emerald permentantly which involves creating a session and this is likely to confuse noobs thus hampering ubuntu's usability which is supposed to be one of our main priorities.) 

so having created this group im going to follow it up with a group for emerald theme suggestions, and just to break the ice the first suggestion will be mine.

==== Reference ====

== Contributions ==

<nowiki>[[?action=AttachFile|Attach File]]</nowiki>

=== Comments ===
* honestly, emerald is VERY buggy and has little to no integration with gtk.  IE: if you change GTK themes, the window borders don't blend in to the new gtk theme-shadowh511
* Emerald isn't even supported by upstream Compiz-Fusion developers anymore.  They've been talking about writing a replacement, but for now they use GTK-Window-Decorator.  Additionally, it has '''major''' performance issues with some Nvidia chips.  The entire machine slows down from the combination of Emerald with certain Nvidia chips.  The only recommendation the Compiz-Fusion devs had when I mentioned the performance issue was to use GTK-Window-Decorator (their thing that lets Compiz use Metacity themes). -- <nowiki>[[maco.m]]</nowiki>  * I personally prefer Tango to Human -- it's too shiny for my taste, and a little too thematic (i.e., it uses orange everywhere, rather than a few clever locations). Tango has a consistent artistic style; whether one likes that style or not is, well personal. I like it because, unlike Aqua and Vista, it doesn't look like it's covered in shellac. It stands out in its simplicity. (My personal fave, though, is Gion -- it maintains the Tango aesthetic, but makes it a bit more interesting.) So all I'm saying is that art is subjective, and not everyone would agree with your opinion, so one style can't be a 'hands-down' winner against another, as long as they're both good quality. -- <nowiki>[[paul]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
=== Attachment List ===

<<AttachList>>
----
CategoryArtwork
