{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


As dicussed during the 10.04 UDS:

=== Current process ===
* Submissions to the flickr group (http://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntu-artwork). 
* Shortlist is created by a group of judges.
* Selections are made.

=== Problems with the Karmic cycle ===
* A number of photos had nice motives, color and contrast, but suffered from having the motive out-of-focus (blurriness) and/or a weak composition.
 
=== Updated process ===
* Finish the process 3 months before release? Aim for first package to go into Beta 1.
* Make the connection between the author and photo more explicit.
* Be explicit about the fact that submissions on the wiki will not be included. (Sent Email to list)
* Ask people if we can alter their photos as we ask them about the license?
** discuss on a case-by-case basis what the changes are that we are suggesting and how it should be executed.
* Rewards! People with an Ubuntu One account?
* Add a stamp for everyone who is short-listed.

=== Actions ===
* Redo all the phrasing on the flickr group.
** Add phrasing for 'just a great photo'.
* Ensure that the wiki is fully updated to reflect the new process.
* Check out Miro for the video contents? (http://getmiro.com/).
* Fix the link from the Appearance settings dialog so that it offers the user the option to install more wallpaper packages. Perhaps link to the Software Centre? Add an apt-url link instead of a link to a website so that a user can install them automatically. Perhaps there would be a benefit to packaging the wallpapers individually which would lead to stats we could use to improve the selections!
* Define our expectations regarding wallpaper design better.
 
=== Ideas and suggestions for the instructions: ===
You might like to consider categories like these:
* Abstract
* Monochrome
* Animal life
* Landscapes
* Local culture

=== Questions ===
* Other flavours of ubuntu - do they use the same set or run their own competitions?
* How do we tie in with the Free Culture Showcase?
** Is the Free Culture showcase the umbrella? Yes.
* Should we encourage more abstract images and how?
* Do we restart each cycle or reuse some wallpapers between releases?
** Restart each cycle, put wallpapers in a package per release, ubuntu-wallpapers-karmic.
** Should upgraders still have the previous wallpapers package? (Note possible need to split the package in this case due to design wish to explicitly change default wallpaper background).
** Can we relate the desktop themeing to the wallpaper selection?
** Can we improve the selection process/information gathering by creating our own infrastructure? Extra website/wiki, tool to view pics on a desktop-like overlay.
 
----
CategoryArtwork
