{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width:40px; border:none; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topleft:15px;">
| <style="width:20%; border:none; font-size:0.90em; font-weight:bold; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topright:15px;" ><nowiki>[[Artwork|Howdy]]</nowiki>
| <style="border:none">
| <style="width:40px; border:none; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topleft:15px;">
| <style="width:20%; border:none; font-size:0.90em; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topright:15px;" ><nowiki>[[Artwork-Tasks|Projects]]</nowiki>
| <style="border:none">
| <style="width:40px; border:none; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topleft:15px;">
| <style="width:20%; border:none; font-size:0.90em; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topright:15px;" ><nowiki>[[Artwork-Specs|Specifications]]</nowiki>
| <style="border:none">
| <style="width:40px; border:none; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topleft:15px;">
| <style="width:20%; border:none; font-size:0.90em; background-color:#F1F1ED; -moz-border-radius-topright:15px;" ><nowiki>[[Artwork-Accolades|Accolades]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" style="width:100%; border:none; background-color:#772953; line-height:5em;">
|}

<<BR>>

==== Create Banners/Widgets for the Free Culture Showcase ====
* '''Sponsor''': Ivanka Majic
* '''Posted''': 2011-01-21
* '''Due''': ''Desired Due Date''
* '''Assigned''': Artwork team/ Saleel Velankar
* '''Packages affected''':n/a
* '''See also''': <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/2011/01/free-culture-showcase/ | Relevant Blog Post]]</nowiki>

=== Rationale ===

The Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase is being reborn for this cycle; it now features an overarching theme of freedom, professional creatives as judges, but the word ''needs'' to get out there. Artists that participate, or people that may be interested need banners/widgets that are embeddable in their websites/blogs to spread the word.

=== Assumptions ===

* In the same vein as countdown banners regarding size.

=== Use Cases ===

* Person A.
** makes a great piece of music expressing Freedom.
** embeds song in his/her website along with widget.
** submits link to something like <nowiki>[[reddit.com-r-musicmakers | MusicMakers Subreddit]]</nowiki>
** Widget is used to gain attention on piece and project.

* Person B.
** Runs a digital art blog
** Puts up a widget/banner and drives artists to contribute for exposure/accolades.

=== Design Considerations ===

** A set of 4 consistent/semiconsistent styled banner are needed. One per each category. If the styles are unique there should be a clear reason as to why.
** The Taglines for the 4 are as follows:   
** Music: '''The Sound of Freedom.'''
** Photo: '''Capturing Freedom.'''
** Illustration: '''Depicting Freedom.'''
** Video: '''Freedom in Motion.'''
** Each banner should be contain the phrase: '''Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase'''
** Final submissions should be in optimized png, gif or jpg.
** Draft sumbmissions should include source svg/xcf.

=== Constraints ===

** Submissions must adhere to <nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/|Creative Commons]]</nowiki> license.
** Attribution must be stated if the submission is based on another design.
** '''Dimensions''': 180px by 150px
** Clear legibility of all text.
** No flash; if animated gif moderation in the amount of visual activity.

=== Submissions ===

Either on here; on the artwork mailing; or a link on here to an external source (flickr/deviantart/etc...)

----
