{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== 9.10 Karmic Koala ===

Here you can post your artwork submissions and concepts for the next Ubuntu release, nicknamed Karmic Koala.

New to Karmic is the ability to create Ubuntu-themed <nowiki>[[branding]]</nowiki> for particular programs, such as the card backs on solitaire.  If you have a branding submission, you can post it here as well.

Submissions in this cycle:

=== Submit ===

Read the <nowiki>[[Artwork-Incoming-SubmissionGuidelines|Submission Guidelines]]</nowiki> before submitting your page.

Don't create new pages for backgrounds/wallpapers, add them to <nowiki>[[Backgrounds|Backgrounds]]</nowiki> instead.

Choose a short but meaningful name that starts with an uppercase letter. Don't use spaces in the name; use so called <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CamelCase|CamelCase]]</nowiki> or underscores instead.

=== Following what's going on here ===

To subscribe to all updates, go to your <nowiki>[[UserPreferences|User Preferences]]</nowiki> and add '''Artwork/Incoming/Karmic/.*''' to the "Subscribed wiki pages (one regex per line)" input box and save.

=== Notes from the Karmic Koala Introduction ===

<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-February/000536.html|Mark Shuttleworth introducing Karmic Koala]]</nowiki>

The planned features and goals can and should serve as guidance and inspiration for artwork, especially for backgrounds.

On the server:
* Cloud computing, making it easy for anybody to
** setup their own cloud using entirely open tools
** to deploy applications into the cloud, with ready-to-run appliances or by quickly assembling a custom image.
* Featuring the <nowiki>[[http://eucalyptus.cs.ucsb.edu/|Eucalyptus project]]</nowiki>
* Dynamically growing and shrinking resource allocations depending on your needs.
* Conserving energy.

On the desktop:
* A fast, flicker-free and beautiful boot process.
* Possibly a new login experience that complements the graphical boot, and works well for small groups as well as very large installations. (This quite likely refers to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Specs/GdmFaceBrowser)
* A serious push for a new look from Canonical's design team.
* "Brown has served us well" but other options will be considered for Karmic Koala.

----
CategoryArtwork
