{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Naming ===

Start a new page for each concept. Choose a short but meaningful name that starts with an uppercase letter. Don't use spaces in the name; use so called <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CamelCase|CamelCase]]</nowiki> or underscores instead.

=== Structure ===

* Description &ndash; Explain what your concept is all about.
* Content &ndash; Palettes, demonstration and mockups go here. Follow with references and inspirational material.
* Contributions &ndash; List contributors to the project.
* Comments &ndash; At the bottom of your page, start a comment section <code> == Comments == </code>.

=== Images ===

Don't include huge images in the page directly. Rather restrict them to 800 pixels in width and link to the full size image.

=== Formats ===

Submissions should be made in formats that can be read by software available from the Ubuntu Repositories. Preferred image formats include <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XCF_(file_format)|XFC]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svg|SVG]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portable_Network_Graphics|PNG]]</nowiki>. Preferred sound formats include <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wav|WAV]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flac|FLAC]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ogg_vorbis|OGG Vorbis]]</nowiki>. Master files, which may be further edited, should be maintained in non-lossy formats and made available to the community. Preserving vector graphics, raster layers and channels is important for such materials.
