{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== 10.04 LTS Lucid Lynx ===

Here you can post your artwork submissions and concepts for the Ubuntu release planned for April, 2010, nicknamed Lucid Lynx.

It's not feasible to implement ideas that would require extensive changes or entirely new software within one cycle. Please add them to the <nowiki>[[Artwork-Incoming-Concepts|Concepts]]</nowiki> section instead.

Submissions in this cycle:

=== Use Flickr for wallpapers! ===

Due to technical problems with the wiki and to avoid having submissions in 2 separate places, we will not accept wallpaper submission here! Please join the <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntu-artwork|Flickr Ubuntu Artwork group]]</nowiki> if you would like to offer Wallpapers for Ubuntu.

You may still add wallpapers to the wiki as part of a larger project, or to show a design process with revisions for gathering feedback.

=== Submit ===

Read the <nowiki>[[Artwork-Incoming-SubmissionGuidelines|Submission Guidelines]]</nowiki> before submitting your page.

Choose a short but meaningful name that starts with an uppercase letter. Don't use spaces in the name; use so called <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CamelCase|CamelCase]]</nowiki> or underscores instead.

=== Notes from the Lucid Lynx announcement ===
<nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/1916|Lucid Lynx announcement on the Fridge]]</nowiki>

10.04 will be a Long Term Support release with the focus on refinement and stability. As the Lynx, it shall be lean stylish and sleek. It will be the 12th release!

=== Following what's going on here ===

To subscribe to all updates, go to your <nowiki>[[UserPreferences|User Preferences]]</nowiki> and add '''Artwork/Incoming/Lucid/.*''' to the "Subscribed wiki pages (one regex per line)" input box and save.

----
CategoryArtwork
