{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The default installation of Inkscape will always be a few revisions behind the bleeding edge.  If you want those newer features, this is a brief guide as to how to compile it locally.  Thanks to '''j michaelson''' for this guide.

== Building Inkscape for the First Time ==

=== Install Required Dependencies ===
You will require the following packages, as given by the installation line following:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install automake build-essential subversion intltool liblcms1-dev libtool libgtkmm-2.4-dev libglib2.0-dev libpng12-dev libxslt1-dev libsigc++-2.0-dev libpopt-dev libgc-dev libgsl0-dev libboost-dev
</pre>

=== Obtain Recent Sources ===
We will use subversion to get the source files.
<pre>
svn checkout https://svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/inkscape/inkscape/trunk inkscape
</pre>

=== Build the Binary Executable Image ===
Now we must <code>cd</code> into the directory it just created, and build the package with the following lines:
<pre>
./autogen.sh
./configure
make
sudo make install
</pre>

This should now provide you with a bleeding edge version of Inkscape.

== Subsequent Builds of Inkscape ==

=== Update the Source Tree ===
First we need to <code>cd</code> into the Inkscape source directory that we created above.  Once there we simply perform the following command to update the file structure:
<pre>
svn update
</pre>

=== Build the Newer Binary Executable Image ===

This is identical to the above step:
<pre>
./autogen.sh
./configure
make
sudo make install
</pre>

== Optional Inkscape Compile Settings ==
Inkscape offers a few features not enabled by default when you issue the <code> ./configure </code> command alone.  Two of the more interesting ones are "Inkboard" and the "Little Color Management System".

=== Inkboard ===
Inkscape has a built in collaborative feature titled "Inkboard" that allows you to share your ideas across a network connection with someone else utilizing Inkscape. If you would like to enable SSL support for inkboard you will require the "libssl-dev" library. To install the development library for SSL support, issue  <code> sudo apt-get install libssl-dev </code>. To enable inkboard prior to the compile, add "--enable-inkboard" to the above <code> ./configure </code> commands ie. <code> ./configure --enable-inkboard <other options> </code>

=== Little Color Management System ===
If you are interested in having color management integrated into Inkscape you will need to enable this option.  In addition to this, you will require the "liblcms1-dev" library.  To install the development library, issue <code> sudo apt-get install liblcms1-dev </code>.  To enable lcms prior to the compile, add "--enable-lcms" to the above <code> ./configure </code> commands ie. <code> ./configure --enable-lcms <other options> </code>

'''Sub-pages :''' ----
CategoryArtwork
