{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Jaunty ===

This page details incoming artwork and themes for the <nowiki>[[JauntyJackalope|Jaunty Jackalope]]</nowiki> release. For reference, a Jackalope is a fictional animal which is a cross between a jack rabbit and an antelope, goat, or deer, and is usually portrayed as a rabbit with antlers. 
* Click the ''<nowiki>[[Artwork-Documentation-GetInvolved|Get Involved]]</nowiki>'' link in the navigation bar at the top to start communicating with other artists. 
* For references on ''how to make themes'', click the <nowiki>[[Artwork-Documentation|Documentation]]</nowiki> link! Join the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-art|mailing list]]</nowiki> for more information. 
* ''To subscribe'' to all updates, go to your <nowiki>[[UserPreferences|User Preferences]]</nowiki> and add '''Artwork/Incoming/Jaunty/.*''' to the "Subscribed wiki pages (one regex per line)" input box and save.

=== What does Jaunty look like right now? ===
Well the best way to find out is to follow the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-art|Mailing List]]</nowiki>! However, if you are running ubuntu+1 you can see the current 'state' of things. You may also reference this <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kwwii/+archive|PPA]]</nowiki> for Hardy and Intrepid art packages. Remember earily in the development cycle submissions are subject to change and often do change.

=== Projects ===

Please follow the <nowiki>[[Artwork-Incoming-SubmissionGuidelines|Submission Guidelines]]</nowiki> before submitting your page.

