{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Proposed Themes ==

This page relates to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Hardy/Alternate/ThemeTeams|ThemeTeams]]</nowiki>. Please read that first!
Please use this template for submissions. Add your theme below the other themes already existing

=== TEMPLATE Name ===
* Leader's Name. If you are proposing a theme but can't lead please leave this as 'ADOPT ME!?'
* Leader's idea for the theme rationale and design
* If required, a link to another wiki page with further details
* Interested Team Members
* Screenshot, mockup, 3 images max please

=== Unity ===
* ADOPT ME!
* For higher end machines, Uses oranges and graphites
* Look at Unity in the "/alternate" wiki. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Hardy/Alternate/Unity
* 
* Screenshot, mockup, 3 images max please

=== Union ===
* ADOPT ME!
Currently Union is a Compositing-enabled Murinne theme based on technology by Cimi, within the Gnome GTK+ framework. Graphics are created in SVG format, as to enable scaling when the technology becomes available.
Goal

There are no GTK themes available as of yet, the theme so far is only within concept stages. The theme goals are to:

*** Be extremely clean with minimal clutter; Avoid information overflow.
*** Use sharp graphics and smooth gradients; Make the theme clear-cut yet gentle.
*** Showcase a unique visual identity; People know Ubuntu when they see it.
*** Look solid, yet lightweight; People hate flimsy feeling windows and being weighed down.
*** Demonstrate the cutting edge without overstepping; Use as much technology we have, use very little we don't.
*** Display the graphical prowess of Linux; Some people still think we only have command-line.

* Look at Union in the "/alternate" (wiki.https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Hardy/Alternate/Union)

=== Kerberos ===
* ADOPT ME!
* Look at Kerberos in the "/alternate" (wiki.https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Hardy/Alternate/Kerberos)

=== Satin Ribbon ===
* Hey, this is kido. I'm willing to lead this one.
* This theme focuses on minimalism and subtlety, with as few hard edges as possible.
* There is a GTK theme in the works, but it isn't complete. It's on the page (linked below).
* Also in the "/alternate" (wiki.https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Hardy/Alternate/SatinRibbon)

----
CategoryArtwork
