{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Welcome to the Theme Teams wiki page. Here we plan to develop some unofficial themes to be packaged in Universe
'''This basically isn't happening. We had one person volunteer to run a theme (go Kiddo!) and that seems to be going well, but basically there was no support. Please remember this before you whine about the state of the art in Ubuntu...'''

== Proposed Themes ==
If you'd like to lead a theme team, or see a specific theme developed as part of this process, add some details about it to the wiki page at /ThemeProposals.

Shortly after Jan 7th we will decide which themes we are going to go ahead with. This will likely happen by a vote

== Schedule for Development ==
We aim to stay in sync with the other Hardy Artwork deadlines. They're not in HardyReleaseSchedule, but <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/ubuntu-804-hardy-heron-release-dates.html|this]]</nowiki> looks accurate These have vague names, so I've interpreted what I think they mean - I am likely wrong, so if you know or think better ''''please'''' point it out!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Deadline'''
| '''Theme Deadline'''
|-
| January 5th
| Alpha 3
| Decision about whether we will do it, how it'll work
|-
| January 10th
| -
| Decision of WHICH themes will go ahead. Package request in Launchpad
|-
| ''January end''
| -
| ''ArtPackagingSchool'' ?
|-
| January 31st
| Alpha 4
| Apply for inclusion in Universe, packages in REVU (using Launchpad)
|-
| Feb 14th
| ArtworkDeadlineOne,UVF Universe
| '''Packes in REVU deadline''' - I.E Packages done, in REVU
|-
| February 21st
| Alpha 5
| All themes artwork preview. Get feedback!
|-
| February 28th
| ArtworkDeadlineTwo,NewPackagesFreezeUniverse
| Packaging and theme components finalised
|-
| March 20th
| BetaFreeze,ArtworkFinalDeadline
| Design/images finalised. Aim to be complete
|-
| March 27th
| BetaRelease
| Polished work. Consistency
|-
| April 24th
| FinalRelease
| Release
|}

== Launchpad ==

Working correctly with Launchpad is important. Please add advice on how to do it!
== Packaging ==

This has historically been a stumbling block. As a result, the timetable above aims to have packaging being done from early on in the process. The idea is that we can start with '''dummy packages''' with '''placeholder art''' and move forward from there.

But we '''really''' need people who know how to do the launchpad packaging. I propose that we try and arrange an ArtPackagingSchool for the end January... Is there anyone to run it? 
 -- TroySobotka  - Brilliant, but why not just formalize all of the arcane knowledge into a document so that it is permanent?  I know that Daniel believed it was better to accomplish the art packaging via Python scripting than the original automake standard, and I think he worked towards that.  I would probably suggest that if we are able, we contact Luke (themuso) or another MOTU to get the building bits in alignment.  The reason being is that the art and design encompasses a bunch of things, not to mention audio that is never talked about, and that involves having MOTU experience around 24/7 to resolve and educate.  Perhaps we can get further on this by enlisting the help of those packager types?

== Getting to Universe ==
Theme Team Leaders should read UbuntuDevelopment/NewPackages

It looks like we will need to go through REVU as these will likely be new packages. Thus, taking the advice of the wikipage above, we should be in REVU two weeks before 14th

Some themes already exist in Universe (Blubuntu, for example) - so we could update these - however if we change the 'nature' of the themes we risk frustrating many users.

== Publicity ==

We will also need to publicise these themes, so we can get feedback from users. It would be good to use the forums for this, and any well read blogs. If you have a blog, or are active on the forums please add your name (and email) here
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Method of publicity'''
| '''Email'''
|}

----
CategoryArtwork
