{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


A page for ideas, concepts, styles and foundations for the Blubuntu theme

== Water ==
I can't think of blue without immediately thinking about water - However, I am looking for a new take on water. Troy talked a bit about the way it can morph and evolve into new shapes - I like this idea, and it fits well with the current 'droplet' motif. 

I also like the idea that water has NO shape but MAKES a shape - for example in hills and valleys....

== Comments ==
-- TroySobotka Mercury works well for me, although it probably inspires cliched images of traditional approaches to look / feel for operating systems.  Water is very overdone.  Aqua comes to mind.

Connotations:
* Metamorphosis
* Evolution
* Shift over time
* Change
* Adaptation
* Chrome brilliance
* Reflectivity of ?
* Combination / Amalgamation
* Division
* Smooth curves
* Erratic particle dispersion
* Gentle grades coupled with stark contrast
* Motion / progression
* Alchemy
* Molten / metal
* Dynamic
* Pour / fill / fluid

What about a Blubuntu GRUB screen? And please build the Blubuntu package in the repos in such a way that the adjustments are done automatically - my mom has no clue how to make the necessary changes in the theme and GDM menu.....

== Science ==

The mercury and water droplets started me thinking along scientific lines...

I like the idea of accuracy and thoroughness - measurement and precision. I think there are some interesting ideas in areas related to science because there is creativity and chaos that is contained in tidy, clean boundaries/environments. Abstract and uncontrolled stuff happens but is measured technically... 

Perhaps we could look at the contrast between these - sharp, technical science and abstract, creative, soft nature...? 

liquids and chemistry are good friends too - so watery themes could be included here :)

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----
CategoryArtwork
