{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Lubuntu Natty Wallpaper ====
** '''Community''': Lubuntu /  Mario Behling
** '''Posted''': 05 Dec 2010
** '''Due''': 17 Mar 2011
** '''Assigned''': Artwork Team
** '''Packages affected''': Lubuntu (Natty)
** '''Comment''':

=== Introduction ===

Lubuntu is an Ubuntu derivative which is targeted at "normal" PC and laptop users running on low-spec hardware. Such users may not know how to use command line tools, and in most cases they just don't have enough resources for all the bells and whistles of the "full-featured" mainstream distributions.
<<BR>><<BR>>
Although considered to be minimalistic when compared to other Linux graphical desktops, the emphasis is the wise use of resources with targeted functionality in order to maximize efficiency on older and new hardware platforms.

=== Inspiration ===

We want to express performance but not at the expense of design. The desired result is nimble, light, and adequate.

Associations:
* Butterfly
* Humming Bird
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kangaroo_mouse|Kangaroo mouse]]</nowiki>
* para-sailing
* high performance kites
* Ultra-light planes and hang gliders
* Gymnastics
* Cars like the <nowiki>[[http://www.smart.com/is-bin/INTERSHOP.enfinity/WFS/smart-content-Site/-/-/-/Default-Start|Smart Car]]</nowiki>

Some of these could be abstracted to shapes and colors.

=== Palette ===

The Lubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Marketing|palette]]</nowiki> is blue and the desire of the community is to honor this palette in your design. The wallpaper will have to go well with the panels, windows and icons (as far as they appear on the desktop). Its use of color has to support the impression of lightness and performance, without becoming a distraction in day-to-day use.

=== Constraints ===

* The desired dimensions of the successful candidate should be 2560 x 1600 pixels. See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Documentation/Backgrounds|Background Guidelines]]</nowiki> for additional information.
** Flickr restricts the image format for free accounts to 1024 x 640 :( For the purposes of submissions this is acceptable.
* The successful design will be accepted in the Portable Network Graphics ( "png" ) and/or Scalable Vector Graphics ( "svg" ) format.
* The desired design must go well with the colors used in the interface.
* Submissions must adhere to the <nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/|Creative Commons ShareAlike 3.0]]</nowiki> license.
* Attribution must be declared if the submission is based on another design.
* No logo and no text. Such elements attract too much attention. Constantly reminding the user of the name of the distribution does not communicate confidence.

=== Workflow ===

** The mailing list will be used to facilitate design discussions.
** Post submissions to the <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/groups/uawt-8/|Lubuntu Natty Wallpaper]]</nowiki> Flickr group.
** The successful candidate will be chosen by members of the Lubuntu community.

=== Todo ===

* Define colors used in the panel, windows. Evaluate them in light of the intended message (lightness, performance). Suggest changes accordingly.
* Identify icons likely to appear on the desktop
* Create templates that allow to see proposals in context
* Select associations and metaphors and work on literal or abstract takes on them.
