{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Todo:

* Develop specifications for each part of a theme, from windows down to a per widget level.
* List what each widget needs to get across about itself. Continue with the how.
* Describe relationships between widgets (example: a group of radio buttons and a combo-box both stand for a selection of one item out of a list)

==== Panels ====

* Panels need to be clearly separated from the background and windows. However, they are related to menu and tool bars and this can be shown.
* For a top panel, it must be clearly distinct from a window titlebar.

==== Windows ====

* Clearly separate the window area from the surrounding and other windows
* Show the availability or unavailability of means of manipulation, for closing, minimizing, maximizing, moving and resizing. 
* Indicate which window has focus
* Indicate if a window can be resized or not

==== Non-Interactive Widgets ====

Non-interactive widgets have to make it clear that they are not click- or drag-able. Especially progressbars have to be clearly distinct from scrollbars and sliders.

* Labels
* Frames
* Separators
* Progress bars

==== Interactive Widgets ====

* Offer a target area.
* Give a hint at possible interaction. Can the widget be clicked on and/or dragged? This possibilities should always be shown in the same or similar fashion.
* Ideally indicate if the pointer is in the target area before an action is taken (prelight).
* Visually respond to an action like clicking or dragging.
* Indicate whether the widget has input focus (note the separated keyboard and enter-key focus in dialogs).

* Command Buttons. There is a special case of focus-handling in dialogs: The Default button of the dialog (for example "Open" in the "Open File" dialog) will receive Enter-key events, even if the general keyboard focus is on another widget that doesn't react to Enter itself.
* Toggle Buttons
* Check Boxes
* Radio Buttons

* Menubars
* Toolbars

===== Notebook =====

A notebook needs to communicate that it allows to make one of several areas visible, while all of these areas and the options offered on them persist.

* Expanders
* Scrollbars

===== Comboboxes =====

A combobox allows to select always one item from a list and is therein like a group of radio buttons.

* Combobox Entries

* Text Entries
* Spin Buttons
* Sliders

* List Views
* Icon Views
* Tree Views
