{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Plymouth ==

This document lists resources for the plymouth startup splash

==== General information on Plymouth ====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Plymouth

http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Plymouth

==== Info on scripting ====
http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Plymouth/Scripts

==== The mailing list ====
http://lists.freedesktop.org/mailman/listinfo/plymouth

=== Information on Plymouth from a design perspective ===

* <nowiki>[[http://brej.org/blog/?p=158|Part 1]]</nowiki>: introduction, creating testing environment
* <nowiki>[[http://brej.org/blog/?p=174|Part 2]]</nowiki>: theming basics
* <nowiki>[[http://brej.org/blog/?p=197|Part 3]]</nowiki>: scripting and animation
* <nowiki>[[http://brej.org/blog/?p=238|Part 4]]</nowiki>: advanced tips & tricks

=== Ubuntu-specific technical notes ===

* You don't need to compile Plymouth from source to get its X11 interface. Just install '''plymouth-x11''' package.
* Ubuntu uses Debian alternatives system instead of ''plymouth-set-default-theme'' command. This means that you'll have to use '''sudo update-alternatives default.plymouth ''path-to-your-theme-here''''' to switch themes. Themes are usually located in /lib/plymouth/themes/''theme-name''/''theme-name''.plymouth
* There are many example themes in Ubuntu repository. Run '''apt-cache search plymouth-theme-*''' to get a list of available theme packages. You can also '''<nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=plymouth-theme&searchon=names&section=all|view them online]]</nowiki>''' (with screenshots).
