{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Screenshots @ Ubuntu.com ====
** '''Sponsor''': Design Team / Ivanka Majic <ivanka.majic@canonical.com>
** '''Posted''': 13 Nov 2010
** '''Due''': 
** '''Assigned''': Artwork Team / JohnBaer
** '''Packages affected''': Software Centre
** '''Comment''': {*} '''O N&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;H O L D''' - Waiting guidance!

=== Rationale ===

The Ubuntu Software Centre desires to display screen shots of applications to enhance the user experience. Currently screen shots are submitted to "screenshots.debian.net" which is a hosted sub domain of the community site "debian.net" / "debian.org".

'''The desired result of this effort will have the following characteristics.'''
** Designed to run as an enhanced web experience
** Will run as part of the Canonical infrastructure 
** Supports current Ubuntu branding guide lines
** Permits the uploading of screen shots images
** Optionally permits the uploading of screen cast videos
** Permits the attachment of meta data to submissions
** Supports search, updates, and deletions
** Supports Software Centre integration

=== Assumptions ===

** "screenshots.ubuntu.com" will be a sub domain of "ubuntu.com" which is supported by <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/|Canonical]]</nowiki>.

** The team will consist of resources from Canonical and the community.

** The granularity will be to the package ( 1 submission / package )

=== Use Cases ===

** Community author desires to display a screen shot of their application to assist a potential user in deciding if the application satisfies there needs.

** Community author desires to display a short screen cast showcasing the application ( viz. promotional video )

** Author desires to update submission.

** Author desires to delete submission.

** Community member or admin desires to find submission.

** Admin desires to contact submitter

=== Design Considerations ===

** Support branding standards.

** The interface must be simple and intuitive.

** Audience

*** Non technical community focus

** Inspiration

**** http://www.dripbook.com/
**** http://www.openclipart.org/
**** http://www.wpzoom.com/demo/gallery/
**** http://demo.graphpaperpress.com/workaholic/

=== Constraints ===

** If at all possible the desired result should be python based / django.

=== Workflow ===

** The mailing list will be used to facilitate design discussions.

** Design mock ups submitted to: <flickr>

** Source code submitted to: <launchpad>

==== Schedule ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" rowbgcolor="#cccccc">'''ID'''
| <style="width:300px;">'''Task'''
| '''Start'''
| '''Finish'''
| '''Resources'''
| '''Comments'''
|-
| <-6 rowbgcolor="#eeeeee" style="line-height:5em;">
|-
| 1
| Initiation
| 11/11/2010
| 12/08/2010
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 1.1
| Sprint 1
| 11/11/2010
| 11/24/2010
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 1.1.1
| Submit Draft Spec
| 11/11/2010
| 11/15/2010
| JohnBaer
| 
|-
| 1.2
| Sprint 2
| 11/25/2010
| 12/08/2010
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 2
| Milestone #2
| 12/09/2010
| 01/05/2010
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 2.1
| Sprint 1
| 12/09/2010
| 12/22/2010
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 2.2
| Sprint 2
| 12/23/2010
| 01/05/2011
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 3
| Milestone #3
| 01/06/2011
| 02/02/2011
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 3.1
| Sprint 1
| 01/06/2011
| 01/19/2011
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 3.2
| Sprint 2
| 01/20/2011
| 02/02/2011
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 4
| Milestone #4
| 02/03/2011
| 03/02/2011
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 4.1
| Sprint 1
| 02/03/2011
| 02/16/2011
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 4.2
| Sprint 2
| 02/17/2011
| 03/02/2011
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 5
| Milestone #5
| 03/03/2011
| 03/30/2011
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 5.1
| Sprint 1
| 03/03/2011
| 03/16/2011
| Project Team
| 
|-
| 5.2
| Sprint 2
| 03/17/2011
| 03/30/2011
| Project Team
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" rowbgcolor="#eeeeee">Natty Beta
|}

=== BoF Discussion ===

** None planned
