{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Saputro Aryulianto ==

Greetings! My name is Ary. I come from Indonesia.
I am a Red Hat Certified Architect (RHCA) and hold three {CKA,CKS,CKAD} certifications in Kubernetes. Know Ubuntu since High school (2010) through the ShipIt Ubuntu program. Currently, I am working as Cloud Solutions Architect at an enterprise Cloud System Integrator and starting my own business, <nowiki>[[ https:--imtek.id | IMTEK ]]</nowiki>.
I enjoy outdoor activities such as watching football, swimming, hiking, and coffee in my free time.

=== Contact ===
* E-mail: <nowiki>[[ mailto:aryuliantos@gmail.com |aryuliantos@gmail.com ]]</nowiki>
* Launchpad <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~aryulianto]]</nowiki>
* Website: <nowiki>[[ https:--aryulianto.com |www.aryulianto.com ]]</nowiki> 
* Twitter: <nowiki>[[ https:--twitter.com-aryuliantos |@aryuliantos ]]</nowiki> 

=== Contributions ===
* Patrons for UbuconAsia since 2021
*** https://2021.ubucon.asia/patrons
*** https://2022.ubucon.asia/patrons
* Initialize and Create a Website for Indonesian Ubuntu Community
*** Domain: https://ubuntu-id.org
*** Source Code: https://github.com/ubuntu-id/ubuntu-id.github.io
* Speaker at <nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2022]]</nowiki> Seoul, South Korea | <nowiki>[[https://2022.ubucon.asia/sessions/play-with-maas-cli/ |Play with MAAS CLI]]</nowiki>
* Organizer at <nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2023]]</nowiki> Surakarta, Indonesia | as a Local Team, Handle <nowiki>[[ https:--2023.ubucon.asia | Website ]]</nowiki>, Sponsorship and Finances

=== Further Goals ===
* Continue to promote Ubuntu (open source operating system), especially as the best OS for Cloud Infrastructure - OpenStack
* Involved in organizing another <nowiki>[[UbuconAsia]]</nowiki> - An annual Ubuntu conference gathers and connects Ubuntu local communities around Asia
