{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
I am Ashickur Rahman from Dhaka,Bangladesh. I am studying on Computer Science. I like open Source and GNU/Linux distro's because it gives me the freedom to do what I want to do with my laptop and desktop, to share my customized operating system and other open software with my friend's and relative, It gives the chance of using software in my native language which a propitiatory software doesn't give me. Ubuntu and it's other variant and fork has helped me to remove a curse of software piracy from me which is like a virus in my country. More over it gives me the freedom to choose what will I use. I like to share my Ubuntu and Open source software experience with others in my local community people.

== Current Activities ==
Moderator, Only Dedicated Bengali GNU/Linux distro Forum of Bangladesh  <nowiki>[[http://forum.linuxdesh.org/user-3.html|Linux Community Forum]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Volunteer, Foundation for Open Source Solutions Bangladesh <nowiki>[[http://fossbd.org/|FOSS Bangladesh]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Asst. Event coordinator, ``পেঙ্গুইন মেলা ২০১২" - A Event for Sharing the light of Open Source and GNU/Linux Distro's <<BR>>
Update <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam|Ubuntu Beginners Team]]</nowiki> monthly reports.<<BR>>
Start writting <nowiki>[[http://goo.gl/GUZW3|Ubuntu 12.04 user guide]]</nowiki> in Bangla.

== Events ==
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11167997#post11167997|``লিনাক্স ডে-২০১১'']]</nowiki> Celebrating the 2oth birthday of Linux<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11246243#post11246243|``সফটওয়্যার মুক্তি দিবস-২০১১"]]</nowiki> Celebrating Software Freedom Day in Dhaka,Bangladesh.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11341641#post11341641|A Small Ubuntu 11.10 Release Party, at AUB, Bangladesh]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1871507|Ubuntu 11.10 (Oneiric Ocelot) Release Party, Bangladesh]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11576546#post11576546|Ubuntu Users Meet Up, Bangladesh]]</nowiki> How to communicate in the community<<BR>>
Having a Session on <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/01/14/%23ubuntu-classroom.html#t14:01|Ubuntu Users Day Oniric]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Ubuntu Global Jam- <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1932486|New Edition testing and bug reporting]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1971433|Ubuntu 12.04 release Party]]</nowiki><<BR>>

== Workshops ==
How to Oracle and PHP in Ubuntu.

== Future Plan ==
To make a local GNU/Linux distribution or a fork of Ubuntu in my Native language is my future plan. 

== Contact Me ==
Ubuntu Forum <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1133893|ashickur.noor]]</nowiki><<BR>> 
Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ashickur-noor|ashickur-noor]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Email ashickur.noor@gmail.com<<BR>>
IRC ashicur-noor<<BR>>
OpenPGP Key :89C932E1<<BR>>
Code of Conduct: Yes

== Testimonials ==

Ashickur good a very good UserDays session for the Oneiric cycle on Launchpad. He is a great guy to work with and love to work with him. He is also active in the BeginnersTeam. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:benny]]</nowiki> 