{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

As part of the AsiaBusinessTour, Canonical representatives plan to visit Seoul, Korea on 7 February 2006. If you have information or contacts to help us plan this trip, please fill in the relevant sections below, or contact us at asia2006@canonical.com

Who to Meet

Technology Companies (e.g., contacts at OEMs, system builders, etc.)

*** ...
*** ...

Government (e.g., contacts in ministries of education, culture, information technology)

*** <nowiki>[[http://www.software.or.kr/kipahome/kipaweb/english/index.html|Korea IT Promotion Agency (KIPA)]]</nowiki>
*** ...

Linux User Groups (LUG) (e.g., we would love to meet with members of the community, so let us know if there are any meetings while we are there)

*** <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam]]</nowiki>
**** Request a session or advices for role and activities of LoCoTeam (We're establishing our team).
**** Beer, of course or Soju?
*** How about 7, Feb evening for a drink with <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.software.or.kr/kipahome/kipaweb/english/index.html|Korea IT Promotion Agency (KIPA)]]</nowiki> near the COEX. chabrothers@chabrothers.com

Universities (e.g., contacts in computer science/information technology departments)

*** ...
*** ...

Volunteers

If you would like to help us navigate during our stay in Seoul, Korea please let us know by signing up below or sending us an email to the address at the top of this page.

*** ...
*** ...

Where to Stay

*** Intercontinental Hotel is Near the COEX <nowiki>[[http://kr.seoul-grand.intercontinental.com/]]</nowiki>

Last but not least, any suggestions of decent hotels/accomodation would be extremely helpful! We are particularly looking for someplace

*** convenient to airports
Handling for Mark's own airplane <nowiki>[[http://www.kbas.com/]]</nowiki>
*** convenient for local businesses
*** appropriate to host a business breakfast
*** well-wired (i.e, broadband!)

You can choose either of the downtown area or Kangnam area.  The downtown area is easier to access the government, while Kangnam area is better to contact the technology companies and technology people.  For downtown area my recommendation is: 
*** Lotte hotel Seoul http://www.lottehotel.co.kr/english/grand/company/company_index.jsp (Note that there are two Lotte hotels in Seoul.  This is the Lotte Hotel Seoul in sogong-dong, NOT the Lotte hotel in Jamsil).  
For Kangnam area: 
*** JW Marriot Seoul http://www.jw-marriott.co.kr/ (Sorry I couldn't find English page)
*** COEX Intercontinental http://seoul-coex.intercontinental.com
*** Grand Intercontinental http://seoul-grand.intercontinental.com  (There are two Intercontinental hotels in the COEX area.  No much difference between the two)
