{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In January and February of 2006, <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/|Canonical]]</nowiki> representatives will be travelling to Asia. Our main goals for this tour are to increase awareness for Ubuntu in Asia; introduce Ubuntu to governments, hardware providers, and system builders across the region; and to meet members of the Ubuntu local communities.

In each location listed below we plan to host a business breakfast/lunch with local companies, and then hold in-depth meetings with selected companies, as time allows.  We would like to reach out to our local community in each location to help us build relationships with various entities, including government, technology companies, universities, and anyone who you can think would benefit from Ubuntu and what it has to offer. 

The agenda below includes links to sub-pages where you can help by sharing your local knowledge!  

If you wish to discuss this trip, please send email to asia2006@canonical.com.

===== Current Schedule =====

(This schedule is subject to change, but is the best information we have at the moment.)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Location
| More Info
|-
| 18 January 2006
| Lahore,Pakistan
| <nowiki>[[/Pakistan]]</nowiki>
|-
| 19 January 2006
| Bangalore, India
| <nowiki>[[/Bangalore]]</nowiki>
|-
| 20 January 2006
| Bangalore, India
| <nowiki>[[/Bangalore]]</nowiki>
|-
| 21 January 2006
| Mumbai, India
| <nowiki>[[/Mumbai]]</nowiki>
|-
| 22 January 2006
| Mumbai, India
| <nowiki>[[/Mumbai]]</nowiki>
|-
| 23 January 2006
| New Delhi, India
| <nowiki>[[/NewDelhi]]</nowiki>
|-
| 24 January 2006
| Singapore
| <nowiki>[[/Singapore]]</nowiki>
|-
| 26 January 2006
| Dunedin, New Zealand (linux.conf.au)
| /NewZealand
|-
| 30 January 2006
| Canberra, Australia
| <nowiki>[[/Australia]]</nowiki>
|-
| 31 January 2006
| Sydney, Australia
| <nowiki>[[/Australia]]</nowiki>
|-
| 1 February 2006
| Jakarta, Indonesia
| <nowiki>[[/Indonesia]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2 February 2006
| Manila, Philippines
| <nowiki>[[/Philippines]]</nowiki>
|-
| 3 February 2006
| Tokyo, Japan
| <nowiki>[[/Japan]]</nowiki>
|-
| 6 February 2006
| Tokyo, Japan
| <nowiki>[[/Japan]]</nowiki>
|-
| 7 February 2006
| Seoul, Korea
| <nowiki>[[/Korea]]</nowiki>
|-
| 8 February 2006
| New Delhi, India (Linux Asia Conf & Expo)
| /NewDelhi
|-
| 9 February 2006
| New Delhi, India (Linux Asia Conf & Expo)
| /NewDelhi
|-
| 13 February 2006
| Beijing, China
| <nowiki>[[/Beijing]]</nowiki>
|-
| 14 February 2006
| Beijing, China
| <nowiki>[[/Beijing]]</nowiki>
|-
| 15 February 2006
| Shanghai, China
| <nowiki>[[/Shanghai]]</nowiki>
|-
| 16 February 2006
| Taipei, Taiwan
| <nowiki>[[/Taipei]]</nowiki>
|-
| 17 February 2006
| Taipei, Taiwan
| <nowiki>[[/Taipei]]</nowiki>
|-
| 20 February 2006
| Hong Kong SAR
| <nowiki>[[/HongKong]]</nowiki>
|-
| 21 February 2006
| Bangkok, Thailand
| <nowiki>[[/Thailand]]</nowiki>
|}

The schedule is still in flux, but it looks like we have to reserve these cities for the next trip: <<BR>>
 <nowiki>[[/Hyderabad]]</nowiki>
 <nowiki>[[/Pune]]</nowiki>
 <nowiki>[[/Malaysia]]</nowiki>

Thank you for all your help, we look forward to crossing paths in our Asia Business Tour 2006!
