{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

As part of the AsiaBusinessTour, Canonical representatives plan to visit '''Lahore, Pakistan on 18 January 2006'''. If you have information or contacts to help us plan this trip, please fill in the relevant sections below, or contact us at asia2006@canonical.com

==== Who to Meet ====

FOSSFP is based in Lahore, (Hub of IT in Pakistan). If the team plans to visit Lahore, FOSSFP would like to request a confirmed travel plan/arrival information before making any arrangements as meeting with the govt. officials (State Governors & Ministers) and higher authorities require prior approval/confirmation. 

'''Technology Companies''' (e.g., contacts at OEMs, system builders, etc.)

* 

'''Government''' (e.g., contacts in ministries of education, culture, information technology)

 
'''Linux User Groups (LUG)''' (e.g., we would love to meet with members of the 	community, so let us know if there are any meetings while we are there)
* 
* 

'''Universities''' (e.g., contacts in computer science/information technology departments)
* 
* 

==== Volunteers ====

If you would like to help us navigate during our stay in Islamabad, please let us know by signing up below or sending us an email to the address at the top of this page.

* Dr. M. A. Pasha marpasha@yahoo.com, chairman@fossfp.org 
* Fouad Riaz Bajwa, bajwa@fossfp.org, fouadbajwa@yahoo.com, CELL:++92-333-4661290

==== Where to Stay ====

Last but not least, any suggestions of decent hotels/accomodation would be extremely helpful! We are particularly looking for someplace
* 
