{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

As part of the AsiaBusinessTour, Canonical representatives plan to visit Bangkok, Thailand on 21 February 2006. If you have information or contacts to help us plan this trip, please fill in the relevant sections below, or contact us at asia2006@canonical.com

Who to Meet

Industry Groups.

*** <nowiki>[[http://www.atci.or.th|Association of Thai ICT Industry]]</nowiki>. Contact bunrak@magicsoftware.co.th Bunrak Saraggnanda, Vice-President.
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.tesa.or.th|Thai Embedded Systems Association]]</nowiki>. Contact apinetr@yahoo.com Associate Professor Apinetr Unakul.
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.atsi.or.th|Association of Thai Software Industry]]</nowiki>. info@atsi.or.th

Technology Companies (e.g., contacts at OEMs, system builders, etc.)

*** <nowiki>[[http://www.nomagicasia.com|NoMagic Asia]]</nowiki>. Contact rattanawan@nomagicasia.com Rattanawan Rattakul, Managing Director. 
*** ...

Government (e.g., contacts in ministries of education, culture, information technology)

*** <nowiki>[[http://www.swpark.or.th|Software Park Thailand]]</nowiki>, part of the <nowiki>[[http://www.nstda.or.th|National Science and Technology Development Agency]]</nowiki>, under the <nowiki>[[http://www.most.go.th|Ministry of Science and Technology]]</nowiki>. Contact meetham@swpark.org Meetham Na Ranong, Business Development Officer.
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.nectec.or.th|National Electronics and Computer Technology Centre]]</nowiki>. info@nectec.or.th
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.m-culture.go.th|Ministry of Culture]]</nowiki>. Contact phiranai@yahoo.com Phiranai Chotikanta, Director, External Relations Division.
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.mict.go.th|Ministry of Information and Communication Technology]]</nowiki>. Contact chatchai@mict.go.th Chatchai Khunpitiluck.
*** ...

Linux User Groups (LUG) (e.g., we would love to meet with members of the community, so let us know if there are any meetings while we are there)

*** Free and Open Source Thailand. Contact paola.dimaio@gmail.com Paola Di Miao.
*** ...

Universities (e.g., contacts in computer science/information technology departments)

*** Assumption University, Faculty of Science and Technology. Contact thotsapon@s-t.au.ac.th Assistant Professor Dr Thotsapon Sotrakool.
*** ...

Volunteers

If you would like to help us navigate during our stay in Bangkok, Thailand please let us know by signing up below or sending us an email to the address at the top of this page.

*** ...
*** ...

Where to Stay

Last but not least, any suggestions of decent hotels/accomodation would be extremely helpful! We are particularly looking for someplace

*** convenient to airports
*** convenient for local businesses
*** appropriate to host a business breakfast
*** well-wired (i.e, broadband!)

  The <nowiki>[[http://www.amtel.co.th/bangkok/index.html|Ambassador]]</nowiki> is next door to my condo and seems like a good option. If not the Ambassador, it is important to get somewhere near a BTS station (preferably near both the BTS Skytrain and MRT Underground -- by Asoke BTS and Sukhunvit MRT would be ideal) so peoplee can avoid the traffic -- StuartBishop

  The Sheraton Sukhumvit will be the place place for business meeting and enjoy the city of Bangkok. It has Skytrain and Subway station only 5 step walk and best Thai resturant in the hotel. check this out <nowiki>[[http://www.sheratongrandesukhumvit.com/|Sheraton]]</nowiki>
  
Nota bene.

** Got some press coverage for you guys - <nowiki>[[http://bangkokpost.net/Database/11Jan2006_data07.php]]</nowiki>. Hope this helps! The Bangkok Post is actually a physical paper newspaper, BTW, and of course, I'll look forward to meeting up and interviewing you when you guys are in Thailand.
