{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Server Guide Updates ==

=== Introduction ===
* Updated for Hardy.

=== Installation ===
* Updated for Hardy.

=== Package Management ===
* Updated for Hardy.

=== Networking ===
* Updated for Hardy.
** OpenSSH Section moved <code>to Remote Administration</code> section.

=== Remote Administration ===
* OpenSSH -- Updated for Hardy.
* eBox -- Updated for Hardy.

=== Network Authentication ===
* Updated for Hardy.

=== Domain Name Service (DNS) ===
** Updated for Hardy.

=== Security ===
* User Management -- Updated for Hardy.
* Console Security -- Updated for Hardy.
* Firwall --  Updated for Hardy.
* AppArmor -- Updated for Hardy.
* Certificates -- Updated for Hardy.

=== Web Servers ===
* Updated for Hardy.

=== Databases ===
* Updated for Hardy.
 
* For '''Intrepid''' an '''SQLite''' section should be added.

=== Wiki Applications ===
* '''Moin Moin''' -- Updated for Hardy.
* '''Mediawiki''' -- Updated for Hardy.

=== File Servers ===
* FTP Server -- Updated for Hardy.
* Network File System (NFS) -- Updated for Hardy.
* CUPS - Print Server -- Updated for Hardy.

=== Email Services ===
* Postfix -- Updated for Hardy.
* Exim4 -- Updated for Hardy.
* Dovecot Server -- Updated for Hardy.
* Mailman -- Updated for Hardy.
* Mail Filtering -- Updated for Hardy.

=== Version Control System ===
* Subversion -- Updated for Hardy.
* CVS -- Updated for Hardy.

=== Windows Networking ===
* All -- Need updated for '''Intrepid'''!

* Likewise Open -- Updated for Hardy.

=== Backup ===
* Shell Scripts -- Updated for Hardy.
* Archive Rotation -- Updated for Hardy.
* Bacula -- Updated for Hardy.
** Could use a section on backing up a '''Remote Host''' for '''Intrepid'''.

=== JeOS ===
* Updated for Hardy.

== New Sections ==
Some plans on adding new sections that are probably needed.

See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/IdeaPool|Server Team Idea Pool]]</nowiki> Documentation Area.
