{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page will hold references to pages concerning installing the <nowiki>[[http://www.asterisk.org/|Asterisk]]</nowiki>
PBX system and additions on computers running <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> linux.

<nowiki>[[AsteriskOnUbuntu-Development|Draft Script for review]]</nowiki> for installing on Natty (Tested, 11.04), Maverick 10.10, Lucid 10.04, Oneiric 11.10 (Untested) - Working Versions

<nowiki>[[AsteriskOnUbuntu-Current|Draft Script and Recipe]]</nowiki> for installing on Lucid (Current, 10.04) - Current (LTS)

<nowiki>[[AsteriskOnUbuntu-Jaunty]]</nowiki> for installing on Jaunty (Current, 9.10)- Outdated

<nowiki>[[AsteriskScriptOnHardy|Draft Script]]</nowiki> for installing on Hardy (LTS, 8.04) - Outdated

<nowiki>[[AsteriskRecipeOnDapper|Draft Recipe]]</nowiki> for installing on Dapper (LTS, 6.06.1) - Outdated

=== Quick start ===

* Users who want a quick start with <nowiki>[[VoIP]]</nowiki> are encouraged to start by installing a SIP proxy before installing a soft-PBX.  The <nowiki>[[http://www.rtcquickstart.org|Real-time communications (RTC) quick start guide]]</nowiki> provides step-by-step instructions.
** after installing the proxy, the phones, softphones and Asterisk all connect to each other through the proxy
** the proxy can also be connected to the public Internet to enable federated calling between domains.  It is not recommended to have Asterisk connected directly to the Internet without a proxy and/or TLS.

=== Testing ===

* There is a separate page regarding testing configurations at <nowiki>[[AsteriskTesting]]</nowiki>.
* Additionally, you can ensure the test of Sip Phones at: <nowiki>[[AsteriskFreePBXTestingWithSoftphones]]</nowiki>

=== Sound Quality ===

There is a separate page regarding sound quality for prompts at <nowiki>[[AsteriskSoundQuality]]</nowiki>.

=== Why not use packages? ===

This not seems be true anymore. Since Lucid, I was able to use the asterisk and asterisk related packages with success. The only problem was about the asterisk-mysql package, that needs to be rebuild (easy steps), as mentioned on the Current Page. - Duda Nogueira

Since these are scripts and recipes, the question naturally arises -- why not use packages for these installations? A very good question. In general, the existing packages (as of 17 March 2009) have not worked well to produce a working version. Hopefully one of the gurus with more knowledge of packaging may produce a set based on the script which will work.
