{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ASUS M2R32-MVP ==

Chipset AMD 580X CrossFire Chipset + ATI SB600

Bios Revision 0804

== My setup: ==

     -Athlon X2 3800+ AM2 (Windsor Core 2GHz + 2x512Kb Cache) 89 Watt

     -2x1 gig Corsair 5-5-5-12 DDR2 800mhz

     -ASUS ATI X1900 XTX PCIe Video card

     -520 watts P/S

     -Onboard sound 
	 
     -Onboard NIC

== Ubuntu 8.04.1 LTS (Hardy Heron) Installation issues ==

	-Had to remove 'quite splash' and add "pci=nomsi" "apci=off" to prevent the installation from stalling during SATA HD detection.

== Post installation issues: ==

	- "pci=nomsi" has to be added to the kernel initialization script to facilitate booting. Otherwise the system will hang every time.

== What was tested ==

	-Onboard NIC: Seems to work fine up to 1Gb/sec
	
	-Onboard Sound: Playback and volume control seem to work in stereo. (Microphone and 5.1 channel playback untested)
	
	-Video card: Compiz Fusion up and working fine(Cube, Rotate, Fire, Annotate, Water, Reflection, Dbus, Cubecaps), Mpeg/AVI video playback working, Flash Video playback working, 
	
	-PS2 ports: both mouse and keyboard work(even ancient Model M IBM keyboard works fine)
	
	-SATA Devices: Tested several SATA HDs, all mounted up and read just fine. SATA DVD-Rom mounted and read fine.

	
== Other notes ==
	
	I "have not" tried to install directly to a SATA HD, yet. Nor have I tried any serious 3D apps. Additionally no benchmarking have yet been performed.
----
CategoryHardware
