{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Product page:
http://asus.com/products.aspx?l1=3&l2=101&l3=482&l4=0&model=1519&modelmenu=1

== Gutsy Gibbon ==

=== i386 ===
Audio works out of the box now. No more acpi troubles too.
Pay attention to disable floppy setting in bios if you actually don't have a floppy drive installed on you system. Previous ubuntu releases ignored if it was enabled without a floppy drive.

==== FireWire (IEEE 1394) ====
Not tested yet.

==== Suspend - Hibernation ====
Not tested yet.

== Feisty Fawn ==

=== AMD64 ===
Sound does not work out of the box. As a partial solution you can create a file /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-extra with contents:

<pre>
options snd_hda_intel model=3stack
</pre>

This should fix sound playback, but sound recording still won't work.

Suspend freezes the PC. Hibernate powers down correctly but hangs when attempting to resume.

=== i386 ===

==== Installation ====
Ubuntu installation cd doesn't load properly. You can view the installation menu but once you select a choice everything stops after loading the kernel. Same result with different choices or alternate installation cd. Upgrading the bios to 0503 (the latest available when writing), does not solve this problem.

'''Workaround''': Add "acpi=off" to the grub kernel options: when booting select your kind of installation and press "e" to edit the grub kernel commands. Select the longest line, press "e" again and add "acpi=off" after the "splash" option. Press "b" to boot.
You have to do the same at every following boot. Otherwise you can add this option to the grub configuration file /boot/grub/menu.lst followed by:

<pre>
sudo update-grub
</pre>

'''Side effects''': This will cause the computer to not shutdown properly when you halt your system. It will hang on "Will halt now" and you'll have to press the power switch. If you find a working workaround please edit this entry. Cpu cores temperature is not shown in software like Gkrellm probably because of disabling acpi features.

==== Sound ====

Sound does not work out of the box.

'''Workaround''': Add the following line to the file /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base

<pre>
options snd-hda-intel position_fix=1 model=3stack
</pre>

This will fix sound playback and recording. A good mixer software is raccomended to tweak audio levels and capture toggles. "Alsamixer" did this for me.

==== FireWire (IEEE 1394) ====

Works out of the box.

==== Ethernet ====

Not tested yet.

==== Suspending and hibernation ====

Not tested yet.

----
HardwareSupportComponentsMotherboardsAmdSocketAm2Asus
