{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Note; this page format copied from <nowiki>[[Asus_P5QC]]</nowiki>.
=== Mainboard ===
<nowiki>[[http://usa.asus.com/products.aspx?l1=3&l2=11&l3=710&l4=0&model=2307&modelmenu=1|ASUS P5QL PRO LGA 775 Intel P43 ATX Motherboard]]</nowiki>

=== Summary Of Results ===
Works fine with Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex 64-bit.

==== Pre-Install ====
SATA ("Storage Configuration") to AHCI mode in the BIOS, because others said this is required for the P5Q series boards (I didn't even try the IDE mode). Initial install kept failing. Problem was traced to bad memory (OCZ2RPR10664GK DDR2 PC2-8500 1066 MHz Reaper HPC Edition 4GB(2x2048) Dual Channel Kit). After underclocking it from 1066 (rated speed) to 1002 in the BIOS, system was stable and install proceeded without problems. Whether this is a MB problem or memory problem isn't clear. Memory was on sale for less than DDR2 800 memory so I decided to keep it underclocked rather than return it.

Marvell IDE controller was disabled in the BIOS (no IDE devices exist, this shortens boot time).

BIOS was upgraded from 0804 to 0904 from a USB stick via the BIOS while diagnosing the initial problems (which turned out to be the memory).

==== Installation Program ====
System was installed by booting from USB stick, using a stick created by System -> Administration -> Create a USB startup disk on my previous system. No problems. However, even with the USB device set first in the boot order, the board won't automatically boot from USB. You must hit F10 (BBS Setup) when prompted during BIOS initialization, then select the USB device.

==== Ethernet Driver ====
Ethernet worked out of the box, no issues. Only tested on 100Mbit ethernet.

==== Video ====
Board has no onboard video. I used an ATI Radeon 3450-based, passively-cooled video card in the single PCIe 16x slot. Do not enable Visual Effects until you have done a complete update through Update Manager, else you'll get random crashes and X-server hangs. After update, video with visual effects is adequately fast and stable.

==== Audio ====
Audio worked out of the box. In System -> Preferences -> Sound, default is "Auto-detect". Basic audio works on the headphone-out. Rear-panel analog audio untested. My speakers are connected to the coax S/PDIF rear-panel output. To get this working:

Open Volume Control. Click Preferences and enable the IEC958 switch. Close preferences. In the Switches tab, enable IEC958. Close volume control. Again in System -> Preferences -> Sound, select "HDA Intel ALC888 Digital (ALSA)". Restart any Gnome apps using audio.

=== Other Components Used ===
* CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo E8400 Socket LGA775, 3 GHz, 1333 MHz FSB, 6MB L2 Cache, 45nm (Retail Box) (BX80570E8400)
* CPU Cooler: stock Intel cooler
* CPU Paste: on cooler
* Memory: OCZ2RPR10664GK DDR2 PC2-8500 1066 MHz Reaper HPC Edition 4GB(2x2048) Dual Channel Kit (underclocked to 1002 MHz)
* Video: Asus EAH3450/DI/256M ATI Radeon HD 3450 Chipset 256MB DDR2 Dual Display PCI Express 2.0
* PSU: PCI Power & Cooling Silencer 500W
* Hard Drive: Seagate Barracuda (ST31000340AS) 7200.11 SATA 3.0Gb/s 1000GB (1TB) 32MB Cache (OEM)
* DVD Drive: LG GH22NS30 Black SATA DVD-Writer 22xDVD+R/-R 8xDVD+RW/6xDVD-RW 16xDVD+R DL 12xDVD-R DL 48x CD-R 32xCD-RW OEM (not present during install)
* Monitor: AG Neovo F-419
* Lian-Li PC-A05B mini-tower case. Rear intake and front exhaust fans replaced with quieter ones. (Note, the unusual setup of this case means that the normal airflow is reversed.)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.rolandus.com/products/productdetails.aspx?ObjectId=746&ParentId=114|Edirol MA-15D Micro Monitors]]</nowiki> (connected via coax S/PDIF on the rear panel). These speakers are much better than typical premium PC speakers and are reasonably priced, if you have a S/PDIF digital or coax output, I suggest that you use it.

=== Final Comment ===

My previous system also ran 8.10 Intrepid, and was a Shuttle SN95G5B SFF PC with an Athlon 64 3200+ @ 2GHz and 2G of DDR400 memory. The new system significantly outperforms it in every respect. In particular, a typical HandBrake encode of a DVD has jumped from about 7fps to 35fps. USB disk performance is noticeably faster (but not benchmarked). I'd recommend this board.

I still have a little too much fan noise, which I think is the stock Intel cooler. I plan to replace it. There's obviously no significance to Ubuntu compatibility with this change.

CategoryHardware
