{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Note* This is for Ubuntu 5.10 Brezzy Bagder 5.04 Hoary also works but require more tweaking afterwards.Recommend 5.10 for Install on this motherboard.

== Asus7n8x Specification ==
Processor  	Socket A for AMD Athlon™ XP/Athlon™ / Duron™
                Thoroughbred/ Barton Core Support

Chipset         North Bridge: NVIDIA® nForce2 SPP(Ultra400)
                South Bridge: NVIDIA® nForce2 MCP-T

FSB 	         400* / 333 / 266 / 200 MHz
                 ( * PCB 1.06 or earlier version need BIOS update )

Memory 	         Dual-Channel DDR 400
                 3 x 184-pin DIMM Sockets
                 Max. 3 GB unbuffered PC3200/PC2700/PC2100/PC1600 non-ECC DDR RAM Memory (Twinbank)

Expansion Slots 	1 x AGP Pro/8X (1.5V only)
                        5 x PCI

IDE Ports 	 2 x UltraDMA 133/100/66/33

Serial ATA 	 Silicon Image® Sil 3112A Controller with 2 ports
                 Support RAID 0/1

Audio 	         Realtek® ALC650 6CH w/built in HP amplifier
                 Integrated APU(Audio Processor Unit) SoundStorm?/ Dolby® Digital (AC-3) Encoder

LAN 	         2 Ports
                 MCP integrated NVIDIA® MAC + Realtek® 8201BL PHY
                 MCP integrated 3Com® MAC + Broadcom® AC101L PHY

Firewire 1394 	2 Ports MCP-T Integrated IEEE 1394a + Realtek® PHY 8801B

== Ubuntu 5.10 installation ==

Just make an ordinary install No problems:)
Ubuntu 5.10 finds all information and install fine:)

== After Install ==

This motherboard works great.

== Sound Problems ==
Asus A7N8X have some sound problems . The sound gets disorted.
In order to be able to use this Integrated sound i recommend to lower the volume bar to 80%
Then most of the sound corruption dissepear. However it is still there so it may be a good idea to buy an external sound card if you want good sound. 
