{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Asus Mobo Page:

http://gr.asus.com/products.aspx?l1=3&l2=11&l3=185&model=515&modelmenu=1

I have tested this Motherboard with the following OS:

1. Ubuntu v6.06 (Dapper Drake),

2. Ubuntu v6.10 (Edgy Eft).

The Motherboard works perfectly!

However, you have to do the following:

'''Part A'''

You must compile the Intel's HDA (High Definition Audio) Drivers if you want your Microphone to work on your Ubuntu.

You can find more info on how to do this, here:
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=258878

'''Part B:'''

You might have to activate the audio out to hear sound.

To do this, perform the following steps:

1. Launch a Terminal window (from your Menu, select "Applications\Accessories\Terminal").

2. Type "alsamixer"

3. To select a "control", use your keyboard's left & right arrow keys.

4. To increase/decrease a "control's" volume, use your keyboard's up & down arrow keys.

5. To mute/unmute a "control", use your keyboard's M key.

6. Move around to adjust other "controls", by repeating above steps 3-5.

7. To exit the "alsamixer", press your keyboard's "ESC" key twice.

If you have unmuted the correct "controls" in alsamixer & your speaker jacks are plugged in the right place in your Mobo's audio-out, your audio should now work fine! 
