{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Asus Mobo Page:

http://www.asus.com/products4.aspx?l1=3&l2=11&l3=194&model=536&modelmenu=1

I have tested this Motherboard with the following OS:

1. Ubuntu v5.10 (Breezy Badger)

__Note__:

Unfortunately, I do not currently own this Mobo anymore to test with the newest Ubuntu OS version.

__Conclusion__:

The Motherboard works ok - except the LAN!

The LAN does not get auto-detected during installation & you have to install network drivers by yourself. 

'''__How To__:'''

Install LAN Driver on __ASUS P5LD2-VM__ Motherboard

__Notes__:

1. Reading this "How To" or this full Thread could probably help you how to setup "your" Motherboard's LAN - no matter what the brand, model or maker of the Motherboard!
2. If you can perform on a Terminal window (from Menu select "Applications\Accessories\Terminal"), an "ip addr" command & you can get the following:

<pre>
eth0 ...blah... ...blah...
lo ...blah... ...blah...
sit0 ...blah... blah...
</pre>

Seeing that the "eth0" part is already in there, means that your Network card is recognized by your Ubuntu!
IF this is __your__ case, do NOT bother to go on & install drivers for your Network card - you do NOT need them...

I could NOT see the "eth0" device & that is why I had to go on & install drivers for it...
Typing commands you learned throughout this thread (many thanks to user "Pragmatist" - my "mentor" for all the nice things he has teached me), should NOT help - they did NOT help me...
However, reading ALL this thread, should help you understand how things work, so if you want to learn more, "dive" in it...
Besides, I have learned many things, thanks to my mentor!!!

So you want to perform the "Minimum" possible Commands Needed to make your ASUS Mobo - Model P5LD2-VM to have its LAN activated!

So, here is the "How To":

'''__For Ubuntu v5.10 Breezy__:'''

__Note__:

I assume that you have performed an Ubuntu clean/fresh Install.
But it should NOT really matter, as long as you follow the instructions below...

'''__Step 1__:'''

You need to install the following Packages:

'''a.''' Using "Synaptic Package Manager", install:

1. build-essential
2. gcc-4.0
3. linux-headers-2.6.12-9-386_2.6.12-9.23_i386.deb
4. cpp-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8.1_i386.deb
5. gcc-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8.1_i386.deb

__Notes__:

1. I think #2 gets auto-installed by #1, you might want to verify this...
2. Above #4 & #5 means __downgrading__ your "gcc-4.0" but this is
a requirement if you want to compile the Intel's "e1000" LAN driver.
I also thing that if you install #5, #4 gets auto-installed, you might
want to verify this also...

OR: Alternatively:

'''b.''' Going independent & installing the packages one-by-one:

01. dpkg -i binutils_2.16.1-2ubuntu6_i386.deb
02. dpkg -i make_3.80-9_i386.deb
03. dpkg -i dpkg-dev_1.13.10ubuntu4_all.deb
04. dpkg -i gcc-4.0_4.0.1-4ubuntu9_i386.deb
05. dpkg -i linux-kernel-headers_2.6.11.2-0ubuntu13_i386.deb
06. dpkg -i gcc_4%3a4.0.1-3_i386.deb
07. dpkg -i libc6_2.3.5-1ubuntu12.5.10.1_i386.deb
08. dpkg -i libc6-dev_2.3.5-1ubuntu12.5.10.1_i386.deb
09-11: dpkg -i g++-4.0_4.0.1-4ubuntu9_i386.deb g++_4%3a4.0.1-3_i386.deb libstdc++6-4.0-dev_4.0.1-4ubuntu9_i386.deb
12: dpkg -i build-essential_11.1_i386.deb
13. dpkg -i linux-headers-2.6.12-9_2.6.12-9.23_i386.deb
14. dpkg -i linux-headers-2.6.12-9-386_2.6.12-9.23_i386.deb
15. dpkg -i gcc-3.4-base_3.4.4-6ubuntu8.1_i386.deb
16. dpkg -i cpp-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8.1_i386.deb
17. dpkg -i gcc-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8.1_i386.deb

__Notes__:

1. The above __order__ of installation __matters__, so do NOT in any way
change the order - or you will end up having some packages NOT
installed & you will NOT be able to compile the "e1000" drivers.
2. The above Steps #9-#11 are co-dependent! This means that I can
NOT choose an order of install - the MUST __all__ be installed
simultaneously (as one, or: all together). You could also do this for all
the above packages but someone would NOT be able to read
something like the following or easily spot the package names that
are in fact installed, clearly:

dpkg -i binutils_2.16.1-2ubuntu6_i386.deb make_3.80-9_i386.deb dpkg-dev_1.13.10ubuntu4_all.deb gcc-4.0_4.0.1-4ubuntu9_i386.deb linux-kernel-headers_2.6.11.2-0ubuntu13_i386.deb gcc_4%3a4.0.1-3_i386.deb libc6_2.3.5-1ubuntu12.5.10.1_i386.deb libc6-dev_2.3.5-1ubuntu12.5.10.1_i386.deb g++-4.0_4.0.1-4ubuntu9_i386.deb g++_4%3a4.0.1-3_i386.deb libstdc++6-4.0-dev_4.0.1-4ubuntu9_i386.deb build-essential_11.1_i386.deb linux-headers-2.6.12-9_2.6.12-9.23_i386.deb linux-headers-2.6.12-9-386_2.6.12-9.23_i386.deb gcc-3.4-base_3.4.4-6ubuntu8.1_i386.deb cpp-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8.1_i386.deb gcc-3.4_3.4.4-6ubuntu8.1_i386.deb

3. You could as easily create a nice "Script" file (if you know how to do
this) & see all of the above run automatically (or auto-magically),
without any fuss from your side... It is very easy, but I am not going
to go through this here, cause it is going to take too long...
(besides, 6 days for this was way too much for me too! - not to think
about my "mentor" spending time with me...!)

'''__Step 2__:'''

You need to download the latest Intel "e1000" drivers.

The best site for this is the following:

http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=42302

(Many thanks to user "Pragmatist" for providing the above thread - as he were my "mentor" & Ubuntu "spiritual" guide throughout all this!!!)

__Note__:

In this "How To", I have downloaded & used the latest drivers - which now are "e1000-7.0.33.tar.gz".
Download the latest drivers you can find, hopefully they should work too!!!

'''__Step 3__:'''

Unzip the driver you downloaded.
I usually find it easier to "unzip" with the following way:

'''1.''' Right-click on your "e1000-7.0.33.tar.gz" file & select "Open with Archive Manager".

'''2.''' From the Standard Toolbar" click on the button named "Extract"

'''3.''' Under the "Extract in folder:" option, select "Desktop".

'''4.''' Click on the button named "Extract"

'''5.''' Close the "Archive Manager's" open window.

On your "Desktop" you should now see a folder named "e1000-7.0.33".

__Note__:

Others prefer using the "tar" command.
Perform as you prefer - I prefer using a GUI compared to a Terminal environment.

'''__Step 4__:'''

We are now going to compile the downloaded "e1000-7.0.33" driver.

To do this, do the following:

'''1.''' Launch a Terminal window (from the Menu, select "Applications\Accesories\Terminal")

'''2.''' Type "sudo -i" & then type your user password to have "root" priviledges.

'''3.''' Type "cd /home/dimitris/Desktop/e1000-7.0.33/src", replacing "dimitris" with your username (the one you type during boot).

'''4.''' Type "make install" to Compile & Install your "e1000" driver.

__Note__:

When you have finished compiling the "e1000" driver, you will notice that there are ERRORS created..., like:

<pre>
make: warning: Clock skew detected. Your build may be incomplete.
</pre>

Simply ignore this ERROR if you get it...
IF you get an error like:
<pre>
Make file: 65: *** Linux kernel source not found. Stop.
</pre>

that means, that you are missing some of the packages I told you to
install!!! Go back to "Step 1a" or "Step 1b", find what packages you did
NOT install & go ahead & install them!!! Only then, come back here &
attempt again to "make install" (or compile) your drivers...

'''5.''' This is the MOST IMPORTANT PART:
On your "Terminal" window, type

<pre>
shutdown -r now
</pre>

You must Shutdown & Restart your Ubuntu PC!
No matter what other command suggested in this thread, IF you do NOT do
this, NOTHING will work...
You can play around with any command you wish, before shutting down &
restarting..., but it did NOT work for me & I advise you NOT to, cause you
will be waisting your time...

__Note__:

I do NOT know why this was SO important, but I guess it is a
required step, if you want to make this work...

'''6.''' Now that you have Restarted your Ubuntu PC, launch a "Terminal" window (from the Menu, select "Applications\Accesories\Terminal") & type:

<pre>
dimitris@ubuntu:~$ ip addr

eth0 ...blah... ...blah...
lo ...blah... ...blah...
sit0 ...blah... blah...
</pre>

If you can see the "eth0" line, then your LAN is detected & you are ready to "Roll" - your drivers are installed & your card is ready to work!!!

You only need to play around with the LAN Card's configuration settings.

Good Luck!

P.S.> The original thread with this problem, can be found here:
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=154532
