{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
    You may say I'm a dreamer But I'm not the only one I hope someday you'll join us And the world will live as one
</pre>
=== About me (as of January 2006) ===
I live in Houston. Typical technical designer for projects running on IBM iSeries (from AS/400), and  for the machines, have about 11 years QSECOFR experience of my 15 years professional career.

I am about 4 years Linux user who switched from Redhat/Fedora and Suse to Ubuntu Breezy, love to do my coding works with Java and Eclipse on '''Ubuntu Dapper installed laptops and desktop nowadays.

=== Contact ===
* Email:  * GPG : <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x1A9CD0A81CFF4FD35D605E1B4437756A98E85A3A|98E85A3A]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0xFEA4640ABC7D56784196C68E62F3D709D56AD46B|D56AD46B]]</nowiki>
* IRC : occasionally, #ubuntu-ko / irc.hanirc.org (cp949 Korean) #ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[http://kldp.org/blog/8234|blog]]</nowiki> (Korean)

=== My work on Ubuntu ===

* {ko} <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[BetterCJKSupportSpecification]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[BetterCJKSupportSpecification-FontConfig]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportScimHangul]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DapperLocalisationKorean]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DapperL10nSprint-FontConfigPreferencesKorean]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[InputMethods-SCIM-Setup]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/atie-at-matrix|launchpad profile]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-ko|ubuntu-l10n-ko]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-cjk-testers|ubuntu-cjk-testers]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.or.kr/wiki.php/DocumentationTeam/News1%EC%9A%B0%EB%B6%84%ED%88%AC%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C%ED%99%94%ED%8C%80%EB%89%B4%EC%8A%A41|Documentation Team New1 in Korean]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.or.kr/wiki.php/DocumentationTeam/News2%EC%9A%B0%EB%B6%84%ED%88%AC%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C%ED%99%94%ED%8C%80%EB%89%B4%EC%8A%A42|Documentation Team New2 in Korean]]</nowiki>

----

Primary contact for <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam]]</nowiki>. - no longer as of Nov 3rd 2006.

One of contributors for <nowiki>[[BetterCJKSupportSpecification]]</nowiki>.
Korean Linux users had discussed <nowiki>[[BetterCJKSupportSpecification]]</nowiki>, check out <nowiki>[[http://bbs.kldp.org/viewtopic.php?t=64959|the threads here]]</nowiki>. - no longer post 

Testing Dapper on my laptops(Gnome) and desktop(KDE+Gnome), do bug reports to Launchpad.net 
and share them with Korean Ubuntu users <nowiki>[[http://bbs.kldp.org/viewtopic.php?t=66111|here]]</nowiki>. - no longer post

Combined my interests for <nowiki>[[BetterCJKSupportSpecification]]</nowiki> and testing of Dapper, focusing on l10n for Korean : <nowiki>[[http://kldp.org/node/68504|my blog for DapperL10nSprint]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/atie-at-matrix/+reportedbugs?advanced=1&field.searchtext=&orderby=datecreated&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Released&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&search=Search+bugs+reported+by+atie|Fixed bugs atie reported]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/atie-at-matrix/+reportedbugs?advanced=1&field.searchtext=&orderby=datecreated&field.status%3Alist=Rejected&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&search=Search+bugs+reported+by+atie|Rejected bug atie reported]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/atie-at-matrix/+reportedbugs|Bugs atie reported]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/atie-at-matrix/+subscribedbugs|Bugs atie is subscribed to]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-cjk-testers/+subscribedbugs|Bugs Ubuntu CJK Testers is subscribed to]]</nowiki>
 
Translating applications in Ubuntu versions and products registered in Rosetta
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/atie-at-matrix/+translations|Translations made by atie]]</nowiki>
* As bonus, I could bump up <nowiki>[[http://www.abisource.com/contribute/translate/|"Translate Abiword"]]</nowiki> for Korean from 0% to 87%.

----
=== In near future with Ubuntu ===
Willing to spare my time for forming <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam]]</nowiki> into a strong team to support Korean Ubuntu users and development for Ubuntu. - As of Nov 3rd 2006 no longer serve the primary contact role of <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam]]</nowiki>.

Continue to add user point of views to the <nowiki>[[BetterCJKSupportSpecification]]</nowiki> for better CJK support.

Continue to use developing version of Ubuntu, if find bugs, outdated and unhandy functions, report them for improvement. This isn't a task, but is for my fun.

Continue to translate Ubuntu packages to Korean.
----
...

----
CategoryHomepage
