{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Who I'm ====
My Name is Hatem S'hel, I was born on 21 July 1979 in the archipelago of Kerkennah islands in southern Tunisia. I have a master in computer science and I am specialized in real-time systems and telecommunication systems. I'm one of the founder of the CLLFST club (one of the most active and important Opensource team in Tunisia).I join the Ubuntu-tn team since may 2008 and i participate to the first meeting in july 2008. My goal is to promote Opensource software and specialy Ubuntu in professional circles.

==== Contact details ====

* irc.freenode.org: hatemsh
* Email: shelhatem [at] gmail.com
* Launchpad profile : https://edge.launchpad.net/~shelhatem
* Blog: http://hatemshel.blogspot.com/

==== Contributions ====

* I'm the Professional relation coordinator of Ubuntu-tn Team sinse September 2008.
* I translate the Alarm Clock UI to arabic (with some help from other guys)
* I'm also an arabic and frensh language translator.
* I report some bugs (Ubuntu 8.04)
* I'm also a member of the Ubuntu-arabic project.

==== My presentation ====
Some of my frensh language presentations
*** Calculs paralelles <nowiki>[[attachment:Gridengine.odp]]</nowiki>
*** Sécurité et ubuntu <nowiki>[[attachment:security_and_ubuntu.odp]]</nowiki>
