{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'm Kendall Price, aubre on irc. 

==== Summary of Contributions to Ubuntu ====

I have worked on helping get the Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud project ready for release in Karmic by contributing bug reports, testing, writing documentation and helping others with their UEC issues. I have also submitted several items for Ubuntu Server Tips as well as helping people in the #ubuntu-server IRC channel.

----
'''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kpauburn|My Launchpad page]]</nowiki>'''
----
==== Complete Description of my Contributions to Ubuntu ====

I answered Dave Walker's call for Ubuntu Server Tips by submitting several tips. I tried to think about things that I personally had wanted to know, also with an eye towards what someone completely new to the server distribution would find helpful. The vast majority of tips I submitted have been accepted into the package that is in Karmic today.

My director at Auburn University asked me to make contact with Canonical regarding Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud. I submitted a request and John Pugh got in touch with me. I communicated with him and the #ubuntu-server room in IRC gathering information about UEC, what it could do and what hardware I needed to get started with it. I then requested a three-node setup from my director and he provided me with the hardware. We have a front-end and two node controllers. I set these machines up and worked with the instructions I had to get them going. When I ran into a problem I would file a bug and ask about it in IRC. Soon before the launch of Karmic I had a functioning system except that I could not get Storage Controller (akin to Amazon's EBS) working. I worked hard with the Server Team and the Eucalyptus team to get it working. 

I decided to document the steps needed to get Storage Controller working for other people, so I wrote the initial <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC/StorageController|UEC Storage Controller documentation]]</nowiki>, and revised it several times. 

We use Ubuntu Server for a number of things on campus, and I was interested in evaluating Landscape as a means of managing our Ubuntu servers.
John Pugh was also wanting me to test it, in particular the cloud functionality as it related to UEC. So I worked with the Landscape team to 
figure out what would be needed in order to get Landscape to work with a UEC cloud, and once we had it set up, I decided to document this process as well - <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC/Landscape|Connecting UEC to Landscape]]</nowiki>.

I attended UDS-L remotely and contributed via IRC. I continue to test UEC and Landscape on a daily basis.

==== My Plans for Ubuntu in the Near and Far Future ====

I've really enjoyed working with Ubuntu and the Canonical/Ubuntu team. I intend to keep moving my responsible services to Ubuntu Server, and I intend to continue contributing to the Ubuntu Server and Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud projects. I'd like to see UEC incorporate even more AWS-style functionality, particularly autoscaling, VPN, and booting from Storage Controller volumes. I also intend to continue to help improve the Ubuntu Server documentation in any way possible. 

==== Testimonials ====
