{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Testing has now completed and the feature has landed in Ubuntu 12.04 (kernel version 3.2.0-11.19 and PulseAudio version 1:1.1-0ubuntu5). Thanks to everyone who helped testing this feature!'''

Hi!

This is the wiki page for keeping track of pre-release testing of the new jack detection interface. The kernel team has asked for some specific testing before they are willing to merge the new jack detection stuff into the 12.04 Ubuntu kernel. 

Here's the stuff you need to do to help us out. 

* Make sure you're running Ubuntu 12.04

* Add the jack detection testing repository:
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:diwic/jack-detection
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
</pre>

* Make sure you install the test kernel. The below command would be the typical one, but if you're running generic-pae, server or virtual kernels you might want to adjust the below command accordingly to suit your preference.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install linux-image-3.2.0-8-generic=3.2.0-8.14+jackdetection3
</pre>

* Reboot your computer

* Now you should be running the new kernel (3.2.0-8+jackdetection3) and a new PulseAudio version. Verify by running 
<pre>
uname -a
</pre>
   The result should start with:
<pre>
Linux <computername> 3.2.0-8-generic #14+jackdetection3
</pre>

* First and foremost, '''look for regressions'''. If there are severe audio-related regressions, such as kernel oopses or anything like that, that's the most important thing we need to know. 

* Second, you could see if the new jack detection interface is actually working. Run this command:
<pre>
amixer -c0 contents 
</pre>
   You might need to change "-c0" to "-c1" or "-c2" for trying out different sound cards.
   If it's working, you will find something like this:
<pre>
numid=16,iface=CARD,name='HDMI/DP,pcm=3 Jack'
  ; type=BOOLEAN,access=r-------,values=1
  : values=off
numid=14,iface=CARD,name='Headphone Jack'
  ; type=BOOLEAN,access=r-------,values=1
  : values=off
numid=15,iface=CARD,name='Mic Jack'
  ; type=BOOLEAN,access=r-------,values=1
  : values=on
</pre>
  ...where the "values=off" and "values=on" should correspond to whether your jack is actually plugged in or not. (In the above case, Headphone is unplugged and Mic is plugged in.)
* You can also test if this is working on the PulseAudio level by running this command:
<pre>
pacmd list-cards
</pre>
  Look at the "ports" section for your card. A correct result for a typical laptop would look like this:
<pre>
        ports:
		analog-output-speaker: Analog Speakers (priority 10000, available: unknown)
		analog-output-headphones: Analog Headphones (priority 9000, available: no)
		analog-input-microphone-internal: Internal microphone (priority 8900, available: unknown)
		analog-input-microphone: Analog Microphone (priority 8700, available: yes)
</pre>
  Where "available: yes" means "plugged in", "available: no" means "unplugged", and "available: unknown" means no jack detection information (which is the correct result for internal devices, or if your card is something different from a HDA Intel, e g USB headsets and stuff like that).

* Third, fill in an entry the table below. If anything is wrong, please fill in your alsa-info '''and a way to contact you''', so we can try to fix the bugs you have. Thanks!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Marvellous user (you!)
| Computer name
| Link to <nowiki>[[Audio-AlsaInfo|alsa-info]]</nowiki>
| Any regressions?
| Is jack detection working?
| Notes
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mc3man|mc3man]]</nowiki>
| Dell 1330m
| <nowiki>[[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=bd7d0dddd12900a50626db14d3c775dbe566253c|alsa-info]]</nowiki>
| No
| No
| 
|-
| Diwic
| HP Probook 4520s
| 
| No
| Yes!
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~htorque|htorque]]</nowiki>
| Lenovo T510
| <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/805351/|alsa-info]]</nowiki>
| No
| Yes, (model=auto)
| 
|-
| ronoc
| Lenovo x220
| <nowiki>[[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=f0f845f759412c9f61c221ce20f9d4de63614e83|alsa-info]]</nowiki>
| No
| yes
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xyzzyman|xyzzyman]]</nowiki>
| Aspire 6930G
| <nowiki>[[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=5cc88967e9da547975924a06c948ece00f1f0263|alsa-info]]</nowiki>
| Yes (resolved)
| no
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~littel-jo|little jo]]</nowiki>
| Aspire One
| <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/806658/|alsa-info]]</nowiki>
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| Diwic
| AMD/Gigabyte based desktop
| 
| No
| Yes!
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~colin-king|cking]]</nowiki>
| ThinkPad x220i
| 
| No, Fixed with workaround [1]
| Yes
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~colin-king|cking]]</nowiki>
| HP Mini 210-1084NR
| http://paste.ubuntu.com/815639/
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~christopherarges|arges]]</nowiki>
| Lenovo T420 4177CTO
| <nowiki>[[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=d8678c02048a3012e0e70912318022cd6dce089a|alsa-info]]</nowiki>
| No, fixed with workaround [1]
| Yes
| 
|-
| smb
| Acer Aspire One 110 (same as little jo)
| <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/815390/|alsa-info]]</nowiki>
| No
| Yes
| precise with existing pulseaudio
|-
| apw
| HP Mini 5102
| 
| No
| Yes
| 
|-
| apw
| Acer Aspire One 533
| 
| No
| Yes
| precise with existing pulseaudio
|-
| apw
| Dell Studio 1537
| 
| No
| Yes (mic)/No (headphones)
| oneiric userspace; note that user experience is as expected for headphones just not marked yes/no
|}

[1] Editing /usr/share/pulseaudio/alsa-mixer/paths/hdmi-output-?.conf and changing "name =" to "description ="

* Last, but not least, thanks a lot for helping us out!
