{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Installation instructions ===

Following these instructions will give you the latest ALSA driver, but only for internal "HDA Intel" sound cards (if your computer is from 2005 or newer, you almost certainly have a "HDA Intel" sound card for handling internal speakers, headphone jacks and microphones). USB or Bluetooth sound will not be affected.

* Make sure dkms package is installed by running command:
   <pre>
   sudo apt-get install dkms
   </pre>

* Go to <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-audio-dev/+archive/alsa-daily/+packages|this page]]</nowiki>

* You will find a table under the "Packages" heading. Look for the "Series" column and locate the package corresponding to your distribution series (Precise, Trusty, Xenial etc).
   - In case of Trusty, you will find more than one package. Then check what kernel you're running with the "uname -r" command. If the output of "uname -r" starts with...
*** 3.13 - use the oem-audio-hda-daily-dkms
*** 3.16 - use the oem-audio-hda-daily-lts-utopic-dkms package
*** 3.19 - use the oem-audio-hda-daily-lts-vivid-dkms package
*** 4.2 - use the oem-audio-hda-daily-lts-wily-dkms package

* Click the arrow (to the left) to expand the row of the selected package.

* Under the new section "Package files", click the file ending with ".deb", download and install it:
** You can either do this by selecting "open with", which will take you to the Ubuntu Software Center, where you can click "Install", or
** Save the file to disk, open a terminal window, change to the right directory and execute "sudo dpkg -i <file name>"

* Reboot.

=== Uninstall instruction ===

==== Through Ubuntu Software Center ====

* Search for "oem-audio-hda-daily-dkms" in the search box
* Click the search result
* Click "Remove"
* Reboot your computer to complete uninstallation.

==== Through command line ====

* Execute the following command: "sudo apt-get remove oem-audio-hda-daily-dkms".
* Reboot your computer to complete uninstallation.

=== How it works ===

DKMS is a method to recompile kernel modules locally whenever the rest of the kernel changes. This means that you do not add a ppa: instead you download the package once and install it, confirm that it fixes your problem, and you're done. When you install a new kernel, as you regularly do if you have the updates repository enabled (this is recommended), DKMS will automatically recompile your existing DKMS package to fit the new kernel. 

You can use this method if the latest ALSA snapshot works for you currently, and you just want the what's currently the latest (without having to stay updated with newer snapshots).
