{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Using ubuntu-bug or apport-collect ===

The recommended procedure for obtaining troubleshooting information to file a bug report on audio is to use 'ubuntu-bug alsa-base' or 'ubuntu-bug pulseaudio'. See <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-April/028070.html|instructions here]]</nowiki>.

The alsa-info.sh instructions below are still useful for individual realtime troubleshooting (e.g., on IRC/IM), just not for filing bug reports.

=== Using alsa-info.sh ===

Using a current <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/|Jaunty daily-live CD]]</nowiki>, run the <nowiki>[[http://alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh|alsa-info script]]</nowiki> in bash.  If you're not online when you run it, use <code>bash alsa-info.sh --no-upload</code> and the output will go to /tmp/alsa-info.txt, which you can copy into the http://paste.ubuntu.com Pastebin.  Then add a line to the following table.

To find the SSID, look for this line:
<pre>
!!Advanced information - PCI Vendor/Device/Susbsystem ID's
</pre>
and below it you'll see something like:
<pre>
00:1b.0 0403: 8086:284b (rev 03)
	Subsystem: 1043:8284
</pre>
The SSID is "1043:8284"

To find the Codec's Vendor & Revision, look for something like this:
<pre>
Codec: Realtek ALC883
Address: 0
Vendor Id: 0x10ec0883
Subsystem Id: 0x10438284
Revision Id: 0x100002
</pre>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''SSID'''
| '''Codec Vendor ID'''
| '''Codec Revision ID'''
| '''Alsa-info output link'''
|-
| 1043:8284
| 0x10ec0883
| 0x100002
| http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=55b73a7713037356427f0ef15b4bd82421f0fd92
|-
| 1025:0126
| 0x10ec0268
| 0x100003
| http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=696411d7532edfe9c9cb73faec83e25bbe121544
|-
| 1043:8284
| 0x10ec0883
| 0x100002
| http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=7d8f81d791b7e9a64e570ddcf173252342db3b2a
|}

== Bugs to check ==

These bugs have alsa-info.txt as attachments and should be about Jaunty, they should be reviewed for inclusion on this list.

http://launchpad.net/bugs/332456
http://launchpad.net/bugs/325887
http://launchpad.net/bugs/325290
http://launchpad.net/bugs/324798
http://launchpad.net/bugs/322115
http://launchpad.net/bugs/320798
