{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
This Page describes how you can better control your external Creative Audigy NX USB Soundcard
When you use Windows, the AudigyNX comes with some very nifty drivers and software. Unfortunately this isn't the case for Linux. But as Creative does support Linux to some extent you should be able to use the AudigyNX without any driver installation or even configuration.
But unfortunately it doesn't always just work out of the box.

== How to make it work ==
To switch from your internal sound card you may have to manually change the sound output device. Go to ''System > Settings > Audio'' and change it from ''Autodetect'' to ''USB Audio'' and it should work.

== How to control it ==
 1. In your Panel, right click on the speaker symbol and open the ''Volume Control''.
 2. Switch to the Audigy Device
 3. Under Options you can enable the display of more regulators and check boxes! Now you can enable digital input/output other input otions and conrol speaker/headphone output! (You can now even turn of those nasty LED's!! - yeah not even the original windows drivers could do that!!)

''the menus may not be labeled exactly as described here as i am using the german version of ubuntu 6.10 (edgy)''
