{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-audio-dev|Ubuntu Audio developers]]</nowiki> have meetings as specified in the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|calendar]]</nowiki>. The meetings are held in the #ubuntu-meeting channel on irc.freenode.net. 

Typical agenda is:

* Anything in particular we want to discuss
* Any bugs to look out for and allocate resources for solving
* Anything in particular we've been working on the previous week
* Anything in particular we plan to do the coming week 
