{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This set of wiki pages is intended to help anyone dealing with audio issues be that
users, developers, testers or bug triagers. It is a jumping off point to get relevant
information quickly.

'''Troubleshooting'''
* No sound from speakers.
** <nowiki>[[Audio-CheckForMutedSpeakerVolume|Check for muted speaker volume.]]</nowiki>
* No sound from microphone.
** <nowiki>[[Audio-CheckForMutedMicrophone|Check for muted microphone.]]</nowiki>

------
'''Triagers'''
* How to request a <nowiki>[[PulseAudio-Log|PulseAudio verbose log]]</nowiki>
* How to request <nowiki>[[Audio-AlsaInfo|alsa-info]]</nowiki> (if the apport information isn't enough)
* How to determine if two bug reports have <nowiki>[[Audio-SameHardware|the same hardware]]</nowiki>.

------

'''Articles'''
* <nowiki>[[Audio-TheAudioGroup|About the Audio group - i e whether or not you should check the "use audio devices" checkbox]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Audio-UpgradingAlsa|How to upgrade your ALSA sound drivers to a later version]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Audio-StopPulseaudio|Howto: Stop Pulseaudio]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://voices.canonical.com/david.henningsson/2011/12/08/audio-debugging-techniques/|An article about audio debugging techniques]]</nowiki>, generally directed towards hardware manufactures and Ubuntu 11.10, but gives some interesting explanations nonetheless.
------

''' Other Resources '''
* <nowiki>[[http://alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Main_Page|ALSA Project Homepage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pulseaudio.org|PulseAudio Project Homepage]]</nowiki>
