{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Jens - Intermediate Ubuntu User ===
Jens is a 19-year-old college student who has been using Ubuntu for a year.  He is majoring in English and Philosophy.

Jens is also a Windows user and is competent in Windows desktop applications like Office, Web browsers, and Email Clients.  He decided to try out Ubuntu because the new version of Windows won't run on his three-year-old machine.  He can't afford to buy a new machine until he finishes college. 

Jens is active in his local Linux Users Group.  He is comfortable using the command line when he has clear instructions to follow.   He has only installed from binary when a shell script was bundled with it that managed the compiling and packaging.  Jens wants to get more involved with the Ubuntu community and thinks packaging would be a great way to get started.

Jens would require:
** Quickstart guide targeting experienced Ubuntu users.

=== Raul - Advanced Ubuntu User ===
Raul is a network administrator with an AS degree in Computer Networking and Cisco certification.  He is in his mid-thirties.  Raul works a 9-5 schedule for an internet hosting provider with an on-call rotation.  While he primarily works with Solaris and Windows servers in his work environment, he uses Ubuntu as a hobby.  Raul is comfortable with shell scripting and advanced networking topics.

Raul is an amateur photographer.  Raul runs his own Ubuntu Server out of his home and hosts a personal website where he shares his photographs.

Raul uses an application for managing his photographs that is not available in the Ubuntu repository.  Raul wants to package this application and maintain it in the repository.

Raul would require:
** Quickstart guide to learn about how packaging in Ubuntu works
** Advanced section addressing the additional steps for his particular application needs

=== Maria - Ubuntu Application Developer ===
Maria is a freelance software developer in her mid-twenties with a Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration.  Maria is a Python developer who has ported her application to Ubuntu.  She would like to upload her Python application to Ubuntu's repository.

Maria would require:
** Quickstart Guide to learn how packaging works in Ubuntu
** specific section for Python tools.

=== Sue - Linux Developer ===
Sue is a hardware driver developer for a company that manufactures Graphic Cards.  Sue spends part of her time developing proprietary drivers for Linux platforms.  She has fixed a bug for an Ubuntu specific issue in a community supported driver and would like to upload her fix to the Ubuntu repository.

Sue would require:
** Quickstart guide for review
** section that specifically addresses uploading patches and how the approval process works. 
