{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About ===
I am a technical writer and Linux enthusiast. I have over a decade of computer industry experience in roles that include Web Development, IT Support, System Administration, Release Engineering, and Technical Communications. I'm a co-organizer for the Seattle LinuxChix chapter and I am currently working on several documents for the next Ubuntu release. 

I currently use Ubuntu (Gnome) and Ubuntu Server Edition (with and without ubuntu-desktop).  I've been using Ubuntu since 5.10.

For more information about me, visit my personal site at http://www.augustinalareina.com 

I also keep a technology blog at http://augustinalareina.wordpress.com

If you live in the Seattle area and would like to find out more about Seattle LinuxChix, visit http://www.seattlelinuxchix.org

=== Projects ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Item
| Description
| URL
| Status
|-
| Complete Packaging Guide
| Edit for improved readability and update outdated content
| PackagingGuide (/PackagingGuideEdit)
| Posted current edits of Intro + Basic to my wiki. Working with Nathann to edit these sections before moving on to the next.
|-
| Installation Guide
| Writer
| /InstallGuideIntro <<BR>> /InstallGuideFAQ <<BR>> /InstallGuideAlternateCD
| Working on Intro, FAQ, and Alternate CD sections with Murray
|-
| Windows Guided Partitioning
| Bug# 176343
| 
| Pending documentation re-organization
|-
| Open Source Style Guide
| Contributer
| none
| Will propose ideas after Style Guide class in October.
|}

Ubuntu Documentation To Do Items are listed on the wiki here -- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/SystemDocumentation/Tasks

A list of documentation bugs filed in Launchpad can be found here -- https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs/+bugs

Completed

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Item
| Description
| URL
|-
| Usb-Creator
| Make USB Startup Disk Documentation
| <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/9.10/usb-creator/C/index.html]]</nowiki>
|-
| Open Week Presentation
| Writing Process IRC Presentation
| /HowToWritingProcess
|}

=== Contact ===
Email: <<BR>>
Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~missaugustina]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Identi.Ca: <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/missaugustina]]</nowiki><<BR>>
URL1: <nowiki>[[http://www.augustinalareina.com]]</nowiki><<BR>>
URL2: <nowiki>[[http://augustinalareina.wordpress.com]]</nowiki><<BR>>
URL3: <nowiki>[[http://missaugustina.blogspot.com]]</nowiki><<BR>>
URL4: <nowiki>[[http://leggomyobento.blogspot.com]]</nowiki><<BR>>
----

=== Bzr Cheatsheet ===

==== Creating New Docs ====
## Branch ubuntu-docs to local machine under a folder with the project name, e.g. ubuntu-docs.usb-creator
## Create a folder with new documentation project name, e.g. usb-creator. Add to bzr and commit the changes.
## Create a new branch under your username in Launchpad, e.g. ~misaugustina/ubuntu-docs/usb-creator
## Push local branch to this new branch.
## When updating, merge from the ubuntu-docs branch to make sure the ubuntu-docs stuff is current.

==== Editing Existing Docs ====
## Branch ubuntu-docs to local machine under a folder with the project name, e.g. ubuntu-docs.usb-creator
## Make changes to existing document/s. Add any new docs to bzr and commit the changes.
## Create a new branch under your username in Launchpad, e.g. ~misaugustina/ubuntu-docs/usb-creator
## Push local branch to this new branch.
## When updating, merge from the ubuntu-docs branch to make sure the ubuntu-docs stuff is current.
