{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Will Ubuntu run on my system? ===
Ubuntu will run better than Windows on most computers.  We recommend that your computer has at least:
For older computers that don't meet these standards, you might try <nowiki>[[http://www.xubuntu.org/get|Xubuntu]]</nowiki> which has much lower requirements.  

See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements|Installation System Requirements]]</nowiki> for more details.

=== Which form of Ubuntu should I use? ===
Ubuntu comes in a number of forms to account for different user needs and computer types.  The most commonly used is the 32-bit desktop edition, which is also used for laptops.  Use this if you're not sure.  Use the server edition if you only need a text-based user interface.  Use the netbook edition if you are installing Ubuntu on your netbook.  64-bit versions are available for each distribution.  If you don't know whether your computer is 64-bit, use the 32-bit version.  For a full list of distributions, see <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/derivatives|Ubuntu Derivatives]]</nowiki>.

=== Will Windows be erased?  Will I still be able to use Windows? ===
You can keep Windows and Ubuntu on the same computer.  Each time you start your computer, you can choose whether to start Windows or Ubuntu.  They will each be installed on a separate section of your hard drive called a partition.  Follow the instructions in <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition|How to Partition]]</nowiki> to install Ubuntu in an empty partition of your hard drive.  Make sure you have an empty partition before you begin.

=== Where can I get a CD to install Ubuntu? ===
You can request a CD be sent to you at http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/purchase.

If you know how to burn an ISO image to a CD, you can download an installation CD from http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download and burn it to CD yourself.

=== What if my computer doesn't have a CD/DVD drive? ===
If you have a netbook or other computer without a CD drive, you can install Ubuntu using your USB drive.  This involves downloading Ubuntu, copying it to your USB drive and making it bootable.  Full instructions are available at <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick|Installation From USB Stick]]</nowiki>.

=== Can I test drive Ubuntu before installing it on my system? ===
Every distribution includes a Live option which enables you to load Ubuntu from the CD without changing anything on your computer.  You can try Ubuntu and the most common applications before you decide to install it.  If you decide not to, simply close down Ubuntu and restart your computer without the CD.

=== Where can I get more help? ===
For further help, try the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=333|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>. 
