{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Instead of having an empty page, let's put some quick information about me here...

I am currently a <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=ag@roxor.cx|Debian Maintainer]]</nowiki> in the <nowiki>[[https://nm.debian.org/nmstatus.php?email=ag@roxor.cx|New Maintainer]]</nowiki> process. I maintain 30 packages in Debian.

I am also the Treasurer and a founder member of <nowiki>[[http://france.debian.net/|Debian France]]</nowiki> who you can reach via email at [tresorier@france.debian.net].

My interests lie in:

* porting work on m68k and powerpc;
* bootloaders and the Linux kernel;
* hardware architecture-specific quirks;
* system and network administration;
* the Debian infrastructure (debianqueued, dak, wanna-build, debbugs, etc...).

I am very responsive on IRC, both on OFTC and on FreeNode. On FreeNode, I am known as ag, but that nickname was already taken when I joined OFTC, so I added an hyphen at the end. Thus, on OFTC, I am known as ag-.

The same responsiveness goes via email, you can reach me at [ag@roxor.cx].

On a side note, I am rather picky about the accents on my name, like my grandfather was, because without them it sounds kind of awkward in French. My name is correctly written as Aurélien Gérôme, but it seems accents break hypertext links on MoinMoin, so let's do without them for my MoinMoin username.
