{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

** French, living in a small village not too far from Paris.
** KDE developer working for Blue Systems.
** Using Linux for quite some time (first distribution was Red Hat 5.1, using Kubuntu since Hoary Hedgehog).

=== Contact ===

** '''irc''' agateau on freenode #kde-devel, #kubuntu-devel.
** '''launchpad''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~agateau]]</nowiki>.
** '''blog''' <nowiki>[[http://agateau.com]]</nowiki>.

=== Contributions ===

I am not a packager. I see myself as an upstream KDE developer with a strong interest in helping Kubuntu to succeed. As such almost all my contributions are either upstream KDE SC development or independent KDE applications.

==== Contributions ====

** Developer of Gwenview, a KDE image viewer
** Developer of Colibri, passive notifications for KDE (<nowiki>[[http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php/Colibri?content=117147|kde-apps page]]</nowiki>)
** Tries to polish the user interface of KDE applications

=== Plans for Kubuntu ===

** Get more involved in the development of Kubuntu specific tools. Not necessarily creating new ones myself ; rather helping out existing development by answering Qt/KDE development questions and polishing user interfaces.
** Improve Kubuntu default configuration to ensure out-of-the-box-awesomeness :)
