{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/team/65/detail/|May Meeting]]</nowiki> - Regular Team Meeting held 10th May, chaired by JaredNorris and attended by 5 team members. The topics for discussion were differed to the mailing list or the next meeting. The decision was taken to change the day of the meeting to Sunday. A successful effort in increasing attendance, which has now almost doubled.  
* JoelPickett has started a translation team focused on Launchpad hosted software under the en-AU branch - the mailing list announcement can be read <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2011-May/007194.html|here]]</nowiki> and those interested in further information can find it on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-en-au|the group's new Launchpad page]]</nowiki>.   
* In response to team feedback JaredNorris has compiled a fairly comprehensive list of roles in the Ubuntu-AU team which can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/ContactUs|updated Contact Us page]]</nowiki>.
* Discussion began about the use of social media for the Ubuntu Australia Loco. Action <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2011-June/007257.html|has since been taken on this front]]</nowiki> and the Loco now has a number of social media profiles which will increase its exposure and foster communitation within the team.
