{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chairperson - nisshh
* Monthly Reports
** One of the things we fell short on for re-approval was in documentation. To this end I was wondering if we thought it would be worth starting to document this as suggested in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamsBestPracticesandGuidelines with regards to monthly reports. I am willing to volunteer time to collate and publish it but I will need input from other users - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris/|JaredNorris]]</nowiki> (head_victim)
* Organized Events
** A while ago someone was talking about organizing a loco bugjam (was it you kermiac?) (nisshh)
** I have been thinking of setting up a system where i host a session in #ubuntu-au once a week or fortnight or something where i set aside an hour where i can introduce people to something new such as the terminal or a specific program, etc (nisshh)
** Building localised promotional material for the (unofficial) Australian LoCo. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MoLE/|MoLE]]</nowiki> (MoLE_)
** LCA2011
** A while ago I started the wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/LCA2011Brisbane to see what sort of interest there was in events surrounding LCA2011. Now that the earlybird registration is complete I was wondering who is attending? - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris/|JaredNorris]]</nowiki> (head_victim)

==== IRC Logs ====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.20101109_0506.html|Topic Log]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.log.20101109_0506.html|Full Log]]</nowiki>
