{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chairperson - Anyone willing to volunteer? I am willing to coach or assist if you aren't 100% comfortable but just want to give it a go - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki> (head_victim) - Ill be happy to do it - Ryan Macnish (nisshh)

* Maverick Meerkat Release Parties
** Has anyone given any thought to hosting/organising any release parties? The Meerkat will be amongst us Sunday 10th of October ish. Have a think of some family friendly, easily accessible locations. They don't have to be on the date itself if the weekend after suits people better. I have created a wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Projects/MeerkatReleaseParties to give a central location for us all to add to - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|JaredNorris]]</nowiki> (head_victim)
* LoCo rebuilding - Time to get started with this now we have the structure down and done. - Ryan Macnish (nisshh)
* LCA2011 - Just thinking that maybe we should start planning something for this or at least registering some interest. See the wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/LCA2011Brisbane for some details - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|JaredNorris]]</nowiki> (head_victim)

==== IRC Logs ====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/index.php?dir=&file=ubuntu-au.20100914_0603.html|Topic Log]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/index.php?dir=&file=ubuntu-au.log.20100914_0603.html|Full Log]]</nowiki>
