{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chairperson - <nowiki>[[JaredNorris]]</nowiki> confirmed able to attend and chair (thanks <nowiki>[[PaulGear]]</nowiki>)

* Open with a roll call (yes, like in school)
** I have noticed that Mootbot will only mark you as attended if you talk in the channel so I think we need to make sure everyone that wants to has a brief period to say something (even a "here" would do it) so that it logs attendances as best as possible - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris (head_victim)]]</nowiki>

* Ubuntu-AU Gaming
** Adding on from dns's gaming page and picking up on a previous effort we have reborn the [UAU] gaming clan. Full details at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Projects/Gaming but I thought it would be worth a mention at a meeting to raise awareness of the evolving gaming page - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris (head_victim)]]</nowiki>

* Software Freedom Day
** Software Freedom Day is being held on the 18th September. As far as I know there are events being held in Launceston and Melbourne. Does Ubuntu-AU want to do something? - <nowiki>[[GeorgePatterson]]</nowiki> (gorilla)

* Face-to-face meetings?
** Follow up to my previous suggestion that was well-received: <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-LocalMeetings]]</nowiki>, https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2010-May/006229.html and follow-ups - <nowiki>[[PaulGear]]</nowiki> (blahdeblah)

* Results of the Wiki design (http://www.doodle.com/thd4z323shrn36zp)
** Summary: 13 participants,1 comment, 0 files <nowiki>[[vk7hse]]</nowiki>

==== Logs ====

There is a little trouble getting the MootBot logs at the moment so for the mean time here is a link to some <nowiki>[[http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/free/2010/07/13/%23ubuntu-au.html|html meeting logs]]</nowiki>. If I can get a hold of the MootBot logs I will post them below.

'''''EDIT - Mootbot logs are now available and linked below'''''

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.20100713_0600.html|Topic Log & Attendance]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.log.20100713_0600.html|Full Log]]</nowiki>
