{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu-AU BugJams ==

=== What is a BugJam? ===
A Bug Jam is simply a group of people working together on helping to improve bug reports. Bug reports can be improved in many different ways. These include:
* Assigning bugs to the right package to ensure the correct people see the bug report.
* Ensuring the bug report has all of the required information.
* Verifying that old bug reports are still valid in the latest Ubuntu release.

=== How do Ubuntu-AU Online BugJam's Work? ===
Ubuntu-AU Bug Jam's work almost exactly the same as any other Bug Jam. The main difference is that we will collaborate online as opposed to in person, due how geographically spread out our Loco team is. We will coordinate in the #ubuntu-au IRC channel & record the bug reports members work on in a <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-au.titanpad.com/2|collaborative document]]</nowiki>.

=== What is required to be able to participate in a BugJam? ===
The most important things required to be able to participate in a Bug Jam is a Launchpad Account & an interest in helping to make Ubuntu better. Ensure you have an <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat#IRC%20Clients|IRC client]]</nowiki> installed. At the start of the Bug Jam there will be a short introductory session explaining the "triaging" process where you are encouraged to ask any questions that you may have. This quick presentation that will cover the topics such as:
*** Bug Statuses
*** Bug Importances
*** What makes a good bug report?
*** What is a duplicate, a subscriber & an assignee?
*** A few example bugs and an explanation of the different aspects of a bug report

Throughout the day there will be people around who are able to help with any questions you may have.

=== How to Triage Online Class - 24-07-2010 ===
On Saturday, 24th July 2010 there was an online "How to Triage" Class in #ubuntu-au. The logs for this session can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Projects/BugJams/HowToTriageClass2010July24 | here]]</nowiki>.

=== Helpful Bug Triaging Links ===
* <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/NewAccount|Create a Launchpad Account]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Projects/BugJams/HowToTriage | Triaging Overview]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RunningBugJam|Running a BugJam]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs|Helping With Bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToTriage|How To Triage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage|Find the Right Package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://is.gd/cn5C8|A presentation on reporting & triaging Bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToTriage/Charts|Bug Triage Workflow]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Responses|Bugsquad Standard Responses]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/MarkingDuplicate|Duplicate Bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/ConvertToQuestion|Support Requests]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/5-A-Day|5-A-Day Project]]</nowiki>

=== Potential Participants ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">'''Name'''
| '''IRC Nick'''
| '''Location'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kermiac|Mitch Towner]]</nowiki>
| kermiac
| Sydney
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:|Ryan Macnish]]</nowiki>
| nisshh
| Bunbury(south of Perth)
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:head-victim|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>
| head_victim
| Brisbane
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:paulgear|Paul Gear]]</nowiki>
| blahdeblah
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:watto-one|Peter Watts]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bwright-au|Ben Wright]]</nowiki>
| dejai
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:|James Beake]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:quail-linux|Dale Hopkins]]</nowiki>
| quail
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:moleonthehill|MoLE]]</nowiki>
| MoLE_
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chris-martin-cc|Chris Martin]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chesty|Michael Chesterton]]</nowiki>
| chesty
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:vk7hse|Scott Evans]]</nowiki>
| VK7HSE
| Hobart
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ikt|]]</nowiki>
| ikt
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:George-Patterson|George Patterson]]</nowiki>
| gorilla
| Melbourne
|}

=== Contact ===
<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kermiac|Mitch Towner]]</nowiki>

