{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===
* <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-au-meeting-20061002.log|Plain Text]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
'''Primary Master:''' MelissaDraper elkbuntu

~-(Meeting Chair)-~

==== LoCo Mentoring Update ====
* http://locomentoring.geekosophical.net
* Mailing list and #ubuntu-nz channel are going well.

==== Wiki Working Bee ====
* AustralianTeam needs a bit of a tidy. Some stuff still points to ['AustralianTeam/Old'] , some things are maybe out-dated, and there's definately more stuff that could go up.
* People will work on it.. I hope.

==== Language and the CoC ====
* Swearing is not explicitly outlawed by the CoC, however the CoC does state: '''The Ubuntu community and its members treat one another with respect. Everyone can make a valuable contribution to Ubuntu. We may not always agree, but disagreement is no excuse for poor behaviour and poor manners.'''
* Restrictions regarding swearing were laxed slightly, to allow people to feel like they can relax:
** It was agreed that we will be respectful in our use of bad language
** We will not get worked up because someone uses bad language occasionally, but we will not condone excessive, offensive or explictly directed use of it
