{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== March 8, 2011 ==

=== Agenda ===
* Meeting chairperson - Ryan Macnish (nisshh)

* Roll Call
* Ubuntu-AU Team Forum
** I would just like to confirm that the consensus is that the prefix for the team forum should be au.ubuntuforums.org and that Phlosten & ikt are both still willing to be moderators - JaredNorris (head_victim)
* Ubuntu Global Jam
** Is there anyone else available to help organise some sort of event to contribute to the UbuntuGlobalJam ? - check out the wiki page for more information - UbuntuGlobalJam - JaredNorris (head_victim)
** What topics do people want me to do a classroom session on? I only have a couple of replies on the mailing list and dont want to do a topic that only 1 person out of 15 people wants.
* Natty Narwhal Release Parties
** It's time to start thinking about the Natty Narwhal Release Parties! Organise one in your area now and email the list to make sure we all know about it. A discussion of best dates would be good. - JaredNorris (head_victim)
* Loco.Ubuntu.Com
** Discuss the use of <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-au|The Loco Directory Team Page]]</nowiki> for our team.

=== IRC Logs ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.20110308_0402.html|Topic Log]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.log.20110308_0402.html|Full Log]]</nowiki>
