{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

A <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-au/374/detail/|Team Meeting]]</nowiki> was held this month but little needed to be discussed. Attendees were sure May would bring a lot more topics to discuss after all the events surrounding the latest Ubuntu release had taken place.

April saw the release of Ubuntu 12.04 LTS Precise Pangolin and a number of release parties were held successfully to celebrate the latest release and draw attention to Ubuntu in the Australian community. 

Adelaide held <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-au/1749/detail/|its release party]]</nowiki> on the 26th of April 2012 at the University of Adelaide English Language Centre in Adelaide and then a fine bar down the road. 

<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-au/1505/detail/|Sydney]]</nowiki> beat Adelaide to the punch, holding their release party on Saturday the 21st of April 2012. Attended by 5 Team members at the Ampersand Cafe in Paddington. Photos available on the <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/jellyware/6952709704/in/pool-69656940@N00/|team flickr group]]</nowiki>.

As per usual, Peter Baker (jellywere on IRC) came to the rescue of Ubuntu users in Australia who must suffer slower download speeds than one would like. His <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.net.au|Ubuntu CD distribution service]]</nowiki> made the new 12.04 LTS available swiftly to those in Australia who might otherwise not be able to get their hands on it. He also pointed out to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2012-April/007824.html|mailing list]]</nowiki> the really cool tour of Ubuntu 12.04 available at http://www.ubuntu.com/tour/en/. 

  

  
