{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-au/130/detail/|August Team Meeting]]</nowiki> - This meeting was on the 14th of August 2011 and attended by 8 team members
* The team decided to brainstorm ideas for finding more events to go to? (carried over from the July meeting). It was suggested the Ubuntu-Au set up stands at University open days and local computer markets. 
* <nowiki>[[jpickett]]</nowiki> (sagaci on IRC) suggested that Ubuntu-Au establish an official YouTube channel where we could post content under the Ubuntu-Au banner. This was defered to the mailing list for further discussion concerning setup and administrators, reviewers/approvers.
* mrshr3d indicated on the meeting agenda that he was doing up a design and researching options for professionally made name badges for use at release parties and events. It was decided that discussion on this matter would be deferred to the mailing list for wider input. 
* The attendees were reminded that the Ubuntu-AU team had two Jams running, <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-au/1188/detail/|the Documentation Jam]]</nowiki> on Friday, 2nd September at 7pm-9pm AEST and the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-au/1132/detail/|en-AU Translation Jam]]</nowiki> on Saturday 3rd September from around 2pm-4pm. <nowiki>[[jpickett]]</nowiki> (sagaci on IRC) and <nowiki>[[bensonsoftware]]</nowiki> (benny on IRC) were to also send reminders to the team mailing list regarding both these events.
* It seems the Ubuntu-Au mailing lists (and by extension, all Ubuntu mailing lists) has troubles with Gmail and the anti-phishing filter. <nowiki>[[JaredNorris]]</nowiki> has notified the required parties in an attempt to resolve the issues members are experiencing and will update the team with new information, as it comes to hand.  
* Discussion began on providing truly localized CD images to Australian Ubuntu users. A <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-cd-localization|Launchpad blueprint]]</nowiki> has been created to facilitate this.
