{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== New Members ==

=== Becoming a Member ===

==== What to do first ====

There are not many requirements for becoming a member of the Ubuntu-au team. In fact, if you are an Australian user of Ubuntu, we'd love to have you join us. Preferably you will be a member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> before joining, and will also have signed the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.

If you can please make a small note of your attachment to Australia in your Launchpad profile it will make the membership application process really simple.

The best way for us to be able to see you are Australian is to:
* Update your Launchpad page with your location/time zone (this is only very general location information, we don’t need to know full street or postal addresses)
* Update your Launchpad page with your email address public if you have a .au email address
* Email the  directly to confirm general details what town/city you're located in and a bit of back history if you like (if you don't want them put up in a public space)

Information on how to update your Launchpad account can be found at https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/NewAccount under the bullet point "tell Launchpad your location and timezone". This will allow you to tell Launchpad where you are and your corresponding time zone. 

==== Joining ====

Becoming a member is easy. 

You should add yourself to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-au|Launchpad team list]]</nowiki> and check out other team communication methods on the <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam|main front wiki page]]</nowiki>.

==== Help!!! I don't understand ====
No problems. If you need a hand with any of this (signing the CoC is not the easiest thing ;) ) you are more than welcome to join the IRC chat channel to ask for some assistance. Using your favourite IRC client simply join #ubuntu-au or you can use the browser based <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.org/|Freenode Webchat]]</nowiki> instead. If you are still experiencing difficulty you can also send an email to the mailing list.

=== Why Join ===

The members of Ubuntu-au are what make the Ubuntu Australian team happen. As a member you can  obtain support in the <code>#ubuntu-au</code> channel on '''irc.freenode.net''' and on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-au|ubuntu-au mailing list]]</nowiki>. You can also have a say in the ubuntu-au group. Additionally, as a member, you may choose to support and participate in any of our <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects|Projects]]</nowiki>.

Please join the Australian Ubuntu team to help Ubuntu in Australia.

==== Where to from here? ====

After you have signed up the the Ubuntu-AU group it can often be a little exciting and people want to get in straight away and fix everything. The best way to become involved is to follow the <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-MailingLists|mailing list]]</nowiki> and join in to help other users or have your say on a topic . The other option is to become active in the <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-IRC|Ubuntu-AU IRC channels]]</nowiki>. By following these methods of communication it will become apparent that there are things needing to be done and people needing to be helped so feel free to jump in at any stage. If you want to get in and start doing things check out our <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects|Ubuntu-AU projects page]]</nowiki>. This will show you what sort of activities we are currently undertaking and you can add your own if you have an idea you would like help with.

