{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== White Board Brain Storming ==

=== What is this? ===

This is a Brain Storming page. Use it to collaborate with a another person, or group of other people, to expand an idea.

=== Brain Storms! ===

===== Example Brain Storm =====

* We need a ToDo list
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/WhiteBoard

* We should have a Brain Storm page!
** It should be under the White Board page
** It should start with a level 2 heading (these use the "== heading ==" format)
** Dot-points keep things neat. :)

==== Revamping the Ubuntu-Au Community 2010 ====
To be implemented in 2010
There are 5 areas that need to be looked at.
1.  The Ubuntu.com.au website - How it can be improved? (Updated - RSS capable - editable - coordinated - shared)
2.  The management & leadership of the community - Specifically its structure & accountability 
3.  Identification of strategic alliances - Linux Australia & local LUGS
4.  Identifying enthusiastic members, willing to make a contribution. (Leadership, structure, aims & <nowiki>[[mission statement]]</nowiki>)
5.  How to engage the ubuntu-au community as a whole?  

* WEBSITE 
** Needs more information - links to local LUGS  
** Improve communication to registered users on the ubuntu.com.au website
** Display .org contact details. Easy contact for potential member who can't use IRC or navigate wiki / forums.

* MANAGEMENT
** Who is on the <nowiki>[[ubuntu-au council]]</nowiki>?
**** Are they elected?  How are they elected?
**** Are they appointed?  Who appoints them?

** When does it have meetings? (Online - In-person - Structured - Follow through actions)
** What is its purpose? (Decision making, advocate, managerial, financial, and/or educational)
** KISS Principle to Internal Politics - Keep it simple stupid. Transparency, succession planning, core values.

** What is the structure? (Have your say here <nowiki>[[ubuntu-au-council-structure|Proposed Governing Models]]</nowiki>)
*** Do we have want an "Ubuntu-au - Council"?
**** Comprising of 8 "State-Leaders" - Whom elect the ubuntu-au contact/representative.
**** Each State has a "State-Council" - With an elected leader.
***** States are responsible for organising 'Face to Face' Meetings. (via a LUG or otherwise)
***** "State Leaders" co-ordinate at the "Ubuntu-au Council" meetings.
** "State-Council"
1. Structure
***** President, Marketing Officer, Membership Officer(Mentor) - Members
2. Purpose
***** Ubuntu-au purpose to be implemented at a local level
3. Meetings
***** Email - IRC - 'Face to Face'
***** Frequency - Monthly, Release cycle, Ad-hoc
4. Marketing Material  
***** http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org
***** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/Projects/SpreadUbuntu
5. Reports
***** President attends & reports at "Ubuntu-au Council" meetings.
 
   

    
* ALLIANCES
** Identify the LUGS in each State.
     Which ones are receptive to furthering the goals of Ubuntu-au? 
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| State
| LUG
| UBUNTU
|-
| QLD
| HUMBUG
| ?
|-
| NSW
| SLUG
| ?
|-
| VIC
| LUV
| ?
|-
| VIC
| MLUG
| ?
|-
| SA
| Linux SA
| ?
|-
| WA
| PLUG
| ?
|-
| ACT
| CLUG
| ?
|-
| TAS
| TASLUG
| ?
|}
*** What are the advantages in involving a LUG?
***** Most are incorporated & can provide Public liability insurance via Linux Australia.
*** What are the dis-advantages of involving LUGS?
***** Politics & Some are non distribution specific 
** What support can Linux Australia provide to Ubuntu-au?
 
* KEY COMMUNITY MEMBERS
** Ask for helping hands
*** Contact everybody who has registered at ubuntu.com.au
*** Place a notice on ubuntu.com.au
*** IRC
*** Ubuntu-au mailing list
** Volunteers willing to help with Ubuntu-au
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| State
| Name
| Contribution
|-
| QLD
| Andrew Gaydon
| Brisbane Contact- willing to organise release parties
|-
| NSW
| Steve Williams
| Lake Macquarie Contact- available for delegated tasks
|-
| VIC
| ?
| ?
|-
| SA
| Paul Schultz
| North Adelaide contact
|-
| WA
| ?
| ?
|-
| ACT
| ?
| ?
|-
| TAS
| Scott Evans
| What ever roll people of ubuntu-au feel I'd be suited for
|}

* COMMUNITY ENTHUSIASM 
** How can Ubuntu-au serve the Ubuntu community? - Set Goals  
*** Advocate the use of the Ubuntu distribution
*** Support Ubuntu users
*** Provide a social outlet for Ubuntu users
**** Hold Ubuntu release parties.
*** Organise supply & distribution of Ubuntu merchandise. E.G. T-shirts,Pens,Stickers,CDs ETC.
*** Re-examine https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Projects 
*** Welcomes and Mentoring potential members / volunteers:  delegation based upon existing skills set.

===== Purpose =====

What is the purpose of ubuntu-au? What is the specific need that exists, that no other group satisfies?
* Advocacy - Promotion of Ubuntu to the wider community -
* Community - At a grass roots level, a physical presence -
* Support - Somewhere you can take your computer and have somebody else help solve your 'Ubuntu' problem. 

===== Devils Advocate =====
* Cons to contributing
* Legal protections
* Accountability of executive & individuals
* Public perception
* Media access to information
* Support for potential volunteers (Mentoring)

=== Prior to 2009 ===
==== Dell ====

* Dell to offer Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://direct2dell.com/one2one/archive/2007/05/01/13147.aspx|direct2dell.com]]</nowiki>
*** direct2dell.com currently says "Update: These systems will be available in the coming weeks to customers in the United States." 
*** Email and contact dell Australia to ask them to follow there parent company in the USA and Sell Ubuntu notebooks and other Linux products in Australia.  

