{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===
* <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-au-meeting-20061204.log|Plain Text]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
'''Primary Master:''' MelissaDraper elkbuntu

~-(Meeting Chair)-~

==== BarCamps ====
* Janet Hawtin gave us a run-down of BarCamp happenings 
** 3 (that could be found) BarCamps running in .au
** http://barcamp.org/BarCampAdelaide
** http://barcamp.org/BarCampMelbourne
** http://barcamp.org/BarCampSydney
** Might be useful for people to coordinate to get sponsorship for things like internet. If anyone knows anything regarding BarCamp, or has contact with BarCamp organisers other than Adelaide, could they contact Janet, she can be found on freenode as lucychili.

==== SA Parliament speech ====
* Paul Schultz and Janet Hawtin have managed to arrange for a parliamentarian to talk about Open Source software in the South Australian Parliament. Dapper CDs will be given out. 
  o Sparked debate about political alignment. Conclusion: We do not and should not have one.

==== LCA Plans ====
* We will have a booth
* Swag (goodie) Bags (cds, stickers, brochure, info) to be given out
* May have podcasts done
* Hopefully we'll have a BoF, if not a pub session, maybe both. 
