{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Notebooks With Linux Overseas ==

See also: <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-UbuntuFriendlyNotebooks]]</nowiki>

=== Introduction ===

These vendors supply Linux on laptops outside of Australia, but do not offer Linux with the same models when sold in Australia. If the model is identical, you can get Linux working on it after purchase.

=== Retailers Who Will Supply Notebooks With Linux Overseas ===

==== Dell ====
http://www.dell.com.au/ <<BR>>
Last Updated: 2nd March, 2008 <<BR>>
Notes:

Dell sell Ubuntu on some of their models in Europe and the USA. Go to <nowiki>[[http://www.dell.com/content/topics/segtopic.aspx/ubuntu?c=us&cs=19&l=en&s=dhs|Dell's Ubuntu site]]</nowiki> to see which model numbers and configurations are covered. The model numbers are the same as mainstream models, except they have an 'N' on the end to signify that they don't have Windows.

Then go the normal <nowiki>[[http://www.dell.com.au|Dell Australia site]]</nowiki> and configure the same computer. You can get support from the <nowiki>[[http://linux.dell.com/|Dell Linux Engineering site]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Dell|Ubuntu Laptop Testing Team]]</nowiki>.

