{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== To-Do List for the monthly Ubuntu-AU Team Report ==

This is a quick check-list of things that need to be considered for each month's <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/TeamReports|Ubuntu-AU Team Report]]</nowiki>

* Create the month's page - copy the previous month's page and edit the new page
* Check what has happened during the month:
** Team Meeting - if the meeting is in the past check the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-au/meetings/history|Ubuntu-AU meetings history page]]</nowiki> for details. You should include details of the date and time, attendance, the meeting chair and a link to all the further details.
** Team Events - again these events have probably already occurred so it's best to check the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-au/events/history|Ubuntu-AU Team Event History]]</nowiki> for details.
** Mailing List - check the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/|team mailing list]]</nowiki> for any notable events that would be of interest to people outside of the team.
** Website - confirm that there's nothing new on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.au|Ubuntu-AU website]]</nowiki> that hasn't already been covered in the previous points.
* Approximately one week before the end of the month please email the team mailing list to ensure that everyone has a chance to contribute. This should include a link to the month being updated so members can add anything relevant.
* At the end of the month you will need to go into /Current and change to the newly completed month and create the next month's page by copying this month's one.
* Start at the top and repeat monthly

Note, as you are publishing on the wiki it's probably best to use wiki names, for example if I were to reference myself I would either us JaredNorris or <nowiki>[[JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki> and if I wanted to include more identifying information I might put it in brackets after that, eg JaredNorris (head_vicim).

If at any stage you are unsure of anything or want some advice just contact JaredNorris for some assistance.

Further reading is available at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/TeamReporting|Community Team Reporting]]</nowiki> and this <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/TeamReporting/HowTo|Official How To Guide]]</nowiki>.
