{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu Friendly Computer Shops ==

=== Introduction ===

This page aims to collect information on computer shops in Australia that are Ubuntu Friendly, and is currently way out of date.

A Ubuntu Friendly Computer Shop is also a Community Friendly Computer Shop. Emphasis will be given to those shops and retailers who supply services and equipment in ways which benefit the entire Ubuntu community.

The details for this page are currently still being collected. Of most use would be details of any Australian computer shop which is able to provide their customers with free copies of Ubuntu CD's, whether they maintain stock themselves, or whether the CD's are provided by a member of the Ubuntu community... see the notes at the end on how you can help.

If you own, or work in a computer shop in Australia.. a BIG hearty welcome! 

We would love to add you to our lists, particularly if you would like to be one of the first retailers in Australia to provide Ubuntu to your customers. If not, well that's OK as well, but please be aware that many of your customers will be using Ubuntu and getting it from somewhere else. If you would like offer additional Ubuntu support, please see the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support/marketplace|Ubuntu Marketplace]]</nowiki> pages.

Contact: PaulSchulz

== Shop Listing ==
=== Australian Capital Territory ===
=== New South Wales ===
=== Victoria ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc">'''Suburb'''
| '''Shop'''
| '''Location'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Ubuntu Contact'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| Melbourne
| <nowiki>[[http://notzzap.zzzzz.ws/hw/|Hardware for libre systems]]</nowiki>
| Contact details on website.
| We sell compatible hardware.
| lynchpad
| 13-Jun-2010
|}

=== Queensland ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc">'''Suburb'''
| '''Shop'''
| '''Location'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Ubuntu Contact'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| Taringa
| <nowiki>[[http://www.geekbuilt.com.au|GeekBuilt Systems]]</nowiki>
| contact details on website
| GeekBuilt builds Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu based computer systems and provides linux training and support as required.
| PeteGeekBuilt
| 10-Jul-2006
|-
| Mt Gravatt
| <nowiki>[[http://www.penguintechservices.com|Penguin Tech Services]]</nowiki>
| contact details on website
| Penguin Tech Services build Ubuntu computers and can provide home support.
| AndrewGaydon
| 25-OCT-2010
|}

=== Western Australia ===
=== South Australia ===
=== Tasmania ===
=== Northern Territory ===

