{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== English (Australian) Translation ==

=== About ===

The goal of this page is to provide people wanting to know how to start translating packages into English (Australian) with the information required so that they can start doing so at their own pace. This information is meant to support the <nowiki>[[AustralianTranslationTeam|existing translation team]]</nowiki> in their efforts.

=== Sources of information ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EnglishTranslation|English Translation]]</nowiki> - most of this information on this page has been directly taken from the English Translation page with slight alterations to make it relevant to the English (Australian) efforts.

== Participation ==

Joining the Ubuntu English (Australia) Translators team allows you to commit translations. If you are not a member you can still contribute but your contributions will need to be approved by a member. 

=== Procedure to Join ===

# Sign up for a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad account]]</nowiki>.
# Apply to join the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-en-au|Ubuntu English (Australian) Translators team]]</nowiki>
# Apply to join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-en-gb|Ubuntu English (United Kingdom) Translators team]]</nowiki> and sign up to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-l10n-eng|ubuntu-l10n-eng mailing list]]</nowiki>. The discussion on this low volume mailing list is very useful for us as our translation is almost identical and helps make translation more uniform across teams.

=== Requirements ===

It sounds obvious but you will need to have an adequate command of the written English language (specifically Australian English) to effectively translate in this team.

It is also highly recommended to read the information provided at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/|the translation wiki page]]</nowiki> for how to go about making your translations. It has a large amount of useful information and will provide all the details on how to get started.

== Tools and Guidelines ==

To save doubling efforts it is recommended to read over the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EnglishTranslation#Tools|English Translation Tools]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EnglishTranslation#Translation%20Guidelines|English Translation Guidelines]]</nowiki> as shown on the English Translation's wiki page.

This information is very useful to just confirm any thoughts you may have either way and provides a handy reference table.

== Questions? ==

For any further questions please consult the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/MailingLists|team mailing list]]</nowiki> or come ask your question on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/IRC|IRC]]</nowiki>.

== Let's GO! ==

So now you know all you need to get started, it's time to get going! There is plenty to translate on  <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+lang/en_AU|launchpad for enAU Ubuntu packages]]</nowiki>.

== Ubuntu Global Jam Saturday Second of April 2011 ==

* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/817/detail/|Ubuntu-AU Translation Jam - natty]]</nowiki> - 1300 - 1600 UTC+10 in #ubuntu-au on freenode

* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-au/1132/detail/|Ubuntu-AU Translation Jam - oneiric]]</nowiki> 1400 - 1600 EST (UTC+10) in #ubuntu-au on freenode

=== Translations achieved ===

We were able to translate 5700 strings in many packages over the course of the afternoon. Some packages had 10 strings left to complete while others had thousands. A list of packages we were able to complete during the Translation Jam (in alphabetical order):

'''banshee'''

'''firefox-4.0''' ''(this wasn't completed but there was over 1000 strings translated this afternoon in this one package alone)''

'''gnumed'''

'''kubuntu-docs Meta Package''' ''this package included the following packages:''
* kubuntu-docs-about-desktop
* kubuntu-docs-about-kubuntu
* kubuntu-docs-audio
* kubuntu-docs-basics
* kubuntu-docs-bugs
* kubuntu-docs-cli
* kubuntu-docs-communication
* kubuntu-docs-contact
* kubuntu-docs-contribute
* kubuntu-docs-desktop
* kubuntu-docs-development
* kubuntu-docs-directory
* kubuntu-docs-games
* kubuntu-docs-graphics
* kubuntu-docs-hardware
* kubuntu-docs-index
* kubuntu-docs-kubuntu-docs
* kubuntu-docs-manage-software
* kubuntu-docs-media
* kubuntu-docs-netbook
* kubuntu-docs-network
* kubuntu-docs-office
* kubuntu-docs-photos
* kubuntu-docs-printing
* kubuntu-docs-security
* kubuntu-docs-sharing
* kubuntu-docs-support
* kubuntu-docs-video
* kubuntu-docs-web
* kubuntu-docs-welcome
* kubuntu-docs-welcome-desktop

'''openmolar'''

'''remmina'''

'''software-center'''

'''ubuntuone-client'''

'''ubuntuone-control-panel'''

'''ubuntu-docs Meta Package''' ''this package included the following packages:''
* ubuntu-docs-about-ubuntu
* ubuntu-docs-add-applications
* ubuntu-docs-administrative
* ubuntu-docs-config-desktop
* ubuntu-docs-desktop-effects
* ubuntu-docs-files-and-docs
* ubuntu-docs-games
* ubuntu-docs-hardware
* ubuntu-docs-internet
* ubuntu-docs-keeping-safe
* ubuntu-docs-musicvideophotos
* ubuntu-docs-newtoubuntu
* ubuntu-docs-office
* ubuntu-docs-printing
* ubuntu-docs-usb-creator
* ubuntu-docs-serverguide 

