{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Meeting chairperson - Ryan Macnish(nisshh) - nisshh unavailable so <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BodenMatthews|Bodman456]]</nowiki> stepped up at short notice (thanks!)
* CalDAV/WebCal server for meeting Dates
** Do we want a calendar for everyone to add to Evolution etc. with our meeting dates? - BodenMatthews (Bodman456)
** Food for thought - Can we adapt or at least include the current calendar on our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com.au|website]]</nowiki>? - <nowiki>[[JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Gaming Clan - Other Games
** Just thought we should have a discussion about other games we could play (not just Urban Terror all the time) - <nowiki>[[RyanMacnish|Ryan Macnish]]</nowiki>
* Advertising this group
** There are a lot of Australian ubuntu users out there who are active yet aren't in the group, how can we find out why they're not, and what we can do to make them more likely to join <nowiki>[[ikt|ikt]]</nowiki> (ikt)
** Advertising material for the group.  How about a team effort to modify some existing material that we can use for promotional purposes?  See mailing list post https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2010-July/006586.html.  <nowiki>[[MoLE|MoLE]]</nowiki> (MoLE_)
* Very briefly discuss the first "How to Triage" session (http://is.gd/ea4jr). Is there any interest in us as a loco team participating in the Ubuntu Global Jam? (27th - 29th August - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam) - <nowiki>[[MitchTowner|Mitch Towner]]</nowiki>
* http://ubuntu.org.au/ <- Is there any way we can make this more active?  <nowiki>[[ikt|ikt]]</nowiki>

==== IRC Log ====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.20100810_0608.html|Topic Log]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.log.20100810_0608.html|Full Log]]</nowiki>
