{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

The recent NNIC survey was conducted by the CISA-led NNIC consultation
consortium, in association with the Not-For-Profit Network, and John
Sheridan of Digital Business Insights. 

* Title:  Not for Profit e-business Report, December 2006
* Author: John Sheridan of Digital Business Insights
* Email:  johnsh12@bigpond.net.au
* Web:    http://www.communit.info/Joomla/images/Uploaded_Documents/Nonprofit%20e-business%20report.pdf

I am looking to the Ubuntu community to help address the issues raise
in and by the report, in a way that is useful and productive.

The report predominantly lists proprietary software solutions, and I
believe that the Ubunutu and the Free and Open Source Software (FOSS)
community can contribute by creating, modifying, and marketing the
software that we know and love to meet this sectors needs.

== Introduction to the report ==

The 125 page report was produced from a survey of 878 Not for Profit
organisations in August and September 2006. It is a useful snapshot of
the Not-for-profit" sector in Australia, and was carried out by the
the CISA-led NNIC consultation consortium, in association with the
Not-For-Profit Network, and John Sheridan of Digital Business
Insights.

The aim was to demonstrate that productivity benefits can be found in
all organisations, regardless of industry type and size.  The report
uses the survey resource material to supplement a number of case
studies about the successful use of software products in a number of
nonprofit and small business contexts.

From the reports introduction:

  "Recent Australian Government productivity studies show that any use
  of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) delivers
  productivity benefits and improves business performance. Benefits
  are - informational, strategic, transformational and transactional."

and, when describing the 'not-for-profit sector'

  "The not-for-profit sector in Australia includes over 700,000
  not-for-profit organisations, 100,000 incorporated associations and
  10,000 companies limited by guarantee.

  The sector can be broadly divided into public-serving or
  member-serving organisations. Public serving organisations typically
  deliver health, education or community services. Member serving
  organisations exist for the benefit of their members, in the areas
  of sport and recreation and common interest. Interest organisations
  include peak bodies, religious organisations, political parties,
  lobby groups and unions and professional and business associations.
 
  Not-for-profit organisations are increasingly adopting and using
  Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to improve their
  productivity, service delivery and enhance the many ways they
  interact with government, businesses and the community. The value of
  ICT to an organisation varies depending on the organisation size,
  type, location and services delivered. Some business processes are
  common to all not-for-profits and some are specific to public
  serving or member serving organisations."

ICT is further divided into the following categories:

  Serving public and members

    Accounting, database, security, backup/storage, telecommunication,
    internet, website, compliance, ordering, buying,

  Public serving
    
    Reporting, tenders, volunteers, rostering, client management

  Member serving

    Fundraising, member management, collaboration

Categories of software were also created depending on what the
relationship the business activity fell under

  Internal

    ICT enhances various internal administrative business activities
    for the not-for-profit sector - accounting, payroll, records and
    information (database), rostering, internal communication and so
    on.

**** Accounting - MYOB, Quickbooks, Arrow, Attache, SAP etc
**** Database - Access, Excel, SQL, Filemaker etc
**** Rostering - None, Excel
**** Security - Norton, AVG, NetboxBlue etc
**** Backup/Storage - Hard Drive, NAS, SAN, DVD, CD, Tape
**** Intranet - web developer

  Customer

    Customer relationships will vary depending on the type of
    not-for-profit organisation. ICT can enhance communication through
    telephone, SMS, email, email newsletter and web site, and also
    help with the active management of relationships through client
    and customer relationship software.

**** Phone - Telstra, Optus, Vodaphone etc
**** Internet - Telstra, Optus, TPG, Pacific Internet etc
**** VoIP - Skype, Asterisk, Avaya, Cisco etc
**** Website - web developer, Sauce Software
**** CRM - MS CRM, IMIS, ACT, SDG, Access, Outlook etc
**** Client Management - CareManager, Pivotol, Tectura, XaptCare, QuickKids etc

  Supplier

    Supplier relationships will also vary depending on the type of
    organisation. For public serving organisations funded by
    government, there is an ongoing cycle of tendering for funding and
    reporting on services delivered. Member-serving organisations
    manage member fees.  Both types of organisations may raise funds
    and sign up and manage volunteers. All organisations may buy
    general goods and services. ICT can support all these activities
    through fundraising software, telemarketing, Government tender and
    reporting portals, and general supplier websites and portals.

**** Reporting - Excel, Datacare, Arrow
**** Volunteers - Outlook, Vision6 etc
**** Fundraising - ThankQ, Donor Management, Open Alms etc
**** Ordering/Buying - Supply/Buy website, portal
 
  Competitor

    All public serving organisations compete for
    funding. Members-serving organisations compete for members. The
    internet provides a simple, quick research platform for
    competitive intelligence gathering as well as a research resource
    for proposals and reports.

**** Tenders - Government portal
**** Research - Web browser

  Complementary

    Not-for-profit organisations often collaborate in service
    delivery, lobbying, promotion and education. ICT provides a number
    of collaborative platforms including weblogs, wikis and portals.

**** Information portal - InfoXchange, Our Community, DCITA, Ovosuite etc

== Report Contents ==
<pre>
  Telecommunications services and PABX
    Voice over Internet Protocol - VoIP
  Computers and software
    Software satisfaction and concerns
    Accounting software
    Client management software
    Membership/CRM software
    Fundraising software
    Database software
    Data storage system
  Internet connection, reliability and security
    Internet use
    Connection reliability
    Security measures
  Technology adoption rating
    Digital camera use
  Useful web sites
  Web sites and web collaboration
  Technical support and advice
  New technology and best practice
  Turnover, future aims, IT objectives and IT spend
  Overall use of ICT
  For more information about ICT resources and solutions
  The e-journey 

</pre>
