{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[PaulGear]]</nowiki> sent out various excess stickers and CDs from <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-LCA2011Brisbane]]</nowiki> Open Day to a number of people who requested them on the mailing list.  There are still quite a few CDs to give away.
* <nowiki>[[PaulGear]]</nowiki> approached <nowiki>[[http://www.redland.qld.gov.au/RecreationFacilities/RedlandLibraries/Pages/Explore-IT-Expo-2011.aspx|Redland City Library]]</nowiki> about providing Ubuntu training sessions and free CDs for their upcoming <nowiki>[[http://www.redland.qld.gov.au/RecreationFacilities/RedlandLibraries/Pages/Explore-IT-Expo-2011.aspx|Explore IT Expo]]</nowiki>.  The librarian had not heard of Linux at all (that just proves how widespread bug #1 is), but agreed to research it.  Unfortunately i did not have any of my own or the team's business cards to give her, so she had to rely my messy handwriting to get the web site addresses.  I will make another approach in a more prepared fashion in the near future.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Meetings/2011February8|February Meeting]]</nowiki> - Regular Team Meeting held 8th February, chaired by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RyanMacnissh|nisshh)]]</nowiki> and attended by 18 team members.
* <nowiki>[[JaredNorris]]</nowiki> has been appointed as the replacement team contact made vacant by <nowiki>[[MelissaDraper]]</nowiki>'s impending move overseas - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2011-February/006996.html|mailing list announcement]]</nowiki>
