{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* First meeting
* Burn party

=== Attendance ===

* Ranju Mathew 
* Ross Perkins
* Daniel Roesler

=== Minutes ===

* Regular meetings (monthly).  Lets plan on having a meeting on Nov 18.
* Ways for us to get the word out (nonprofits/installing systems/support for novices etc)
* Tables on campus, coffee shops, libraries.. etc
* Places to meet.  Suggestions were:  library, coffee shops, 
* Texas team integration -- we would like to get the Houston, Dallas, and Austin loco website links on the Texas loco website.
* Website/wiki updates to reflect our active status on our current site.

<nowiki>[[AustinTeam/Meetings|Back to Meetings]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[AustinTeam|Back to AustinTeam]]</nowiki>
