{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* who is in charge of the IRC channel?
* what needs to be added/changed for our documentation?
* approve wording of the goals page

=== Attendance ===

* MarkHicks
* SkipGuenter
* DanielRoesler
* ParkerDillmann

=== Minutes ===

* introduced ourselves
* noted that Ubuntu is the first distro we've found that is completely usable to the novice user
* Goals notes:
** drop by goodwill and see what they are doing (Philanthropy)
** discountelectronics.com has a Ubuntu Dell kiosk, talk to them, let them know about us
** let Dell know that Austin has an Ubuntu group
** bookmark or flyers - has meeting times and mailing list for distribution
** will the mailing list be able to sustain the kind of support we need? Decided that it is too early to tell since the list doesn't have that much traffic. Supposed that the problem would either appear or not, so no action is required.
** is there any faculty member at UT that uses Ubuntu?
** where to table? ut? co-ops? goodwill? groovy-lube? businesses that use ubuntu? book-people?
** add documentation on backing up before switching
** add documentation for unin
* do a case study for Groovy-Lube
* design a bookmark
* Goals for 2008:
** bookmarks spread around (Mark offered to pay for it)
** case study for business
** complete documentation
** table around
** get a banner
** make a logo

<nowiki>[[AustinTeam/Meetings|Back to Meetings]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[AustinTeam|Back to AustinTeam]]</nowiki>
