{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Contact Ubuntu-AU ==

If you would like to volunteer some time to assist the Australian Team or would like some more information on the various aspects of what we do please get in contact with one of the members below.

=== Main Team Contact ===

The main team contact is appointed by the Ubuntu Community Council responsible for providing the link between the Ubuntu-AU team and the overall Ubuntu community. If you have questions or concerns about the group in general then please contact this person.

==== Jared Norris ====
<nowiki>[[JaredNorris|Ubuntu Wiki Page]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jarednorris|Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>

== Detailed Contact Us ==

There are varying roles and contacts for the team so here is the full list.

=== Team Administration ===

These are the people to contact if you have a problem with any of the day to day running of certain aspects of the team.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="width:100%; background:#DD4814;color:#F4F3F1; margin: 1em 0em 0em 0em;">Role
| Contact
| IRC nick on the Freenode network
|-
| Loco Contact
| JaredNorris
| head_victim
|-
| Website Administrators/Moderators
| PaulGear
| blahdeblah
|-
| 
| MelissaDraper
| elky
|-
| 
| SridharDhanapalan
| yama
|-
| 
| AndrewSwinn
| Phlosten
|-
| 
| YukiCuss
| yukicuss
|-
| 
| WilliamGrant
| wgrant
|-
| 
| JaredNorris
| head_victim
|-
| Loco.U.C Administrators
| JaredNorris
| head_victim
|-
| 
| MelissaDraper
| elky
|-
| Mailing List Administrators/Moderators
| JaredNorris
| head_victim
|-
| 
| MelissaDraper
| elky
|-
| Forum Moderators
| <nowiki>[[ikt]]</nowiki>
| ikt
|-
| 
| AndrewSwinn
| Phlosten
|-
| IRC Operators
| AndrewSwinn
| Phlosten
|-
| 
| MelissaDraper
| elky
|-
| 
| SridharDhanapalan
| yama
|-
| 
| WilliamGrant
| wgrant
|-
| 
| JaredNorris
| head_victim
|-
| Team Report Writers
| <nowiki>[[benny]]</nowiki>
| benonsoftware
|-
| 
| SamLymn
| somethinginteres
|-
| Meeting Organisers/Chair-people
| JoelPickett
| sagaci
|-
| 
| JoelAddison
| jaddi27
|-
| Launchpad Team Owner
| JaredNorris
| head_victim
|-
| Ubuntu-AU en_AU localisation/l10n
| JoelPickett
| sagaci
|}

=== Social Media Accounts ===

This is a list of all the groups formed on social media sites based around Ubuntu-AU

* <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=4323588812|Ubuntu-AU Facebook group]]</nowiki> - administered by JoelAddison, GeorgePatterson, JaredNorris & MelissaDraper
* <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/ubuntuau|Ubuntu-AU Facebook page]]</nowiki> - administered by JoelAddison & JaredNorris
* <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/114264208670057246365|Ubuntu-AU Page on Google+]]</nowiki> - administered by JoelAddison & JaredNorris
* <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/communities/107973538671652290332|Ubuntu-AU Community on Google+]]</nowiki> - administered by JoelAddison & JaredNorris
* <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/ubuntuau|Ubuntu-AU on Twitter]]</nowiki> - administered by JaredNorris & JoelAddison
* <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/ubuntuau|Ubuntu-AU on Identi.ca]]</nowiki> - administered by JaredNorris & JoelAddison
* <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/group/ubuntuaustralia|Ubuntu-AU Group on Identi.ca]]</nowiki> - administered by RyanMacnish
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntuau/|Ubuntu-AU on Flickr]]</nowiki> - administered by MatthewVermeulen & JoelStanley
* <nowiki>[[http://www.last.fm/group/Ubuntu-Au|Ubuntu-AU on Last.FM]]</nowiki> - administered by SridharDhanapalan

=== Unofficial Local Contacts ===

Various team members are happy to be contacted about Ubuntu issues of local interest. Please see the table below and feel free to add yourself should you wish.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="width:100%; background:#DD4814;color:#F4F3F1; margin: 1em 0em 0em 0em;">State
| Town/Locality
| Contact
|-
| ACT
| 
| 
|-
| NSW
| ??
| AndrewSwinn
|-
| NT
| 
| 
|-
| QLD
| Brisbane
| JaredNorris
|-
| QLD
| Brisbane
| PaulGear
|-
| QLD
| Brisbane
| JoelAddison
|-
| SA
| 
| 
|-
| TAS
| 
| 
|-
| VIC
| Melbourne
| <nowiki>[[benny|Ben Donald-Wilson]]</nowiki>
|-
| WA
| 
| 
|-
| Other
| New Zealand
| MelissaDraper
|}
