{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Local Apt Mirrors ==

This page contains information regarding Ubuntu apt mirrors for users connected to Australian ISPs. Some ISPs offer unmetered downloads to certain mirrors - see below. For downloading CD images (.iso) see http://ubuntu.com/download.

=== How to set it up ===

==== Automatic (GUI) setup ====

The best way to choose your mirror if you're not familiar with editing files on Linux is to use the provided tool, accessed through the Dash and search for "Software Sources".  (If you use Kubuntu or Xubuntu, the method of access will be different, but should have the same general effect.)

In the Ubuntu Software tab, there is a "Download from" drop-down menu.  If you choose "Other..." from this menu, a dialogue will appear showing all of the available mirrors, with Australian mirrors expanded by default (if you selected Australia as your location when you installed Ubuntu). Choose the appropriate mirror from the list there, close the software sources dialogue, and choose "Reload" when prompted to refresh the software sources.

You are now set up to download from your preferred mirror!

==== Manual (text file) setup ====

The following is an /etc/apt/sources.list template for Ubuntu. Replace <mirror> with one of the mirrors listed below and <version> with your distribution name (dapper, gutsy, hardy, intrepid, jaunty, karmic, lucid, maverick etc)

<pre>
deb <mirror> <version> main restricted
deb <mirror> <version>-security main restricted
deb <mirror> <version>-updates main restricted

deb <mirror> <version> universe multiverse
deb <mirror> <version>-security universe multiverse
deb <mirror> <version>-updates universe multiverse

</pre>

Another way is to modify the file that contains the mirror list:
<pre>
/usr/share/python-apt/templates/Ubuntu.mirrors
</pre>

==== Checking mirror status ====
See <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archivemirrors]]</nowiki> to find out whether your preferred mirror is up-to-date.

=== Australian Mirrors ===
==== Official ====
For those who select Australia as their location in setup, this is the mirror they are given. Currently this leads to the AARNet Australian Ubuntu mirror.

http://au.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/

==== AARNet ====
http://mirror.aarnet.edu.au/pub/ubuntu/

==== Bigpond (Telstra) ====
As of early 2015 it would appear Bigpond has discontinued its unmetered access to the AARNet mirror. The Ubuntu Australia Team is unaware of any unmetered content for Bigpond users.

==== FileArena ====
Local traffic for Adam Internet 

http://ftp.filearena.net/pub/ubuntu/

==== iiNet/OzEmail Mirror ====
Unmetered for iiNet, OzEmail and Westnet users, but available from anywhere.

http://ftp.iinet.net.au/pub/ubuntu/

==== Internode ====
Unmetered for Internode ADSL/ADSL2 users, but not unmetered for Internode(Optus) 3G users.

http://mirror.internode.on.net/pub/ubuntu/ubuntu
or
ftp://mirror.internode.on.net/pub/ubuntu/ubuntu

Refer to <nowiki>[[http://www.internode.on.net/residential/entertainment/unmetered_content/|here]]</nowiki> for more information on unmetered content

==== Netspace ====
Unmetered for Netspace users. 

ftp://ftp.netspace.net.au/pub/ubuntu/

==== OptusNet Mirror ====
Is NOT unmetered for Optus users

http://mirror.optus.net/ubuntu/

==== Griffith University ====
http://mirror.griffith.edu.au/

----
Created by JoelStanley, iiNet/OzEmail & OptusNet mirrors added by MistaED, Westnet added by Gabz, Griffith added by Vantrax, Telstra updates by JaredNorris, miscellany by PaulGear

