{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Notebooks Without Operating System ==

See also: <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-UbuntuFriendlyNotebooks]]</nowiki>

=== Introduction ===

When purchasing computer systems in Australia generally you are provided with a pre-installed version of Microsoft Windows. As it has become the norm to do so certain manufacturers have engaged into contracts that prevent them from doing otherwise.

I have started looking for a way to purchase a laptop/notebook without Microsoft Windows, or any other operating system, pre-installed as I do not need it and do not want it. Generally Windows contributes around $100 to the cost of buying a machine with it installed. Obviously this will vary with individual companies and their agreements with Microsoft. If you are happy with a copy of Windows so be it, but on principal alone I don't think we should have to pay for something we do not use.

The following is the result of on-going research into where to source notebooks in Australia without a software licence attached. It was not specifically created to take into account hardware compatibility with Ubuntu or any other options, however if you have and use a 100% Ubuntu compatible notebook/laptop which can be purchased without operating system attached please list it here. It does not speak for the quality of the retailers listed.

=== Retailers Who Will Supply Notebooks Without Operating System ===

==== Digitac Pty Ltd ====
http://www.digitac.com.au/ <<BR>>
Last Updated: 15th June, 2006 <<BR>>
Notes: Able to provide laptops without Windows. Deduct $139 from products <<BR>>
on their website if not wanting Microsoft Windows XP Home. The following is from <<BR>> 
an email response from the retailer.
 
"Thanks very much for your inquiry.  All our laptops can be supplied without <<BR>>
OS.  Please deduct $139 if not taking Windows XP Home."<<BR>>

Unfortunately Digitac's website is no longer operational, assuming they have gone out of business (May, 2010)

==== TwinHead ====
http://www.twinhead.com.au <<BR>>
Last Updated: 17th June, 2006 <<BR>>
Notes: Most of their laptops are specified as having OEM Windows, however it can be removed when you order from them. They also have their own recommended distribution Abec (according to the website).

==== Affordable Laptops ====
http://www.affordablelaptops.com.au/ <<BR>>
Last Updated: 19th June, 2006 <<BR>>
Many laptops customisable for sale without an operating system.

==== Laptop Choice ====
http://www.laptopchoice.com.au/ <<BR>>
Last Updated: 19th June, 2006 <<BR>>
Many laptops customisable for sale without an operating system.  

"Choose ‘No Operating System” ONLY if you already own one such as Linux that you will install yourself. Doing this will affect the level of phone support ITC is able to offer."<<BR>>

Unfortunately Laptop Choice's website is no longer operational, assuming they have gone out of business (May, 2010)

==== p4laptops.com.au ====
http://www.p4laptops.com.au/ <<BR>>
Last Updated: 19th June, 2006 <<BR>>
Many laptops customisable for sale without an operating system.
 

=== Retailers Who Will NOT Supply Notebooks Without Operating System ===

==== Alienware ====
http://www.alienware.com.au/ <<BR>>
Last Updated: 15th June, 2006 <<BR>>
Notes: The following is part of an email response from the company <<BR>>
when asked whether they provide systems without Microsoft Windows.

"Unfortunately we are unable to provide systems to customers without them <<BR>>
being packaged with Windows. This is due to licensing agreements in <<BR>>
place with Microsoft that cannot be overlooked."

==== Sony ====
http://www.sony.com.au/ <<BR>>
Last Updated: 22nd June, 2006 <<BR>>
Notes: The following is what I was told when <<BR>>
I contacted Sony by Phone about thier VAIO laptops. <<BR>>

* When asked if they can supply VAIO's without Windows: <<BR>>
"No, they come with Windows pre-installed." <<BR>>
* When asked if they allow you to return Windows for a refund: <<BR>>
"No, that's not a option we have."

