{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Projects ==

=== Ubuntu-In-Not-For-Profits ===

==== Overview ====

Ubuntu-In-Not-for-Profits aims to promote Ubuntu and FLOSS software to Not-for-Profit, Social and Community based organisations.

Australian case studies can be found here - <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-NotForProfitDocumentation]]</nowiki> 

==== Project Objectives ====

* To show Not-for-Profit organisations how Ubuntu can help them to spend less on their IT infrustructure.
* Demonstrate the social inclusiveness of Ubuntu and Free, Libre and Open Source Software.
* Investigate the potential of the social opportunities presented by Ubuntu. 

==== Project Activities ====

* [FINISHED] Representation at 'Connecting Up '06 - Adelaide, May 1-2'
** Give-a-way Ubuntu CDROM's 
** Promote Dapper Drake
** Promote 'Software Freedom Day'

 This event was run, and 100 Ubuntu CD's were given out over the 2 day event,
 which was attended by almost 300 people involved in ICT strategy planning, 
 or day-to-day ICT activities, from the Not-for-profit sector.
 The good news is that over half of the people who visited the booth are already using 
 Open Office.

* [ON-GOING] Collect case studies of groups using Ubuntu. See: <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-NotForProfitDocumentation]]</nowiki>

 This information is be the core of the promotional material for Ubuntu to these groups
 in Australia.

==== Contact Details ====

Contact PaulSchulz for more information.

=== Ubuntu-In-Schools ===

==== Overview ====

To promote the features, and benefits of Ubuntu to Australian schools.

==== Project Objectives ====

* To show schools in Australia what Ubuntu can do for their IT infrastructure. 
* To showcase features such as:
** unbeatable uptime,
** responsive services,
** free as in price, 
** freedom as in contracts (unlike the lock-in contracts that Microsoft offers many schools), and 
** free as in libre. 
* To demonstrate the power of the LTSP.

==== Resources ====

* <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/school-advocacy/C/index.html|Edubuntu School Advocacy]]</nowiki> is work in progress, but already an excellent resource (link may break).
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxworld.com.au/index.php?id=407925021|LinuxWorld Australia article]]</nowiki> about a Sydney school that is going all Linux.

=== Ubuntu-In-Homes ===

==== Overview ====

To let home users know of Ubuntu's ease of use, security, and stability.

==== Project Objectives ====

* TBD

=== Ubuntu-In-Business ===

==== Overview ====

Ubuntu-In-Business is a focus group aimed at devising marketing strategies for Australian businesses and discussing business-related issues for using Ubuntu.

==== Project Objectives ====

* To conduct business-focused demonstrations of Ubuntu and its applications.

==== Resources ====
* CategoryMarketing links to Marketing related pages on this wiki.
* <nowiki>[[DIYMarketing]]</nowiki> is one of them and links to marketing resources.

=== Ubuntu Media Publications ===
* Pschultz has something he wrote to the papers
* [AustralianTeam/Letter_to_APC Letter to APC] asking to put Ubuntu on Cover DVD  - This resulted in the better part of a page on Ben Duivestyn and the Ubuntu Australia LoCo - See apc September 2006 (currently published)

=== Other ===

* The Australian localisation project is <nowiki>[[AustralianTranslationTeam|here]]</nowiki>, and is based on the <nowiki>[[EnglishTranslation|English Translation project]]</nowiki>.
* A list of Ubuntu-friendly laptop computers is maintained <nowiki>[[UbuntuFriendlyNotebooks|here]]</nowiki>.
* Photography competition idea: <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-PhotographyCompetition]]</nowiki>

=== Proposed activities ===
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-LocalMeetings]]</nowiki>
