{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== In The Press ==

=== Introduction ===

This page is dedicated to cataloguing the AustralianTeam in the press. Please add more as things happen.

=== Magazines ===

BenDuivesteyn (xice) featured in ''Australian Personal Computer'', September Edition in the Extreme Geek Section.

 Ben had contacted APC and asked if they wanted to do a feature on Ubuntu.

 The article can be seen <nowiki>[[http://flickr.com/photo_zoom.gne?id=209999468&size=o|here]]</nowiki>

=== Newspapers ===

MelissaDraper (elkbuntu) was a source for an article about Ubuntu and Linux on the desktop for the ''Sydney Morning Herald'' and ''The Age'' News Websites.

 Melissa was approached via email possibly due to presence on the wiki.

 <nowiki>[[http://www.smh.com.au/news/technology/linux-wins-over-new-fans/2006/09/04/1157222061911.html?page=fullpage#contentSwap1|SMH article]]</nowiki>
 <nowiki>[[http://www.theage.com.au/news/technology/linux-wins-over-new-fans/2006/09/04/1157222061911.html?page=fullpage#contentSwap1|The Age article]]</nowiki>
 ''note: articles are identical as both are fairfax publications''

=== Radio ===

Pia Waugh (Greebo) was interviewed on <nowiki>[[http://www.abc.net.au/triplej/hack|JJJ's Hack]]</nowiki> program about Open Source. 
 Not really about Ubuntu, but Pia is one of us! :) 
 <nowiki>[[http://www.abc.net.au/triplej/hack/notes/s1743583.htm|Archive of this interview]]</nowiki>

