{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Maverick Meerkat Release Parties ==
If you have additions, please add them to the relevant heading below, or create a new section based on the "Others?" template at the bottom if your city/state is not yet represented in the list.

=== Victoria ===
==== Melbourne ====
===== Date =====

Sunday 10th of October 2010

===== Time =====

6:30pm

===== Location =====

jawa bar, 297 Victoria Street West Melbourne

===== Other Information =====

its a quick tram ride from the city, not far from the queen vic markets.  the bar will allow us to order take-away from around the area and eat it in the bar so we will probably be sharing pizza for dinner. we will be sitting out the back.  if you have any problems finding us gimme me a call on 0411 437137.  peter

=== South Australia ===
==== Adelaide ====
===== Date =====

Sunday 10th of October 2010

===== Time =====

6:30PM 

===== Location =====

<nowiki>[[http://www.paddymaguires.com/adelaide/theelephant|The Elephant British Pub]]</nowiki> - which is situated at '''1 Cinema Place, Adelaide''' (next door to Palace Nova Cinemas) just a stones throw away from the busy Rundle Street precinct in the heart of the Adelaide CBD.

===== Other Information =====

<nowiki>[[http://www.paddymaguires.com/adelaide/theelephant|The Elephant]]</nowiki> has parking within close proximity, Alpha Apartments offer U-Park facilities, it also backs onto North Terrace, where parking is available. Most importantly though, free Wifi from Internode! Rock up and have a chat about Ubuntu, bring your laptops too! The 24 beers on tap are sure to make it a good night. Look for the nerds with laptops out, see you there! :)

=== Others? ===
==== City ====
===== Date =====
===== Time =====
===== Location =====
===== Other Information =====

