{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== April 12, 2011 ==

=== Agenda ===
* Meeting chairperson - JaredNorris (head_victim)

* Roll Call
* Natty Narwhal Release Parties
** It's time to start locking in times and places for the Natty Narwhal Release Parties! We need to be logging these to the loco.u.c site - please email me or contact me on IRC if you're not sure how to. It doesn't have to be fancy or highly organised, just a gathering of people who like Ubuntu to talk and share ideas - JaredNorris (head_victim)
* Update on RTs
** Just a brief run down of the 2 RTs submitted to Canonical this month, the Planet Ubuntu Australia & Ubuntu Australia Team website updates - JaredNorris (head_victim)
* Any suggestions for promotional materials (posters, flyers, etc) for the Natty release? - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MoLE | MoLE]]</nowiki> (MoLE_)
* Loco.ubuntu.com
** is anyone using this? What are your impressions, I'm wondering if we can consolidate the meeting wiki and the events website here to have the one place for our loco calendar. JaredNorris 9head_victim)

=== IRC Logs ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.20110412_0500.html|Topic Log]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-au.log.20110412_0500.html|Full Log]]</nowiki>
