{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===
* <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-au-meeting-20060918.log|Plain Text]]</nowiki>
=== Agenda ===
'''Primary Master:''' MelissaDraper elkbuntu

~-(Meeting Chair)-~

==== Mentoring a fellow LoCo ====

* Our LoCo is going to be involved in mentoring a fellow loco, the NZ team. They are joining us today to have their input on the SFD topic :)
** While we had the presence of the NZ team, there was lots of discussion occurring and the SFD topic didnt touched by them. A meeting for NZ set for tomorrow (19th at 9am UTC)
** MelissaDraper (elkbuntu) will be the main point of contact, a 2IC needs to be appointed

==== SFD Wrap-up ====

* What happened where and how successfully - MelissaDraper ''elkbuntu''
** 1000 dapper cds in Melbourne
** 200 cds at Canberra at the previous week's substitute SFD

==== The status of Edgy Eft ====

* How is Ubuntu progressing with Eft? Where is help needed? What release parties are people planning? - PaulSchulz ''pschulz01''
** Resident devs Fujitsu and ajmitch filled us in

==== ubuntu.org.au ====

* Should we use this as our main address when pointing people to the team page? - DavidSymons ''bimberi''
* The Documentation section of http://www.ubuntu.com.au/ is stagnant.  What thoughts are there on what to do about it?  I'd suggest moving the valuable content to the wiki and taking  it off the site. -- DavidSymons ''bimberi''
** It was decided to use .org.au
** Documentation will be moved to the wiki so that more people can work on it
