{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===

<nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-au-meeting-20061016.log|Plain Text]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===

'''Primary Master:''' MelissaDraper (elkbuntu)

==== LoCo Mentoring Update ====
* An update on the LoCo Mentoring project.
* A positive report was given to the team, and it was realised that the actual mentoring was finished. JonoBacon, the Ubuntu Community Manager, was present and encouraged the teams to work on a report for other LoCo teams.

==== Wiki Clean Up ====
* After rummaging around the wiki, I would propose that the following pages be moved to /Archives or deleted, whichever is appropriate: -- MatthewVermeulen
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam/WikiToDo]]</nowiki> -- ''Delete''
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam/Newsletter]]</nowiki> -- ''Deferred for xice and kapheroph''
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam/Old]]</nowiki> -- ''Archive''
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam/Courtesy]]</nowiki> ?? -- ''Archive''
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam/Talks]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam/LocalCDDistribution]]</nowiki> - Somewhat deprecated by ubuntu.com.au -- ''Archive''

==== Roundup of activities around Australia ====
* -- PaulSchulz (pschulz01)
* Some summaries of activities were given by members, notably PaulSchulz

==== Community Council Meeting Tomorrow ====
* I would like some support for Ubuntu membership -- PaulSchulz (pschulz01)
* Everyone was in favour of PaulSchulz 's membership, and a few people are going to cheer him tomorrow night.
 
==== Edgy Parties ====
* Where/When - PaulSchulz (pschulz)
* There will be a release party on October 26th, starting after work at the Belgium Beer Cafe, east end of Adelaide. EdgyReleaseParties has more release parties.
