{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Welcome ==

This is the home page for the '''Ubuntu English (Australia) Translators''' team.  We also exist on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-en-au|Launchpad]]</nowiki>.

=== Overview ===
This team focuses on translating Ubuntu into Australian English using <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/rosetta/|Rosetta]]</nowiki>. 

* We collaborate with translators of <nowiki>[[EnglishTranslation|other en-GB based languages]]</nowiki> in the interest of consistency.
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam|Australian Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LocalCustomisation/Australia|Customising Ubuntu for Australian Conditions]]</nowiki>

=== Get Started ===
For information about translating Ubuntu into English (Australian), please visit the Australian Team <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam/Projects/Translation|Translations]]</nowiki> page.

=== Recommended Word Substitutions ===
A list of recommended <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam/Projects/Translation/WordSubstitution|English (Australian) word substitutions]]</nowiki> for translating English (US) has been created, based on the English (GB) word list. Please consult this list when you are unsure on the correct word to use.

=== Communication ===
 1. Many Australian translators can be found at #ubuntu-au on irc.freenode.net:6667 <nowiki>[[http://meldra.no-ip.info/eucalyptirc|Via Shoutbox in your browser]]</nowiki>
 2. A <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-l10n-eng|mailing list]]</nowiki> has been set up for translators of all English dialects.

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryEnglishTranslation
