{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== To-Do List for Each Ubuntu-AU Meeting ==

=== Allocate Chairperson for each meeting ===
Each meeting needs to have an allocated chairperson responsible for organising and running the meeting

=== Update Pages ===
Each meeting needs to make sure the information is correct in the following locations:

==== Wiki Header ====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Includes/Bulletin

==== IRC Channel Topic ====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/IRC - if you are not a channel operator please ping someone that is - see the AustralianTeam/ContactUs page.

=== Create Events ===
Each meeting needs to be created in the following locations

==== Website ====
http://www.ubuntu.org.au

==== LoCo.Ubuntu.Com ====
http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-au

=== Publicity ===
Each meeting needs to be publicised in the following locations

==== Mailing List ====

As a guide an email should be sent to the list when the meeting has been created, about a week before it's due to occur and also a reminder on the day. This should include a list of agenda topics so that those who want to discuss the ideas on the mailing list without being present are able to.

==== Social Media ====
* Identica - http://identi.ca/group/ubuntuaustralia 
* Facebook - http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=4323588812 
* Twitter 
* ETC.

=== Follow Up ===

At the completion of each meeting (within a few days) a meeting summary and a link to the meetingology logs should be emailed to the mailing list. This is important so that those not present have the ability to be aware of any outcomes.
