{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu-AU Projects ==

=== Overview ===
The Australian LoCo has a range of community driven projects we collaborate on to give back to the wider community and to promote growth and activity within the Loco. Projects range from collecting up locally relevant information like the wireless broadband page, ongoing events to contribute to Ubuntu specifically such as bug jams and other events like local meetings to engage the group on a more personal level. 

The projects page is a great place to start for anyone wanting to help out with the LoCo but just don't know where to start. Each project should have a contact point (even if it is just the mailing list) so it is easy to get in contact with the relevant people if others are interested.

If you have a project that you would like to document here by all means add it to the list and link it to a sub page off this one (but please also advertise this on the <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-MailingLists|mailing list]]</nowiki> otherwise people will not know when the page is updated). This will enable us to keep the page neat and tidy. If you have any questions or are wanting to add information but are unsure how to just either <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-MailingLists|email the mailing list]]</nowiki> or come in and <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-IRC|chat to us in the IRC channels]]</nowiki>.

If you are looking for older projects that have not been updated or looked at in some time check the <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Archives|archives]]</nowiki> and if you feel your project has been moved in error feel free to bring it back and link it back to this page.

=== Projects ===
 
==== BugJams ====
* Whilst bug jams are common we thought it would be easier for people to get into this technical process if there were some local assistance. The <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-BugJams|bugjam]]</nowiki> project page has some links to relevant information for people wanting to look into this avenue of contribution. 
** Contact - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kermiac|Mitch Towner]]</nowiki>

==== Hardware Documentation ====
* The <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-HardwareDocumentation|hardware documentation]]</nowiki> page is the place to go if you are looking at buying new hardware. It contains information about what places are willing to sell you a system that you can choose the operating system for and also has some information about hardware compatibility. Please feel free to edit this to keep this as up to date as possible.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-MailingLists|the mailing list]]</nowiki> (because this needs to be owned by everyone to get as much information as possible and keep it up to date.

==== Local Ubuntu-AU face-to-face meetings ====
* This is a project designed to bring the Ubuntu-AU team together in person for <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-LocalMeetings|local Ubuntu-AU face-to-face meetings]]</nowiki>. We are a vast geographical area so we do a lot of online meetings and discussion but sometimes being able to shake someone's hand is a good thing.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PaulGear|Paul Gear]]</nowiki>

==== Wireless Broadband Information ====
* This page is dedicated to keeping everyone informed about what <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-WirelessBroadbandInformation|wireless broadband devices and networks]]</nowiki> available on Australian services work with Ubuntu. If you have a device that is not listed please feel free to contribute so that we can all be able to make informed decisions about local services and products.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>

==== Gaming on Ubuntu ====
* This <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Projects-Gaming|gaming on Ubuntu]]</nowiki> page designed to get the loco socialising together and promoting Ubuntu within the gaming community while playing your favorite game - ''"Even geeks need time away from coding."''

==== LoCo Classroom ====

* A weekly or fortnightly class about one topic (can be aimed at beginners or more advanced users) organised by the LoCo, but everyone is welcome to come and join in.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/RyanMacnish|Ryan Macnish]]</nowiki>

==== Artwork ====
* A <nowiki>[[Artwork|central location]]</nowiki> for the team to collect team specific artwork.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-MailingLists|the mailing list]]</nowiki>.

==== Translation ====
* A place for information on how to <nowiki>[[Translation|translate Ubuntu programs into English (Australian)]]</nowiki> for people wanting to learn how to go about this.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>.

