{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Logs ==

<nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-au-meeting-2007-04-24.txt|Plain Text]]</nowiki>

== Minutes ==

* Time decision
** The attendees voted for 9pm meetings. 
* Activities
** Gabz talked about the idea of holding stalls and was warned at the expenses it would incur.
** Paul talked about Connecting Up 07
** Sridhar talked about CeBIT 2007 and SLUG Bootcamp
