{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== LCA2011 Sign Up Sheet ==

There will be a sign up sheet at the open day where people can choose to give us their details if they want to know more about Ubuntu or the Ubuntu-AU team but don't want to carry around pieces of paper. To this end I think it would be good to get some input. Obviously the sheet will feature the team logo and the Ubuntu logo. It will also have a table underneath with a space for a name and an email address. Any other ideas?

=== Follow Up Email ===

What information we should include in the email we send out to the list of people who have signed up.

==== Idea 1 - JaredNorris ====

Thank you for your interest in the Ubuntu-AU team shown at the Linux.Conf.Au 2011 Open Day. To find out more about the Ubuntu-AU team please check out the following links:
* Sign up to the team - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Members/NewMembers
* Our website - http://www.ubuntu.org.au
* The team mailing list - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/MailingLists
* Come visit us on IRC https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/IRC
* Check out our current projects - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Projects

We look forward to hearing from you!

- The Ubuntu-AU Team

Note: 
This is a once off email that you have received this email because it was signed up at the Linux.Conf.Au 2011 Open Day to receive it. 

==== Idea 2 - YOU ====

