{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-au/111/detail/|July Team Meeting]]</nowiki> - This meeting was on the 10th of July 2011 and attended by 12 team members
* <nowiki>[[benny|Benny]]</nowiki> (benonsoftware on IRC) was to investigate holding a Ubuntu-Australia Documentation Jam and email the list with suggestions. The Documentation Jam <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.au/node/87|has since been confirmed]]</nowiki> to take place on Friday 2nd September from 7pm-9pm (AEST) and will be hosted on #ubuntu-au on irc.freenode.net.
* <nowiki>[[jpickett]]</nowiki> (sagaci on IRC) was to email the list in regards to holding a Translation Jam for 11.10. The Translation Jam <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.au/node/86|has since been confirmed]]</nowiki> to take place on Saturday 3rd September from 2pm-4pm (AEST) and will be hosted on #ubuntu-au on irc.freenode.net.
* The idea of an induction for new members was floated. This discussion resulted in a decision by those in attendance for specific tweaks to be made to the website. The website is to be updated to have a link for new members and the wiki welcome is to be made more wiki specific to remove a lot of confusion that new members experience. 
* <nowiki>[[Jellyware]]</nowiki> updated the team on the status of the Australian Ubuntu CD mailout service. It continues to be utilised by Australian Ubuntu users and http://ubuntu.net.au has been updated to <nowiki>[[http://www.wordpress.org|Wordpress]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[JaredNorris]]</nowiki> was to work out a mission statement based on feedback, and post to the mailing list. This has occurred and the finalising discussions continue. 
* <nowiki>[[JaredNorris]]</nowiki> emailed the list regarding the the  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/Approval2011|team re-approval page]]</nowiki> asking for any final additions or alterations prior to submission of the application for re-approval on the 8th of July 2011.
* Apparently <nowiki>[[jpickett]]</nowiki> (sagaci on IRC) was feeling lonely as the only Australian on the <nowiki>[[http://hall-of-fame.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Hall of Fame]]</nowiki> so it seems <nowiki>[[JoelAddison]]</nowiki> has gone on to join him in the translation top contributors. Well done to both of you!
