{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===

* <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-au-meeting-20060807.log|Plain Text]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===

==== SFD Plans and ideas ====
* Software Freedome Day is now approximately 5 weeks off, let's discuss current plans and share our ideas. (I suggest we leave this for last item) - MelissaDraper (elkbuntu)
* (Late Notice) Report on event at Mawson Lakes, Adelaide - PaulSchulz (pschulz01)
* Pschulz01 reported on his plans for a SFD event at Mawson Lakes, Adelaide.

==== Meeting time ====
* Although no meeting time will be good for everyone, I think the Meeting Day Chooser page should stay active+edited. Meeting days will change. Thats why its there :) - KarlGoetz (Not attending meeting, got TAFE).
* The meeting day page was designed to be left open, so no changes were needed.

==== Ubuntu-Au Picture Gallery ====
* We need a specific Ubuntu-Au Photo Gallery, considering the amount of trouble that I encountered chasing down a photo for APC. This would be a great resource for promiting our image, as a fancy map of australia isnt enough, we should promote the idea we are 'Humans', as per the Ubuntu Philosophy. I suggest a flickr.com Group. - Ben Duivesteyn (xice)
* Xice created the necessary flickr.com group, and it was decided that the team could use this group
