{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Natty Narwhal Release Parties ==
If you have additions, please add them to the relevant heading below, or create a new section based on the "Others?" template at the bottom if your city/state is not yet represented in the list.

~+'''''NOTE:''''' ''If you have confirmed dates and times please add these details to the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-au|Ubuntu-AU loco.u.c page]]</nowiki> - if you aren't sure how to or are having any problems please email JaredNorris for assistance - thanks!''+~

=== New South Wales ===
==== Sydney ====
===== Date =====
19th April 2011

===== Time =====
12:00pm

===== Location =====
Ampersand Cafe

===== Other Information =====
None so far, will add later. 

=== Victoria ===
==== Melbourne ====
===== Date =====
30th April 2011

===== Time =====
3:00pm

===== Location =====
Gloria Jeans at Docklands Watergate, Bourke street (opp the hub, the actual address is 2 Waterview Walk)

===== Other Information =====
organised by peter baker, 0411 437137

=== South Australia ===
==== Adelaide ====
===== Date =====
29th April 2011 

===== Time =====
17:30-19:30

===== Location =====
<nowiki>[[http://www.paddymaguires.com/adelaide/theelephant|The Elephant]]</nowiki>

1 Cinema Place
Adelaide SA 5000

(Just near Palace Nova)

===== Other Information =====

The Adelaide Release Party for Natty Narwhal, look for the geeks with laptops when you get there :) 

(No usable power points so make sure your laptop has a full charge) 

=== Western Australia ===
==== Perth ====
===== Date =====
30th April 2011
===== Time =====
15:30
===== Location =====
Exomod Coffee

615 Beaufort St
Mt Lawley WA 6050

===== Other Information =====
I will have approx half a dozen discs with the new 11.04 iso burnt to make things easier. So bring your laptop, bring some money for coffee and lets have some fun. If you don't want to wipe your HD you can always install it in a VM.

