{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu-Au IRC ==

Like many other Ubuntu teams, Ubuntu-Au uses <nowiki>[[InternetRelayChat|IRC]]</nowiki> as a form of communication. Most of the communication outside of the mailing list, as well as the fortnightly Ubuntu-Au meetings, take place in the Ubuntu-Au IRC channels:

* '''<nowiki>[[ircs:--irc.libera.chat:6697-#ubuntu-au|#ubuntu-au]]</nowiki>''' (<nowiki>[[https://kiwiirc.com/nextclient/irc.libera.chat/#ubuntu-au|In your browser]]</nowiki>) is for questions about Ubuntu itself. If you need technical support, you should ask here.

You can connect to the Ubuntu-Au IRC channel using IRC clients such as Pidgin Internet Messenger (Formerly Gaim) or XChat, by pointing your client to '''irc.libera.chat:6697''' and joining the channels listed above.

Please help the Ubuntu-Au team by sticking around in the main channel to help passers-by and welcome them into the community. A detailed explanation can be seen in <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2007-December/002653.html|this Mailing List post]]</nowiki>.

=== Channel Guidelines ===

While in the Ubuntu-Au IRC channels (and in any Ubuntu channel) you are expected to abide by the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> (CoC). Most of what is applicable to the IRC Channels can be summarised as follows (taken from <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>):

 '''''Be respectful.''' The Ubuntu community and its members treat one another with respect. Everyone can make a valuable contribution to Ubuntu. We may not always agree, but disagreement is no excuse for poor behaviour and poor manners. We might all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot allow that frustration to turn into a personal attack. It's important to remember that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one. We expect members of the Ubuntu community to be respectful when dealing with other contributors as well as with people outside the Ubuntu project, and with users of Ubuntu.''

If unsure of anything please check out <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Guidelines|the main #ubuntu namespace IRC guidelines]]</nowiki> for more details.

=== Pastebins ===

If you need to share output from your system with other people in the channel and it's more than 1 or 2 lines long, you should use a pastebin; <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki> is preferred, but <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-au.pastebin.com/]]</nowiki> also works fine.

=== Channel Logs ===

Logs of #ubuntu-au are available <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/|here]]</nowiki> (The logging bot has a nick beginning with 'Lo``Co``Bot') and all meeting logs are available <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-au/|here.]]</nowiki>

=== Meetings ===

The Ubuntu-Au team's were previously fortnightly meetings taking place in #ubuntu-au. More details can be found on the <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Meetings|Meetings Page]]</nowiki>. Anyone is welcome to drop in for the meetings, even if only to eavesdrop.

=== IRC Ops ===

IRC Ops are people in an IRC channel who have extra privileges and responsibilities. They are the people to call for any trouble in a channel. To get their attention, type '''!ops''' into the channel.

Currently, the Ubuntu-Au IRC Channel has the following Ops:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| wgrant
| WilliamGrant
|-
| Phlosten
| AndrewSwinn
|-
| elky
| MelissaDraper
|-
| yama
| SridharDhanapalan
|-
| head_victim
| JaredNorris
|}

If there are no ops around you can try #ubuntu-ops.

