{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-au/192/detail/|September Team Meeting]]</nowiki> - This meeting was on the 11th of September 2011 and attended by 8 team members
* The team was updated on release parties happening throughout the country. <nowiki>[[JaredNorris]]</nowiki> (head_victim on IRC) emailed the list about the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2011-September/007408.html|Brisbane release party]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[jpickett]]</nowiki> (sagaci on IRC) emailed the mailing list about the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2011-September/007425.html|Sydney release party]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[jpickett]]</nowiki> (sagaci on IRC) updated the team on en-Au translations for Oneiric and called for anyone interested in helping out after the documentation freeze. <nowiki>[[jpickett]]</nowiki> (sagaci on IRC) also let everyone know that the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-au/1132/detail/|en-AU Translation Jam]]</nowiki> on Saturday 3rd September went well. At least 3000 strings were translated!
* Discussion continued on providing truly localized CD images to Australian Ubuntu users. A <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-cd-localization|Launchpad blueprint]]</nowiki> has been created to facilitate this. It will be "real and in full flight by 12.04 LTS". A wiki page is to be set up with customisation thoughts for the local version.
* The team is hoping we're approaching the final iteration of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/MissionStatement|the Ubuntu-Au Mission Statement]]</nowiki> soon. 
* <nowiki>[[JaredNorris]]</nowiki> (head_victim on IRC) is to set up an Ubuntu-Au Youtube account for sharing videos useful to other Ubuntu users.  
* <nowiki>[[JaredNorris]]</nowiki> (head_victim on IRC) updated the mailing list on <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2011-September/007407.html|the next Ubuntu User Days]]</nowiki>.
* Last but most certainly not least: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2011-September/007450.html|The Australian Ubuntu LoCo Team has gained re-approval!]]</nowiki> It's been great to see people putting in the effort and as just rewards we're <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2011-September/007451.html|an official LoCo again]]</nowiki>!
