{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Please NOTE ==

This page was originally located at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/LCA2011Brisbane|this wiki page]]</nowiki> but has been copied here so that page can now contain details on how it all went.

== Planning for some Ubuntu-AU activity around the time of the LCA 2011 in Brisbane ==

http://lca2011.linux.org.au/

=== Open Day ===

'''A report of the Open Day: <nowiki>[[attachment:lca2011opendayreport.pdf]]</nowiki>'''

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|I was thinking]]</nowiki> if we had enough people interested in helping out we should hold a stall at the open day being held on Saturday 29th January 2011. It would be good to get a presence there as the leading Linux conference in Australia.

The details of the Open Day - taken from <nowiki>[[https://conf.linux.org.au/programme/open_day|the LCA 2011 website]]</nowiki> are:
* When - 29th January 2011 from 1000 until 1600
* Where - The Edge, State Library Queensland, South Brisbane - <nowiki>[[http://theedge.slq.qld.gov.au/home|The Edge Website]]</nowiki>.

This event has now been registered as a loco event. For details and registration please see  http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/587/detail/ which will take you to a place to registered attendance at the day. Please read below for details on helping out on the day in a volunteer capacity.

==== Volunteers ====

I have set up the following table to co-ordinate our efforts on the day. By adding yourself to the table you are committing to attend at the specified time and be available to either assist setting up, helping at the table or packing up. I thought if we can aim for at least 2 people per time frame with a backup (someone already attending the open day anyway but willing to help out an hour or so if someone is sick or doesn't show) that would be great. Feel free to add yourself to more than one time frame but make sure you leave yourself enough time to check out the other stalls!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Time
| Volunteer 1
| Volunteer 2
| Backup
| Extras
|-
| 0900 - 1000 (Set Up)
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Carybielenberg|Cary Bielenberg]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgePatterson| George Patterson]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.comKateStewart| Kate Stewart]]</nowiki>
|-
| 1000 - 1100
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JoshMcFarlane|Josh McFarlane]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.comKateStewart| Kate Stewart]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| 1100 - 1200
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.comKateStewart| Kate Stewart]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| 1200 - 1300
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 1300 - 1400
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 1400 - 1500
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 1500 - 1600
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 1600 - 1700 (Pack Up)
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Carybielenberg|Cary Bielenberg]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|}
We will also need to provide some hardware to show off Ubuntu to interest people. I have created a list below as what I see as "ideal" but will depend on space available in the booth and availability of the items to be volunteered for the day. If you can please add yourself to the following table if you are able to contribute towards this list. All items volunteered will be treated with the utmost respect and should be able to be either picked up or dropped off in time for the start of the open day and will be ready to be returned at the conclusion of the day.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Item
| Description
| Volunteer
| Backup
|-
| Laptop
| Newer laptop, able to show off eye candy
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Carybielenberg|Cary Bielenberg]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Netbook
| Able to show off Unity
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Carybielenberg|Cary Bielenberg]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Posters
| Selection of posters available from http://spreadubuntu.org/ to adorn stand with
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris| Jared Norris]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Camera
| Still camera to document the day with.
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Video Camera
| Video camera to document the day with.
| 
| 
|-
| Ubuntu-AU Business Cards
| Easy to hand out to people on the stand
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| Other
| Please suggest! CB has video projector
| 
| 
|}

==== To Do List ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Item'''
| '''Status'''
|-
| Book Table
| Completed!
|-
| Order <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAtConferences/|Conference Pack B]]</nowiki>
| Completed and Arrived!
|-
| Order CDs from ShipIt
| In Progress - ordered but still awaiting approval and then delivery - a request is pending for 500 CDs to be delivered to hand out. It's possible these will just be included in swag bags so we don't need to be handing them out on the stand so we can concentrate on engaging people.
|-
| Ensure day is booked for volunteers
| In Progress - please continue to add yourself in at a time that best suits you!
|-
| Organise stand adornments
| Completed! - Posters printed, business card holders, clipboards and volunteer ID tags all organised and ready (anything I've missed?)
|-
| Ensure enough hands on equipment organised
| In Progress - some items have been offered
|-
| Get as many people to sign up to <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/587/detail/|LoCo Team Event]]</nowiki> as possible
| In progress - please sign up to say if you're coming or not!
|}

=== Social Event ===

I'm not sure but I get the feeling there would be a few of the Ubuntu-AU members heading to the conference for other reasons so I was thinking it would be a good idea to organise some sort of social event as it's not common that we're all together in one place.

Obviously date and location to be set.

 - i'd like to have dinner on the Saturday or Sunday before the conference or after the open day. go to a nice restaurant and chat. (daniel)
  - I'd like to do likewise but it would need to be Sunday before the conference (accomodation options didn't allow for getting into Brissy untill the Sunday before. (GeorgePatterson) The Sunday after the conference is Launch day for the rocket miniconf. LCA is pretty much booked solid. The other alternative could be the evening of the Speakers dinner. Sunday brunch could be a good solution.

* Taking into consideration Daniel's and George's suggestions I think Monday dinner sounds good as the organisers are making noise that the registration will be mid afternoon and there will be an intro for people new to LCA following that, maybe even into the evening. I would propose <nowiki>[[http://www.pancakemanor.com.au/|the Pancake Manor]]</nowiki> as somewhere relatively close, relaxed and doesn't have lots of drinking (although it is still licensed) - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>

=== Brainstorm ===

Any other questions, comments, queries, ideas?

Add them here so we have a central planning location!

=== Interested Members ===

Just a place to register your attendance at the LCA2011 or any interest in the Open Day, Social Event or some other yet to be determined event.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Attending LCA2011?
| Interest in Open Day
| Interest in Social Event
| Other Events
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JaredNorris|Jared Norris]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes, please suggest
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/darkrose0510|Lisa Milne]]</nowiki>
| ?
| ?
| ?
| ?
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JoshMcFarlane|Josh McFarlane]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[PaulGear|Paul Gear]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jpickett|Joel Pickett]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
| Possibly
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Adrian-deBruyn|Adrian de Bruyn]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[dns.id.au|Daniel Sobey]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Carybielenberg|Cary Bielenberg]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GeorgePatterson|George Patterson]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Maybe
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://omgubuntu.co.uk/author/humphreybc|Benjamin Humphrey]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Possibly
| Yes
| 
|}

