{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


A discussion of this plan can be found on the UbuntuForums at: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=566617

Also, anyone wanting to add any comments or suggestions about this plan feel free to do so, either on this wiki page or the forum thread mentioned above. - Jared

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/automatix-ubuntu-team-collaboration
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Basically the title says it all, improve the collaboration efforts between the Automatix Team, Ubuntu Developers and the community.

=== Release Note ===
This plan will improve a user's "Ubuntu Experience" by simplifying the installation of popular packages not included in a default Ubuntu install.  The Automatix Team, Ubuntu Developers, and members of the community will come together and decide on one or two ways to install certain things, while providing the stability, ease of use, and support users of Ubuntu expect.

=== Rationale ===

To improve the Ubuntu distribution, the Automatix application, and the overall "Ubuntu Experience".

=== Use Cases ===

A person wants something added to Ubuntu and Ubuntu doesn't add it for various reasons like instability, legality, unimportance compared to other features, etc.  This is where Automatix can be used to add the functionality to Ubuntu so the user gets the feature they want.

One example would be commercial DVD playback.  Ubuntu cannot place this package(libdvdcss2) in their repositories for legal reasons.  Everyone would come together and agree on a way for Ubuntu users to install and use this package. This would require having members of the community building the package, testing the package, hosting the package where its legal to host it, and providing an easy way for users to install it.

Someone wants to install some proprietary software, (Acrobat Reader, Skype, Google Earth, etc.) and finds out its not in the Ubuntu repos because of it license. This could be solved one of two ways. One would be to have members of the community build packages for these applications and put them in a community repo (Medibuntu) that isn't hosted by Canonical/Ubuntu.  The other would be to place these applications in the Ubuntu commercial repo, now called partner.

=== Implementation ===

Work with the Ubuntu Team members in getting new features into Ubuntu and to improve current features.  Also, working with them and members of the community to cover what can't be added to Ubuntu.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Reasons why it's popular:
* New versions of packages not available in a released distro
* People are too lazy to figure out how to do things "properly"
* Packages in universe but difficult to install for e.g. media codecs
* Packages that can't be legally included in the distro
** Legally disallowed (e.g. encryption)
** Proprietary applications (e.g. codecs, games)
** unavailability
** legality
** disinterest

Within the existing multiverse packages, we need to add all

There is a question if libdvdcss2 is actually legal in US due to DCMA provision for compatibility.  This might not be true in EU as it doesn't ahve a clause like this.  We should get the Software Freedom Law Center to look into this.

Free, open source stuff that should be done within Ubuntu:
* IcedTea

Question: How popular is each package?

Based on:

* http://www.getautomatix.com/wiki/index.php?title=Software_and_Tweaks
* Shift anything illegal over to medibuntu

=== Automatix2 on (K/X)Ubuntu 7.10 amd64 (Gutsy) ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Application'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| Ubuntu Restricted Extras and Codecs 64bit (Includes Sun Java JRE 6)
| ubuntu-restricted-extras
| 
|-
| iLinux 64bit
| 
| "iLife" like: Banshee + daap plugin, fspot, (HFS+ stuff needed for HFS+ formatted iPods)
|-
| Acrobat Reader 32-bit
| 
| partner (got dropped because of licensing?)
|-
| Swiftweasel Browser 32bit
| 
| omg-optimised version of iceweasel (firefox/swiftfox); work out optimisation settings and apply
|-
| Swiftweasel Plugins 32bit (Adobe Flash 9, Sun Java 6, MPlayer, MS Fonts)
| 
| 
|-
| Swiftdove 64bit
| 
| omg-optimised version of Thunderbird
|-
| Extra Fonts (including MS Fonts, Liberation Fonts) 64bit
| in universe
| 
|-
| Compression 64bit
| 
| unace unrar p7zip p7zipfull arj unzoo (rar is multiverse, rest is universe)
|-
| Skype 32bit
| 
| could be in partner, or a pseudopackage like flashplugin
|-
| Google Earth 32bit
| 
| partner target
|-
| dvdrip 64bit
| in multiverse
| 
|-
| Firefox MPlayer Plugin 64bit
| in multiverse
| in automatix this is a metapackage already in repo that conflicts with totem-mozilla.  Our totem-mozilla should conflict with `mplayer-plugin`
|-
| Firefox IcedTea Plugin 64bit
| 
| poss. in main for hardy
|-
| Firefox Flash Plugin 32/64bit (using nspluginwrapper)
| in multiverse
| 
|-
| Totem Xine 64bit
| in Add/Remove
| in gnome app installer
|-
| Google Picasa 32bit
| 
| partner repo
|-
| Wine 32bit
| 
| same as adding wine repo
|-
| w64dvdcodecs 64bit
| 
| illegal, but provided by medibuntu (could be replaced with a ThirdPartyApt file
|-
| nautilus scripts 64bit
| 
| right-click nautilus extensions (MOTU it)---right click edit-as-root (Policy Kit will solve)
|-
| Sun Java 6 JRE/JDK 64bit
| 
| replaced by iceatea (free Java replacement)
|-
| FrostWire 64bit (will be added after first update)
| 
| motu target (nutella client)
|-
| Openoffice Clipart 64bit
| in add/remove
| four packages,
|-
| xdvdshrink 64bit
| 
| could be in multiverse
|-
| checkgmail 64bit
| in universe
| 
|-
| Songbird 64bit
| 
| multiverse - motu target
|-
| Crossover Office Standard 6.1.0 32bit
| 
| 30day demo + key unlock; partner repo
|-
| Crossover Office Professional 6.1.0 32bit
| 
| 30day demo + key unlock; partner repo
|-
| Devessentials 64bit
| 
| apt-get install build-essentials devscripts dh-buildinfo dpkg-dev alien ubuntu-dev-tools (meta package target)
|-
| VMware Server 32bit (will be added once package is in the gutsy partner repo)
| 
| partner (needs forward porting)
|-
| Virtualbox 32bit (Open Source Edition)
| in universe
| (-ose) == open-source-edition
|-
| Virtualbox 32bit (Full version)
| 
| partner target
|-
| Microsoft Office Open XML Converter 64bit
| 
| will not be in hardy, should be in universe, license is BSD 4-cause "Clever Age"
|}

=== Comments ===
* I think that by now, we should only add automatix2 in multiverse. - MarceloAtie
* This spec should also cover collaboration with <nowiki>[[http://www.medibuntu.org|Medibuntu]]</nowiki>, since they have similar goals. -- AzraelNightwalker  * Maybe Canonical could consider creating an official non-US repo, just like Debian? (a repo for mp3 codecs, libdvdcss and other stuff that is illegal in the United States but not in other countries) -- AzraelNightwalker ----
CategorySpec
