{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


These tests are to test the functionality of the anjuta package.  Please try to run all of the following tests.

Report any bugs you find at http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/atfa/+filebug

=== Tests ===
===== Creating new file =====
# First choose File->New from the menubar
# A new page will appear in the editor (or a new window if the parent document is windowed)
# This new document will be named newfile#1, newfile#2, newfile#3 and so on.

===== File wizard =====
# First create a new file, choose File->New->File from the menubar
# This will open the New File Wizard dialog.
# Select the file type
# The suffix will be automatically added.
# add a license information
# Click OK to validate the creation.

===== Inserting macros =====
# Activate Macro plugin
# move the cursor at the desired place
# Select Edit->Macros->Macros
# Verify that the dialog window appears.
# Select the wanted macro in the list.
# Verify that the result of the macro expansion is displayed in the window and a summary is shown in the dialog window
# Choose Insert
# Verify that the expanded macro text is inserted at the cursor position.

===== Opening and saving files =====

===== Editor margins =====
===== Editor guides =====
===== Syntax highlighting =====

CategoryAppTesting CategoryAppTesting
