{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* ''''' Created by: Turgon2'''''

=== Summary ===

A plug-in for Rhythmbox that makes you able to drag and drop music and playlists to a mounted device (mp3 player, phone, etc) and automatically convert the format to one supported by the device.

=== Rationale ===

MP3-players and music phone use is increasing, but most do not support commonly used open music formats like Flac and Ogg. It should be easy to convert these formats into something playable on the music device. Existing solutions are working, but are time consuming, makes duplicates of the songs (which is not desired) and are quite hard to use. These often makes people choose restricted formats like mp3 for their music library.

There should be an auto-converting plugin in Rhythmbox that converts your music on the fly when you drag and drop your music. Such tool could really contribute to the widespread of open formats too.

=== User cases ===

Bryan has ripped his music collection into Flac because of the openness and the superior quality over mp3, but he still wants to sync his music to his iPod. He plugs in his iPod, and it automatically mounts in Rhythmbox. Then, he just drag and drops songs in Flac formats which on the fly converts to AAC, which Rhythmbox know is the best format that iPod supports.

Hellen has just bought a new Sony Ericsson w850i which supports music. She got a mixed library with Flac, WMA, OGG and mp3. She drag and drops songs randomly. Rhythmbox detects that she uses a w850i that supports mp3s, AAC and WMA and automatically converts the OGG and Flac to AAC (which is the format that the device supports), but copies the mp3s and the WMA as they are, since the phone supports them.

=== Implementation ===

This could be implemented as a plug-in for Rhythmbox and other music players. It could work together with a future synchronization tool that tells it what formats the device supports so it doesn't convert songs thats already supported.

=== Discussion ===

This could have negative effects as sound quality is lost with converting one format to another.
