{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Automated package install/remove/upgrade testing ==

There are currently two system for automatic package testing:
* automatic package testing
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AutomatedTestingDeployment
* automatic upgrade testing
   http://people.ubuntu.com/~mvo/automatic-upgrade-testing/

Those have different goals, the package tester runs package
self-tests and the upgrader tester checks if a upgrade from one given
version and one given set of packages will success or not.

=== Automatic upgrade testing ===

The current automatic upgrade testing system works well but is limited
because it does only run in a chroot and diverts some important
scripts (like invoke-rc.d). This limitation should be fixed by using a
xen or qemu setup to test the upgrade.

Additionally it should do a mass install/upgrade test: install as many
package together as possible and make sure that each package is
installed at least once (this requires more than a single
install/upgrade run for this test).

=== Automated package testing ===

In addition to the current features of automatic package test it
should perform a test like piuparts: check if the package installs
cleanly, does it use prompting in a maintainer script, does it
remove/purge cleanly.

=== Releated work ===

Debian summer of code:
"Automated Upgrade Testing Using QEMU"

The conflicts checker
http://people.ubuntu.com/~robertc/possible-conflicts/
