{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:automatedtesting
* '''Packages affected''': None

=== Summary ===

This should provide an overview of the issue/functionality/change proposed here. Focus here on what will actually be DONE, summarising that so that other people don't have to read the whole spec.

<nowiki>[[http://www.faumachine.org|FAUmachine]]</nowiki> is a virtual machine for i386 and amd64, with a framework which allows elaborate automatic tests (e.g. installer tests) to be conducted. It can be used to conduct many of the test-cases listed on <nowiki>[[Testing]]</nowiki> with a minimal administrative overhead.

=== Release Note ===

Having widespread testing ready will reduce the chances of regressions.

=== Rationale ===

Checking for regressions during the development cycle by hand is a burdensome task. Hence performing these tasks automatically seems a plausible goal.

=== Use Cases ===

Release manager Andrea wants to know which regressions have been introduced during the development cycle of Ubuntu. Thus, she looks up the web-page containing the results of the most recent automated test run, which shows that 9 of 10 tests have succeeded. She looks at the failed and sees a screenshot of what went wrong.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

** The test cases listed at <nowiki>[[Testing]]</nowiki> need to be analyzed if these can be automated.
** Experiment scripts for the applicable test-cases need to be written in the first place.
** Some framework needs to be written to present the results of different test runs.
** Ideally, these tests are run regularly, picking up the latest alpha/beta/daily images from the development version.
** Over time, some test cases need to be modified (e.g. adapted to UI changes of the installer), but this should be a fairly easy task (merely replacing a screenshot or a string in the test-script).

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
