{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for avalon-framework ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/avalon-framework]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build-time dependency of libproxool-java, needed for eucalyptus 1.6.2
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=avalon|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=avalon|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons.
** No network activity, no direct binary processing.
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package is a Java library, works out of the box without configuration.
** No debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:avalon-framework|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/avalon-framework.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://excalibur.apache.org/framework/index.html|Upstream]]</nowiki> is very calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/AVALON|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No bugs.
** Hardware: This package doesn't deal with hardware, runs inside a JVM.
** There is a test suite in the upstream source, and it is enabled in debian packaging.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Package follows <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, and Java Debian and Ubuntu policies.
** Package is using classic CDBS/ant packaging, as most Java libraries.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All dependencies are in main already.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** Little maintenance is expected: this package has no bugs filed and is maintained by the debian-java team.
** The debian-java team, including its few Ubuntu members, is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs.
 0. ''Background information:''
** Package purpose is clear from its description.
** Upstream still calls this software "Avalon Framework", though it's now part of the "Apache Excalibur" project.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/497390]]</nowiki>
