{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

AVCHD (Advanced Video Codec High Definition)

This format is used for several HD. The Sony SR10, SR11, SR12. Canon HG10.

The Sony cameras ship with Sony Vegas Pro 8.0a, but it runs under Windows.

=== See also ===
* <nowiki>[[AVCHD_Tested|Blueprint for stable and tested AVCHD support in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* According to <nowiki>[[http://forum.videolan.org/viewtopic.php?f=12&t=40821#p153170|this posting]]</nowiki>, the nightly build version 0.9.0-test2 of VLC will "decodes those files without too many issues".
* According to <nowiki>[[http://www.chembal.com/avchd.shtml|this page]]</nowiki>, FFDShow will also play/decode the files.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.fsckin.com/2008/01/03/transcoding-mtsm2ts-avchd-video-files-with-free-software/|Transcoding MTS/M2TS AVCHD Video Files with Free Software]]</nowiki> Good tutorial.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=529871|Forum Discussion]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5117638&postcount=11|Forum Reference to a Wine based solution using ConvertxDVD]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wesleybailey.com/blog/2008/01/20/m2tstoavi-avchd/|Another Tutorial]]</nowiki> (This includes installing software in a non-Ubuntu fashion)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.olmosconsulting.com/m2ts.tar.gz|m2tstoavi script]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.avsforum.com/avs-vb/printthread.php?t=789775|AVS forum discussion]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://becomingaccie.blogspot.com/2007/12/edit-avchd-files-from-canon-hg10.html|Blog about Canon HG10]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AVCHD|Wikipedia Article]]</nowiki>
* According to above Wikipedia article, <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/ffdshow-tryout/|ffdshow tryouts]]</nowiki> is an Open Source player
* I've written some <nowiki>[[http://blog.chown.org.uk/2012/08/12/handling-avchd-video-on-linux/|up to date instructions]]</nowiki> for converting AVCHD to MP4.  It's much simpler on modern systems (Ubuntu Precise in my case).
