{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for axis2c ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/axis2c]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of eucalyputus.
** Build dependency of rampart.
** Apart of the EucalyptusInMainSpec spec.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=axis2c|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=axis2c|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Uses the axis2_http_server daemon.
** Opens port 9090. It accepts both incoming and outgoing network traffic.
** It does not  directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?
** No source code review.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The situation where it does not work out of the box if apache is not setup properly.
** No debconf questions asked.
** Not apart of debian.
** <nowiki>[[http://ws.apache.org/axis2/c/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm. 
** <nowiki>[[http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/AXIS2C|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** No special hardware needed.
** There is a testsuite in axis2c in the upstream source but its not enabled in the building of the package.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses cdbs with simple-patch system
0. ''Dependencies:''
** cdbs - in main
** debhelper - in main
** autotools-dev - in main
** libxml2-dev - in main
** libapr1-dev - in main 
** apache2.2-common - in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
** The Ubuntu server team will be the bug contact for the package.  It does not look like a complicated package to maintain.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/418225]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
