{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== azure-proxy-agent Updates ==

This document describes the process to update and test new versions of the azure-proxy-agent package in SRUs.

The azure-proxy-agent package is an Ubuntu distribution of the upstream Microsoft Guest Proxy Agent that secures access to the <nowiki>[[https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/instance-metadata-service?tabs=linux|Instance MetaData Service (IMDS)]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/what-is-ip-address-168-63-129-16?tabs=linux|Wireserver]]</nowiki> service. For a detailed list of functionality this package provides to Ubuntu cloud images, refer to the upstream project page at Git``Hub: https://github.com/Azure/GuestProxyAgent

Cloud platforms evolve at a rate that can't be handled in six-month increments, and they will often develop features that they would like to be available to customers who don't want to upgrade from earlier Ubuntu releases. As such, updating azure-proxy-agent to more recent upstream releases is required within all Ubuntu releases, so they continue to function properly in their environment.

New versions of azure-proxy-agent can be SRUed into older releases provided the following process is followed.

=== QA Process ===

When a new version of azure-proxy-agent is uploaded to -proposed, the following will be done:

* the CPC team will write new automated tests to cover new testable functionality (if any) in the new package
* the automated testing that the CPC team normally runs against Azure images before they are published will be run against the -proposed package
* the Microsoft team maintaining the Guest``Proxy``Agent will be asked to validate
** that the new package addresses the issues it is expected to address, and
** that the new package passes their internal image validation

In addition, the CPC team does the following testing
* The new package candidate version is built in devel-proposed and tested on the target suite. This will involve one or both of:
** Installing the devel-proposed packages on an Azure VM, manually restoring the VM to a first boot state and rebooting it,
** Generating a fresh image with the devel-proposed package version preinstalled and testing that directly
* Once the manual packaging tests pass successfully and the package requires no further changes, it will be marked as such on the tracking bug. On the development release, this is done by removing the '''block-proposed''' tag.

'''''If appropriate due to the nature of the changes (embargo on publication), the steps above may be done in a private PPA prior to landing in devel-proposed.'''''

The following additional steps also apply for the SRUs to supported releases once the packages have been accepted into the development release (if applicable):
* Once accepted in to -proposed, a test image is built from -proposed, which is subjected to the full CPC image tests; this tests for more regressions across multiple Azure instance sizes.

==== Pre-SRU Test Cases ====

These are the test cases that all azure-proxy-agent are subjected to before even getting to SRU:

<pre>
1.) Launch instance on Azure
2.) Upgrade azure-proxy-agent (usually from PPA)
3.) Confirm that "azure-proxy-agent" is running, check journalctl for errors
4.) Call the IMDS/Wireserver endpoint with an authorized user and verify that the request is intercepted by the agent (journalctl) but allowed
5.) Call the IMDS/Wireserver endpoint with an unauthorized user and verify that the request is blocked by the agent
</pre>

==== SRU Test Cases ====

The following will be executed for representative combinations of supported architectures, image types and machine sizes:

<pre>
1.) Build new cloud image with -proposed package
2.) Boot machine from image
3.) Run all CPC image tests against machine
</pre>

=== Releasing the SRU ===
Since the only consumer of the azure-proxy-agent is the Azure cloud, the SRU may be released without meeting the aging period of 7 days provided all the above steps have been completed.

=== SRU Template ===
<pre>
=== Begin SRU Template ===
[Impact]
This release contains both bug-fixes and new features and we would like to
make sure all of our supported customers have access to these improvements.
The notable ones are:

** <TODO: list any LP: # included>

See the changelog entry below for a full list of changes and bugs.

[Test Case]
The following development and SRU process was followed:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/azure-proxy-agent-Updates

The Microsoft team will execute their testsuite, which
includes extension testing against the azure-proxy-agent that is in
-proposed. A successful run will be required before the proposed azure-proxy-agent
can be let into -updates.

The CPC team will be in charge of attaching a summary of testing to the bug.  CPC team members will not
mark ‘verification-done’ until this has happened.

=== End SRU Template ===

<TODO: Paste in change log entry>
</pre>
