{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

==== Summary ====
I am Bishwa. I am a C/C++ guy. My area of interests is in parallel systems and distributed computing. I am mostly interested in high performance computational stuffs. I am an experienced CUDA developer. I have been a linux user for couple of years. But I always ran it as dual boot. But since last year, I started using linux (ubuntu) exclusively. I tried lots of distributions (from mandrake to Linux mint). But Ubuntu is awesome. Now I am thinking that, ya, it's the time to do something in open-source. I will not hesitate to say that, I am a newbie here in this community. I would like to start from the scratch (from very basic stuffs) and it will be great if some one can guide me from where to start. I am interested on the development focus groups.

==== Basic Facts ====

Location: Stuttgart, Germany

==== Contact ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Lanuchpad Account
| https://launchpad.net/~bishwajit
|-
| OpenPGP key
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xE9CC476E2E0BADDFFDD011180DC1D526AD69F93D&op=index]]</nowiki>
|}

=== My Contributions ===

Still not yet. Hope, could make some difference,

==== My Plans ====

Goals which I hope to pursue soon.
  
** Learn about Ubuntu architecture, the development process, package management.
** Try to find some active projects
** Be an active member of Ubuntu BeginnersTeam very soon.
