{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Black Eco / Axel Leroy ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''launchpad id''' : <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~blackeco]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''blog''' : <nowiki>[[http://www.axel-leroy.com/]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''email''' : blackeco --at-- ubuntu-fr.org
|-
| '''jabber''' : blackeco --at-- jabber.ubuntu-fr.org
|-
| '''irc''' : BlackEco on Freenode
|-
| '''Twitter''' : @BlackEco
|-
| '''Google+''' : <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/+AxelLeroyBlackEco/posts|+AxelLeroyBlackEco]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''wiki ubuntu-fr''' : BlackEco
|-
| '''forum ubuntu-fr''' : BlackEco
|}

== about me ==
I'm 20 and I live near Versailles (France).

I study programming and project management and I started using GNU/Linux with Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jacktalope.

While I was looking to learn how to use GNU/Linux, one website advised to use Ubuntu, because it was very user-friendly. When I encountered my first problems with Ubuntu, I searched for help and discovered the ubuntu-fr community.

Since then, I joined the community and I actually co-organize multiple events in France (mostly in the Paris area) such as the Ubuntu Party of Paris. I also give lectures, demonstrate and teach classes during these Ubuntu Party.

== ubuntu involvment ==
In association with other members, I promote Ubuntu in France ( <nowiki>[[http://www.solutionslinux.fr/|Solution Linux]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Braderie_de_Lille |Braderie de Lille]]</nowiki> and of course <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-party.org|Ubuntu-Party]]</nowiki>)

I also contribute to the ubuntu-fr wiki : <nowiki>[[https://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/utilisateurs/BlackEco]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~blackeco/+participation|Launchpad team participation]]</nowiki>

== ubuntu-party ==

* I animate a conference on Ubuntu for Phones and Tablets at the Ubuntu Party of Paris.
* I animate demonstrations about Ubuntu for Phones and Tablets and Ubuntu GNOME.
* I welcome visitors, explain them what Ubuntu and Free Software is and help them using demonstration PCs running Ubuntu.

==== Testimonials ====
If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here :

* Blackeco est devenu un des piliers des événements grand public de Ubuntu-fr. C'est notamment notre référant pour les démonstrations d'Ubuntu pour téléphones et tablettes et Ubuntu GNOME. C'est en partie grâce à lui que les Ubuntu Party parisienne gardent ce rythme bi-annuel :) Blackeco mérite le statut de membre officiel d'Ubuntu. <nowiki>[[~olive]]</nowiki>

* blackeco participe très activement dans l'association ubuntu-fr, il est un des piliers de ces dernières ubuntu party <nowiki>[[~karum]]</nowiki>
