{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Issues with opening archives ==
The goal of this page is to identify current issues with how an archive is opened and to confront currently proposed solutions to each of these issues, in order to determine how well they are addressed.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background: #eee; color: #000; margin: 0 2em 1em;" style="padding: 0.5em 1em;"> Let's user test this. My intuition is that users expect double-clicking a file to "open" it, and "open" means extract for most users when they open an archive. The idea of opening an archive as viewing its contents without extracting is very technical.<<BR>><<BR>>— David Siegel, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/389176/comments/6|see comment]]</nowiki>
|}
=== Use cases for archives ===
''You are welcome to add more valid use cases, try to avoid duplicates.''

May opens an attached archive in Gmail from within Firefox.

Jorge opens an attached archive in Evolution.

Harry has downloaded an icon pack.

Pat opens a file from an archive and wants to save changes he's made.

Merry opens a photo from an archive and wants to move to the next photo or play a slideshow.

=== Identified Issues ===
''You are welcome to add more valid issues, try to avoid duplicates. Don't modify or remove someone else's issue without discussion. Please explain why they are issues, and what are the negative consequences they have.''

These issues stem from a bug report at <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/hundredpapercuts/+bug/389176]]</nowiki>. Rather than saying "users want to extract files more often than not", I have tried to identify some issues resulting from not extracting by default.

==== 1. Dealing with files in the Archive Manager is significantly different from using the File Browser on normal files ====

Browsing an archive includes similar elements to nautilus, such as a location bar and navigation buttons, but does not have the same layout or 'Places' sidebar, and uses list view rather than icons.

To a user just trying to open a file, the toolbars and buttons of Archive Manager may feel unfamiliar and behave unexpectedly.

==== 2. Open a photo in an archive and you cannot move to the next photo ====
Merry opens a photo from an archive with Photo Viewer and wants to move to the next photo or play a slideshow but the buttons are grey.

==== 3. Making changes to a file opened from an archive is troublesome ====
Changes will be saved to the unlikely /tmp folder. If, while a program is still opening, the Archive Manager is closed, the user will get an error saying the file could not be opened.

The user expects changes made to be kept but the best he can hope for is to notice a new Archive Manager dialog, somewhere among his other windows, asking him whether to update the file "foo-bar.xcf" in archive "some-pictures-of-foo-1.tar.gz".

==== 4. Thumbnails are not shown ====
It can be hard to find the photo you are looking for.

=== Template For Ideas ===
==== Idea name ====
===== Rationale =====
This is primarily designed to solve issue #X and #Y.

===== Description =====
Describe the idea in a few short paragraphs, almost '''exhaustively''' , ie. I should make sure that what I propose can be interpreted only one way, so that if people like my idea but think it is perfectible, they can edit it and make it better, without leaving too much room for differences of interpretation that would provoke the need for a rewrite and reevaluation during the implementation if my idea.

===== Consequences for issue #X =====
Describing the expected result for the issue you are trying to address. It should be done for all the aimed issues, and also the issues for which you suspect there will be negative consequences. I shall not do it at all for issues which are not concerned and upon which my idea visibly has no consequences at all. I can give an explicit rating between -5 and +5 (that's all about feelings though).

===== Conclusion =====
Here try to explain why you think the downsides are worth the upsides, and propose ideas that may be able to make the user experience even better if used with this one.

''Sidenote : one may disagree with another, but in order to keep things constructive, i think one should comment the idea directly but keep the original description. One comment per person sounds fair, and people can then edit their own comments for each idea. Also, don't hesitate to give a mark to other ideas so that we can see which ideas have a consensus and which need debate. Thanks for reading till here ! (Template is very probably perfectible)''

=== Ideas ===
''If you think you have an idea that could address one of the above issues, please describe it and evaluate it's influence on '''all''' the listed issues. You can use the template for adding your own proposals .''
