{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, أحمد المحمودي (Ahmed El-Mahmoudy), apply for upload rights for sl-modem package.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| أحمد المحمودي (Ahmed El-Mahmoudy)
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~aelmahmoudy
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[أحمد المحمودي]]</nowiki>
|}
== Who I am ==
I am a digital design engineer.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===
I've been using Linux since 1999, started with Redhat 5.1. Then I tried Debian (I think it was 2.1) in 2000, I was really fascinated with Debian, but then it was too hard for me to use (I recall the setup took me hours). Then I moved on to Mandriva (it was called Mandrake before). My first experience with Ubuntu was in 2006 using Breezy. I really like the fact that it's based on Debian with its very rich repository, and yet it is easy to use. I was fascinated that my wifi just worked ! This encouraged me to participate in Ubuntu (& Debian) to make them even better !

In July 2009, I got accepted as a Ubuntu Contributing Developer, then I became MOTU since May 2010. Also I got accepted as a Debian Maintainer on March 2010.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Migrating patch system for <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/non-free/s/sl-modem/current/changelog#versionversion2.9.11_20080817-1|sl-modem]]</nowiki> to quilt, the hard part was splitting the different patches, which made me track the <nowiki>[[http://snapshot.debian.net/package/sl-modem|history of sl-modem]]</nowiki>.
* Added <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/non-free/s/sl-modem/current/changelog#versionversion2.9.11~20100303-4|apport]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/non-free/s/sl-modem/current/changelog#versionversion2.9.11~20100303-5|reportbug]]</nowiki> scripts for sl-modem

=== Areas of work ===

I generally focus my contributions on package maintenance, as well as the introduction of new packages. I attempt to fix bugs that affect me, as well as bugs of the packages I maintain. A list of packages I have introduced and/or currently maintaining in Debian and Ubuntu can be found in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aelmahmoudy/+related-software|Launchpad]]</nowiki> and Debian QA <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=aelmahmoudy%40users.sourceforge.net|(old email)]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=aelmahmoudy%40sabily.org|(new email)]]</nowiki>.

I also work on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/sabily-project|Sabily]]</nowiki> which is a derivative distribution from Ubuntu.

In Debian, I am mostly active in the <nowiki>[[https://alioth.debian.org/projects/pkg-electronics/|Debian Electronics]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://alioth.debian.org/projects/debian-islamic/|Debian Islamic Maintainers]]</nowiki> teams.

I have been maintaining sl-modem on Debian since October 2008, then sync'ing back to Ubuntu (sometimes merging, but later, with the help of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~r0lf|Rolf Leggewie]]</nowiki>, we were able to settle some issue about creating static device nodes with Ubuntu)

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Emmet Hikory ===
    I've not sponsored so many of AnAnt's packages recently, but I strongly believe that one of the goals of Archive Reorganisation was to address just the case of AnAnt's work with sl-modem.  I first remember AnAnt working on sl-modem during the intrepid cycle, and I helped to get what was then an unsupportable mess out of restricted and into multiverse, where a greater number of folk could help maintain it.  AnAnt was very focused on getting the package in shape, with many people sponsoring his patches, got involved with upstream, and became the Maintainer in Debian.  He integrated the packages with the dynamic module systems (module-assistant and dkms), and significantly improved the integration with all surrounding services, making the package again useful within both Ubuntu and Debian, to such a degree that during the karmic cycle it was repromoted to main.  Unfortunately, this has made it more difficult for AnAnt to directly maintain any variances that may be required between Ubuntu and Debian: granting this upload right merely allows the demonstrated maintainer of the past two years to continue to maintain the software effectively.

=== Mario Limonciello ===
  It's too bad Emmet got to respond before I did, he echos a lot of my views.  AnAnt has really stepped up and done wonders for the sl-modem package.  Whenever he has had some concerns about something he was unsure, he would reach out to the community for help, and addressed them in timely fashion.  I think it would be great for him to be able to upload this package on his own now.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
