{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, أحمد المحمودي (Ahmed El-Mahmoudy), apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| أحمد المحمودي (Ahmed El-Mahmoudy)
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~aelmahmoudy
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[أحمد المحمودي]]</nowiki>
|}
== Who I am ==
I am a digital design engineer.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===
I've been using Linux since 1999, started with Redhat 5.1. Then I tried Debian (I think it was 2.1) in 2000, I was really fascinated with Debian, but then it was too hard for me to use (I recall the setup took me hours). Then I moved on to Mandriva (it was called Mandrake before). My first experience with Ubuntu was in 2006 using Breezy. I really like the fact that it's based on Debian with its very rich repository, and yet it is easy to use. I was fascinated that my wifi just worked ! This encouraged me to participate in Ubuntu (& Debian) to make them even better !

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* I think my first contribution to Ubuntu was adding a nonkde variant of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kchmviewer/2.6-0ubuntu1|kchmviewer]]</nowiki>
* Syncing <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/swt-gtk/3.4-1|swt-gtk]]</nowiki> from Debian.
* Added DKMS support to <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/non-free/s/sl-modem/current/changelog#versionversion2.9.11_20080817-2|sl-modem]]</nowiki>.
* Migrating patch system for <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/non-free/s/sl-modem/current/changelog#versionversion2.9.11_20080817-1|sl-modem]]</nowiki> to quilt, the hard part was splitting the different patches, which made me track the <nowiki>[[http://snapshot.debian.net/package/sl-modem|history of sl-modem]]</nowiki>.
* Packaging <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/dico.html|dico]]</nowiki>, a RFC 2229 compliant modular dictionary server. This is my first python package to be accepted !

=== Areas of work ===

I generally focus my contributions on package maintenance, as well as the introduction of new packages. I attempt to fix bugs that affect me, as well as bugs of the packages I maintain. A list of packages I have introduced and/or currently maintaining in Debian and Ubuntu can be found in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aelmahmoudy/+related-software|Launchpad]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=aelmahmoudy%40users.sourceforge.net|Debian QA]]</nowiki>.

I also work on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/sabily-project|Sabily]]</nowiki> which is a derivative distribution from Ubuntu.

Recently I joined the <nowiki>[[https://alioth.debian.org/projects/debian-science/|Debian Science]]</nowiki> team, where I helped with the <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/non-free/n/ng-spice-rework/current/changelog#versionversion18-1|first release of ng-spice-rework]]</nowiki>, and host the packaging work for <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/main/t/tkgate/current/changelog#versionversion2.0_b8-1|tkgate]]</nowiki> & herb (not released yet) packages.

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
* Short term:
** Getting some new packages into Debian (& hence Ubuntu): <nowiki>[[http://mentors.debian.net/cgi-bin/sponsor-pkglist?action=details;package=noor|noor]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://mentors.debian.net/cgi-bin/sponsor-pkglist?action=details;package=thwab|thwab]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://mentors.debian.net/cgi-bin/sponsor-pkglist?action=details;package=hijra|hijra]]</nowiki>
** Pushing some updated packages into Debian (& hence Ubuntu): <nowiki>[[http://mentors.debian.net/cgi-bin/sponsor-pkglist?action=details;package=libitl|libitl]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://mentors.debian.net/cgi-bin/sponsor-pkglist?action=details;package=itools|itools]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://mentors.debian.net/cgi-bin/sponsor-pkglist?action=details;package=fribidi|fribidi]]</nowiki>
** Continue to maintain packages related to electronics.
 
* Long term:
** Better support for Hijri calendar system (see below)
** Better support for Uthmani script (script used in writing Qur'an), actually I've added a <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/sabily/+spec/uthmani-widget|blueprint]]</nowiki> about this.
** Better arabic support for the console.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
There is no support for non-solar-based calendars. There is no support for lunar-based calendars (Hijri) for example. I think that this has to be done down in glibc. I have started a <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/sabily/+spec/hijri-glibc|blueprint]]</nowiki> regarding this matter.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Mario Limonciello ===
==== General feedback ====
I've only sponsored one package, sl-modem as it used DKMS.  Ahmed did a good job implementing it, and working between Ubuntu and Debian for this package.

He was sure to fix and recommendations/problems that came up.

=== Barry deFreese ===
==== General feedback ====
I have worked with Ahmed on a few occasions.  His work always seems consistent to me and he is quick to resolve issues.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Starting with his work on tkgate we got the package updated.  Recently I have sponsored uploads for him for sl-modem in Debian.  I am also working on reviewing Sabily for him.  I have no reservations recommending him for a Universe Contributor.
=== LI Daobing ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored the dico package as a Debian Developer. the packaging is clean and the response is very quick on my comments.

=== ScottKitterman ===
==== General feedback ====
I believe (but am not entirely certain) that I have only sponsored the former UbuntuME, now called Sabily, artwork and metapckages.  We've been through more than one release cycle working on getting these updated and into the archives and he alway produced technically correct packages and was a pleasure to deal with.  I appreciate the extra effort it took to bring their work into our archive and am highly supportive of this. I am definitely in favor of him as a Universe contributor.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
In addition to the packaging experiences, he also asked me for advice on how to deal with these meta packages and artwork packages due to the requirement to rename their distribution to comply with Canonical's Trademark policy for the Ubuntu name.  We had a good discussion and he ended up following my advice.  He also recently discussed some concerns  he had with some wording in the Ubuntu  CoC.  I appreciate him coming forward and helping bring attention to an issue that may be limiting our ability to be as inclusive as Ubuntu should be.
==== Areas of Improvement ====
It'd be good to see more volume, but I don't recall any problems with  the interactions we've had.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I reviewed very few of Ahmed's packages. As far as I can tell they were good and Ahmed fixed issues quickly.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
None that could chase up. Ahmed tells me that I uploaded <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kchmviewer/2.6-0ubuntu1|this]]</nowiki> for him.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
