{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/r/rabbitmsq-server]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the canonical Application support spec. 
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=PRODUCT_NAME|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.  Daemons are started through running erlang.
** Opens up 5673. Due to the nature of rabbit-mq it handles incoming data.
** It directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The situations where rabbitmq server does not start out of the box is that it might not be configured for the users network.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:rabbitmq-server|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/S/SOURCE_PACKAGE_NAME.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.rabbitmq.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** No upstream bug tracker, it looks like bugs are reported through the 
** No special hardware is required.
** No testsuite included.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Uses cdbs but has debhelper as a build dependency.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** cdbs - in main 
** debhelper (>= 5) - in main
** erlang-dev - in main
** python-simplejson - in main
** erlang-base | erlang-base-hipe - not in main
** erlang-ssl - not in main
** erlang-os-mon  - not in main
** erlang-mnesia  - not in main
** adduser - in main
** logrotate - in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
* Since there are no ubuntu changes the package can just be synced from debian. The ubuntu server team will be responsible for the maintaing the package in Ubuntu

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/412572]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
