{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9; width:40%; background:#F0F0ED; margin: 0 0 0 0;" style="padding:0em;"> '''Name''':
| '''Rafał Cieślak'''
|-
| '''E-mail''':
| 
|-
| '''IRC''':
| cielak (''freenode.net'')
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| http://launchpad.net/~rafalcieslak256
|-
| '''AskUbuntu''':
| http://askubuntu.com/users/705/rafalcieslak
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://rafalcieslak.wordpress.com
|-
| '''Timezone''':
| CET/CEST (UTC+1/UTC+2 - <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/city.html?n=664|info]]</nowiki>)
|}

=== About Me ===
I am '''Rafał Cieślak''', a <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki> from Wrocław, Poland, formerly very active in various Ubuntu areas, mostly development and support focused.

Other relevant profiles: <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~rafalcieslak256|Launchpad profile]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/705/rafalcieslak|AskUbuntu profile]]</nowiki>.

Signed Ubuntu Code of Conduct <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rafalcieslak256/+codesofconduct|(*)]]</nowiki> and Canonical Contributors Agreement.

'''<nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki>''' since 2012-05-01.

=== Contributions ===
* Most significantly, '''I was an UbuntuAccomplishments developer'''. I did lots of programming in the core system, the daemon & viewer, as well as the official accomplishment collections, I worked on documentation, and did a lot to get new people involved in there. Having joined this project in March 2012, I became one of its most influential developers. This project is no longer active.
* Since 2010 I do my best to provide user support on AskUbuntu site, by the time of writing I have earned 10,000+ rep points.
* I have '''attended''' and actively participated in UDS-R in Copenhagen. I have also participated remotely in a number of other UDS and vUDS.
* I have written several autopkg tests for packages in Ubuntu.
* I've led an UbuntuOpenWeek (Quantal) session concerning UbuntuAccomplishments.
* I occasionally contribute fixes to various Ubuntu-specific packages.

=== Testimonials ===

- I have only really interacted with Rafał on the Ubuntu Accomplishments system but his efforts and patience have been sublime.  He is enthusiastic and very quick to help out when I have had troubles with creating / submitting branches on launchpad.  I cannot thank or praise him enough and wish him every success in anything he puts his hand to. -- <nowiki>[[Silver_Fox | s.fox]]</nowiki>

- Rafał is a great example of an Ubuntu community member. I have been mainly working with him in Ubuntu Accomplishments: Rafał has contributed extensively to the Ubuntu Accomplishments daemon and client and helped considerably as we move towards our first 0.1 release. He is a great programmer, detail-orientated, and an absolute pleasure to work with. I would very strongly recommend Rafał for membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jonobacon]]</nowiki>
