{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My name is Rafael David Tinoco and I am a member of the Canonical Technical Services Engineering team. I help fix userspace and kernel bugs filed by Ubuntu Advantage customers. I joined canonical April 2014 and I've been working on reported bugs since then. Before joining Canonical I used to work for Sun Microsystems, Red Hat and IBM and have always studied and worked with Linux deeply. Around 70% of my time I spend reviewing reported bugs and either backporting/cherry-picking fixes from upstream or creating my own (and submitting to Debian project, when needed). I'm trying to be specialized on fixing bugs related to my background skills (related to OS administration and/or IT infrastructure: like Pacemaker and Corosync which I have already fixed for Ubuntu). The rest of my time is dedicated to kernel bugs/studies and my latest contribution on that was suggesting changes to rcu locks on kernel network namespaces creation, which led to an upstream kernel fix made by Erick W. Biederman - also giving me credits for my work - and compliments from Ubuntu Kernel Team (including Tim Gardner and Chris Arges), that created one SRU for it. I have also created one wrapper around LXC containers and ZFS, called bugsbunny, which I not only use on a day-by-day bug fixing but also I'm using to explain bug-fixing to new people involved in Ubuntu fixing. Finally I'd like to say I have always used and admired Ubuntu and my intend is not to stop here, only fixing bugs, but to contribute more and more to bring stability and high-quality fixes to this wonderful Operating System. 

Much of my professional life (around Linux) can be found here: http://www.linkedin.com/in/rafaeltinoco/

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| tinoco
|-
| GTalk
| tinhocas@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| rafael.tinoco@canonical.com
|-
| Website
| https://launchpad.net/~inaddy
|}

=== Contributions ===

You can see my uploads for Ubuntu here: 
https://launchpad.net/~inaddy/+uploaded-packages

In addition please search for:
   LKML for network namespace creation performance regression.
   Kernel bisect tool I created for netns case, which can be found here:
      http://people.canonical.com/~inaddy/lp1328088/charts/250.html (for netns case).
   Debian bug system comments/submissions/discussions.

Related packages created as "hot fixes" can be found here: 
https://launchpad.net/~inaddy/+ppa-packages

Bugsbunny tool, mentioned above, can be found here: 
https://github.com/rafaeldavidtinoco/bugsbunny

=== Future Goals ===

I plan on continuing to improve the quality of Ubuntu: by fixing bugs and contributing wherever I can... doing this as my day-by-day work and by passion. I also plan to continue studying/contributing with Infrastructure, base OS and Kernel bugs - my special interest. My intention is to become, one day, a good sponsor (helping with SRUs) AND to mentor someone (like I was mentored by) on bug fixing / packaging / contributions. 

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

Overall Rafael has been able to handle challenging bugs with exhaustive analysis and persistence. I've already sponsored a number of uploads for him. I think Rafael would make an excellent member of the Ubuntu community!

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:arges]]</nowiki> 
I first met Rafael when joining Canonical and working with him on the CTS Engineering team. Rafael has been an outstanding person to work with having the patience to help a new guy on board. As a member of the Ubuntu community, Rafael would bring benefits beyond his technical contributions as it is very clear he has a passion for helping people and solving problems. He has several commits upstream and within the Ubuntu community. IMHO, the Ubuntu community would be well served by having Rafael as a member.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:billy-olsen]]</nowiki>  

Rafael has been learning all the Ubuntu packaging and maintenance processes for some months, during this period he has clearly surpassed most of the advanced topics on packaging and bug fixing. He is a methodical technical person with a strong passion for helping others and a very positive attitude. Having him as part of the Ubuntu Community is on my perspective a non-brainer deal.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:niedbalski]]</nowiki>  

I want to echo everything said above emphatically.  Rafael has been a force in CTS Engineering since arriving and his incredible technical skills come along with an infectiously cheerful and helpful attitude.  An absolute pleasure to work with, Rafael is a perfect fit for the Ubuntu community and distribution.  By the way, I worked the "people-side" of the RCU-locking case referenced in Rafael's bio above.  He really understates the work that he put into testing, bisecting (about 1,000 kernels), automating testing, reporting results, and working the issue upstream on LKML.  Sensational stuff.  The type of work that makes users think, "Yep, Ubuntu was the right call".

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:marrusl]]</nowiki> 
After meeting Rafael through the interview process at Canonical, I can say without hesitation that Rafael has surpassed my expectations as a new member of our team. Having been given the opportunity to work with Rafael for the past six months, he has earned a great deal of respect from myself, his team members and others in the company. Rafael is eager and willing regardless of the challenge ahead and always willing to help. As his direct line manager, I often hear praise from other member of our team and outside our organization, which I believe showcases his technical ability and his interpersonal skills at the same time. Rafael's dedication to work is superb, as is his technical experience, making him a valuable member of the Canonical's Sustaining Engineering team. I feel Rafael would be a wonderful addition to Ubuntu community, just he was to our team.  

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:brookswarner]]</nowiki> 
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lborda]]</nowiki> 
Rafael is an excellent kernel developer. Since he started working in CTS Engineering I had the pleasure to see his dedication and excellent work on some of the customer bugs I escalated. He's also a very good listener and has a very strong soft skills. Love his attention to detail and the quick responses on fixing bugs! Keep the good work and I am certain that he'll be a very good bug hunter for the Ubuntu community.
