{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello to everybody,

My name is Rafael, Rafa for my friends. I was borned in Valencia, east coast of Spain.

My first contact with Linux world was in april 2008, by typing in Google "sistemas operativos diferentes a windows" (= "operating systems different than windows"). ;) You can immagine what was the feel of my soul on this moment about my actual OS on that date :( (fed up!) Quickly, I have started to read the more and more about "something" named Ubuntu, Linux... The information on the net is really great and the feedback too. I have though myself: "Why not? If I never try I will never know". 

I have downloaded the 7.10 version in a Live CD. Suddenly, I have understood that I was in front of something amazing, something really cool, something that change my "IT preferences and ideas" totally... :)

Just one week later, I have set up a double boot OS on my laptop, running Ubuntu on it, sharing with wxp. The more I used Ubuntu, the more I left wxp.

Finally, due to the fact that I had to change my laptop, I took the "final step": I have bought a laptop with Ubuntu OS by default! :) :) Not w more!! So, my "Linux marriage" started. Just one month for partners ;) The enough to understand what is the difference between past and future.

Now, june 2008, two months later after my first contact, I feel myself full involved with Linux world, Ubuntu, GNOME desktop and the free software philosophy.

I know that I have to walk already a looong, loong way but each day that I made a step (not more than I wish due the normal life) is one step less to get the target.

¿My target? In a first phase, feel myself comfortable with this OS (just getting it!). As a second phase, be able to help the people to resolve its doubts or troubles, in order to believe more and more in this amazing world (like me right now ;)) and spread its own enthusiasm. As a third phase, collaborate in order to improve Ubuntu and GNOME desktop environment. Right now, I am in process to thinking about in wich area I would feel better and could be more fruitful... :)

I am on the way...

As I used to talk, I've though that it was just one way... and I've discovered that there's so ways as people are ready to walk it!

Regards.
