{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I believe the most important precious things that Ubuntu have are its reputation and spirit. The name of Ubuntu must be carefully safeguarded. Ubuntu has a vocation that must be preserved. However, dividing the community in small entities gradually taking their independence from the initial project is a quite dangerous reputational risk. Not all community members are able to represent Ubuntu in their regions as they may not understand the true identity/philosophy of Ubuntu. I also noticed that some people are in LoCo teams for the team itself and not for Ubuntu, not good.

I would like to see more rules and more efficient TeamReporting. What is needed is to limit geographical considerations to events only. This can be done by defining simple but effective rules which suit everybody.

We need :

===== Multilingual Website =====
First, on the official website only English is used. This should not be the case. I think ubuntu.com must submit the same information (those in Drupal, as a beginning) in several languages (At least the main languages: Spanish, French, Chinese, Russian, Arabic ...). The community must have official multilingual web resources (documentation, support forums, IRC channels of support, ..) out of LoCo governance as some LoCos are multilingual (eg. Belguim) and many languages are spoken in more than one region (English, Spanish,...). LoCo teams should not provide any online activities.

===== No support on LoCo channels/forums =====
 As there is no geographical frontiers on Internet but linguistic limits,online activities should be organized within per-language teams (Support forums, IRC support, documentation, etc.). This way :
** There are more people so the work is easier, faster and better quality. (An IRC channel with 100 connected people is better than 10 channels with 10 in each).
** There is an exchange between the Locos, breaking the frontiers and unifying the worldwide community.

===== Team Reports =====
A regular contact between a LoCo and the rest of the world is absolutely necessary :
* LoCo teams should take more care of the monthly TeamReports.
* Approuved LoCo Teams should hold also Weekly reports (usefull for the UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter )

Those public reports will create:
** activation of work in Locos (nobody wants to make a report empty:))
** Exchange of ideas between Locos.
** A positive competition between the Locos. ("We did more !" and "But we did best !")

=== The Suggestion ===

Create a team: "Community Supervisors" (or whatever name to express the function) 

This team will take care of maintaining a daily contact with the Locos assisting the with TeamReports, helping them find ideas, providing useful tips and more generally make them work together. 

This does not affect the functions of the LoCoCouncil. In fact, the team will work under the LoCoCouncil and CommunityCouncil governance.

=== Road map ===
Short term plans:

* Talk  to some active Ubuntu members to build the Team.
* Once the team created : Start contacts with LoCo teams helping with reports.

Log term plans :

* Write a proposal for a "Community Guide".
* Encourage the creation of per-language teams (Like we do with ubuntu-arabic)
* Improve/Rewrite LoCoTeamHowTo related pages.
* Start a project to make the community members be more involved by encouraging/mentoring ubuntu membership.
