{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~rahuldevan | Rahul ]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail''':
| rahuldevan@gmail.com
|-
| '''IRC''':
| Rahul27 at freenode
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[ http:--ubuntuforums.org-member.php?u=1114007 | rahul27 ]]</nowiki>
|}

Started with Ubuntu the day I got really irritated with the "Big Blue Screen of Death". The transition was really smooth, would give a big plus plus to how the user friendly the OS is. "Just for Fun" helped me realize the benefits of a real global development team. 

I am here to leverage my past experiences with computer programming to build a bigger better Ubuntu.
== Future Hopes ==

The Ubuntu Development Team

== IRC ==
You will find me on the following IRC channels:

 {*} #ubuntu-beginners

 {*} #ubuntu-beginners-team

 {*} #ubuntu-beginners-dev

 {*} #ubuntu-youth

 {*} #ubuntu-in
 

== Testimonials ==
This is where other people will write testimonials about your work. You don't actually write anything here, let others do the writing :)
* Testimonial
* Testimonial
* Testimonial
