{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contact Information'''<<BR>><<BR>> - eMail: rainct&#064;ubuntu.com<<BR>> - IRC: RainCT on Freenode, GIMPnet and OFTC<<BR>> - Jabber: siggi.gevatter&#064;gmail.com
|}

=== About Me ===

* Name: Siegfried-Angel Gevatter Pujals (aka RainCT)
* Born 1991 in Germany, living in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catalan_Countries|Catalonia]]</nowiki> since 2000.
* Languages: Catalan, Spanish, English and German.
* GNU/Linux user since 2006 (Ubuntu since 2006, Debian since 2009).
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuMembers|Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki> as of <nowiki>[[RainCT-MembershipSpeech|29]]</nowiki> November 2007.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers|Ubuntu Developer]]</nowiki> (MOTU) as of <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/motu-council/2008-January/000824.html|29]]</nowiki> January 2008.
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=Siegfried-Angel+Gevatter+Pujals|Debian Developer]]</nowiki>, oficially as of 3 December 2010.
* <nowiki>[[http://foundation.gnome.org/|GNOME Foundation]]</nowiki> member since December 2009.
* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/soc/|Google Summer of Code]]</nowiki> participant during summer 2009.
* Websites: <nowiki>[[http://bloc.eurion.net|Blog]]</nowiki>

=== Activities ===

* Ubuntu and Debian Developer.
* Bug triager on <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu|Launchpad]]</nowiki> (member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bugcontrol|ubuntu-bugcontrol]]</nowiki>) and Launchpad beta tester.
* Active member of Ubuntu's <nowiki>[[CatalanTeam|Catalan LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
* Developing <nowiki>[[http://zeitgeist-project.com|Zeitgeist]]</nowiki>, the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/gnome-activity-journal|GNOME Activity Journal]]</nowiki> and contributing to <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/GnomeShell|GNOME Shell]]</nowiki>. Used to work on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/freevial|Freevial]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[QtTube|QtTube]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/p1tr|P1tr]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/leonov|Leonov]]</nowiki>, amongst others.
* <nowiki>[[http://revu.ubuntuwire.com|REVU]]</nowiki> Hacker and Administrator (and REVU Coordinator for the first months of the Jaunty cycle).
* Occasional translation of software and websites into Catalan. Member of Ubuntu's <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-ca|Catalan Translators Team]]</nowiki>.

=== Development Skills ===

I started experimenting creating my first websites in 2004 and have since learned XHTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, PostgreSQL and JavaScript (all of this by hands-on exercise, writing a MMORPG, a CMS and lots of other stuff). Around April 2007, having started my involvement with Ubuntu, I began learning Python, which has now become my favourite language. I'm also familiar with C, C++ (university) and Java (mobile applications development).

=== Wiki Pages ===

Below is a list of packaging related wiki pages that I've written:

* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuideDeprecated-Howtos-PODManpage|Writing a manpage in POD]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuideDeprecated-Howtos-RoffManpage|Writing a manpage in *roff]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuideDeprecated-Howtos-BinaryFilesInDiff|Adding binary files to the .diff.gz]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Extensions-Merging|Merging Mozilla extensions from Debian]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-New|Information for new MOTUs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Packages/REVU/CheckList|Tips for REVU contributors]]</nowiki>

Beside those, I've also done work on several <nowiki>[[CatalanTeam]]</nowiki> pages and minor editions on many other pages.

