{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu Catalan Translators Team ==

Applications I translated, or helped to translate, as a member of the Ubuntu Catalan Translators Team:

* displayconfig-gtk (Gutsy)
* gnome-app-install (Gutsy)
* gnome-btdownload (Hardy)
* hwtest (Hardy and Intrepid)

== Direct contact with upstream ==

=== Asunder ===

Translation into Catalan of <nowiki>[[http://littlesvr.ca/asunder/|Asunder]]</nowiki>, a graphical Audio CD ripper and encoder for Linux.

=== GShutdown ===

Translation into Catalan of <nowiki>[[http://gshutdown.tuxfamily.org|GShutdown]]</nowiki>, an advanced shutdown utility for Linux.

=== Firemonger ===

Translation into Catalan of the <nowiki>[[http://firemonger.info/|Firemonger]]</nowiki> CD and it's website, in cooperation with Francesc Dorca (from <nowiki>[[http://softcatala.cat|Softcatalà]]</nowiki>) and Kilian Cirera.

=== phpMyVisites ===

Translation into Catalan of the website statistics system <nowiki>[[http://www.phpmyvisites.us/|phpMyVisites]]</nowiki>, later joined with another one by Daniel Olivares Giménez.

=== Open-Tran.eu ===

Translation into Catalan of <nowiki>[[http://open-tran.eu/|Open-Tran.eu]]</nowiki>, a free web service to consult the translation memories of many open source projects.

=== Glest ===

Translation into Catalan of the (open source) real time strategy game <nowiki>[[http://glest.org|Glest]]</nowiki>. I'm also a moderator on it's forums and the creator of the (now a bit neglected) extension page <nowiki>[[http://glest.eurion.net|Glest: Evolution]]</nowiki>.

=== FireGPG ===

Translation into Catalan of <nowiki>[[http://firegpg.tuxfamily.org/|FireGPG]]</nowiki>, an extension for Firefox that integrates GnuPG with it.

=== Liquid Weather ===

Most of the <nowiki>[[http://www.liquidweather.net/phpBB2/viewtopic.php?p=1573|translation]]</nowiki> into Catalan of <nowiki>[[http://www.liquidweather.net|Liquid Weather ++]]</nowiki>, a superkaramba theme and desktop applet for displaying weather information and forecasts.

=== ezUserManager ===

Translation into Catalan of the user system for websites <nowiki>[[http://ezusermanager.com/|ezUserManager]]</nowiki>. Since some recent versions, translations are only included in the paid version.

=== Docebo ===

Many translation work (into Catalan) for the open source e-learning platform <nowiki>[[http://www.docebo.org/doceboCms/|Docebo]]</nowiki>.

=== Qunu ===

Most of the translation into Catalan of <nowiki>[[http://www.qunu.com|Qunu]]</nowiki>'s first interface. (Qunu is a free service to put in contact, by Instant Messaging, experts in a certain subject with people that need help about the same).

=== OSDir.com ===

Translation into Catalan of <nowiki>[[http://osdir.com/|OSDir.com]]</nowiki>'s interface. It wasn't used and I never received an answer about it, though.
