{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== RajasekarKarthik ==

== About Me ==

Name: Rajasekar Karthik

Location: Indiana, United States

Age: 20

Homepage: <nowiki>[[http://karthik085.tk]]</nowiki>

I am a student majoring in Computer Science. I have been programming for past 4-5 years. I started using Ubuntu in late 2004 and have been hooked ever since. Recently, I and my linux fanatic friends managed to start a Linux User Group for my home town.

== Few Xubuntu and Enlightenment Tips: ==
Installing: InstallingXubuntu

XFCE with Enlightenment window manager:
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=101066

Xuubntu with Thunar file manager:
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=95934

Enlightened Xubuntu Mac OS X Style
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=98067

Enlightenment themes:
http://themes.freshmeat.net/browse/60/

XFCE programs description:
http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/stable/x/xfce.html

== Ubuntu Participation ==

I am currently testing KCall on Breezy and Hoary. I have done translations from English to Tamil in Plone Desktop - Shell Extensions and few other FOSS projects. 
I am active contributor and donated some money to Ubuntu Forums. Also, I particiapte in mailing lists and on IRC frequently. I have managed to pursuade my friends and relatives to use Ubuntu, rather than Windows.

I am interested in developing and debugging Kubuntu and KDE packages on a part-time basis. 

== Contact Infomration ==

'''e-mail''': karthik085@gmail.com

'''IRC Nickname''': karthik085
----
CategoryHomepage
