{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


  I am Final year Engineering student of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, from Tamilnadu, India.

== Contact Detail's ==
''Launchpad Account'': https://launchpad.net/~rraj-be 
''UbuntuForums Account'': http://ubuntuforums.orgmember.php?u=466804                        
''IRC'':  rraj_be @ irc.freenode.net
''Email'': Mail Me At: 
== My Interest's ==
I am much attracted toward the open-source-philosophy. I believe in Foss and always wanted to help spreading the FOSS where ever i go.

== Digital Signal Processing ==
 
Right now i am involved in a project of spectral analysis [A Digital signal processing project]
I aspire to achieve something new in the field of DSP. 

== O/S I am Using ==
 I am using Ubuntu from the release of 7.10.Currently i am using Ubuntu 9.04.I have windows XP along with Fedora 9.0.

== Why I am Here ==
 I want to contribute my level best to the Open source community through my programming skill and to develop myself.I wish to contribute to any projects where i can help.

== What I have done ==
 Right now i am working with documentation. Just started with bug fixing and involved in that.Involved in Ubuntu forums and IRC-Channel to help all beginner's.

                                             '''Help others, in whatever way you can.'''
----
