{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Created''': 2009-03-30
* '''Contributors''': JohnMoser
* '''Packages affected''': quake

=== Summary ===

Ship a miniature version of Ubuntu designed to run from LiveCD and only execute Quake 1 with some basic (Free) levels, in as little RAM as possible.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu now includes a proof-of-concept low-memory-usage release, designed to measure memory usage against a mid-90s task baseline.

=== Rationale ===

In 1998, a PC running Windows 98 with 32MB of RAM and under 50MB of Swap could easily play 8 player Quake network games, or single-player games, with no hardware 3D acceleration.  This makes an appropriate baseline for testing the memory footprint of loading up Xorg and running a simple program.

=== Use Cases ===

Completely developer-oriented testing.

=== Assumptions ===

Many?

=== Design ===

A simple Ubuntu base system running all necessary services, with Xorg and a simple window manager (IceWM-light possibly).  Exotic changes are unnecessary, as this test can simply be run inside a Virtual Machine to examine memory pressure.

=== Implementation ===

==== Code Changes ====

The selected application (Quake) existed and was popularly used in 1998 with known system specifications (32M of RAM, with some online services recommending 50M of Swap, on Windows 98).  The selected application has not been ported verbatim to x86-64, however; enhanced versions such as Dark Places exist, but they add features and heavily utilize the 3D graphics hardware and memory, and make a bad comparison.  If one wants to test x86-64 platforms, then a verbatim Quake or QuakeWorld port to x86-64 must be acquired somehow, or another program from that era must be chosen for a known baseline.

Also, a program to continuously monitor memory usage (similar to bootchart) should be written.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

This entire specification aims to provide a test for the basic memory pressure Ubuntu experiences performing a common task from about 1 decade ago.

=== Unresolved issues ===

Nobody is actually going to want to do this.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
