{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Created:  by <nowiki>[[LucasArruda]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

Add 'random' listing option in a package translation page as default (instead of all as default).

=== Use Case ===

Og is a translator, but everytime he enters ubuntu-docs package for translation he enters in the subpackage about-ubuntu for translating it, in the first page he sees the same 10 entries.

The goal here is to make he see as many entries as possible (theoretically 10 different at each time), so if the package as 1000 strings with 100 visits he would see all strings [in the first page] and therefore he could analize them. This would save time in the translation process, because in the period he is about to select 'untranslated', 'need review' or navigate throw the pages, he will see 10 entries that maybe he never saw.

In the current condition, he would see the 10 entries everytime and he could correct it one time but thoose would be viewed many time by many people, and the goal here is that as many strings as possibles can be viewed in the package. Strings in the middle or in the end are not so privileged as the first 10, and by randomizing we can end with this privilege.
