{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Email: 
Launchpad: http://launchpad.net/~randywallacejr

==== Introduction ====

I am a soldier serving in the U.S. Army, currently stationed in Iraq.  I am operating a server supplying Internet to 60+ paying subscribers.  Using iproute tables and rules, three satellite downlinks provide Internet for three separate groups of subscribers.  I have been a fan of Ubuntu since Breezy Badger; therefore, I am using Ubuntu to power my server, desktop, and laptop.  I spend a large amount of time teaching Linux/Ubuntu to my peers.

I am working on certifications for a career in Linux.  Soon I will have an Ubuntu Professional certification.  Upon completion of that, I will obtain a CCNA.

I have four major skills:
 1. Computer Networking
 2. Linux Education
 3. Python Programming
 4. Server Administration

Occasionally, I post to the Ubuntu Forums and provide help on '''#ubuntu''' under the screen name '''rdw200169'''.

I have made several contributions to the linux advanced routing mailing list.

==== Projects ====

GreaMin

I am developing a web-based administration tool for iptables, tc, and iproute2.  It will use Python and the Quixote Web Publishing Framework.  My intent is for it to be easy, and powerfully feature-full.  I am going to integrate several different popular firewalls and traffic control scenarios.  It will also be easy to create plug-ins for special application firewall and traffic control scenarios.

Also, I would like to create a derivative/patch/branch of the apt-cacher project to support Ubuntu repository authentication.

Anyone who would like to join me in my endeavor is more than welcome!

==== Conclusion ====

I still have a lot to learn about Linux and Debian.  Regardless, I'd like to become a MOTU one day when I don't work so much.

----
CategoryHomepage
