{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> Ralf Meyer
|-
| Location
| Germany
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ranf|ranf]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC, Email, Jabber
| see Launchpad
|}

=== Details ===
Long time Linux user (I'm not sure. About 10 years).
Ubuntu user since Warty Warthog (4.10). My laptop runs Xubuntu. Debian Etch powers my Pentium 166 MHz file server.

=== Ubuntu Activities ===
* reported some bugs that bit myself. And tried to help on some others.
* regularly browsing the international and the German forums and help here and there.
* know how to compile, run "apt-get source" and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PbuilderHowto|pbuilder]]</nowiki> and fix minor compilation problems.

==== Bugs ====
<pre>
$ ls -1F ~/bugs
109151/
112093/
113368/
115365/
42582/
42970/
43195/
46041/
6097/
95005/
97696/
</pre>

==== Forums ====

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=10590|UbuntuForums.Org]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuusers.de/users/ranf/|UbuntuUsers.de]]</nowiki> {de}

==== Wiki ====
* section "Already running programs" in <nowiki>[[Backtrace]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/Uniwill_N34AS1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/SonyVaioPCG-C1VE]]</nowiki>
* section "useful links" in <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekfeisty/screencast]]</nowiki>
* section "uswsusp" in <nowiki>[[FeistySuspendOverview]]</nowiki>

==== Mailing lists ====
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-users/

==== IRC ====
I took part in some <nowiki>[[Classroom]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[MOTU/School]]</nowiki> sessions to learn how to do packaging.
<nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki> was great.

=== Future plans ===
* more bug triaging
* forum support
* become a <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
