{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''<nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/rapache|Rapache]]</nowiki>''' is a simple tool for remotely managing and configuring an apache2 server.

If you need a simpler software just to start/stop apache2 and mysql, check <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/localhost-indicator|localhost-indicator]]</nowiki>

=== Links ===
Currently we don't have a dedicated website.
* Project page, code and bugs on launchpad: http://launchpad.net/rapache
* Developer website: http://www.stefanoforenza.com/category/rapache/

=== Development environment ===
* There are many different branch developments.

=== ROAD MAP ===

<nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~tacone/rapache/ssh-fakeauth|Version 0.8]]</nowiki>:
* Connect SSH servers to configure remote apaches
* bookmark SSH servers
* Avahi ? :)
* Policykit ?
** maybe not, we can't use that on ssh servers.
** how to get root privileges via ssh ? Not every server allow remote root login (ubuntu's for example ;-))
* QA 3

=== Use cases ===
* Tony is a webdesigner. He don't want to mess with apache, he wants to get started customizing wordpress themes on localhost.  
* Ralph is a small company's webmaster. Since he has lot of stuff to get done, he don't want to loose time configuring apache via commandline
