{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Ubuntu 13.04 Cloud Images, the Raring Ringtail, for distribution in April 2013. With this early Alpha pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an alpha pre-release. 
Ubuntu Cloud Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu Cloud Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu developers

== Getting Ubuntu Cloud Images 13.04 Alpha 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* smoser:  insert instructions on how you want user to pull image, make sure valid, and start to use.

== Alpha 2 Highlights ==

=== Software Updates ===
==== Cloud Images ====

==== Linux kernel 3.8-rc6 ====

The Alpha 2 Raring Ringtail snapshot includes a the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/3.8.0-6.11|3.8.0-6.11 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/testing/linux-3.8-rc6.tar.bz2|v3.8-rc6 Linux kernel]]</nowiki>.  Notable changes include initial support for arm multiplatform support for TI omap3/4 and Freescale imx6, alx ethernet driver support, misc config updates and security fixes.

==== GNU Toolchain ====

13.04 is distributed with an updated default toolchain that includes: <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/software/gcc/|GCC]]</nowiki> 4.7.2-21ubuntu1 (was GCC 4.7.2 in 12.10) and eglibc 2.17-0ubuntu4.   ARM 64 bit cross compiler (gcc-4.7-arm64-cross 0.4) is also available. 

Further information can be found upstream (<nowiki>[[http://gcc.gnu.org/gcc-4.7/changes.html|GCC-4.7]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://sourceware.org/gdb/download/ANNOUNCEMENT|gdb]]</nowiki>).

==== Java Toolchain ====
<nowiki>[[http://openjdk.java.net/|OpenJDK7]]</nowiki> is the default Java implementation. Current revision is:  OpenJDK-7 7u9-2.3.5~pre1-1ubuntu1.

== Known Problems ==

* Bug:1086840 Missing bookmarks.xml error

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu Cloud 13.04, the Raring Ringtail is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from **insert link**.
