{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== New Features in Lubuntu 13.04 ==

* New version of pcmanfm / libfm (1.1.0) including a built-in search utility.
* Artwork improvements, including new wallpapers, community wallpapers, new icons ...
* Removing catfish, since pcmanfm has its own search utility
* Fix a very old bug causing gnome-mplayer to crash with some CPU (P4)
* Several fixes for the image viewer gpicview. 
 
=== Lubuntu Applications ===

* Based on the lightweight <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/ | LXDE desktop environment]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/PCManFM | Pcmanfm]]</nowiki>, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/ | Openbox]]</nowiki>, the fast and extensible, default windows-manager of LXDE.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/lightdm | Lightdm]]</nowiki>, using the simple GTK greeter
* <nowiki>[[http://www.chromium.org/Home | Chromium]]</nowiki>, the open-source version of Google Chrome.
* For more detail, please see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Setup#Applications | full list of applications]]</nowiki>.

=== System Requirements ===

A Pentium II or Celeron system with 128 MB of RAM is probably a bottom-line configuration that may yield slow yet usable system with a standard lubuntu desktop.

13.04 32 bit ISO require your CPU to have Physical Address Extensions, or PAE. "PAE is provided by Intel Pentium Pro and above CPUs, including all later Pentium-series processors (except several versions of the Pentium M, see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PAE| here]]</nowiki>)." - If you have a NON-PAE CPU you can use 12.04 instead.

For PowerPC, it is known to run on a G4 running at 867MHz with 640MB RAM. 

For Intel based Macs, lubuntu should run on all models.

== Known Issues ==
=== Installation ===
* PPC has several issues and workarounds, please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/PPC |documentation on the wiki]]</nowiki>.
* Guided install has a bug when selecting 'max' (Bug:1163908).
* Upgrade from 12.10 --> 13.04 gives a warning error (Bug:966451).
* Upgrading slow machines <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseNotes/Lubuntu/SlowMachines | Slow Machines]]</nowiki>

=== Graphics and Display ===

* PPC issued are detailed above.

=== Printer ===
* Please refer to this <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/system-config-printer/+bug/1133794 | bug]]</nowiki> and check <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/system-config-printer/+bug/1133794/comments/7 | comment #7]]</nowiki>.

=== Applications ===
 
* Blank boxes appear when hardinfo is started, and needed to be closed before accessing to the application (Bug:1029212)
* Different spacing for the icons on the right corner of lxpanel (Bug:1056547)
* Software sources takes 30 seconds to load (Bug:1073728)
* Clicking on Ibus icon start the deamon, but doesn't display an icon (Bug:1041933)
* Some actions on the menu may cause an harmless crash of menu-cache (Bug:1098732)

=== Ubuntu Release notes ===
 
* For common issues with Ubuntu, please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseNotes | Ubuntu release notes]]</nowiki>.

== Support ==

* 9 months.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs | Contact us]]</nowiki>.
