{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Known Issues ==

=== Installation ===

* The desktop image installer cannot unlock existing encrypted (LUKS) volumes.  If you need to make use of existing encrypted volumes during partitioning, then use the "Try Ubuntu without installing" boot option to start a live session, open the encrypted volumes (for example, by clicking on their icons in the Unity launcher), enter your password when prompted to unlock them, close them again, and run `ubiquity` to start the installer.  (Bug:1066480)

* ARM OMAP4 machines will sometimes boot to a black screen during installation. It's likely that the system has booted fine, but you will need to switch to another tty then back to tty7 (Ctrl+Alt+F1 and then Alt+F7) to get graphics. (Bug:1065902)

* On a mac with an external display can not run in framebuffer mode error occurs on the 2nd reboot onwards. (Bug:1066883)

=== Kernel ===

* On some systems, when opening lid, there is a kerneloops with a suspend/resume failure message seen. (Bug:1054732)
* On certain ASUS machines with AMD graphic chips, a WMI event and ACPI interrupt are sent at the same time when hitting the hotkey to change display mode, resulting in the display mode being changed twice in succession.  Users can work around this using the `Displays` panel in `System Settings` for changing display modes. (Bug:1052278)
* On ASUS N53SN laptops, the kernel does not boot without noefi on commandline. (Bug:1053897)

=== Networking ===

* In order to improve compatibility with other local nameserver packages, Network``Manager now assigns IP address 127.0.1.1 to the local nameserver process that it controls instead of 127.0.0.1. If the system's `/etc/resolv.conf` is absent or is a static file instead of the symbolic link to `../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf` installed by default then this static file will have to be updated by the administrator in order to continue using the Network``Manager-controlled nameserver.

