{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Personal Page of ratcheer ===
==== A Brief introduction ====
After a 34-year IT career with several large corporations, I am now retired and love playing around with FOSS at home. During my career, I worked with large IBM s/370 to 390 mainframe systems, with most of my work revolving around the IMS and DB2 database systems. I programmed in COBOL, MVS Assembler, and other languages. I also worked with DEC and AT&T minicomputers and some of the earliest production BellCore UNIX systems. Later, I became a MS Windows application programmer, using Visual BASIC and VisualWorks Smalltalk. Then, I became an Oracle Database Administrator on the HP-UX, Solaris, and AIX UNIX platforms. I was an Oracle DBA for the last 14 years of my career.

My main distribution is Ubuntu, but I enjoy playing with other distros to see how they do. I am currently using Sabayon 8 with FluxBox on a testing partition.

==== Contact Info ====
Name: Tim Cuthbertson<<BR>>
Email: <<BR>>
IRC nick (irc.freenode.net): ratcheer<<BR>>
Blog: <nowiki>[[http://tcuthbertson.com]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ratcheer]]</nowiki><<BR>>

=== Contributions ===

==== Ubuntuforums.org ====
I have been a member of the forums since 2009. I try to contribute on the forums on a daily basis. My ID on Ubuntuforums.org is ratcheer

==== Launchpad ====
1.  I am currently helping on  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubforums2ubwiki|Ubuntu Forums 2 Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki> 
2.  I also formerly participated on some of the release testing teams for Xorg Proprietary Drivers
3.  Member of Alabama LoCo team and Ubuntu Users team

==== Miscellaneous ====
1.  Regular participant on Google Plus (Tim Cuthbertson)
2.  Regular participant on dslreports.com (timcuth)
3.  Early adopter of IPv6 using tunnel provider Hurricane Electric
...

----
CategoryHomepage
