{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi!

My name is Raul Pedro Santos, a.k.a. borfast.

I was born in 1980 and started messing with computers when I was 5, when my parents bought a <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timex_Sinclair_2048|Timex Sinclair 2048]]</nowiki>. By the age of 7, I started wondering how all those games were programmed and I started "programming" small games in BASIC (actually I just copied the code from some magazines my parents bought but hey, I had to start somewhere ;) ).

I have been using linux for about 8 years, the last 5 of which it has been my primary OS.

I guess I can say I'm a local advocate for Free Software: I make small presentations about F/OSS at local schools and distribute Ubuntu CDs, as well as organizing some Linux instalation parties.

==== Personal Ubuntu Stories ====

Recently I upgraded my Breezy Badger instalation to Dapper Drake and it replaced my custom cups configuration file, making my printer unavailable in the network. I could swear that the printer configuration dialog had an option for sharing a printer but I couldn't find it anywhere (later I found out that it wasn't Ubuntu but Fedora that had this).

Since I hate to manually configure cups due to countless hours of frustration, I really wanted to use a graphical tool to help me set up the printer sharing. Since I couldn't find it, I thought that it had been removed from Dapper. I went to #ubuntu and asked about it but no one knew anything about it so I asked ubotu (the #ubuntu IRC bot) about "printer sharing". ubotu knew nothing about it.

"OK, Ubuntu has a Wiki, let me try there!" - I ended up finding <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NetworkPrintingFromWinXP|"Network Printing from WinXP"]]</nowiki> and went back to #ubuntu to ask someone to teach ubotu about it. I was told I could do it myself so I did it. I ended up mixing my command with someone else's command and ubotu learned the wrong thing. Besides, that Wiki entry is only about sharing a printer with Windows computers and "printer sharing" is a much broader term.

''to be continued...''

==== Contacts ====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.borfast.com|My Homepage]]</nowiki>
* Email: [borfast@yahoo.com]
* ICQ: 15286486
* Yahoo! Messenger: borfast
* IRC nick: borfast
* MSN Messenger: borfast@yahoo.com
