{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hello, I am Ravi. I am a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-foundations-team|~ubuntu-foundations-team]]</nowiki>. I work as an Engineering Manager for Canonical, I try to contribute hands-on whenever time allows. Please see my contributions below.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Libera/OFTC
| ravikant_
|-
| Matrix
| @ravi-sharma:ubuntu.com
|-
| Email
| ravi.kant.sharma@canonical.com
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://r4v1.net/|r4v1.net]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Other related profiles ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ravi-sharma|~ravi-sharma]]</nowiki>
|-
| Discourse
| <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/u/ravi-sharma/summary|u/ravi-sharma]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

==== Discourse communication/discussion ====
* <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-on-raspberry-pi-summer-25-update/64395|ubuntu-on-raspberry-pi-summer-25-update]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/openssl-3-5-0-release-for-questing-quokka/62629|openssl-3-5-0-release-for-questing-quokka]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/adopting-sudo-rs-by-default-in-ubuntu-25-10/60583|adopting-sudo-rs-by-default-in-ubuntu-25-10]]</nowiki>

==== Bugs triage ====
I do bugs triage for foundations-bugs every week. This means looking at new launchpad reports and comments on <nowiki>[[http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/m-r-package-team-mapping.html#foundations-bugs|foundations team owned packages]]</nowiki>. I also use the reports here http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/foundations-bugs/

You can see my activity <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ravi-sharma/+bugs?orderby=-date_last_updated&start=0|here]]</nowiki>

reported bugs: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ravi-sharma/+reportedbugs

==== Stable release updates ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltrace/+bug/1992939|fix: ltrace produces no debug output ]]</nowiki>

==== Seeds change ====
* I have updated ubuntu platform seed to <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/ubuntu-seeds/+git/platform/commit/?id=a7c68edd7927efed31d49db1420b445b33aa52cb|replace wireless-tools with iw]]</nowiki>.
* I have another planned for 25.10 to add suro-rs

==== Release ====
* contributions to <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-release/ubuntu-release-tools/+git/templates/log/|release checklist template]]</nowiki>
* contributions to image testing, particulary risc-v image on ISO tracker.
* I was invited to participate in 24.10 oracular release sprint by Canonical. I had the pleasure to learn how the release week looks like.
 
==== Merges ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/strace/+bug/2073592 
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/busybox/+bug/2074188 (non trivial) 
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltrace/+bug/2052294 (non trivial)
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssl/+bug/2112457 (non trivial)

==== Non Merges uploads ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/django-rich/+bug/2052724 
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dhcpcd/+bug/2051674 
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/2072323
 
==== MIRs ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rust-sudo-rs/+bug/2113928

==== Knowledge of Ubuntu processes ====
* Feature freeze exceptions
** [[https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+source/libheif/+bug/2061089|[FFe] update libheif dependencies]]
** [[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/trace-cmd/+bug/2062557|[FFe] add trace-cmd to standand seed]]
 
 
==== Miscellaneous ====

* I am responsible for organising the <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-patch-pilots/37705|Patch Pilot program]]</nowiki> on behalf of the Ubuntu Community team.
* I sometimes contribute to Debian. Here is my <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/raviksharma|Salsa profile]]</nowiki>.
* Evidence of working with Flavors <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wireless-tools/+bug/2068612|Please remove wireless-tools from the archive]]</nowiki>
* You can see all my <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*ravi%20kant*&sponsoree_search=name|uploads]]</nowiki> on udd.

=== Future Goals ===

* I would like Ubuntu to work out of the box with sane defaults on most hardware while providing modern software experience. So my future plans will revolve around architectures support and hardware enablement.

* I want to participate in a week-long <nowiki>[[https://canonical-ubuntu-project.readthedocs-hosted.com/contributors/advanced/plus-one-maintenance/|plus 1 maintenance shift]]</nowiki>

* You can notice that I have prioritised breath of knowledge over depth. I would like to learn how Ubuntu images are build and all the various tools involved next.

* apply for MOTU

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

==== Paride Legovini ====

I'm familiar with Ravi's technical work in Ubuntu and support his application to become a Contributing Developer. We've collaborated on the Ubuntu release process, both online and in person, and I've seen his strong understanding of Ubuntu's values and workflows. Ravi has consistently demonstrated technical competence, reliability, and alignment with the Ubuntu community's standards. While I haven't sponsored his packages myself, I'm glad to see he now has several uploads. Ravi is ready to be Contributing Developer right now, and I'm looking forward to him gaining upload rights.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:paride]]</nowiki> 
==== Simon Chopin ====

Disclaimer: Ravi used to be my manager at Canonical.

I have worked with Ravi ever since he joined Canonical back in 2023. In addition to the <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=*hopin*&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*Sharma*&sponsoree_search=name | few uploads]]</nowiki> I sponsored for him, he has oftentimes helped on less visible tasks such as test rebuild triaging, or the t64 mass-proposed migration. He has demonstrated time and again his willingness to learn new things, and always strives to do things the right way, both technically and process-wise, never hesitating to ask questions if unsure. I believe he aligns naturally with the values of our community.

I believe he is ready to be a Contributing Developer, if not more.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:schopin]]</nowiki> 
==== Lukas 'slyon' Märdian ====

I have worked with Ravi for about 2 years. I am familiar with his technical work in Ubuntu (and Debian) and support his application to become a Contributing Developer. I've only sponsored one upload for him so far (fixes in dhcpcd regarding the usrmerge transition), but have seen him diving into technical issues, especially around packaging and test improvements, over again. He has a good understanding of the Ubuntu community and supports our values. Ravi is ready to be Contributing Developer right now, and I'm looking forward to him gaining upload rights going forward.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:slyon]]</nowiki> 