{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Ray Wang, apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Ray Wang
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~raywang
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| UbuntWiki:RayWang
|}

== Who I am ==
Hello folks, I lived in Beijing, China. I was working on Mono Accessibility  at Novell for more than 2 years, now I have been joined Canonical as an OEM QA engineer. I was deeply love GNU/Linux, FLOSS(Free/Libre/Open Source Software) very much, and want to devote all my life in the area. So glad to know you. 

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started to use GNU/Linux since 1999, my first distribution was Redhat 5.0, and I use Ubuntu since 2005. I felt in Love with it when I first looked at Breezy (5.10), and I was shocked by its flexibility, fastness and apt system. Since then I continue to use it on my desktop and laptop release by release. So I have nearly 5 years Ubuntu experience now.

=== My involvement ===
* I have been doing a lot of translations both on upstream and downstream. For GNOME, I'm translating and committing contributions, so that Ubuntu could also take the benefit from the upstream.
* <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~raywang|Other Ubuntu translations]]</nowiki>
* Spread Ubuntu on lots of events, like <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software freedom day]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.beijinglug.org/|Beijing Linux User Group]]</nowiki>. (I'm in ubuntu-loco-enthusiasts, locoteams and ubuntu-china groups, so I was helping to push Ubuntu to new people and help them to solve problems.) 
* Build <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~raywang/+archive/uia2atk|Mono Accessibility deb packages]]</nowiki> in my PPA for Ubuntu users, and <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=rawang@novell.com|some of them]]</nowiki> were uploaded into debian archive.
* Suggest <nowiki>[[http://www.mono-project.com/Accessibility:_Team|Mono Accessibility team]]</nowiki> to <nowiki>[[http://www.mono-project.com/Accessibility:_Release_Notes_2.0|officially]]</nowiki> host deb packages in <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~mono-a11y/+archive/ppa|team PPA]]</nowiki>

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Being a Ubuntu user
* Have worked in Mono Accessibility team
* The enthusiasm of contributing to Ubuntu
* Several packages have been already in Debian/Ubuntu, since I have changed my email address once, so this <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=rawang%40novell.com|qa page]]</nowiki> is for my previous email and this <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=wanglei1123%40gmail.com|qa page]]</nowiki> is for my current email address.

=== Areas of work ===
* For non-packaging, I was working on GNOME & Mono Accessibility as a Build and QA engineer.
* For packaging, I was working on building Mono Accessibility packages for Debian/Ubuntu, and also I was trying to push new packages into Debian/Ubuntu archives. Currently I have mono-uia, mono-uia-atkbridge, mono-uia-winforms uploaded both in Debian and Ubuntu, strongwind in Debian, and I'm going to upload at least two new packages and upgrade those three mono packages to new version when they are released.
* For the great people I worked with, I have learned a lot from TheMuso, meebey and directhex etc.

=== Things I could do better ===
* The quality of packages
* Fix bugs
* More Programming 

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
* To be more helpful for those who wants to try Ubuntu, and give helps.
* Spread Ubuntu among human beings.
* More i18n, l10n contributions for Ubuntu.
* Help to organize an local Ubuntu User Group, and to be more active in Ubuntu community.

* To become a MOTU.
* Continue to maintain <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~raywang/+archive/uia2atk?field.series_filter=|mono a11y packages]]</nowiki> in Debian/Ubuntu repositories.
* Try to be at-spi2 maintainer on Debian/Ubuntu

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
* Up-to-date packages
* Stability
* Fastness
* Fine-tuned system
* Gorgeous user interface and excellent user experience

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
