{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Who I Am ===
Hello folks, I lived in Beijing, China. I was working on <nowiki>[[http://www.mono-project.com/Accessibility|Mono Accessibility]]</nowiki> at Novell for more than 2 years, now I have been joined Canonical as an OEM QA engineer. I was deeply love GNU/Linux, FLOSS(Free/Libre/Open Source Software) very much, and want to devote all my life in the area. So glad to know you.

=== Contact ===
You could always reach me by:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name:
| Ray Wang
|-
| Email:
| raywang at NOSPAM gnome dot org
|-
| IRC:
| raywang@FreeNode, GimpNet, OFTC
|-
| Launchpad ID
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~raywang|raywang]]</nowiki>
|-
| Wiki Page:
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RayWang]]</nowiki>
|}

=== My story ===
I started to use GNU/Linux since 1999, my first distribution was Redhat 5.0, and I use Ubuntu since 2005. I felt in Love with it when I first looked at Breezy (5.10), and I was shocked by its flexibility, fastness and apt system. Since then I continue to use it on my desktop and laptop release by release. So I have nearly 5 years Ubuntu experience now.

==== What I like most in Ubuntu ====
* Up-to-date packages
* Stability
* Fastness
* Fine-tuned system
* Gorgeous user interface and excellent user experience

=== Summary of my contributions to Ubuntu ===
* I have been doing a lot of translations both on upsteam and downstream. For GNOME, I'm translating and committing contributions, so that Ubuntu could also take the benefit from the upstream.
* <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~raywang|Other Ubuntu translations]]</nowiki>
* Spread Ubuntu on lots of events, like <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software freedom day]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.beijinglug.org/|Beijing Linux User Group]]</nowiki>. (I'm in ubuntu-loco-enthusiasts, locoteams and ubuntu-china groups, so I was helping to push Ubuntu to new people and help them to solve problems.) 
* Build <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~raywang/+archive/uia2atk|Mono Accessibility deb packages]]</nowiki> in my PPA for Ubuntu users, and <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=rawang@novell.com|some of them]]</nowiki> were uploaded into debian archive.
* Suggest <nowiki>[[http://www.mono-project.com/Accessibility:_Team|Mono Accessibility team]]</nowiki> to <nowiki>[[http://www.mono-project.com/Accessibility:_Release_Notes_2.0|officially]]</nowiki> host deb packages in <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~mono-a11y/+archive/ppa|team PPA]]</nowiki>, 

==== What I'm currently working on ====
* For non-packaging, I was working on GNOME & Mono Accessibility as a Build and QA engineer.
* For packaging, I was working on building Mono Accessibility packages for Debian/Ubuntu, and also I was trying to push new packages into Debian/Ubuntu archives.
* For the great people I worked with, I have learned a lot from TheMuso, Mike Gorse on GNOME Accessibility, meebey and directhex on debian packaging, Sandy Armstrong on Snowy.

==== Now I am ====
* I'm a volunteer of <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/SysadminTeam|GNOME sysadmin team]]</nowiki>, I was helping on deploy <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/Snowy|Snowy]]</nowiki> (aka tomboy-online), a GNOME online service, and other sysadmin tasks.
* I'm also a committer of <nowiki>[[http://l10n.gnome.org/teams/zh_CN|GNOME Chinese translation team]]</nowiki>, and I was doing translation, proofreading and submission.
* <nowiki>[[http://foundation.gnome.org/membership/members.php|GNOME Foundation member]]</nowiki>
* Volunteer of <nowiki>[[https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/www/|GNU webmaster]]</nowiki>
* Active member and administrator of <nowiki>[[http://www.beijinglug.org/|Beijing Linux User Group]]</nowiki>

=== Plans for the future ===
* To be more helpful for those who wants to try Ubuntu, and give helps.
* Spread Ubuntu among human beings.
* More i18n, l10n contributions for Ubuntu.
* Help to organize an local Ubuntu User Group, and to be more active in Ubuntu community.

* To become a MOTU.
* Continue to maintain <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~raywang/+archive/uia2atk?field.series_filter=|mono a11y packages]]</nowiki> in Debian/Ubuntu repositories.
* Try to be at-spi2 maintainer on Debian/Ubuntu

=== Testimonials ===
