{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Robert Jennings, apply for upload rights for livecd-rootfs.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Robert Jennings
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~rcj
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/rcj
|-
| '''IRC'''
| rcj
|}

I am applying because:

* I want to share more responsibility for developing and maintaining livecd-rootfs.
* I'd like to reduce delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I am a software developer working on the development and delivery of Ubuntu cloud images for download and on major cloud platforms. I work with the FoundationsTeam and ServerTeam to provide a consistent Ubuntu experience across these platforms.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I became a regular user of Ubuntu on the desktop around the release of Dapper. Ubuntu has been my daily driver for quite some time. When I got the opportunity to work on Ubuntu daily I jumped at the chance.  It is a privilege to work on Ubuntu and have such a broad impact.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

livecd-rootfs highlights:
* <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/livecd-rootfs/commit/?id=152adcaa04d9ed7af03a7eca416d300965535063|Add snap pre-seeding support]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/livecd-rootfs/commit/?id=73dba1f31a3bf78488f3b6083dde9f585d6e0b23|Capture Ubuntu snap seeding policy in code]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/livecd-rootfs/+bug/1799773|Accelerate the build: Drop unused checksum generation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/livecd-rootfs/+bug/1687752|Exit on first failure for extra hooks]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/livecd-rootfs/+bug/1829938|Support parallel builds for the ubuntu-cpc project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/livecd-rootfs/+bug/1829944|Improve apt proxy debugging for failed builds]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/livecd-rootfs/+bug/1837254|Remove implicitly created artifacts during parallel builds to improve performance]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/livecd-rootfs/+bug/1744114|cloud-image initramfs compression does not match update-initramfs output]]</nowiki>
All livecd-rootfs <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/livecd-rootfs/log/?qt=author&q=robert.jennings%40canonical.com|git commits]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/livecd-rootfs/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=rcj&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.upstream_target=&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on|submitted bugs]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Robert+C+Jennings&sponsoree_search=name|Sponsored work]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===
I work closely with the FoundationsTeam and ServerTeam to provide a consistent Ubuntu server experience across cloud platforms.  I really enjoy the relationships I have with the developers on these teams and I think they work well, let's see what the sponsors have to say though. ;-)

Our team relies heavily on livecd-rootfs and our close relationship with the FoundationsTeam has been critical.  We're using livecd-rootfs every day to build cloud images (base and minimal), buildd images, core (for Docker images), and the other Core (16/18) for foundations.  Being so critical to my work I want to be able to perform uploads to respect the time of other developers and make my workflow faster.  Having PPU rights for livecd-rootfs would help myself and my team get changes into livecd-rootfs but I do not want it to separate us from foundations.

=== Things I could do better ===

* Make time for general distro work

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

* Work on the distro more broadly to progress towards core-dev
* Push myself and my team to document more of what we're working on
* More packaging work to gain depth there
* Autopackage tests for livecd-rootfs' common functions

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Documentation, specifically around the discovery/use of cloud images and their features.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Łukasz 'sil2100' Zemczak ===
==== General feedback ====
Per the sponsorship miner, I have officially sponsored three uploads for Robert, but in reality it might have been more - for livecd-rootfs we often batch up changes together and only then actually release those to the archives. Whenever reviewing his changes or sponsoring his uploads, so far I never had any issues with his contributions. He is very knowledgeable in the livecd-rootfs code-base and has enough packaging experience to be able to properly maintain the package. Also, Robert, as well as the whole CPC team, have very strict review procedures in place that make it very unlikely for untested/unreviewed changes making its way to the archive. I would like to therefore endorse Robert's PPU application for the livecd-rootfs package.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:sil2100]]</nowiki> 
=== Mathieu Trudel (cyphermox) ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored livecd-rootfs twice for Robert, but both uploads were of high quality, and a complex arrangement of a number of individual changes. I know Robert tests his changes before upload or otherwise has a keen thought for potential risk and avoiding that risk / making sure the uploads are as sounds as they can be before uploading. I've reviewed many other merge proposals from him for livecd-rootfs and I know his work is of the highest quality. Robert really knows how livecd-rootfs works and due to the nature of his work, tends to be risk-averse w.r.t. the livecd-rootfs changes, a good quality in such a complex piece of software.

Without question, I think Robert is ready to have PPU rights for the livecd-rootfs package. He certainly is one of the people in Ubuntu who knows that software best.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cyphermox]]</nowiki>  

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
