{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



I, Robert Jennings, apply for upload rights for the <nowiki>[[https://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/packagesets/eoan/ubuntu-cloud|ubuntu-cloud]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopers#Per-package_Uploaders|package set]]</nowiki>.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Robert Jennings
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~rcj
|}

== Who I am ==
Since 2014 I have worked as a developer of Ubuntu Server images for <nowiki>[[https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com|Public Clouds]]</nowiki> on Canonical's <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-images/+filebug|Certified Public Cloud team]]</nowiki>.  Prior to this I worked as a Linux kernel developer focused on virtualization features of the IBM Power platform.

I started off using Slackware 1.2.?, followed by Redhat 6, FreeBSD 3.x, AIX 4/5, and lastly Warty Warthog.  With Dapper Drake I stopped my distro search, started using Ubuntu exclusively both personally and professionally, and finally saw the end of Windows use on any secondary machines.

The core of my work today is ensuring that the Ubuntu experience in public clouds is consistent from laptop to server to VM, that the images we build are of a high quality and that they are up-to-date by providing daily builds. I work on developing and maintaining the plumbing that builds and publishes generic cloud images as well as images for particular cloud environments to ensure functionality and feature availability.  Additionally I work on some of the Ubuntu packages closely tied to enabling Ubuntu as a virtual machine on these platforms.

== My Ubuntu story ==
''Tell us how and when you got involved, what you liked working on and what you could probably do better.''

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Improvements to overall cloud image testing including work on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-server-ec2-testing/+bug/1298562|public EC2 testing code]]</nowiki>
* Development of the <nowiki>[[https://jujucharms.com/ubuntu-repository-cache/trusty|ubuntu-repository-cache]]</nowiki> Juju charm used to provide fast and consistent in-cloud mirrors of the Ubuntu repository in public clouds.
* Fixes and improvements to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/simplestreams|simplestreams]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/cloud-init|cloud-init]]</nowiki>.
* Back-porting <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/open-vm-tools-lts-trusty|open-vm-tools]]</nowiki> from Trusty to Precise.
* Reducing the modifications we make for cloud-images, making those modification <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-on-ec2/+bug/1269621|more transparent]]</nowiki>, and making it easier to find help by ensuring links to create bugs are found where images are found.

=== Areas of work ===
* cloud-init, simplestreams, and other cloud guest packages
* coordination with the release team for the timely release of cloud images
* work with the kernel team to handle kernel-related issues in clouds
* coordination with the security team for updated cloud release images in response to high-severity USNs.
* collaboration with Juju, LXD, and MaaS development as stakeholders for cloud images

=== Things I could do better ===
* open source all the things
* improve transparency related to cloud-image development and find more ways to engage the community
* work on Ubuntu beyond the scope of cloud-images

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
* Keep cloud-images user focused
* Improve speed of image delivery
* Bring on more developers to develop cloud images

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
* Transparency for cloud image development which I will address by:
** improving visibility for reporting bugs and getting help,
** improving responsiveness to bugs, and
** seek out other forums to get user feedback

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Chris J Arges ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored a number of uploads for Rob. He has shown attention to detail and patience in his uploads. I think he would be a good fit for having PPU rights for the Ubuntu-Cloud packageset.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have sponsored the following uploads:
https://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Chris+J+Arges&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=robert.jennings%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Generally I'd just like to see more uploads.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:arges]]</nowiki> 
----

=== Scott Moser ===
==== General feedback ====
Rob is careful and considerate of impact of his changes.  He acts responsibly and quickly replies to input on merge proposal comments or other input.  I have no hesitation in having Rob have uploader access to cloud-init.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Rob vastly overhauled the SmartOS datasource in cloud-init and did a good job at it.  He wrote unit tests and tested functionality.

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

=== SPONSOR_NAME ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
</pre>

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Robert+C+Jennings&sponsoree_search=name|Package work]]</nowiki>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Version
| Bug
| Action
| Notes
|-
| SourcePackage:open-vm-tools
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-trusty-+source-open-vm-tools-2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu2- | 2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu2 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1271669
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:open-vm-tools
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-trusty-+source-open-vm-tools-2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu3- | 2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu3 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1272196
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:open-vm-tools
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-trusty-+source-open-vm-tools-2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu4- | 2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu4 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1281708
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:open-vm-tools-lts-trusty
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-precise-+source-open-vm-tools-lts-trusty-2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu6~precise1- | 2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu6~precise1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1275656
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:open-vm-tools
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-trusty-+source-open-vm-tools-2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu6.1- | 2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu6.1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1275656
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:libdumbnet
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-precise-+source-libdumbnet-1.12-3.1ubuntu0.1- | 1.12-3.1ubuntu0.1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1326025
| sru
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:open-vm-tools
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-trusty-+source-open-vm-tools-2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu6.2- | 2:9.4.0-1280544-5ubuntu6.2 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1275656
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:freeradius
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-trusty-+source-freeradius-2.1.12+dfsg-1.2ubuntu8.1- | 2.1.12+dfsg-1.2ubuntu8.1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1406105
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:python-tz
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-vivid-+source-python-tz-2014.10~dfsg1-0ubuntu2~15.04.0- | 2014.10~dfsg1-0ubuntu2~15.04.0 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1473533
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:python-tz
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-trusty-+source-python-tz-2012c-1ubuntu0.1- | 2012c-1ubuntu0.1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1473533
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:python-tz
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-precise-+source-python-tz-2011k-0ubuntu5.1- | 2011k-0ubuntu5.1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1473533
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:open-vm-tools
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-xenial-+source-open-vm-tools-2:10.0.0-3000743-3ubuntu1- | 2:10.0.0-3000743-3ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1492429
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:cloud-init
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-trusty-+source-cloud-init-0.7.5-0ubuntu1.16- | 0.7.5-0ubuntu1.16 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1540965
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:cloud-init
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-wily-+source-cloud-init-0.7.7~bzr1149-0ubuntu6- | 0.7.7~bzr1149-0ubuntu6 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1540965
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:walinuxagent
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-wily-+source-walinuxagent-2.1.3-0ubuntu4~15.10.0- | 2.1.3-0ubuntu4~15.10.0 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1559307
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:walinuxagent
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-trusty-+source-walinuxagent-2.0.16-0ubuntu2- | 2.0.16-0ubuntu2 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:1549789
| 
| 
|}
<pre>

==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
