{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Me in Brief ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Brian Myers (aka recluse or recluse2)
|-
| '''E-mail:'''
| 
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| https://launchpad.net/~brian1027
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| recluse2 on chat.freenode.net
|-
| '''Personal Site:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://brian1027.blogspot.com]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
I'm an Electronics Technician by profession however I am currently unable to work due to health reasons. I joined Team South Carolina in December of 2007 and have strived to help the team in any way I can by contributing ideas, working on the wiki, and encouraged new members where I could.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

 {*} Ubuntu user

 {*} Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-southcarolina|Ubuntu Team South Carolina]]</nowiki>

 {*} Active and enthusiastic member and contributer to Team South Carolina

=== Launchpad Bug Contributions ===

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~brian1027/|My bug contributions]]</nowiki>...to present.

=== Other Wiki Contributions ===

 {*} <nowiki>[[SouthCarolinaTeam]]</nowiki>

=== South Carolina Team Items ===

 {*} Active Contributor in all aspects of Team South Carolina.

 {*} Wiki Team member and editor.

 {*} Present and propose ideas and suggestions for Team South Carolina including contributing ideas for the roadmap and the team charter .

=== Goals For The South Carolina LoCo Team in 2008 ===

 {*} Help the team grow in active membership and size.

 {*} Help the team coordinate efforts, and achieve active members. 

 {*} Help Plan and document team happenings and upcoming events on the Wiki.

 {*} Help Form official South Carolina LoCo Team Charter.

 {*} Help the Team become an Approved LoCo team.

 {*} Help and encourage new and prospective Ubuntu users

----
CategoryHomepage CategorySouthCarolinaTeam
