{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Prospective flavor developers should follow the following process to establish a new flavor.

1. Ensure that a development team exists on Launchpad, and that members of the team are able to maintain the flavour’s essential packages. Typically, this will be a “*-dev” team. Examples: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-dev|~lubuntu-dev]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kubuntu-dev|~kubuntu-dev]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-dev|~ubuntustudio-dev]]</nowiki>.

1. Nominate a member of your team to drive this process for your new flavour.

1. Contact the ubuntu-release mailing list to request the new flavour, with details of the above steps. Further communication between teams about the new flavour should remain on this list, so that the list archive will help others in the future.

1. The release team will reply and nominate someone to coordinate with you. Under normal circumstances you can expect this to happen within six weeks.

1. The release team will ask questions as required, and then tell you what you need to do next. They will probably refer to <nowiki>[[RecognizedFlavors]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[..-AddingNew]]</nowiki>, and you may want to consider these notes in advance, but this process deliberately doesn’t incorporate those steps. New flavours are rare, and therefore any documentation is likely to be out of date. Instead of a fully documented process, the release team will consider the situation at the time to specify exactly what is required. Feel free to reach out if you have any questions.

1. When the release team considers you to be ready, they will recommend to the Technical Board that the flavour be approved.

1. The Technical Board will consider your application for final approval at their next available meeting, in order to ensure that there aren’t any other concerns not predicted by this process.
