{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In order to determine whether a proposed new feature for Ubuntu would increase the hardware requirements beyond that which is reasonable, we need a metric for determining what a typical recommended hardware should be.

The chosen metric is "a $500 PC purchased online from Dell, at the ''start'' of the release process".

This is an entry-level PC that is already 6 months old at the point of release, so this is also roughly equivalent to a top of the line PC from at least 2 years previously.

This specification is intended to be the maximum ''recommended'' hardware for a given release; thus a feature requiring more will not be considered.  We do not have a metric for the ''required'' hardware, however we also attempt to not increase that where possible.

=== feisty+1 ===

''Note that this isn't finalised yet, but is recorded here to keep track''

* 64-bit capable Dual Core processor
* 512GB RAM
* 250GB HD
* 3D GPU (sharing system ram)
* CD-RW/DVD combo drive

feisty+1 should have similar maximum requirements to feisty.

=== Feisty Fawn ===

* 64-bit capable Dual Core processor
* 512GB RAM
* 160GB HD
* 3D GPU (sharing system ram)
* CD-RW/DVD combo drive

feisty, when compared to edgy, may include features that require additional processing power; use more RAM (though must take into account the additional 256MB is shared with the GPU); or take advantage of a DVD drive (for example being shipped on a DVD).

It may not include features that use more disk space.

=== Edgy Eft ===

* 3Ghz HT Single Core processor
* 256MB RAM
* 160GB HD
* 64MB RAM 3D GPU
* CD-RW drive

Edgy, when compared to breezy, may include features that require additional processing power; use more disk space; or take advantage of a 3D GPU or CD-RW drive.

It may not include features that need additional RAM.

=== Breezy Badger ===

* 2.4Ghz processor
* 256MB RAM
* 40GB HD
* 3D Graphics Card
* CD-ROM drive
