{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Leigh Purdie ===

Email: See <nowiki>[[http://www.intersectalliance.com/contact.html]]</nowiki>
Web: <nowiki>[[http://www.intersectalliance.com]]</nowiki>

Hi! I'm Leigh,

I'm a director of a local Canberra company called 'Intersect Alliance', which creates open-source audit-log related agents for kicks, and a closed-source audit server to keep us eating.

I've been using linux since the early 90's (slackware, on an IBM AT, on an Amiga-2000 bridgeboard card!), and have worked my way up from slackware, through redhat and fedora, and have finally made it to Ubuntu.

* I've programmed in just about everything under the sun - from 6502 assembler, through C-based linux kernel modules, Cobol, Fortran, perl, right up to PHP/SQL.
* I'm familiar enough with the Gimp, and inkscape to be dangerous, but not familiar enough to be very productive.
* I have 12 computers within arms reach (plus another dozen virtual machines), which makes winter house-heating a non-issue.
* I designed the Australian Ubuntu team logo (though, the original-coloured version).
* My (breezy based) MythTV box has been claimed by my wife, and I have been threatened with dire consequences if I break it.
----
CategoryHomepage
