{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== RedSeven Computer Company --  Tempe & Mesa, AZ ===

Email: 
RedSeven Computers was founded in Tempe, Arizona on April 3rd, 1997. We offer same day free estimates in our store (for repairs, upgrades, or new equipment). We also guarantee your computer will be fixed by tomorrow! Plus, our mobile service can come to you anywhere in the valley.

We are computer consultants committed to helping people understand technology by translating it into plain English, and helping them make intelligent cost-effective decisions when purchasing computer related products or services.

RedSeven brand computers and servers are as close to perfection as you will find. Our tireless pursuit of quality hardware guarantees you a fine machine at any budget and we back that up with a lifetime warranty. We also offer refurbished business-grade PCs, Laptops, and Servers via our outlet store in Downtown Mesa.

Our experts hand-pick every part that we use. RedSeven simply does not offer the "other stuff." We back all of our new computers and repairs with a lifetime labor warranty.

Our informative staff will help guide you through the gauntlet of choices available to help save you time and money. In fact, they will probably advise you until you make them stop... We can help via phone, in our store, or even by email.

RedSeven also offers a wide range of computer products and services including:

*** Fast Computer Service! (Tempe Store)
*** Computer Leasing
*** New and Refurbished PCs/Laptops/Servers
*** Mobile Repair and Networking
*** PC and Laptop Upgrades
*** Data Back-up and Data Recovery
*** Virus and Spyware Removal
*** Wireless Networking
*** Network Security
*** Linux / Windows Support
*** Open Source Migration
*** Web Development

 
Latest News from RedSeven:

Party Time : Ubuntu Jaunty Jackalope Release Party!

Its Party Time!

Yes, friends, it's that time of year again! Time for another Ubuntu Release Party. Jaunty Jackalope is hitting the streets THIS THURSDAY, April 23rd, and we here at RedSeven plan on celebrating the release in style at our Tempe location. As usual, there will be demo systems, free copies of Jaunty Jackalope for you to take home, and the RedSeven signature raffle!

Oh, that's not enough for you?

Okay, okay, you twisted our arms... we're also going to have an awesome live DJ, delicious food and of course, the ever popular OPEN BAR for the night. We had an awesome crowd last time, and while we do prefer RSVPs in order to get a rough count, it's not absolutely necessary.

The RedSeven guys will be on hand to talk Linux and Open Source all night.

The details, for you skimmers out there:

WHEN: Thursday, April 23rd. 2009, 6pm
WHERE: RedSeven Tempe, 1855 E. Guadalupe, Suite A105, Tempe, AZ 85283
WHAT: Ubuntu 9.04, Jaunty Jackalope (duh)
RSVP: http://www.redsevenlinux.com/contact/

See you then, kids!

----
CategoryHomepage
