{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Contact Information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| rubylaser
|-
| IRC
| rubylaser (irc.freenode.net)
|-
| Launchpad Profile
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~reed-zack|reed-zack]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu Forums Profile
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1115132|rubylaser]]</nowiki>
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://zackreed.me|zackreed.me]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Introduction ===

Hello, and welcome to this little corner of the internet! On the Internet I usually go by the alias rubylaser, but my real name is Zack Reed. 

At home, I have a wife and two children that I love.  We enjoy spending lots of quality time together outdoors and on the occasional trip.  At work, I'm a Marketing Technology Manager.  You may be a bit confused by that title because it sounds a bit nebulous.  I manage all of my team's servers and workstations, maintaining our web presence (corporate websites (including developing them using Ruby on Rails), social media aspects) and manage our 3D department as well (Blender + Revit).  Just a few fun things I manage at work: An Ubuntu 10.04 based (10) node Blender render farm for arch viz applications, a 4 node Proxmox VE cluster hosting 32 VM's, many Ruby on Rails web applications under GIT version control, and (2) large ZFS based fileservers (Openindiana).  

I love learning new things and really enjoy training people as well.

=== Contributions ===

I love the Ubuntu community and the Forums. I am an active member on a number of different Forums and so many of them seem to have moved to be ego-centric.  I love that on the Ubuntu Forums people always seem to be courteous and really want to help the other person out. 

Other than my time on Forum, I don't have a huge list of contributions yet in the community. I try to share my knowledge where possible and help individuals I can on the Ubuntu Community Forums (mainly the Server section). I have written a number of tutorials have many tutorials and love to try to share my knowledge. I hope they may be of use to someone.

<nowiki>[[http://zackreed.me/articles|Tutorials]]</nowiki>

=== Testimonials ===

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~charlesa|CharlesA]]</nowiki> - Zack (rubylaser) has always been helpful and has a great knowledge of server platforms and software raid in particular. I fully support his application to become an Ubuntu Member.

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1992391|Ubuntu Forums Membership Application Thread]]</nowiki>
