{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== About Me ==

I'm programmer and student of Computer Sciences. i'm interested in web development. I am an active member of the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam|Ubuntu-EG]]</nowiki> LoCo team.

=== My Contact Info ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| http://launchpad.net/~ahmd-refat-twfik
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| refat on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''twitter:'''
| http://twitter.com/AhmdRefat
|-
| '''Public key:'''
| 
|}

== Involvement ==

=== Activities ===

* Founder of I Open Source community at el-Shorok Academy which a sub-community of Ubuntu Local Team to help colleagues in using Ubuntu

* Helping spreading ideas about Ubuntu and FOSS in shrouck academy computer science and engineering department

* Convinced my head of the department in computer science with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Wazery|Islam Waziry]]</nowiki> to make Linux a case study of the OS course and other courses and to have a lab that is dedicated to that purpose with Ubuntu installed on its machines.

* Organized <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/872/detail/|Shrouck acadeny computer science department installfest]]</nowiki>.
*** My role was to get the event approved  (<nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&pid=explorer&chrome=true&srcid=0B_DS7E3EcHyMZmMxYTQ4M2QtMzc0OS00MjdhLWJiMTUtYmRlMDVjOTM0YzY5&hl=en|my proposal]]</nowiki>) with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Wazery|Islam Waziry]]</nowiki> from the college and to coordinate with them for the event requirements.
*** Planning for the whole event sessions, organizing the day by taking care of places of sessions and helping everyone how wants to, making Ubuntu CDs, and trying to make fun.

* Member of <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~egyptlocoteam|Egypt LoCo Launchpad team]]</nowiki>.

* Active in #ubuntu-eg IRC channel.

* Installing Ubuntu to many Teacher Assistants in my department, helping them to learn using it, and getting involved in it. 

* Developing and maintaining an Open Source project <nowiki>[[http://www.3dvui.org|3D Virtual User Interface]]</nowiki>.

=== Future Goals ===

* Make I Open Source community an official Ubuntu community in my university 

* Ubuntu Usage workshop in el-Shorouk Academy under the name of Ubuntu-eg team

* Participating in all events with Egypt LoCo team

* Getting our team Ubuntu-eg approved

<<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:left; font-size: 0.9em; width:50%; background:#ffc8c8; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''If you're going to add a testimonial, then please don't forget to add you LP Name. Thanks :)''
|}

<<BR>><<BR>>

----
