{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ReinhardTartler ==

=== About me ===

Reinhard Tartler, PHD Student of Computer Science in Erlangen, Germany

*** siretart on FreeNode, IRCnet, ICQ
*** <nowiki>[[http://sks.keyserver.penguin.de:11371/pks/lookup?op=vindex&search=0x945348a4|PGP Key: 945348a4]]</nowiki>
*** Private Homepage on http://tauware.de
*** Work Homepage http://www4.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/~tartler
*** Launchpad entry https://launchpad.net/~siretart

=== Experience with FOSS ===

I started using Linux with <nowiki>[[http://suse.de|SuSE]]</nowiki> 4.2, and used that up to version 7.2. Then I tried out debian/woody (which was 'testing' that time), a week later I was totally converted ;) I'm having fun advocating good solutions like ubuntu among my friends and family.

I'm using ubuntu actively since warty preview.

=== Interests ===

games, networking and network security

=== Contributions to ubuntu ===

** I <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/siretart/+reportedbugs|submitted or was involved]]</nowiki> in some <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|ubuntu bug reports]]</nowiki>.

** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/siretart/+packages|packages]]</nowiki> I worked on in the past in ubuntu

** Wikipages started 
*** [X2xHowto]

** Member of the <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>s, and the following MOTU Teams :
*** <nowiki>[[MOTUGames]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[MOTUMedia]]</nowiki>

** Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-core-dev|Core Developer Team]]</nowiki>

** Member of the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam]]</nowiki>

** One of the REVU Developers

=== Contributions to debian ===

* I'm nowadays an official Debian Developer
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=siretart@tauware.de|packages]]</nowiki> I maintain in debian]
* <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?which=submitter&data=siretart%40tauware.de|bugs]]</nowiki> I submitted to the debian bug tracking system

=== My Ubuntu work ===

I'd like to encourage to get more people becoming <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>s. For lowering the entrance barrier as well as faciliating getting packages sponsored, StefanPotyra and me wrote <nowiki>[[REVU]]</nowiki>, a <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> reviewing tool.

I try to keep universe in good shape. I'm also interested in multimedia and gaming related Packages, as you can see of my debian packages. My other Interests are network security and adminstration related packages.

As I'm a PHd of computer science, which is a fulltime job of itself, I cannot work full time on my packages. I hang around in irc channels like #ubuntu-devel and #ubuntu-motu, where I try to help where I can.

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryHomepage
