{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 12.04 LTS (Precise Pangolin) Weekly Meeting ==

=== Upcoming Dates ===

* 11/24 - '''Feature Definition Freeze''' (aka Planning Freeze)
* 11/25 - '''status.ubuntu.com gets reset''' and tracking work items starts.
* 12/01 - '''Alpha 1'''

=== Logisitics ===

* Precise Schedule being updated with UDS input - will no longer be draft after Feature Definition Freeze (aka Planning Freeze) (see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseSchedule)

* Any round table order changes requested? - none brought up.  

* as agreed at UDS,  we'll be trying a new meeting format this cycle, with the focus on the IRC session to be on Q&A based on pre-sent team status to ubuntu-release maillist.
** UDS session: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-release-meeting
** overview of new format: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000471.html 
** for this to work,  its going to be important that the team statuses should be on ubuntu-release mail list at least 4 hours before the meeting (ideally the night before the meeting, so folks have time to read and digest and think up questions).
 

== Round Table ==

=== Hardware Certification team update - mlegris ===

* http://people.canonical.com/~hwcert/oneiric-testing/oneiric_final.html

=== QA team update -  jibel ===

  Extracted from https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000481.html

==== Done this week ====
** Blueprints review and planning.
** The QA team was sprinting all week to extend the capacity of the QA Lab
** Setup daily ISO smoke test for Precise (reporting is being worked on)
** Moved upgrade tests from 11.10 to Precise to QA Lab and added amd64 profiles
** Setup Litmus (https://wiki.mozilla.org/Litmus) in the Lab for test cases management. The QA team is currently reviewing the tool and it will be available for public piloting once it's done.

==== What's about to land that might impact the other teams ====
** Unity tarmac setup in the QA Lab.

==== Dependencies on other teams, blocking items ====
** nothing at this time

==== Blueprints and Status ====

* http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/canonical-platform-qa.html
* If there's anything you'd like to bring to our attention please ask myself or Gema.

=== Security team update - jdstrand ===

* extracted from http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/11/18/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t16:16
* security contact will transition to mdeslaur next week

==== Status ====
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/ReleaseStatus/Precise	
* http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/canonical-security.html	

==== Overview ====
We've gotten our blueprints and work items in shape this week (which is evident from the wild ride that is our burndown atm ;). Like in previous releases, the security team gets to development work as time allows and we only commit to completing work items that have an 'Essential' priority.

In that light, this cycle we have done things differently than in the past and moved all of our essential work items into their own essential blueprints. We then created the topic-precise-security-essential blueprint, that depends on our essential blueprints. This gives us and others the ability to more easily see our progress on things we are committed to implementing. (this can of course be seen in http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/canonical-security.html)	We have no trend line on the burn down, so I will interpret that as us being below it. :)

==== Bugs of concerrn ====
* http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-bugs/reports/rls-p-tracking-bugs.html#security	
** LP:887332: the kernel team is handling this (patch needs to be rewritten and resubmitted upstream)
** LP:344878: plan is to make a change to ecryptfs to use pathconf, then to adjust userspace applications like evolution to properly honor pathconf. We will be adjusting ecryptfs and then filing bugs against applications that aren't honoring pathconf	
** LP:800826, LP:872446, LP:851986: assigned, no progress	

=== Kernel team update - ogasawara ===

 Extracted from: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000473.htm

* Overall status: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/ReleaseStatus/Precise
* Burn down for Precise Alpha-1: http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/precise/canonical-kernel-team-ubuntu-12.04.html
* Burndown for the cycle: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/group/topic-precise-kernel-tasks.html

==== What was done engineering wise? ====

This past week the Ubuntu kernel team has rebased the Precise kernel to
upstream v3.2-rc2.  Some additional highlights include consolidating the
amd64 server and generic flavors, pulling an updated seccomp patch set,
building in ahci, and moving ext2 from being built in to enabled as a
module.  We plan to upload these changes by EOD Fri Nov 18, 2011.  This
will be the first upload based on a v3.2 kernel.

From my own observations, we appear to be making good progress on our
Alpha-1 work items, but it's hard to give a definitive answer without
the burn down charts.

We've also been working to get some power consumption measurements for a
proposed upstream patch.  See the following wiki for more information:

  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/PowerManagement]]</nowiki>

==== What's about to land that might impact the other teams? ====

After we've uploaded, we would appreciate any testing feedback
particularly from the server team since this will have consolidated the
amd64 server flavor into generic.

Additionally, there is a thread on the ubuntu-devel/ubuntu-kernel
mailing lists regarding a proposal to drop support for the i386 non-pae
kernel flavor for the 12.04 LTS release.  Discussions are still ongoing.

==== Summary of bugs working on by team (reasonably reliable) ====

As we're haven't yet uploaded a v3.2 based kernel, we're tentatively
keeping an eye on the following bugs and will add the rls-p-tracking tag
to any that are not be resolved via v3.2.

* LP:818830 - [Sandy Bridge] serious power regression from kernel 3.0.0-6 to 3.0.0-7 (rc6 disabled)
* LP:855124 - XRANDR operations very slow unless (phantom) HDMI1 disabled
* LP:753071 - Include DRM OMAP driver to have proper EDID detection
* LP:836250 - Intel Corporation Centrino Ultimate-N 6300 poor networking

==== Dependencies on other teams, blocking items ====
None.

==== Issues? ====
None.

=== Foundations team update - cjwatson ===

 Extracted from: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000476.html

==== Done this week ====

* CD image builds switched over to new faster build machine.  The part of image builds that it does seems about two or three times as fast as before.
* Perl 5.14 transition (97% finished; 14 out of 462 packages still need some work).
* Work on porting python-dbus to Python 3.  Compiles and runs but test suite does not fully pass yet.
* Some significant Upstart Cookbook updates, in the area of 'expect fork/daemon'.
* Upstart job logging rework nominally code-complete, but test and documentation still ongoing.
* Scripting work to help us manage our rls-p-tracking tasks.
* Substantial research and planning on the crash database, and some early coding.
* Discussion on lp:~ev/apport/disable-core-removal.

==== About to land ====

* New ISO tracker is almost ready to go.  

==== Summary of bugs ====

We have a lot of items on the rls-p-tracking list, which I think is partly because Steve has been efficient about putting things there. :-) However, almost all are for later milestones.  The only alpha-1 bug is:
* Bug 862129: update-manager: "samba postrm depends on packages not
   guaranteed to be configured"
** I'm not entirely clear on the status of this in update-manager; it's
    clearly possible in principle, but will probably require time from
    Michael.  However, I think we can and soon fix the update-inetd part
    of this quite soon (to make it not rely on Perl modules outside
    perl-base), and I've pulled that task back to alpha-1 to reflect
    that.

A related bug which I want to call out as well:
* Bug 891257: doc-base: "doc-base fails to handle perl-base having been
   upgraded but libuuid-perl not"
** This is the same class of problem in a different place.  I've sent a
    patch to the corresponding Debian bug report, but it isn't entirely
    optimal and I'd like to wait for review feedback.

Other non-rls-p-tracking bugs we've been working on:
* Bug 771372: procps: "procps runs too early in the boot process"
* Bug 823366: ifenslave-2.6: "bond_primary is ignored in
   /etc/network/interfaces"
* Bug 829980: upstart: "upstart-udev-bridge eats 100% cpu calling
   dbus_message_iter_append_basic()"
* Bug 876829: ifupdown: "Oneiric's ifupdown breaks ip aliases"

==== Server team update - Daviey ====

 Extracted from: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000479.html

==== Tasks Undertaken ====
* Blueprints, Blueprints, Blueprints
* Further discussion and fact finding on technical implementation of crucial blueprints.
* Closing the merge delta.
* New upstream snapshots of packages which are Ubuntu native.
* CI testing infrastructure implementation for juju/orchestra/openstack components

==== Bugs pertinent to Precise Server release that we are working on ====
* LP: 883988 package glance 2011.3-0ubuntu4 failed to install/upgrade: ErrorMessage: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
** Upgrade bug, Glance doesn't seem to handle database migrations as well as other nova.  There is currently discussions upstream about re-using the same logic.  We are monitoring this.
* LP:888124 excalibur-logkit version 2.0-8 failed to build with openjdk-7
** Untouched, suspect JamesPage will be investigating shortly..
* LP:890036 Please merge libvirt 0.9.7-2 from Debian unstable (main)
** Serge has achieved this, and the package is being reviewed before upload.
* LP:881903 lxc-fedora template is broken
** Cannot currently use lxc fedora guest, it's fixed upstream; awaiting new upstream release.
* LP:888671 Please merge facter 1.6.2 (main) from Debian testing (main)
** Done, Pending review and upload
* LP:607039 NFS4 automount using replicated servers doesn't work
** Serge is currently triaging this
* LP:889644 Please update OpenMPI to the 1.5 upstream version
** On hold, pending assignee
* LP:801494 Multi part LVM layout: system fails to boot due to missing volumes
** Suspect this is resolved, as a duplicate of bug 818177.. But needs confirmation
* LP:862558 cobbler-enlist is not checking for return codes enough
** Adam is undertaking this, currently in progress.
* LP:868488 Cobbler dns name of node needs to match system name
** Adam is undertaking this, currently in progress.
* LP:868492 cobbler-enlist needs to register all interfaces on system, as advertised
** Merge proposal from Adam, awaiting review.
* LP:871278 Cannot attach volumes to instances if tgt is used
** Fixed upstream, pending new upstream snapshot.
* LP:874981 Please merge/sync mcollective from debian wheezy
** Fix attached, some uncertainty if switching to activemq dep is the right thing.  Believe so, requires sponsorship.
* LP:875262 PHP Startup: Unable to load dynamic library '/usr/lib/php5/20090626+lfs/sqlite.so'
** php5 is still looking for an sqlite2 module, koolhead17 is investigating - requires support.
* LP:887410 plymouth ask-for-passphrase
** Assigned to Clint for investigation
* LP:876768 [needs-packaging] netcf
** Serge has packaged, close to, or already sponsored into Debian
    then awaiting sync
* LP:891977 cobbler-web package still contain traces of Ubuntu branding
** Mostly fixed, pending cleanup and upload
* LP:892001 debian/copyright not lintian clean
** bitesize, currently no assignee.

==== Bugs we are tracking for server release, that other teams are working on: ====
* LP:862823 udev causes a kernel panic on oneiric network install
* LP:881076 precise kernels do not boot on ec2 without idle=halt
* LP:759545 user prompted to update unmodified grub configuration during Ubuntu server upgrade
* LP:833994 debian-installer does not support https when using with preseed files
* LP:854050 BUG at /build/buildd/linux-2.6.38/mm/swapfile.c:25
* LP:833994 debian-installer does not support https when using with preseed files
* LP:850960 iscsid tries to reconnect existing session at startup, failing to do so and hanging the system

==== Something Missing? ====
 Our current focus for tasks to be resolved is listed here:
  - http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
 If there is something that you believe that should be targeted, please contact myself or Ursula. 

=== ARM team update -  ogra ===

=== Linaro update -  fabo ===

=== Ubuntu One Team -  joshuahoover ===

=== Desktop Team update  - pitti ===

 Extracted from: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000478.html

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus

=== What was done engineering wise? ===

* Blueprint drafting and approval almost complete (our target was today); work items are almost complete, and everyone individually as well as the total number of work items are below or at the computed/agreed limit.
* Fixed a couple of bugs in autopkgtest, it's now possible to use for our purposes. Converted the first two packages to DEP-8/autopkgtest for continuous QA integration: upower, apport; more to come.  Discussed with Jean-Baptiste how to run these on data center QA  machines.
* Worked on getting Unity test harness and tarmac setup ready to go.  Also got 51 manual test cases for Unity acceptance criteria written as a draft, covering panel and launcher for now.
* Cleanup of GNOME packages, we were able to coordinate with Debian, do a few updates there, and sync a lot.
* Landed client-side crash signature/duplicate detection in Apport trunk, and discussed integration into Cassandra server with Evan.

=== What's about to land that might impact the other teams? ===

* By next Monday we decide about Banshee vs. Rhythmbox. That particularly affects U1. But porting U1 to GTK3 is already unblocked, as we won't go with a GTK2 Banshee in precise.

=== Dependencies on other teams, blocking items ===

* Waiting for IS to put Unity tarmac setup into production.

=== Blueprints ===

* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+specs?searchtext=desktop-p-

* Burndown and spec completion levels:
** For alpha-1: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/canonical-desktop-team-precise-alpha-1.html
** Entire cycle: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/canonical-desktop-team.html

=== Release targetted bugs being worked on/monitored ===

* under investigation:
** Bug:851612 ''[Logging out from a FUS session does not reliably return to VT7]'': Race condition, no progress at figuring out the cause yet

* triaged/in progress:
** Bug:857153 ''[Needs to get accessibility settings from GSettings]'': Problem is clear, but has a workaround
** Bug:805136 ''[accounts window doesn't fit on screen and no scrollbar to show hidden fields]'': No progress this week.
** Bug:810721 ''[at-spi-registryd crashed with SIGSEGV in gconf_client_get_default()]'': Got fixed in at-spi2 (which is what we use now mostly); fix might be applicable to at-spi as well.
** Bug:828623 ''[gnome control centre does not allow you to disable the laptop screen while leaving an external DisplayPort connected screen working]'': Only affects some systems, but great progress on debugging the cause this week.
** Bug:790240 ''at-spi needs demotion for precise'': No progress this week

* fixed since last report:
** Bug:828415 ''[package gnome-accessibility-themes 2.32.1-0ubuntu1 failed to install/upgrade]''
** Bug:890596 ''[pkgbinarymangler causes haskell-dummy FTBFS]''

=== Desktop Experience Team Update - dbarth ===

  Extracted from: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000485.html

==== What was done engineering wise? ====

** Few bug fixes, quickly stopped because of the absence of test framework and diverging expectations between Unity upstream and Platforms new requirements
** Worked on clarifying the level of tests and defining which types of tests (user-acceptance, system integration, unit test) are required for different types of tasks (bug fixes, feature development)
** Defined 2 tasks forces to unblock the situation and create 2 end-to-end test cases, to serve as as reference for future development work; ETA: next week; this is our ONLY PRIORITY, since the embargo has stalled ALL of the development workflow
** Instantiated Kanban workflow connected with Design and Platform bug backlog at http://people.canonical.com/~platform/design/upstream.html

=== What's about to land that might impact the other teams? ====

** Nothing.

==== Dependencies on other teams, blocking items ====

** Waiting for IS to put Unity tarmac setup into production.
** Blocked on diverging definitions of tests and quality assurance priorities

==== Blueprints ====

None

Burndown and spec completion levels:

** For alpha-1: TBD - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/canonical-desktop-team-precise-alpha-1.html
** Entire cycle:  http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/canonical-desktop-team.html
** 
==== Release targetted bugs being worked on/monitored ====

Stalled, waiting for a reset after the quality situation is resolved.

=== Kubuntu Team update - Riddell ===

* no update

=== Edubuntu Team update - stgraber or highvoltage ===

 Extracted from: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000474.html

==== What was done engineering wise? ====

* Final version of our blueprint for Precise: [[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-p-edubuntu]]</nowiki>
* Work items on: <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/group/topic-precise-flavor-edubuntu.html]]</nowiki>

Jonathan is preparing the re-election of the Edubuntu Council and a
plan to change the term to 2 years after this election. Also
finalizing the plan for LTS status, to be proposed at the next TB meeting.

==== What's about to land that might impact the other teams? ====
LTSP upstream is currently going through a pretty big code cleanup and
moving things around. I expect an upload of ldm and ltsp in Precise as
soon as things have calmed down.
This will impact both Edubuntu and Ubuntu Alternate as both ship LTSP.

Currently LTSP won't boot on Precise due to lack of support for overlayfs.

==== Summary of bugs working on by team (reasonably reliable) ====
Haven't started doing much in Edubuntu at this point, most changes are
currently done upstream in LTSP and epoptes to bring them to a state
where we're comfortable getting them in the archive.

==== Dependencies on other teams, blocking items ====
Edubuntu is AFAIk the only flavor that's currently not building.
This is caused by fuse/sshfs, blocked on the merge of fuse.
This is not critical for us at this point but we'd definitely like
that fixed within a week or so or we may need to start moving some
work items to alpha-2 instead.

==== Issues? ====
I think it's all covered above.

=== Xubuntu Team update - madnick ===

* working on roadmap: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/
* setting up topics: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-precise-flavor-xubuntu
* status will be tracked: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/group/topic-precise-flavor-xubuntu.html

* representative going forward will be madnick (per message from knome after meeting)

=== Ubuntu Studio update - scott-work ===

 Extracted from: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000475.html

==== what was done engineering wise? ====

* final specs for ubuntu studio: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-precise-flavor-ubuntu-studio]]</nowiki>
* burn down chart: <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/group/topic-precise-flavor-ubuntu-studio.html]]</nowiki>

we began talking about redefined seeds but have not finalized anything yet

==== what's about to land that might impact the other teams? ====
nothing at this time

==== summary of bugs working on by team (reasonably reliable) ====

* missing indicator-sound-gtk2 in -desktop seed: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntustudio-meta/+bug/891456

==== dependencies on other teams, blocking items ====
none at this time

==== issues? ====
nothing at this time

=== Lubuntu Team update - gilir ===
 
 Extracted from: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2011-November/000477.html

==== What was done engineering wise? ====

* Work items : http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/group/topic-precise-flavor-lubuntu.html

* Still need more details for various work items, expect some changes until Alpha 1.
* Switch done to lightdm by default.

==== What's about to land that might impact the other teams? ====
Nothing.

==== Summary of bugs working on by team (reasonably reliable) ====
Still nothing, work in progress to use rls-mgr-p-tracking instead of our wiki page.

==== Dependencies on other teams, blocking items ====
We closely follow the discussion about the PAE kernel. Depending on the hardware affected, it could be big support drop for Lubuntu.

It seems that the future of powerpc will also be discussed later. We have some people interesting in this architecture, and able to test the ISO during this cycle. Depending on this discussion, we may request to add a new powerpc ISO to ISO testing.

==== Issues? ====
Not yet :)

=== Mythbuntu Team update - superm1 ===

* no update

=== MOTU Team Q&A - tumbleweed or Laney ===

* no questions about any of the transitions

== Other Topics == 

* stgraber: New ISO tracker - prototype up and available for review at: http://91.189.93.73 . 
** the url is the work in progress iso tracker, comments and suggestions are welcome (soon to be feature-equivalent to the current one) 
** api works to add builds, api to add results should be there this afternoon
** issue: Drupal7 needs to be deployed to support new ISO tracker - skaet opened RT:18823

* cjwatston: I wanted to dig into the dssi-vst/multiarch thing that scott-work raised on -release (and I clarified) in particular I think the answer to this depends very much on whether there's more stuff on its way where we're going to want i386 packages on the amd64 images
** pitti: as for the main Ubuntu images, I'd really like to avoid introducing such a case it would add quite a lot of overhead (you will at least have to install a second glibc etc. onto the images)
*** cjwatson: main Ubuntu images> agreed
** scott-work: in the short term should we consider removing dssi-vst from the seeds?	i can check on the impact of that
*** cjwatson: if you're willing to do that, that's a good short-term option IMO; I don't know exactly what features you lose by doing so.  perhaps we should have that be downloaded on demand during installation, since it's proprietary?  or, well, dependent on proprietary bits anyway, we can discuss by mail or whatever

= Q&A by the teams on the above status = 

* Meetingology:  http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-11-18-16.00.moin.txt
* IRC log: http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/11/18/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t16:00
