{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Stable Release Team Agenda ==

* '''PURPOSE:''' collaborate on stable release updates and long term support point releases
* '''FREQUENCY:''' bi-weekly meeting
* '''ACTIVE RELEASES:''' Maverick, Lucid, Karmic, Hardy, Dapper 
* '''RELEASE LIFECYCLE STATUS:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases 

=== Pending Actions ===

* 2010-02-14
** [skaet] add tracking of public bugs of interest from Support team to agenda to track. - IN PROGRESS,  working with Martin
** [skaet] implement some good suggestions received after meeting to improve meeting efficiency:  (1) send out pointer to agenda day before meeting and encourage teams to post status in agenda itself,  (2) create new business section, and encourage teams to post proposals there for consideration in meeting, (3) encourage teams to prepare status update in advance to cut/paste, rather than typing as go. - TO DO,  need to resolved timing conflict with Release meeting follow up on Fridays.
* 2010-03-14
** [bjf, sconklin] update status for this week on this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseTeam/Meeting/2011-03-14-SR.
** [martins] top 5 public bugs of concern?
** [skaet] work with zul, Daviey, pitti to track Bug:651875
** [all] review 10.04.3 proposed date and flag any concerns at next meeting
** [all] review flow of agenda, and get with skaet off line if have ideas for improvements

  
=== Long Term Support Status ===

** 10.04.3 
*** ~+'''''Estimated'' 10.04.3 Release Date: July 14, 2011'''+~
*** any known issues/conflicts?   please raise.
*** Milestoned Bug Summary 
**** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone=30509| 1 Critical/ 4 High unresolved ]]</nowiki> milestoned against 10.04.3

** End of Life - Karmic, Hardy-Desktop
** Just a reminder that April 2011 will see end of life of Karmic Koala (9.10), and Hardy Heron (8.04) Desktop.   
Dapper Drake (6.06) Server will end of life in June 2011.
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases

=== Stable Release Updates - Kernel - bjf/sconklin ===

** Existing Process Documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates
** Existing Kernel SRU Process: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/KernelUpdates
** New Kernel SRU Process being piloted: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/StableReleaseCadence
 
** Overall SRU Status:  http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html

** A new kernel sru cadence cycle is starting this week. We are just a little behind schedule due to the previous cycle and the fact that the kernel stable team was part of a sprint last week.
  

==== Quality Assurance - marjo ====
  
** <nowiki>[[http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html|Current SRU status]]</nowiki>

==== Hardware Certification - ara ====

** SRU Testing for Lucid and Maverick 
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~hwcert/sru-testing/current|Latest Test Results]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~hwcert/sru-testing/|Test Results Archive]]</nowiki>

==== Stable Release Updates - pitti ====

* New Recruit - Clint Byrum - SpammapaS

* Question:
** Any SRU candidates about to expire?
** Any specific concerns?

=== OEM - vanhoof ===

* Question: Any bugs that need to be worked on in next two weeks that should be SRU candidates?
   
=== Support - martins ===

** Question: Any escalation bugs that need to be worked on in next two weeks that should be SRU candidates?

=== New Business - ? ===

* zul: Highlighted bug:  651875 waiting on TB approval (update bind from 9.7.0 to 9.7.3)
* skaet: reworking agenda for this meeting - input welcome.

== IRC Meeting Log ==
* mootbot logs available at 
** http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.log.20110314_1002.html
** http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.20110314_1002.html

