{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page is intended put some structure around the various aspects of release management, and use this as a page for gathering information, processes, etc.   

== Active Release Status ==

* Long Term Support Release Schedule
** overview: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseSchedule/LTStoLTS

Links to help track current activity of a release:

* http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/report
* http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/weatherreport.html
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseTeam/Meeting/
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseManifestOverview

Brainstorming on better metrics to track releases quality:
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseFutureMetrics

== Release Processes ==

These are the check lists necessary to set up the infrastructure for a release, manage it through the life cycle, get it burned to ISOs, and track after release to look for ways to improve. 

==== New Release Kickoff ====

Review and update key information about a release in:
* http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseTeam

Work through:
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewReleaseCycleProcess

Make necessary additions to:
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseSchedule

Update templates and propose initial schedule for release+2 (for advanced planning of activites/etc.)

==== Tracking and Management ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlphaProcess
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BetaProcess
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimeBasedReleases

==== Archive Freeze Management ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BetaFreeze
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeatureFreeze
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreezeExceptionProcess

==== Publishing ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MilestoneProcess
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BetaReleaseProcess
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseProcess
** TODO: Merge in ReleaseCandidateProcess, ReleaseChecklist
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PointReleaseProcess
** TODO: Merge in ReleaseChecklist
** TODO: Update with 12.04.1 planning from UDS-Q
** <nowiki>[[LTS|LTS]]</nowiki> (Long Term Support)

* Publishing mechanics:
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/

* Other teams to interlock with:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/Publishing
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Website/ReleaseProcess
** ReleaseValidationProcess
** <nowiki>[[Kernel-Handbook-ReleaseManagement|Kernel Release Manager tasks]]</nowiki>

==== Post Release Feedback ====

* TO DO: add in WIKI page of things to check at UDS.

==== Stable Release Updates ====

* TO DO: look at revamping this part based on 12.04.1
 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableRelease/UpdateProcedures
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates

==== Security Updates ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures (handled by the Ubuntu Security team)

==== End of Life ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EndOfLifeProcess
* look into special pre-announce 2 months before for LTS
* example for LTS announce: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2009-July/000123.html

----

== Communication ==

These are the mechanisms we use to communicate with each other and manage the release and its quality. 

* <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars/fridge/|Ubuntu Fridge Calendar]]</nowiki>
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot
* <nowiki>[[RCBugTargetting|Targeting of Release-Critical Bugs]]</nowiki>
* WorkItemsHowto

----

== Documentation ==

Updates to the documentation to accompany the release should follow the following.

Only <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-doc|ubuntu-doc-committers]]</nowiki> can commit to the main code. 

Contributors can/should only push to the personal branches and propose a merge, or simply create a bundle and submit to the list for committers to review and accept/merge to the main.

See: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/SystemDocumentation

----

== Translations ==

Translations are amalgamated and handled by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-langpack/+members#active|ubuntu-langpack team]]</nowiki>.

Process documentation is contained in langpack-o-matic.  see: 
http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-langpack/langpack-o-matic/main/view/head:/doc/operator-guide.txt

== Misc ==

Last, but not least:
 
** Every new Release is a beginning of a new era. So some wish to celebrate this, to support the Distribution of their choice by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseParty|Release-Parties]]</nowiki>.

