{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Release Meeting Items ===
==== Current ====
===== Bugs =====
* LP:591707 - After upgrade lucid -> maverick eth0 interface is gone
** Tim is currently assigned to this bug.  We're still waiting for feedback from the bug reporter as to whether the BIOS upgrade that was suggested by Intel made any difference.
* LP:564559
** It looks like this was for a Lucid SRU and the Maverick nomination was added just a few days ago for some reason.  I've confirmed that the Maverick kernel already contains the necessary patch, see comment #24, and so have closed the Maverick task as Fix Released.
* LP:591941
** Mathieu is assigned to this bug.  He's currently working with the TI developers and they've narrowed it down to a DMA related issue, see comment #1.  It's unknown if a fix will land in time for Alpha2 so we've bumped the milestone out to Alpha3 as it does not appear to be an Alpha2 release blocker.

===== Specs =====
* UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-apparmor (jjohansen)
** Slow progress - updated compatibility code, need to do testing and send out pull request when done.
* UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-config-review (ogasawara)
** All Maverick kernel config changes have been reviewed, applied, and uploaded.  We'll send a final kernel content and configuration report to ubuntu-devel around Maverick-Beta.
* UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-firewire-stack (manjo)
** Kernel config options are enabled already to build both old and new stack.  Manjo is coordinating the changes needed for userspace.  JFo is also prepared to post a call for testing to get additional feedback.
* UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-misc (apw)
** This is our catchall blueprint to track work items which don't warrant an individual spec but still represent a task needing attention.  The debian commonisation is progressing well, both Karmic and Lucid branch sets have been converted over. There is some resistance to applying these changes to Karmic currently as they are very hard to review and seen as perhaps outside the SRU process; discussions are ongoing but we may have to abandon doing this for Karmic. We have also mothballed a no longer used branch in Karmic, the netbook branch.
* UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-new-kernel-on-lts (tgardner)
** The LTS backport kernel and meta packages at http://ppa.launchpad.net/kernel-ppa/ppa/ubuntu are up to 2.6.35-3.4 (tracking the latest maverick kernel release). All appears well. In fact, its much better then the previous 2.6.35-rc2 based release which had some memory corrupter bugs.
* UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-pv-ops-ec2-kernel (jjohansen)
** pv-on-HVM drivers don't help us out.  Karmic pv-ops kernel on EC2 is more flaky than it was in the Karmic cycle (only successfully booted in 1 of 4 availability zones). Lucid pv-ops is boot in 2 of 4 availability zones on last test. Maverick wasn't booting at all under 2.6.35.2, have tried it with the latest config changes made pulled forward from Lucid and haven't tried .3 yet. Current plan is revert to full Xen topic branch, and get other work items done and return to pv-ops kernel in a few weeks.
* UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-ubuntu-delta-review (ogasawara)
** We pushed 4 Ubuntu sauce patches upstream which removed duplicate device id's.  Two have been accepted.  The other two still under review.  We've also dropped 3 more sauce patches which are no longer necessary for the distro kernel: 1) added MODULE_ALIAS for the Dell WMI module, 2) sent events on data interface as well as master interface for the hostap driver, and 3) added a CONFIG_PM_DISABLE_CONSOLE option which was causing suspend/resume regressions in Maverick.
* UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-union-mounts (apw)
** Waiting on testing from Foundations from updated kernels. Need to get the tools updated for this and uploaded to the same PPA.
* UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-upstart (apw)
** The patch for passing all kernel command line parameters to init has been tested and applied to the Maverick kernel git repo (not yet uploaded).  This should be available in our Alpha2 kernel.

=== Milestoned features ===

See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/ReleaseStatus/Maverick#Milestone maverick-alpha-2|Milestone maverick-alpha-2]]</nowiki> for features and tasks for the next milestone.  Release <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-kernel-team-maverick-alpha-2.html|burn down chart]]</nowiki> is available.

=== Kernel BurnDown ===

* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-kernel-team-maverick-alpha-1.html|Maverick-alpha-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-kernel-team-maverick-alpha-2.html|Maverick-alpha-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-kernel-team-maverick-alpha-3.html|Maverick-alpha-3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-kernel-team-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html|Ubuntu-10.10-beta]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-kernel-team-ubuntu-10.10.html|Ubuntu-10.10]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-kernel-team.html|Maverick Cycle Overall]]</nowiki>

=== Items Pushed out from Alpha-1 ===

* kernel-maverick-upstart: look at passing all used and unused kernel command line options to userspace
** this still requires testing, it also makes most sense to push this into the kernel just after a milestone.  Moving to early Alpha-2.
* kernel-maverick-union-mounts: push union-mount tools to PPA
* kernel-maverick-union-mounts: evaluate union-mount as a replacement for AUFS
** both of these still require testing.  Moving to Alpha-2.
* kernel-maverick-new-kernels-on-lts: Investigate MIR process for this package:TODO
* kernel-maverick-new-kernels-on-lts: interlock with QA to set support levels:TODO
** both of these are long term goals and more sensible achieved before Beta-1.
* desktop-maverick-xorg-in-mm: review the i8xx patch
* desktop-maverick-xorg-in-mm: produce a PPA for the i8xx patch to allow testing
** there is currently much discussion over the patch and it is still evolving, waiting till the patch settles.  Moved to Alpha-2

=== Status Color Key ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ~-'''Color'''-~
| ~-'''Definition'''-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ff0000">~-'''Red'''-~
| ~-In danger of not making this release-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ffff00">~-'''Yellow'''-~
| ~-Has issues that need to be resolved in order to make the release-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#00ff00">~-'''Green'''-~
| ~-No issues and on track for delivery in this release-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#00cc00">~-'''Dark Green'''-~
| ~-Not yet started, expected to make the release-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#999999">~-'''Grey'''-~
| ~-Deferred-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="lightblue">~-'''''Light Blue'''''-~
| ~-Done-~
|}
