{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Release Notes ==

=== Purpose ===
** Provide a static overview of content of a release in features section.   Should not be every package, but the key ones, that have wiedespread use, should be highlighted.   
** Aim for what is of interest in the release to general users of a specific product.  (note pages have been broken down by product now, rather than all combined onto one page).  
** FUTURE: segment to reflect different users interests: sysadmin, enduser, developer, accessibility.

=== Content Guidelines ===
** Installation:
*** provide download links for picking up images
*** provide installation instructions
*** provide update instructions
** System Requirements:
*** What is minimum configuration that will provide a usable system after installation.
** Feature Section:  
*** provide overview of key features included with release.  Info to entice them to learn more.
*** For upstream projects included,  make sure to link to them when referencing.
*** Add pointers to key documentation, and other static information (user guides, etc.) where folks can learn more.
** Known Issues: 
*** provide summary of issues that a user might encounter when installing or using the product.
** Support:
*** Provide support terms for specific products
** For LTS:  add in pointers to changelogs and possible feature changes for point releases as they emerge.
   

== Technical Overview ==

=== Purpose ===
** Provide a developer viewpoint on the contents of a milestone.
** Focus on what has changed since last milestone and what might impact developers at system level.

=== Format ===

* Installation:
*** provide download links for picking up images
*** provide installation instructions
*** provide update instructions.
** Feature Section:  
*** provide overview of key features included with milestone
*** For upstream projects,  make sure to link to them when referencing.
** Known Issues: 
*** provide summary of issues that a user might encounter when installing or using the product.
