{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary and Status ===

Implement the full semantics of the Replaces dependency field.

See https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/replacement-package-auto-installation.

Formerly half of PackageDependencyFixes which has been split into this spec and PackageDependencyFieldBreaks.

=== Rationale ===

Correct behaviour in the presence of Replaces will allow us to get rid of all `transitional packages'.  These are effort to create and maintain and of course cause confusion and cruft.

=== Use cases ===

Breezy i386 contains around 18-29 transitional packages which could be simply abolished.  With proper behaviour on Replaces, transitional packages will no longer be required when package names change.

=== Scope ===

dselect, apt, and smartpm if applicable, need to be taught about the full meaning of Replaces.

=== Design ===

Replaces: when A is selected by the user for installation, and a newly-available package B appears such that (the new version of) B Replaces (the current version of) A, then B should automatically be marked as selected for installation.  This is in addition to the other behaviours of Replaces.  See http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel/2005/06/msg02045.html, http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=47540 (closed in error).  This has been a planned intended behaviour of Replaces for some time, as old versions of the Debian Packaging manual show.

=== Implementation ===

# apt will have to be taught about the full meaning of Replaces.
# dselect will have to be taught about the full meaning of Replaces.
 3. If we switch to smartpm we will have to educate that too.

=== Compatibility and upgrade process ===

=== Q and A ===

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
