{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': 
* '''Created''': 2007-05-24
* '''Contributors''':  MartinAlbisetti
* '''Packages affected''': None

=== Summary ===
Conferences and meetings define and shape much of what goes on in Ubuntu. Since Ubuntu has a large community all over the world, most members do not have an opportunity to attend and know what went on, what decisions where taken, and probably most importantly, ''why'' they where taken.
A lot of brain storming is done in very few days, it would be very beneficial for the community to have access to that information so the community at large can be in sync.

=== Rationale ===
Most of the information produced in conferences and meetings is locked away in a few heads that where lucky to attend, the power of the community is not being taken advantage of in this situation.

Most of it is lost due to participants being exhausted during and after the event, and focusing on the actual conference.

=== Use Cases ===
 John is an avid Ubuntu contributor. He knows there is an upcoming event that could be crucial to him, but can not attend.

 Sally is a Ubuntu user, who wants to know about the upcoming changes and perhaps give her feedback, but cannot attend. 

=== Scope ===
All meetings and conferences organized or sponsored by Ubuntu and Canonical.

=== Implementation ===
* A person or group of people should be sponsored to attend the event to document and record each event in every way possible (video, audio, notes). 
** Video recording should be made as much as possible, especially with pre-arranged talks.
** Audio recording will be made when video recording is not possible to later transcribe the highlights (ideas tossed around, discussions, etc).
** Summary notes should always be made of all the activities happening at the event.
** Interviews of 5 minutes or less of integral attendees (speakers, coordinators, or important community members) could be done when possible at the end of each day.
* The information will then be made available to the community on a daily basis on the Ubuntu Wiki. The highlights should be available daily on a visible place (a well-know site like TheFridge, or other specific site), so everyone can follow closely and send any feedback that could be useful.
** The person or group of people could then be in charge of sharing the feedback from the community on the day's previous information to the members present at the event.
** A team involving the person or group of people and other online people could be organized to present and translate the information as fast as possible for the entire community to enjoy. Aiming very high, even subtitles and transcripts should be sought for the videos.

==== Requisites ====
* At least one of the persons must speak and write fluently in English
* Must have general knowledge on how the Ubuntu community works
* Must have some knowledge of the technical aspects to report on them properly
* Has a schedule which permits him to travel a few times a year to cover these events

=== Outstanding Issues ===
* How to select and sponsor a person or group of people to perform the tasks.
* Feasability of video production turnaround for the internet and bandwidth concerns.

=== Comments ===
 

----
CategorySpec
