{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ReunionTeam ==
Website: http://www.ubuntu-re.org

Forum: http://www.ubuntu-re.org/forum

Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-re

Jabber: jabber.ubuntu-re.org

Contact: 

* by mail: info@ubuntu-re.org
* by mailing list: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-re
* by jabber conference: ubuntu-re@conference.jabber.ubuntu-re.org

=== Team Leaders ===

The Team Leaders are ErwanBriand and AnthonyGuichard ! You can contact them at info@ubuntu-re.org

=== Site réunionnais ===

La LoCoTeam réunionnaise a été crée dans le but premier de promouvoir Ubuntu sur l'île de la Réunion et de pouvoir bénéficier d'un site web présentant Ubuntu et nos actions.
Comme nous l'annoncons sur la page d'accueil du site, nous prévoyons des '''actions de sensibilisation''' (distribution gratuite de CD/DVD d'installation et conférences) ainsi que des '''rencontres entre utilisateurs (et futurs utilisateurs''' (install party, meeting).
----

Also, in order to defend the specificity of our island, all the site is available in Creole, without reloading the page. In other words, the site is available in French and Creole, in order to touch the greatest number.

=== Actions prévues ===

* an install party with the "G.R.A.L." Lug

=== Dernières actions ===
''To see the list of our active members, visit our forum: http://www.ubuntu-re.org/forum/userlist.php''

''To see our actions in image, visit our gallery of photographs: http://www.ubuntu-re.org/photos.php''

==== 2007 ====

===== Feisty Fawn =====
Nous avons organisé une <nowiki>[[FeistyReleaseParties|Feisty Release Party]]</nowiki> dans le même restaurant que notre première rencontre, à la plage.

We organized a <nowiki>[[FeistyReleaseParties|Feisty Release Party]]</nowiki> in the same restaurant, at beach.

===== Jabber =====
Nous avons créé un serveur jabber à '''jabber.ubuntu-re.org''' afin de permettre la communication entre nos membres.
Plusieurs salons sont disponibles sur '''conference.jabber.ubuntu-re.org''' !

We created a jabber server at '''jabber.ubuntu-re.org''' in order to allow the communication between our members.
Several chat rooms are available on '''conference.jabber.ubuntu-re.org'''!

==== 2006 ====

===== Install Party =====
Ubuntu Réunion a participé à une '''Install Party''' organisée par l'association G.R.A.L. ! Nous avons distribué les quelques CDs qu'il nous restait et nous avons installé Ubuntu sur plusieurs ordinateurs.

Ubuntu Réunion took part in an '''Install Party''' organized by G.R.A.L. association! We distributed some CDs and we installed Ubuntu on several computers.

===== Cyber Salon =====
Ubuntu Réunion a participé au '''Salon de l'informatique de l'Île de la Réunion''' sur le stand de l'association G.R.A.L. ! Nous avons ainsi donné les 155 CDs envoyés par ShipIt aux visiteurs intéressés par la distribution.

Ubuntu Réunion took part in the '''Computer show of the Reunion Island''' on the stand of G.R.A.L. association! We gave the 155 CDs sent by ShipIt to the visitors interested by the distribution.

Compte rendu/Report: http://www.ubuntu-re.org/actus2.php?id=2

===== Repas =====
Ubuntu Réunion a organisé un '''repas''' dans un restaurant de la plage de l'Hermitage, afin de renforcer les liens entre ses membres, peu après la création de l'équipe.

Ubuntu Réunion organized '''a lunch''' in a restaurant of the beach of the Hermitage, in order to reinforce the bonds between its members, after the creation of the team.
