{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:reveal-containing-folder-after-save
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':
* '''See Related''': RevealAs

=== Summary ===

In order to provide rapid access to on-disk file locations, the default "Save As" dialog box common to all Gnome/KDE applications should include a check box option to "Reveal Containing Folder after Saving".  Users checking the box would see the default file manager open the folder containing the saved file with the file highlighted.

=== Release Note ===

The reveal-containing-folder-after-save option is an addition to the default Save As dialog box functionality.  Existing users who do not take advantage of this option will be unaffected.  Users who do use it can see a productivity increase.

=== Rationale ===

Every user has the experience of saving a file inside their favorite program, then multi-clicking their way through the file manager in order to access it.  The proposed check box, to be available on the standard Gnome/KDE "Save As" dialog box, seeks to eliminate the hassle of remembering where something was just recently saved by automatically opening the folder.

=== Use Cases ===

** John scans a document in xsane that he needs to take on his USB pen drive in TIFF format.  In the "Save As" dialog box, he selects /home/john/scans/myscan.tiff and he checks the "Reveal Containing Folder After Saving" button.  The containing folder opens with myscan.tiff highlighted so he can copy it to his pen drive and other locations.
** Mary starts an email and then realizes she will need to attach the letter she is working on.  In her word processing application, she selects "Save As" and checks "Reveal Containing Folder After Saving" (or the related RevealAs menu item).  The document is then revealed in the file manager for her to attach to the email via drag-and-drop.

=== Assumptions ===

** Dangerous but not catastrophic for users who immediately move the file after Save/Reveal.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

I have no idea how to implement this feature.

==== UI Changes ====

The "Save As" dialog box needs an additional check box.

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
