{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/rhythmbox-organize-files
* '''Packages affected''': rhythmbox

=== Summary ===

Rhythmbox should offer the possibility of moving audio files to the Library directory when they are imported, just like it does with audio files ripped from a CD.

=== Rationale ===

* The current name "import file/directory" is misleading, because files are not imported into the library directory, they are just listed in the database.

* Rythmbox already has options to specify how files are stored in the library directory.

* The lack of this feature forces the user to organize the files by hand, writing onto the library directory and trying to mimic this organization.

* This behavior is more consistent with other players, including iTunes.

=== Use cases ===

* A user downloads a number of MP3 files from ClassicCat. The files are stored in the Desktop by Firefox. The user drags the files into the Rythmbox library panel. Files are imported and moved to the library.

* A user wants to change the order in which its files are organized. He moves all files from his library directory to a different one. Changes the settings in Rythmbox and drags all files again back into Rhythmbox.

=== Implementation ===

In the preferences panel, add a checkbox with the message "Move files to library when importing". If this box is checked, implement the behavior described above.

=== Monitoring Directories ===

Until such a feature is implemented it may be necessary to monitor a directory for ripped content. You can do this by going to Edit/Preferences/Library/Library Location and select the folder. Then check the box marked "Watch my library for new files". If you want to have Rhythmbox monitor multiple directories you can create a symbolic link to the other directories, and place it in the directory already being watched by Rhythmbox. 
