{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': Rhytmbox

=== Summary ===
The default behaviour of Rhythmbox when operating in fullscreen is confusing. Basic operations should stay the same whether the app is maximised or in fullscreen mode.

=== Rationale ===
The default behaviour of Rhythmbox when operating in fullscreen is confusing. The fact that 
double-clicking changes meaning just because the screen area is somewhat larger is not exactly intuitional. When Rhythmbox is in normal operation (say, maximised), double-clicking a tune plays it. If you then press [F11] double clicking another tune enqueues it in the playlist.

=== Use cases ===
Sam plays some tunes on RB. Then Bob comes in, and Sam presses F11 so that Bob can play around with RB, without interrupting any of the other programs that are laying in the background. But Bob says he can't make the songs play! So Sam goes over, and clicks a tune. But nothing happens. So he quits the program, and starts it over again, this time sure the program has a bug.

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
