{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents WIP'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Wei-Lin Chang, apply for the
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team
membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| '''Wei-Lin Chang'''
|-
| Launchpad Page
| '''https://launchpad.net/~rhythm16'''
|-
| Wiki Page
| '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/rhythm16'''
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is Wei-Lin Chang, and I have been a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team
since August 2024.

I am currently responsible for maintaining the Ubuntu Xilinx kernel, and I have also done some research in Linux KVM ARM. I obtained my Master's degree in Computer Science from National Taiwan University in 2023.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I first encountered Ubuntu in 2016 when I was learning about Linux. This marked my initial exploration into the world of Linux.

During my graduate studies, many of my experiments also required running in a Linux environment, and I continued to use the excellent Ubuntu system throughout the kernel development process.

Since joining Canonical, Ubuntu has become the default operating system on my laptop.

=== My involvement ===

I am currently responsible for tasks such as Xilinx partner engineering and Xilinx kernel maintenance.

=== Activity ===
https://bugs.launchpad.net/~rhythm16

=== Sponsoring ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> Sponsor
| Count
|-
| Stefan Bader
| 19
|-
| LEE KUAN-YING
| 12
|-
| Mehmet Basaran
| 10
|-
| Jacob Martin
| 6
|-
| Jesse Sung
| 4
|-
| Portia Stephens
| 2
|-
| Noah Wager
| 2
|-
| Total
| 55
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> Date
| Sponsor
| Sponsoree
| Package
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| 2024-10-15 07:30
| Portia Stephens
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx
| 6.8.0-1009.10
| noble
|-
| 2024-10-15 07:39
| Portia Stephens
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx
| 6.8.0.1009.10
| noble
|-
| 2024-12-16 06:34
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0-1056.60
| focal
|-
| 2024-12-16 06:41
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0.1056.56
| focal
|-
| 2025-01-16 03:10
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx
| 6.8.0-1011.12
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-16 03:10
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx
| 6.8.0.1011.12
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-24 14:27
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-kvm
| 5.15.0-1074.79
| jammy
|-
| 2025-01-24 14:29
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.15.0.1074.70
| jammy
|-
| 2025-01-24 14:29
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.15.0-1074.79
| jammy
|-
| 2025-01-27 09:49
| Jesse Sung
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0-1041.45
| jammy
|-
| 2025-01-27 09:49
| Jesse Sung
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0.1041.45
| jammy
|-
| 2025-02-17 08:56
| Jesse Sung
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0-1043.47
| jammy
|-
| 2025-02-17 09:00
| Jesse Sung
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0.1043.47
| jammy
|-
| 2025-02-20 11:43
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1128.137
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-20 11:44
| Jacob Martin
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-iot
| 5.4.0-1047.50
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-20 11:44
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1128.124
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-20 11:44
| Jacob Martin
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-iot
| 5.4.0.1047.45
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-20 11:44
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1128.137
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-20 11:45
| Jacob Martin
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-signed-iot
| 5.4.0-1047.50
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-02 07:40
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx
| 6.8.0-1013.14
| noble
|-
| 2025-03-02 07:41
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx
| 6.8.0.1013.14
| noble
|-
| 2025-03-06 04:03
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0-1044.48
| jammy
|-
| 2025-03-06 04:05
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0.1044.48
| jammy
|-
| 2025-03-17 06:08
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1129.138
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-17 09:54
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1129.125
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-17 09:55
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1129.138
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-18 05:33
| Jacob Martin
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-iot
| 5.4.0-1048.51
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-18 05:38
| Jacob Martin
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-iot
| 5.4.0.1048.46
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-18 05:39
| Jacob Martin
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-signed-iot
| 5.4.0-1048.51
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-21 09:24
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1130.139
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-21 09:26
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1130.126
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-21 09:27
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1130.139
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-23 08:09
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx
| 6.8.0-1014.15
| noble
|-
| 2025-03-23 08:10
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx
| 6.8.0.1014.15
| noble
|-
| 2025-03-26 03:49
| Noah Wager
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0-1062.66
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-26 03:50
| Noah Wager
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0.1062.62
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-27 07:13
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0-1046.50
| jammy
|-
| 2025-03-27 07:27
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0.1046.50
| jammy
|-
| 2025-03-29 09:16
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1082.89~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-29 09:19
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0.1082.89~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-29 09:20
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-signed-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1082.89~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-29 09:21
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-restricted-modules-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1082.89~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-21 04:38
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1083.90~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-21 04:39
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0.1083.90~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-21 04:39
| Stefan Bader
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-signed-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1083.90~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-23 02:31
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0-1064.68
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-23 02:31
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0.1064.64
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-25 10:27
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0-1048.52
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-25 10:29
| LEE KUAN-YING
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.15.0.1048.51
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-28 06:24
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1081.87~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-28 06:38
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-riscv-5.15
| 5.15.0-1079.83~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-28 07:22
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-riscv-5.15
| 5.15.0.1079.83~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-28 07:22
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-meta-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0.1081.87~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-28 07:23
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-signed-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1081.87~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-28 07:24
| Mehmet Basaran
| Wei-Lin Chang
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1081.87~20.04.1
| focal
|}

Thanks <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~corytodd/+git/tools|@corytodd]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi|UDD]]</nowiki> for the generation of these tables.

=== Upload Rights ===

I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader ===

==== General feedback ====

I have been reviewing 16 of the packages Wei-Lin has done so far. From memory I cannot
remember any issues with those. If there ever were unclear situations they got resolved
quickly and easy enough to not leave any negative impressions. I am trusting Wei-Lin
to keep up that quality of work and support his application for PPU rights for kernel.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

As we now work with rather high level tooling there is always room for improvement by
investigating and understanding how things work underneath. Also one should never be
afraid of asking before doing an odd looking upload.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=nrQr
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Kuan-Ying Lee ===

==== General feedback ====

I've already reviewed several cranks of the Xilinx kernel by Wei-Lin.
There haven't been any issues with them. I trust Wei-Lin to handle the uploads on his own.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I collaborated with Wei-Lin during his kernel crank tasks. He was always careful with his work and asked questions quickly when something wasn’t clear. Over time, he has taken ownership of Xilinx projects and has become highly familiar with the process.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

None
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=RK6E
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Jacob Martin ===
==== General feedback ====
The kernel packages of Wei-Lin's that I have reviewed were prepared with care. For the one issue we ran into, Wei-Lin quickly understood and resolved it. Given my experience with his packaging, the variety of experience, and the testimony of others, I fully trust Wei-Lin with kernel package upload rights.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQIzBAEBCgAdFiEErn0x/xnCJ6XX1CWxoI1s0Y4ryAIFAmgkvkYACgkQoI1s0Y4r
yALt2Q/7BLQEmsjLPyD1bSoCBdaIsV6hk7mepSwlkOU4ZqylswDjBce4+Dd9FHq0
FGj8Gu5rq00Lx/vwZgap6qFx1CdsMhq9SyS41BN0SBlk4jLnvTB5ka8+EJSfvDe+
KafrUPJyo2dR21GDNWX+hXHRZhnkXH3draF3uBPe0N6Qs9+k6OiXiUFBBkEbmtML
iwdReI+kSQyrzl42FVz5VgGquj7cBtb2coDjHJ+yN7G2k1EO416G4c6sicSfTD5j
ip10QYkWG8OBBH7JvTI++gCW8ETH9UEJtO01OlHJ3ftsZ1cyXGeIfHcpbJKKyyqx
/77s6cqp34/EpuvIY8hc6HPj995K3LBziDeYauypZnC2O2hfp4tMe9xMZbYsbj5b
QfpEJMZM1HsiB/afTauk9Vp5t0rsQVo76PWGGjyJ9jYCfMRinwLV3uvLUtbVzU5C
Uy+xMj2B1Sd82MCa+gBWQnUyl7GfukoDuIrLDGN9AGz/SUMX7eoTdOJxivtUDg24
ZGVhoEmLYALghogqmo04oqTwpnMuxMsga7g8MUas90iu13jXSMbACaBGjYwDuEJn
TktqOhun9HfR/ySvwE+mPZ+TEnJnhCRURSZa+rAnc4a5ZsLcXNwdeQlRkPPEKaNk
sx7XbXk582yfOOLX8RePtG/+2Y93ijYonJNS7vcmc5t/PhO2j5E=
=wjhF
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
