{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Hi! I'm an Spanish Ubuntero :).

=== Information ===

* You can see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ricardo|my front page in Launchpad]]</nowiki> for more info.

=== Involving Ubuntu ===

* I'm the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-es|Ubuntu Spanish Translators]]</nowiki> team administrator, and a Spanish translator via Launchpad.
** As administrator, my job is, basically, to help approving/declining new membership requests for the team, using the criteria published in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuSpanishTranslators|team wiki page]]</nowiki>. (I helped to write that wiki page, as you can see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuSpanishTranslators?action=info|in the info view]]</nowiki>.) The administration job involves coordinating all the process.
** As translator, my job is to help translating Ubuntu into Spanish. I'm doing translation works since 2005, and I do send bugreports about translation problems regularly. You can see <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~ricardo/|my latest translations]]</nowiki>. The Spanish is on the top of the <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy|translated languages]]</nowiki> in Ubuntu!
** Most of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ricardo|the bugreports I send]]</nowiki> are i18n/l10n issues.
* I'm also one of the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-es-l10n|ubuntu-es-l10n mailing list]]</nowiki> administrator.
* Since 2007-10-01, I'm an official <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki>.

=== Spreading Ubuntu! ===

* You can see the <nowiki>[[http://www.iesdonana.org/debianubuntu.odp|slides]]</nowiki> of a conference I did about Debian & Ubuntu.
* I teach Computer Science in a <nowiki>[[http://www.iesdonana.org|High School]]</nowiki> of Andalusia, Spain.
** I install and maintain three computer labs entirely with Ubuntu computers (around 100 Ubuntu machines).
** I teach software technology with PHP, Apache, PostgreSQL and Linux basics.
