{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Who I am ===
I am Ricardo 24 years old.
I am a Filipino and I live in Cebu City,Philippines.
I am a graduate of Instrumentation and Control Systems Technology at CITE Technical Institute Cebu Philippines.

My course is about automation or Mechatronics, It involve, PLC, Pneumatics/Electro-pneumatics,Industrial Electronics,Proximity Sensors, PIC programming(using Assembly Language) etc. During my studies year 2005 I did my OJT in LEXMARK RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT and was assigned in Infra-Structure Support Department.There I started to Learn Linux.I tried all the common flavor(RedHat,Fedora Core,Debian, OpenSuse, Ubuntu)in 9 months time.

After my graduated last May 2006, I worked in Bigfoot Entertainment Philippines. There I provide Level 3 technical support under IT Department.During my time in Bigfoot I used Ubuntu as my primary OS.It made me feel how good is open source is, I get a lot of support, and everything I need I get for free.

July 2008 I left Bigfoot and started to work in CallAssistant Communication Center(a BPO company cebu philippines) as Systems Engineer until present.I setup the company server/network needs from scratch and use ubuntu in my servers.

I want to contribute to Ubuntu and its community as a member of MOTU and hopefully I will be a core-devel in the future. My programming skills is low because I dont where to start, but I hope after joining the MOTU team I could get an idea.

=== My Involvement ===
* I prefer to get involved in packaging and patching and bug fixes. 
* would still be honored to get involved in a project which is concerned with low level programming.

=== Things I am Proud Of ===
* I am proud that I can stand on my own.  
* I am proud to be a Filipino
* I am proud that in the end I made the move and joined ubuntu.

=== Areas of work ===
* Server/Network administration
* Technical Support(Windows Client OS's,Linux, Mac)
* I have experience in php and basic mysql

* As much as possible I use opensource software for the work and personal needs. 
* I surely am a friend of a graphical desktop environment but I am experienced in working from a terminal window (Konsole) at the same time.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
