{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

* Linux user since 2002
* Ubuntu and Debian user since 2007 (x86, amd64, armel)
* Ubuntu Core Developer
* Canonical ARM developer since 2010 (working together with the Ubuntu ARM team)
* Contributions to many OSS over the past few years (OE, Mamona, Maemo, Linux, Gentoo, Ubuntu, etc)

Working with OSS development since 2003, and doing general distro development since 2006. While Gentoo user I contributed with package and kernel fixes. From 2008-10 worked helping created an OpenEmbedded based distro called Mamona. Since 2010 I've being working at Canonical, at the Ubuntu on ARM team, doing development and fixes for the Omap images.

Large experience with SW development, mainly using Python and C. Being a generalist, worked from Kernel to X11, also doing a lot of distro development.

== My Ubuntu story ==

After some long years using Gentoo (also Debian, but mostly at the University), I decided to move to a package oriented distro, and by 2007 Ubuntu seemed the best option around (it was getting quite famous, and most friends were using it already). After using it at most of my X86 servers, I started using it with my EeePC for desktop purposes, helping debugging and fixing the RT2860 wireless driver.

Since July 2010 I've being working at Canonical as an ARM developer, participating at the Ubuntu on ARM team, helping improving the Ubuntu on ARM experience in general.

=== Areas of interest ===

* Bootloaders: X-loader/U-boot
* Kernel (device drivers)
* X11
* Ubuntu core tools

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~rsalveti
|-
| IRC
| rsalveti
|-
| Jabber
| ricardosalveti@jabber.org
|-
| Email
| rsalveti - AT rsalveti net
|-
| Website
| http://rsalveti.net
|}
