{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~Ricey|Ricey]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''Ricey''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''GnuPG Key''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xC12E617B2B3C19A1F6899F19BA9AE1E48D1ADC34&op=index|8D1ADC34]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
Hello, my name is Dave 'Ricey' Rice, 39 years old and currently live in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lincolnshire|Lincolnshire, UK]]</nowiki>.  I'm a current serving member of Her Majesty's Armed Forces and have been for 18 years.

I first used Linux back in about 1995 and subsequently switched to Ubuntu, which I have used ever since, in 2005.

All my computers now use Ubuntu full time.  Laptops and Desktop.

=== Ubuntu and Me ===

==== LoCo Teams ====

===== Ubuntu UK =====
I am a contributor to the IRC channel #ubuntu-uk on the Freenode network, I help others where possible as well as adding to the community feel of the channel.

==== Dev ====

===== Ubuntu UK =====
I am a member of the en_GB Translation Team, where I try to be a productive member!

===== EeePC =====

I have written a script that 'tweaks' Ubuntu to work properly on the EeePC 701 model of netbooks.
It's website can be found at <nowiki>[[http://eee.ricey.co.uk|eee.ricey.co.uk]]</nowiki>

=== The Future ===
I have taken a lot from Ubuntu over the years, it has taught me a great deal.  I am now looking to give something back to the community.
Starting with the Translation Team, an area in which I am comfortable, I hope to expand my work to other projects.

I also advocate the use of Linux to others and have 'converted' a substantial number over the past few months.  This work will continue!

=== Testimonials ===

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeamProfile]]</nowiki>
