{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== The Kubuntu Plan ==
'''NOTE:''' This is just some quick jots I made while mulling over the idea of having a business plan for the Kubuntu project. It is very raw and just a brain dump at its best.
=== The Kubuntu Summary ===
Kubuntu is a free, community driven, and user-friendly operating system. It is build upon the award-winning Ubuntu Linux operating system and features the latest K Desktop Environment. Kubuntu contains all of the applications you need, and with a biannual release cycle, and at least 18 months of free security updates for each release, Kubuntu is the secure and stable computing environment the world has been waiting for. Kubuntu is, and always be free of charge. You do not pay any licensing fees. You can download, use and share Kubuntu with your friends, family, school or business for absolutely nothing.

Kubuntu makes the following promises:
* Kubuntu will always be free of charge, including enterprise releases and security updates.
* Kubuntu comes with full commercial support from Canonical as well as hundreds of companies worldwide.
* Kubuntu includes the very best translations and accessibility infrastructure that the free software community has to offer.
* Kubuntu CDs contain only free software applications; we encourage the world to use free and open source software, improve it and pass it on.

Kubuntu was created in 2005, when people took noticed of an amazing new operating system called Ubuntu. K Desktop Environment (KDE from this point on) users realized that incorporating KDE into the base of Ubuntu had the potential to become the greatest operating system ever. At that time, Canonical Ltd., the company that financially backs and supports the Ubuntu project, realized the potential as well, and created a KDE team with one member from Canonical to lead the venture, and then a group of community volunteers to help mold the future of Kubuntu.

Jonathan Riddell, the Canonical employee in charge of the Kubuntu project, believes that Kubuntu has everything in its grasp to in fact become the greatest desktop operating system available. Since his start in Kubuntu, he has gathered an immense pool of information from one of the greatest communities of volunteers. He leads these volunteers, on a daily basis, in the creation of Kubuntu. These volunteers come from all around the world and all have a unique trait that helps to create the diversity needed in order to make such an amazing product. Whether these volunteers are creating artwork, developing software, documenting the system and project, or packaging the thousands of free software applications made available by other volunteers, they are hard at work creating Kubuntu for the world to enjoy.

After four years of successful operation, Kubuntu has seen the ups and downs over the years. It is because of these ups and downs that the Kubuntu community is as strong as it has ever been. During these four years success has been amazing, as Kubuntu has made its way into the French Parliament as well as many schools around the world, such as the Canary Islands.

=== The Kubuntu Vision ===
Kubuntu has a vision that is similar in a lot of ways to that of other companies and projects around the world, to be number one. To be number one though, Kubuntu takes it many steps further by realizing the physical experience as well as the internal thoughts, emotions, and feelings that they want their users and community to feel. A lot of projects and companies typically feel that their vision is to create the best products, or deliver the best service, however they tend to think for themselves without ever reaching out to their end users or creating a community behind their vision. Kubuntu has this community that shares the vision of others, and each person contributes in not only making the vision obtainable, but by also adding on to the vision, in order to reach out to everyone.

Kubuntu is a product that everyone can use and enjoy. We see Kubuntu on the desks of every person, business, school, government, and anywhere else it can go. Kubuntu has already been seen in many of these environments, but our vision is to see it in everyone of these environments. One of our community volunteers, Harald Sitter, stated that he would like to hear the start up sound of Kubuntu when he is sitting in the quietest of places, his library. On any given day, the quietness of your library is usually broken up by the sound of another operating system, which is equivalent to fingernails running down a chalkboard, or the sound of a ball smashing through your windows while you are enjoying a nice cup of tea.

We not only want to be the number one choice when it comes to your computer's operating system, but we want to be number one in the hearts of our users and community. Have you ever turned on the television and enjoyed a Miss Universe pageant, only to hear the same exact answer on what the contestant would like to achieve? Yes, world peace. You think for a second about all of the contestants from all around the world, get together for this one evening, and all look so happy standing together, some from countries who do not get along with the others. Kubuntu has exactly that, contributors from all around the world, who work together in order to bring you the greatest experiences with your computer. No matter the backgrounds, ethnicity, religious, or other preferences, the community is open-minded, the community is one. If for one minute there was world peace, Kubuntu is the closest you will get to ever achieving it.

'''ADD MORE STUFF'''
