{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Richard "ys76" Verwayen ===

I am a system administrator working for a small company next to Moenchengladbach/Germany. I am using Ubuntu since Warthy and got infected by the ideas of Ubuntu at the Ubuntu-DE-booths at the first Linuxdays in Essen/Germany.

I am one of the guys behind the german fair team and the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubucon.de|Ubucon-DE]]</nowiki>

==== Activities in 2009 ====
* presenting Ubuntu at the <nowiki>[[http://www.cebit.de|CeBIT 05/06.03.2009]]</nowiki>

==== Activities in 2008 ====
* member of the managment of the <nowiki>[[http://verein.ubutu-de.org|German Ubuntu Association]]</nowiki>
* presenting Ubuntu at the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtag.org|Linuxtag]]</nowiki> in Berlin 28.05-31.05.2008
* presenting Ubuntu at the <nowiki>[[http://www.froscon.de|Froscon]]</nowiki>
* Core-Team behind the second german speaking <nowiki>[[http://www.ubucon.de|Ubucon]]</nowiki> 17-19.10.2008
* member of the server administration team <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-eu.org|Ubuntu-EU]]</nowiki>
* 2x Teaching/presenting Ubuntu at an governmental institution <nowiki>[[http://www.krzn.de|KRZN]]</nowiki> in a 2 day course called "Linux/Ubuntu for govermental use"

==== Activities in 2007 ====
* presenting Ubuntu at the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtag.org|Linuxtag]]</nowiki> in Berlin 30.05-02.06.2007
* presenting Ubuntu at the <nowiki>[[http://www.come2linux.org|Come2Linux]]</nowiki> in Essen 10./11.11.2007
* Core-Team behind first german speaking <nowiki>[[http://www.ubucon.de|Ubucon]]</nowiki>
* Edubuntu test weekend at the Unperfekthaus in Essen 17/18.02.2007

==== Activities in 2006 ====
* presenting Ubuntu at the LinuxWorldExpo in Cologne 14-16.11.2006
* presenting Ubuntu at the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtag.org|Linuxtag]]</nowiki> in Wiesbaden 05/06.06.2006
* presenting Ubuntu at the <nowiki>[[http://www.come2linux.org|Come2Linux]]</nowiki> in Essen 09/10.09.2006
* organizing a <nowiki>[[http://www.dulug.de/cgi-bin/dcms.cgi?action=urp1|Release Party]]</nowiki> in Duisburg/Germany in 08.04.2006

==== Activities in 2005 ====
* member of the <nowiki>[[http://verein.ubutu-de.org|German Ubuntu Association]]</nowiki> since 12/2005
* got in touch with Julius "juliux" Bloch at the first Linux-Days in Essen (where I was responsible for the internal and external-network-connectivity
* teaching/presenting Ubuntu in a 3 day course for a private public partnership project <nowiki>[[http://www.los-nrw.de|LOS!NRW]]</nowiki>

==== future activities ====
* Organizing the next german speaking Ubucon (extending it to -eu would be nice, too)
* working in the ubuntu-eu server-team
* Organizing the german fair team
* Staying involved in the <nowiki>[[http://verein.ubutu-de.org|German Ubuntu Association]]</nowiki>

==== Contact ====
* jabber: richard@jabber.verwayen.com
* irc: ys76 at irc.freenode.net
* email: richard@verwayen.de
* GPG: 810D4051 344D483A 95890B60 20783959 A6A9E674

==== Launchpad / more information ====
 Have a look at launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ys76|ys76]]</nowiki> or just ask ;-)

==== Testimonals ====
* CasparClemensMierau: I know Richard as an important and reliable head member of "ubuntu Deutschland". Besides organizing central events like "Ubucon" and fair booths, he puts an emphasis on moving the German community towards an integrated and efficient structure, while being as moderate as possible. I hope to welcome him as ubuntu member soon as he plays a central role in the German Ubuntu community.
* <nowiki>[[mkaufmann]]</nowiki>: Richard is a very active member of the German Ubuntuuser-Community. He is a part of the organisation team of the German Ubucon and is also very active in the event team. He is a board member of the Ubuntu Germany e.V. I hope to see him as Ubuntu Member soon.
* JuliusBloch: I know Richard since 2005. I have organised with im several events like two Ubucons and a couple of fair boothes. He is on of the most realibel persones I know. He is always approchable and the puts in a lot of work into the German LoCoTeam. I am very happy to see him as an Ubuntu member soon.
* <nowiki>[[Mkossick]]</nowiki>: I confirm that Richard is an active member of the german community for years now. He bears responsibility as a leader of germanys non-profit ubuntu-association. He is quite reliable and acts professionally.
* <nowiki>[[DirkDeimeke]]</nowiki>: Richard is an active and valuable member of our German LoCo Team where he does a very good job in organizing events. Due to his vast knowledge I asked him to participate in the work of the ubuntu-eu.org server team where he carries out a good job as well. Let us welcome him as new Ubuntu member.
