{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
This page was created in order to provide further information for my core developer application.

== Sponsors ==
* Jonathan Riddell
* Anthony Mercatante
* Scott Kitterman
* Daniel T. Chen
* Brandon Holtsclaw
* Sarah Hobbs

== Technical Interests ==
Most of you more than likely put my name together with Kubuntu. If not, then a brief run through of my interests follows:
* Kubuntu
* KDE
* Qt
* Py``Qt and Py``KDE

== Ubuntu Contribution Plans ==
For the past three years I have been working hard in attempt to make Kubuntu the #1 KDE distribution. So my future plans are to continue contributing as much as I can to make this a reality some day. With the future of Kubuntu heading toward KDE 4 going into main, I would like to be able to continue working on KDE 4 without having to depend on any of my previous sponsors. As it stands, the amount of full-time Kubuntu main contributors (core developers) are down to 2, maybe 3, at this time. I would like to add to have the ability to add to the current setup, as with the oncoming of KDE 4, there will need to be as many eyes, contributors, developers, and uploaders to make the 4.1 release in Intrepid a success. By me becoming a core developer, I would also limit the amount of work placed on my previous sponsors, allowing them to work on their projects without any further distractions. I am also interested in branching out in the future from just Kubuntu and working with every community developer and contributor in the various aspects of Ubuntu development, because without Ubuntu, there would be no Kubuntu.

== Past Contributions ==
My past contributions have obviously been KDE/Kubuntu based. Past contributions include, but are not limited to:
* KDE main packages (kdelibs, kdepimlibs, kdebase, and more...both KDE 3 and KDE 4)
* Qt main packages
* Kvkbd (virtual on-screen keyboard for KDE - now in main)
* Ubuntu Documentation Project (Ubuntu and Kubuntu docs - both in main)
* Ubiquity for Kubuntu (added the proxy setup for Kubuntu)
* Kubuntu Default Settings
