{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

I am a friendly guy, always up for a chat (some say I am -vvv verbose) I love computing technology. In my career I work using open source software to create connected Business systems, that use automation to help companies work efficiently. My spare time I like to relax by driving VR race cars in the motorsport simulator iRacing. 

I got my first computer 30 years ago, a Commodore PET; I was taken straight away! Programming engaged a desire to problem solve and be creative. My parents bought me a Dragon 32, and that was it! The Chemistry set never saw the light of day again.

At 15 I got my first paid programming job; A friend and I developed software for a digital audio recorder on the ZX Spectrum, in Z80 Assembler. The device went to market 1984 selling thousands. Of course, we sold the software to the company for peanuts! Ah well you live and learn.
Later I worked on large scale mini and mainframe systems for British Gas and Barclaycard.

In 2001 as IT Director for Jardine Prentis (UK) Ltd, I migrated all of their IT systems to Open Source software and the emerging Linux operating system, delivering a complete (ERP) Enterprise Resource Planning system. In 2003 I founded Adaptive Linux solutions, a new division for Jardine Prentis (UK), where I completed further Open Source systems using Kubuntu Linux, before going on to launch my own business Abazander Ltd in 2007.

I now work across departments at WiFiSPARK Ltd, working closely with the Software development team, and Sales and Marketing to develop and deliver their product portfolio, and additionally, I am also responsible for their internal software systems integration. 

=== Summary of my contributions to Kubuntu ===

I have been a full time Kubuntu user for 7 years, using Gentoo, Red Hat and SuSe with the KDE desktop prior to that.
I was reponsible for deploying KDE on LTSP to SuperTramp Trampolines in one of the first to the desktop deployments in the UK:

http://nnc3.com/LM10/issue/17/SWLUG_UK.pdf

I also founded and ran Adaptive Linux solutions, where we took the same LTSP technology and deployed it across 4 separate sites for Age Concern in Plymouth. This deployment was done using Kubuntu Linux

I represented many UK Free / Open Source software service companies across the UK as the CEO of the Open Source Consortium. During my time in this role, I addressed the European Parliament, with Rishab Gosh in support of his paper about Free and Open Source software:

http://www.flossimpact.eu/docs/flyer.pdf

This google search returns further background:

https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=Rick+Timmis+Linux&channel=fs&gl=uk&start=10

I have been increasingly active, directly in the Kubuntu community for the last 3 years, Testing, Bug triaging, and getting my feet wet with packaging.

More recently I interviewed Scarlett Clarke, and Jonathan Riddell on the At Random Podcast:

http://www.atrandom.org.uk

I worked with my local LUG http://exeter.lug.org.uk of which I founded 2.5 years ago and continue in the role of LUG Master today. Together with Jonathan Riddell we took the group through an introduction to getting involved with Kubuntu.

=== Link to my Launchpad profile ===

https://launchpad.net/~rick-timmis

== Plans and ideas for Kubuntu == 

'''Packaging:''' I would like to develop my skills in packaging and become a Kubuntu-Developer.

'''Kubuntu advocacy:''' I'm a competent public speaker, present well, and am very well versed at delivering arguments in favour of GNU/Linux, FLOSS, KDE and Kubuntu.

'''Kubuntu Radio:''' I am very interested in setting up a monthly LUG Radio style show, focused solely on Kubuntu providing News, Reviews, Interviews, and Project progress updates.

=== Testimonials ===

Some comments from very nice people that I didn't even pay :-)

Scarlett Clark -
Rick has been a pleasure to work with. We have done packaging together, as well as Google Hangouts/ YouTube telling the world how great Kubuntu is. I have seen Rick very active in Bug management and helping the community.
+1 from me!

