{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== The Info ==
=== Date and Time ===
September 10th, 6pm

=== Location ===
<nowiki>[[http://uberoffices.com/locations/dupont/|Uber Office in Dupont Circle]]</nowiki>

=== Setting Up Your Laptop ===
It will be easiest if everyone gets their laptop ready with the SDK installed before arriving, and we can dive right into using the SDK at the session.

Assuming you are on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, follow <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/start/ubuntu-sdk/installing-the-sdk/|the instructions on developer.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>.

These instructions will first guide you through installing the PPA and then installing !QtCreator and the Qt/QML frameworks you'll need. So long as you can run the IDE and start a project, you will be sufficiently set up for the workshop.

If you want to also be able to submit to the store, you'll need to be able to create a "Kit" in !QtCreator. This part is totally optional for the workshop. If you have a device running Ubuntu Touch, then you can easily set up a kit for it. Otherwise, you will need to use an emulator. Set up the emulator by following <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/apps/sdk/tutorials/using-the-ubuntu-emulator/|these instructions]]</nowiki>. Note that installing the emulator and setting up a kit takes a long time once initiated, so be sure to leave plenty of time.

== The Topics ==
# Intro to DC Ubuntu LoCo
# <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/a/canonical.com/presentation/d/1Xa7hNm6iPi5dbfH312m5zvDzEofMMGAAU_zyKyEPzJw/edit#slide=id.g39115434a_2_146|Introduction to Ubuntu for Phones and Tablets]]</nowiki>
# A tour of Qt Creator and your first Ubuntu SDK project
## Modes of the IDE
## The anatomy of a project
# Introduction to QML (what, not how)
# Basic Interactivity with QML
## Text Entry, Label, Button
# An overview of key components, with tips and tricks for each
## The documentation
## Ubuntu List View and List Model
## Ubuntu List Components
## XmlListModel
## Map and Friends
## Timer
# Overview of the Application Life Cycle
# Building and submitting applications

== Attendees ==
* rickspencer3 - instructor
* barry - ubudude
* <nowiki>[[KevinCole|Kevin Cole]]</nowiki> - ubuntourist
* jelkner - teachva
* Michael Stemle
* Stephen Nichols
