{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Rico Tzschichholz, apply for upload rights for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice|libreoffice]]</nowiki>.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Rico Tzschichholz
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ricotz
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ricotz
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I am an open source enthusiasts who like to use the latest available software releases.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I am using Ubuntu since version 6.10 and haven't stopped ever since. Of course I joined being an Ubuntu Member in 2011.

=== My involvement ===

I am familiar with the packaging of LibreOffice and doing regular backports of recent versions which can be found in https://launchpad.net/~libreoffice/+archive/ubuntu/ppa since 2012.

I worked in close collaboration with the Ubuntu Desktop Team on the package for a long time. My work got sponsored and reviewed by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bjoern-michaelsen|Björn Michaelsen]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~osomon|Olivier Tilloy]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~marcustomlinson|Marcus Tomlinson]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hellsworth|Heather Ellsworth]]</nowiki>. I am also in contact with the Debian Maintainer <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/rene|Rene Engelhard]]</nowiki> and member of Debian LibreOffice packaging team.

I am looking forward to work on the libreoffice package in Ubuntu directly, which will deepen my involvement even further.

=== Clarification ===

To avoid any misunderstanding, Canonical supporting my work on the libreoffice package should not be understood that I have sole authority nor I am seeing my role like that. There are a lot of contributions required to keep track of upstream issues and bug reports in Ubuntu.

Granted upload rights for LibreOffice will give me the opportunity to contribute changes to Ubuntu together with the rest of this great community. I am looking forward to it!

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Olivier Tilloy ===
Rico has plenty of packaging experience, and a rock-solid track record of preparing libreoffice updates and backports over the years. In fact I learnt a lot about libreoffice packaging by working with him when I took over maintenance of the package for the Ubuntu Desktop team in 2017.

He has a deep understanding of the upstream project's release cycle and build system, the Debian package maintained in salsa by Rene, and the Ubuntu-specific changes.

I think this PPU is more than deserved, and as Rico points out, it will make the libreoffice updates process smoother by removing the sponsorship bottleneck. 

=== Marcus Tomlinson ===
I've been sponsoring Rico's LibreOffice updates for well over a year now. They are always well prepared and well tested. He is trustworthy and has a great attention to detail. I highly recommend Rico gain LibreOffice PPU rights.

=== Sebastien Bacher ===
Rico has been doing great work on the libreoffice package for years. He demonstrated that he understand the details of this complex package. He's also a long time Ubuntu (and Debian) contributor who follows up what is happening upstream. I trust his work and strongly recommend him for upload rights.

=== Heather Ellsworth ===
Rico always releases well built and tested libreoffice releases in a very timely manner after upstream releases. It is also very noteworthy just how conscious he is of using up launchpad resources when launching builds or autopkgtests and is always very mindful of the time and resource cost there. But he is also an efficient worker with infrequent mistakes and giving him direct upload rights will only increase his efficiency.

----

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
