{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#fff9f7; border: 1px solid #ffd164; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em; -moz-border-radius: 1em;text-align:center;">
| ~+'''RJ Marsan'''+~
|-
| '''Location:'''
| Chicago, IL {us}
|-
| '''Blog:'''
| 
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/rjmarsan]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''PGP Key:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=vindex&search=0x7DCB750D4FD7D813]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu User#'''
| 
|-
| ~+'''COMMUNICATIONS'''+~
|-
| '''E-Mail:'''
| 
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| Red_Herring on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''AIM'''
| rj not ajay
|}

=== Current Team/Membership Status ===

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-chicago/|Ubuntu Chicago LoCo]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Community Contributions ===
I pretty much idle on IRC a lot, helping misc. people with linux issues etc.  Lately I've been doing some bug triaging with FreddyMartinez

===== Specifications =====

===== Team Work =====
* ChicagoTeam - I... umm... keep the mailing list nice and free of spam. (gotta love that.)  I work closely with the team in organizing meetings etc. 

=== About Me ===

I'm an ex student (Junior) of York Community Highschool in Elmhurst, but after getting expelled for 'hacking' I currently attend the Ombudsman Educational System in Downers Grove ( :-\ ) So now I spend a lot of time idling on IRC and working on random projects. I just got accepted to Elmhurst College so apparently will be attending there next year.  I'm a decent programmer, White Sox fan (much to the disgrace of Nixternal) and forgetful/lazy/procrastinating teen.

=== My Availability ===
Whatever/Whenever. I enjoy talking to pretty much anyone, and pretty much have nothing better to do anyways =D.

=== My Goals ===
===== Short Term / Community Goals =====
 {*} Help out with triaging (Yeah, i already do it, so... umm... more?)

===== Long Term / Community Goals =====

 {*} Help out with the Chicago LoCo and eventually conqueroring bug #1 (at least for chicago).  It'd be pretty sweet to mark that bug as "Fix released" 

----
CategoryHomepage
