{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Name      :''' Ryan Moss
* '''Project   :''' <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam|Ubuntu Chicago LoCo]]</nowiki>
* '''Location  :''' North West Chicago Suburbs, Illinois
* '''O/S       :''' (k/x)ubuntu
* '''E-mail    :''' r.r.moss@ubuntu-chicago.org
* '''Launchpad :''' <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ry-ryno27]]</nowiki>
* '''IRC       :''' ''rr72/(3)'' / ''rr_lap'' / ''zz'' @ irc.freenode.net:8001 

=== About me ===
I am a 20 year old high school graduate who enjoys to fiddle around with computers. I switched to Ubuntu after Debian could not support my SATA PCI card. I found out about the Chicago Local Community and joined. I have used most of the different "branches" of Ubuntu but awhile ago so don't really know the new goodies.

I prefer Ubuntu because they are the most up-to-date and community orientated distro IMHO.

=== Skill Set ===
My limited programming skills are from a computer science class I took in high school which taught me Java and a basic course in college which consisted of more Java and some C++. I have some networking knowledge from messing around with networks.

I have ran over half of all the Live-CDs I have found just for fun and to see what they were about. Some of which have installed on extra harddrives laying around so pretty good at installing.

=== Ubuntu-Specific Contributions ===

==== Team Membership ====
* Ubuntu Chicago LoCo
* Ubuntu Illinois
* Xubuntu Testers

==== Support & Bug Triage ====
* Live support via IRC
* Some support via mailing-list
* Learning to crush Xubuntu bugs

==== Documentation ====
* Misc. Wiki editing for Loco and others

 
==== Community, Advocacy, & Marketing ====
* Assisted in planning a meeting/release party

=== Plans & Goals ===
To fill out most if not all of the above.

----

'''Note''': Thanks to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cody-somerville|Cody Somerville]]</nowiki> for allowing me to use his personal wiki page template. And <nowiki>[[j1mc|Jim Campbell]]</nowiki> for adding the template.

----
CategoryHomepage
