{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Women Roadmap ==

...<nowiki>[[Roadmaps|back to Roadmaps]]</nowiki>

=== Building Your Roadmap ===

Each goal in the roadmap has a set structure which you should stick to. This is how it works:

* '''Objective'''' - An Objective is a goal that you want to achieve. Summarize your objective here in one sentence (e.g. 'Exhibit Ubuntu at OSCON' and 'Create Lucid Marketing Materials').
* '''Success Criteria''' - This is a statement that can be clearly read to determine success on the above 'Objective'. This needs to be as clear as possible and not vague: it will indicate if you achieved the 'Objective' (e.g. 'A successful exhibition at OSCON' and 'Lucid website buttons, banner ads and wallpaper provided for LoCo Teams').
* '''Actions''' - This is a set of steps that need to be executed to achieve the 'Objective'. It is recommended that if someone volunteers to commit to delivering on an action, you put it in brackets (e.g. 'Print out LoCo logo on a banner (Jono Bacon)'). There can be multiple actions for each Objective. 
* '''Blueprint (optional)''' - It is recommended to use a launchpad blueprint for your objective.  Launchpad isn't just for developers, but is also great for community tasks.
* '''Driver (optional)''' - If someone is coordinating this objective and helping those involved to deliver on their actions, list that person here.  If you're using a blueprint it's especially convenient to mark the driver as the Drafter and Assignee of the launchpad blueprint.

==== Tracking Progress ====

Here are some tips on tracking progress on your roadmap:

* Review it at meetings - your roadmap should be an agenda item at every meeting your team has. Review progress, identify problems, ensure everyone is clear on what they are doing and unblock blockers.
* Review mid-cycle - it could be useful to review progress on the roadmap halfway through the cycle in detail.
* Evaluate at the end of a cycle - when the cycle is complete, review the roadmap and see how much the team achieved.

=== Roadmap ===

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Clarify the purpose of the #ubuntu-women channel.
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': A set of channel guidelines clearly communicated to #ubuntu-women participants.
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Discuss a set of guidelines for general discussion channel about the Ubuntu Women project (Laura Czajkowski).
** Document the agreed set of guidelines (Laura Czajkowski).
** Set the channel topic to the guidelines (Elizabeth Krumbach).
** Start logging channel (Elizabeth Krumbach).
** Provide a set of factoids that reference the channel guidelines (Elizabeth Krumbach).
** Communicate guidelines outwards (Jono Bacon, Amber Graner, Laura Czajkowski).
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-women.org/+spec/community-ubuntu-women-project
* '''DRIVER''': Laura Czajkowski

----

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Create a safe space IRC channel.
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': A safe space IRC channel that is governed by the Community Council.
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Create a safe space IRC channel (name to be determined) (Amber Graner).
** Document governance policy for the channel (Amber Graner / Daniel Holbach)
** Channel guidelines are documented and available
** Logs are private but available to the current Community Council membership.
** Provide private logging facility ()
** Document channel guidelines (Amber Graner).
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-women.org/+spec/community-ubuntu-women-project
* '''DRIVER''': Amber Graner.

----

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Appoint a leader of the Ubuntu Women team, complete with codified expectations around the role. 
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': A delegated leader in place for a set term length, complete with documented expectations around the role.
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Documenting expectations of the role (Amber Graner / Laura Czajkowski).
** Gather input from the CC regarding the document (Elizabeth Krumbach).
** Identify a leader:
** Open a call for nominations:
*** Create a wiki template (Amber Graner).
*** Announce the process (nominees place their entry on wiki.ubuntu.com/<someplace> and have two weeks to do so) (All to blog, and post to ubuntu-women list).
*** Contact CC for a recommendation from the submitted nominations (Elizabeth Krumbach).
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-women.org/+spec/community-ubuntu-women-project
* '''DRIVER''': Elizabeth Krumbach.
