{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Building Your Roadmap ===

Each goal in the Roadmap has a set structure which you should stick to. This is how it works:

* '''Objective'''' - Promote Ubuntu in schools and universities in different cities of the country , participate in different activities of the Ubuntu Community (OpenWeek, Ubuntu Developer Week, Doc Jams, Translatations Jams, Global Jams.etc)
* '''Success Criteria''' - Successful presentations on different schools we will visit this six months. Also improved our work on next FLISOL coming on April.
* '''Actions''' - 
** Creation on marketing material for Ubuntu-Tour.
** Communicate with leaders of different Lugs of the country, this way we can coordinate visits to different places of Honduras.
** Marketing material: Create a new version of the Ubuntu-Honduras T-shirt.
* '''Blueprint (optional)''' - It is recommended to use a Launchpad Blueprint for your objective.  Launchpad isn't just for developers, but is also great for community tasks.
* '''Driver (optional)''' - If someone is coordinating this objective and helping those involved to deliver on their actions, list that person here.  If you're using a Blueprint it's especially convenient to mark the driver as the Drafter and Assignee of the Launchpad Blueprint.

==== Tracking Progress ====

Here are some tips on tracking progress on your Roadmap:

* Review it at meetings - your Roadmap should be an agenda item at every meeting your Team has. Review progress, identify problems, ensure everyone is clear on what they are doing and unblock blockers.
* Review mid-cycle - it could be useful to review progress on the Roadmap halfway through the cycle in detail.
* Evaluate at the end of a cycle - when the cycle is complete, review the Roadmap and see how much the Team achieved.

=== Roadmap ===

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Improve and update Ubuntu-Honduras team page(wiki and website).
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': Inform the community about our work of spreading Ubuntu.
* '''ACTIONS''':
*** Ask members of the community to volunteer, so they are the ones who update the wiki and the website
* '''BLUEPRINT''':https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-honduras/+spec/actualizacion 
* '''DRIVER''': 

----

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Work with Team members to make great events, and show why Ubuntu Rocks
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': 
* '''ACTIONS''':
*** Ask members of the community to volunteer
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/eventos
* '''DRIVER''': 

----
