{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== LoCo Directory Lucid Roadmap ==

...<nowiki>[[Roadmaps|back to Roadmaps]]</nowiki>

=== Building Your Roadmap ===

Each goal in the roadmap has a set structure which you should stick to. This is how it works:

* '''Objective'''' - An Objective is a goal that you want to achieve. Summarize your objective here in one sentence (e.g. 'Exhibit Ubuntu at OSCON' and 'Create Lucid Marketing Materials').
* '''Success Criteria''' - This is a statement that can be clearly read to determine success on the above 'Objective'. This needs to be as clear as possible and not vague: it will indicate if you achieved the 'Objective' (e.g. 'A successful exhibition at OSCON' and 'Lucid website buttons, banner ads and wallpaper provided for LoCo Teams').
* '''Actions''' - This is a set of steps that need to be executed to achieve the 'Objective'. It is recommended that if someone volunteers to commit to delivering on an action, you put it in brackets (e.g. 'Print out LoCo logo on a banner (Jono Bacon)'). There can be multiple actions for each Objective. 
* '''Blueprint (optional)''' - It is recommended to use a launchpad blueprint for your objective.  Launchpad isn't just for developers, but is also great for community tasks.
* '''Driver (optional)''' - If someone is coordinating this objective and helping those involved to deliver on their actions, list that person here.  If you're using a blueprint it's especially convenient to mark the driver as the Drafter and Assignee of the launchpad blueprint.

==== Tracking Progress ====

Here are some tips on tracking progress on your roadmap:

* Review it at meetings - your roadmap should be an agenda item at every meeting your team has. Review progress, identify problems, ensure everyone is clear on what they are doing and unblock blockers.
* Review mid-cycle - it could be useful to review progress on the roadmap halfway through the cycle in detail.
* Evaluate at the end of a cycle - when the cycle is complete, review the roadmap and see how much the team achieved.

=== Roadmap ===

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Improve visual design of the LoCo Directory team page.
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': Enjoyable experience that teams are happy to point new users to.
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Bringing in branding links from Launchpad (Martin Owens) (https://bugs.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+bug/474114)
** Icon development (Martin Owens)
** CSS improvements (Martin Owens)
** Admin mugshots (Dave Walker)
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/loco-directory-development
* '''DRIVER''': Martin Owens

----

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Implement an event handing feature.
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': LoCo teams can add events to be displayed on their LoCo directory page and view event information.
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Review Efrain's code to determine if it can be used (Daniel Holbach)
** Develop a user interface mock-up for the interface for the feature (Martin Owens)
** Development of the feature (Daniel Holbach)
** Ability to add an event with the following attributes:
*** Event type (Jam, Presentation, Tutorial, Release Party, Installfest, Other)
*** Time
*** Location
*** Description
*** Name
** Events are visible on LoCo pages and a master list of events.
** Deploy to the live site (Daniel Holbach + IS)
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/loco-directory-event-registration
* '''DRIVER''': Daniel Holbach
