{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Testing Team Lucid Roadmap ==

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Increase the number of testing days in the Lucid cycle
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': The testing days are performed on a regular basis
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Update the UbuntuTestingDay page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/UbuntuTestingDay
** Create a backlog of possible topics
** Find volunteers to run each of them
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-qa-testing-team
* '''DRIVER''': Not yet! Get involved!

<<BR>> 

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Improve communication in the Testing team
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': People know how to contact the testing team through official channels
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Create the ubuntu-testing mailing list
** Announce it in the Fridge and blog
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-qa-testing-team
* '''DRIVER''': Ara Pulido (http://launchpad.net/~apulido)

<<BR>> 

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Improve wiki documentation of the Testing team
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': The testing documentation is easy to access and people finds it useful
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Clean old items that do not longer apply
** Add CategoryTestingTeam to the subpages
** Improve structure of the subpages
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-qa-testing-team
* '''DRIVER''': Scott Ritchie (https://launchpad.net/~scottritchie)

<<BR>> 

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Improve wiki documentation of the Testing team
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': The LoCo teams include feature testing and ISO testing as usual activities
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Create a <nowiki>[[Testing-LoCos]]</nowiki> subpage with information for !LoCo teams
** Promote testing activities within different !LoCo teams
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-qa-testing-team
* '''DRIVER''': Grant Bowman (https://launchpad.net/~grantbow)

<<BR>> 

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Use QA IRC meetings to track the testing team
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': The Testing Team members feel themselves involved with the QA IRC meeting, propose agenda items, and participate actively during it.
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Include the QA IRC meeting information in the Testing pages
** Propose at least one topic per meeting
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-qa-testing-team
* '''DRIVER''': Ara Pulido (https://launchpad.net/~apulido)

<<BR>> 

=== Building Your Roadmap ===

Each goal in the roadmap has a set structure which you should stick to. This is how it works:

* '''Objective'''' - An Objective is a goal that you want to achieve. Summarize your objective here in one sentence (e.g. 'Exhibit Ubuntu at OSCON' and 'Create Lucid Marketing Materials').
* '''Success Criteria''' - This is a statement that can be clearly read to determine success on the above 'Objective'. This needs to be as clear as possible and not vague: it will indicate if you achieved the 'Objective' (e.g. 'A successful exhibition at OSCON' and 'Lucid website buttons, banner ads and wallpaper provided for LoCo Teams').
* '''Actions''' - This is a set of steps that need to be executed to achieve the 'Objective'. It is recommended that if someone volunteers to commit to delivering on an action, you put it in brackets (e.g. 'Print out LoCo logo on a banner (Jono Bacon)'). There can be multiple actions for each Objective. 
* '''Blueprint (optional)''' - if a Blueprint applies to this Objective, link it here.
* '''Driver (optional)''' - if someone is coordinating this objective and helping those involved to deliver on their actions, list that person here.

==== Tracking Progress ====

Here are some tips on tracking progress on your roadmap:

* Review it at meetings - your roadmap should be an agenda item at every meeting your team has. Review progress, identify problems, ensure everyone is clear on what they are doing and unblock blockers.
* Review mid-cycle - it could be useful to review progress on the roadmap halfway through the cycle in detail.
* Evaluate at the end of a cycle - when the cycle is complete, review the roadmap and see how much the team achieved.
