{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rdehart/|Rob DeHart]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=472134/|Robdgreat]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''ae5ir''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|}

=== About Me ===

I'm a 28 year old web developer living in New Orleans, Louisiana with my beautiful wife of 3 years. I primarily program in PHP but design and implement in XHTML, as well as do day-to-day server administration when called upon to do so. I also enjoy playing guitar, and am an Extra class amateur radio operator.

I have been using GNU/Linux in various forms for about 10 years but never full-time on a local basis until the beginning of this year. I have not looked back, and I anxiously await the day when no one ever pays for an operating system again. Failing that, at least to a time when everyone is aware that alternatives to the main$tream do indeed exist.

I joined the LouisianaTeam LoCo team in September 2007, and look forward to watching and being a part of its impact on the community as a whole.

=== My contributions to Ubuntu ===

* Member of the U.S. Louisiana LoCo team.
* Member of the web team.
* Create witty repartee' in the LoCo's irc channel, #ubuntu-us-la

=== Other things ===

The page is over.

Why are you still reading?

Nothing more to see here.

Still there?

Rosebud was the sled's name.
