{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Robert Ancell, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Robert Ancell
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~robert-ancell]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[RobertAncell]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm Robert Ancell and work for Canonical as a GNOME Desktop Engineer on the Ubuntu Platform team. I am an upstream GNOME developer (gcalctool, GNOME Games).
== My Ubuntu story ==
I've been using Ubuntu since 4.10 when I was thinking "how have I never heard of this project that is at version 4 already?".  Before that it was Debian, Mandrake and Red Hat Linux.
=== My involvement ===
* Long time Ubuntu user and bug reporter
* Upstream developer
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Working on the Ubuntu Desktop versions page (http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/karmic/versions.html) to make it easier to update packages.
=== Areas of work ===
I have worked as a member of the Desktop team for the last 5 months updating GNOME packages and fixing bugs.  I also continue to make gcalctool releases and fix bugs in GNOME.
=== Things I could do better ===
Increasing my community involvement.  I want to be syndicated on Planet Ubuntu to announce more of the work that we are doing.
== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I'd like to see the core Ubuntu applications improve in usability and consistency.  Being able to work continuously on Ubuntu allows me to push the small patches upstream to help the upstream projects achieve this.  I'd also like to help to improve the platform development documentation so real-world programmers can work out how to easily use all the APIs.
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
The Preferences/Administration tools.  They have multiplied over the years and while there seems to be regular effort each cycle to tidy them they don't seem to be getting any better.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Martin Pitt ===
Robert has worked in the desktop team for half a year now, and consistently
shown commitment to keeping the GNOME desktop up to date. He picked up the
necessary packaging knowledge fast and learned about our tools and workflows.

I sponsored some 30 packages for him so far, and the recent ones were without
problems except for the rather complex gnome-games split. He has learned to use
lintian since then, and I trust him to ask for review for similarly complex
cases.

I think he really earned the Ubuntu member badge now, and I also welcome him to
join the MOTU ranks as a stepstone towards getting ubuntu-desktop upload
privileges.

=== Sebastien Bacher ===

Robert is doing great work on the Ubuntu desktop for several months now working 
on number of updates and bug fixes. He learnt packaging quickly and worked on non 
trivial updates, his recent work is most of the time good to be uploaded 
without any change and he asks question when he's not sure about something.
The patches he worked on have been good quality too and sent upstream when required.
I think he did enough work to deserve to be accepted as MOTU now

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
