{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hello! I am Robert Finley. In addition to computers, I love cars and loud music.  I am one of those people riding around with the obnoxious muffler and massive stereo, irritating everyone else.  I am an aquarist and lover of animals in general. I live in sight of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park and enjoy hiking and camping with my beautiful wife and daughter.
=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| average_guy
|-
| Email
| finley.rob@gmail.com
|-
| Twitter
| @UbuntuUsr
|}

=== Contributions ===

I am a member of the Tennessee LoCo Team as well as the Quality Team for several flavors.  I have been testing software and filing bug reports.  I help where I can over in IRC.

=== Future Goals ===

Total world domination, duh. I am mostly trying build my knowledge right now by participating and learning from more experienced users. I hope, one day, to be as helpful to others as many of you have been to me. 
=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 
