{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'm South African, currently living in Oxford, UK, where I have recently completed a doctorate in physics.

I'm working closely with some friends in Zambia to build up <nowiki>[[http://www.opensource.org.zm|Open Source Zambia]]</nowiki>, an organisation to which aims to provide a focus for people using FOSS in Zambia.  We would like to develop expertise in and use of free software in Zambia, and the major stumbling block we've encountered so far is the lack of interaction between existing users.  There is plenty of expertise - major businesses using Linux servers, for example, as well as many schools and charities - but not much use of the open source development model, which I believe is the most significant lesson of the free software movement.

Please add links to <nowiki>[[http://www.opensource.org.zm|Open Source Zambia]]</nowiki> on your own pages!

I have a few projects in initial stages; my involvement on this wiki includes:

* I recently revamped the page on Breezy support for Rt2500 wireless chips, which are found in Belkin FD7000 and FD7010 cards (<nowiki>[[WifiDocs/RalinkRT2500]]</nowiki>).
* I contributed to <nowiki>[[WifiDocs/Driver/Broadcom43xx]]</nowiki>
* I am on the Afrikaans translation team, AfrikaansTranslators and https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-af
* I am a huge fan of M''''''oinMoin wikis, take a look at MoinMoin:RobertSchumann
* I do some work with HenrikOmma on M''''''oinMoin for http://softwarefreedomday.org/ and http://theopencd.org/

----
CategoryHomepage
