{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

A passionate community member regarding open sourced endeavours. I strongly believe in the unification which open and free development provides. From systems and software, to web and graphics; there are many areas of IT where I put my forth effort and skills. I understand the greatness in learning and sharing my skills and experiences with others. 

I consider myself to be friendly, tolerant, and refined. I like the positive side of things and will cringe from socially awkward context. I do not like drama, or gossip, either.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| surgemcgee
|-
| Email
| 
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://www.surgemcgee.com|www.surgemcgee.com]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Personally contributed a ''(possible)'' Ubuntu Touch Core application;
* Was on board with Juju and its partnering technologies while supporting it with a charm;

'''''As well as many open sourced projects geared to Linux and Ubuntu!'''''

* <nowiki>[[https://bitbucket.org/surgemcgee|Bitbucket]]</nowiki>   
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~robertsteckroth|Launchpad]]</nowiki>   
 
=== Future Goals ===

* Contributing in a significant way to  a open sourced project;
* Lead or possibly oversee the development of a large and meaningful project;
* Exampling a better methodology for traditional and/or outdated thinking;

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 

I've just recently started working with Robert, he was an early adopter of the Ubuntu SDK and his Stock Ticker app has been selected to be part of the Core Apps project being managed by Alan Pope and myself.  I look forward to working with Robert more on his app contributions, and expanding those contributions into automated testing and integration of his app and the phone and desktop shells. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki> 