{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== About Me ====

My name is Robert Gabriel Milasan. I'm a system and applications administrator and I'm living in Brno, Czech Republic. I'm a fan of Ubuntu and what Ubuntu tries to do for the community and being using Ubuntu and in general Linux for over 5 years. At the moment I'm running my laptops/desktops/server on Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, Ubuntu 9.10 and CentOS 5.

==== Contributions ====

* Contributed to several bugs on Ubuntu and other applications included in the distributions.
* Build and released a custom kernel for Ubuntu/Debian, specific to netbooks, laptops, desktops, for a better performance, also a wider support for Acer Aspire One and Intel Atom based netbooks/desktops <nowiki>[[http://blog.robertalks.com]]</nowiki>.
* Promoted Ubuntu at my current job, so more people have switched to Ubuntu from Windows.
* Launch a free shell and hosting server running on Ubuntu 8.04, hosting over 640 users, offering all of the necessary tools for testing, learning and development on a Linux platform <nowiki>[[http://www.visualserver.org]]</nowiki>.

==== Projects ====

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/mydbs|mydbs]]</nowiki> - MySQL Database Backup Script.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/mydo|mydo]]</nowiki> - MySQL Database Optimizer.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.visualserver.org/|visualserver.org]]</nowiki> - Free shell and hosting services.

==== Community ====

* Find me on <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/robertjinx|Facebook]]</nowiki>
* Find me on <nowiki>[[http://www.linkedin.com/in/robertgabriel|LinkedIn]]</nowiki>
* Find me on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~robert-jinx|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Read <nowiki>[[http://blog.robertalks.com|my Blog]]</nowiki>
* Check <nowiki>[[http://www.robertalks.com|my Web Site]]</nowiki>

==== Future wishes and projects ====

* Continue on the build and release of the custom kernel for Ubuntu/Debian.
* Continue to help Ubuntu and it's development by sending bug reports and ideas.
* Release new version of mydo and mydbs scripts, well improve them.
* Spread Linux and Ubuntu within my company for a better productive environment.

==== Contact ====

You can reach me by mail and Gtalk or Skype
* Mail: <nowiki>[[mailto:robert@linux-source.org|robert@linux-source.org]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[mailto:robert@visualserver.org|robert@visualserver.org]]</nowiki>
* Gtalk: <nowiki>[[mailto:robert@linux-source.org|robert@linux-source.org]]</nowiki>
* Skype: robert.jinx

----
&copy; Robert Gabriel Milasan
