{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

I've been using Linux since 1998, starting with Red Hat. I quickly moved to Debian for a long time, then to Ubuntu during the WartyWarthog release. My local LUG is the Townsville Linux Users Group, for which I administer both the website and Freenode irc channel (#tlug) voluntary. I have a blog at <nowiki>[[http://linuxguy.bur.st/|http://linuxguy.bur.st/]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/rstoffers|a Launchpad page]]</nowiki> and I'm also a member of the following projects and organisations:

* Member of Ubuntu
* Member of the Ubuntu DocumentationTeam
* Member of <nowiki>[[http://www.freenode.net|Freenode]]</nowiki> Staff
* Member of <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.com.au|Linux Australia]]</nowiki>
* Member of <nowiki>[[http://tlug.dnho.net|Townsville Linux Users Group]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu IRC operator team member
 
=== How Have I Contributed to Ubuntu? ===

I am the primary author of the Ubuntu Starter Guide that was released with BreezyBadger and available via Yelp in every Ubuntu BreezyBadger installation. Based on ubuntuguide.org, the <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/starterguide/C/index.html|Ubuntu Starter Guide]]</nowiki> aims to address several key criticisms whist being technically correct and open to the Ubuntu community. I also help maintain other documents in the DocumentationTeam subversion repository and help out new contributors to Ubuntu documentation. 

For DapperDrake I did most of the initial ground work and organisation of the <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/index.html|Ubuntu Desktop Guide]]</nowiki>.

For EdgyEft I'm getting involved with the <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> and maintain the "dolphin" package. I plan on becomming more involved with the <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> to help Ubuntu become the best operating system available.

I also help out the WikiTeam by writing new guides or editing things I think need changing on the Ubuntu wiki. Some examples of my wiki-related work where I have contributed significantly include:

* <nowiki>[[VMware]]</nowiki>
* WindowsDualBootHowTo
* BeepMediaPlayer
* UbotuUsage
* RestrictedFormats

Other stuff that I have contributed to the Ubuntu community include:

* Ongoing administration of the Freenode #ubuntu IRC channel
* <nowiki>[[Presentations]]</nowiki> - Promoting Ubuntu and Linux in my local community
* <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/CompaqPresarioM2000]]</nowiki> - Current contact for my laptop on the LaptopTestingTeam

=== How To Contact Me ===

* IRC -  '''rob''' on irc.freenode.net, find me on #ubuntu, #freenode-social. I'm also a Freenode staff member so if you have any issues regarding the Freenode IRC network, feel free to contact me.
* Jabber - rjls@jabber.org

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[http://rate.affero.net/leobert|Affero]]</nowiki> - Want to thank me? Consider donating to various free software organizations on my behalf!

----
CategoryHomepage
