{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello, I am Robert Readman, known online as readmanr or Lord-Readman. I work in IT and currently work as a Web Analyst, previous to this I have worked as an SEO Co-ordinator, IT Consultant and IT Technician.
I have been very interested and passionate about computers' since a very early age and still remember my Atari STE 520, (which is now plugged into the TV next to the Wii) I first used Ubuntu (and linux) with 6.10 Server (Edgy) with a simple Samba share to store company documents and software on, moving onto 7.04 and following HowtoForge linux tutorials to do new things, moving from Ubuntu release to Ubuntu release until running a LAMP Server, cron scripting all sorts of things making my working life much easier. 

I first got settled into Ubuntu Desktop with 7.10, and here I am on Ubuntu 9.10 with Lucid test installs on spare machines, i finally got tired of seeing en-US English spellings all over Ubuntu, and recently started translating to English (Great Britain) and because of my partner being an Aussie, English (Australia) as well. My launchpad profile is http://launchpad.net/~robert-readman

=== Contact information ===
If you would like to contact me, please see my launchpad profile for more information on how to do so.  Preferred form of communication: IRC or email.

=== Activities ===
The things I do in the Ubuntu community and elsewhere both on-line and off-line are:

* '''I translate to British English, Australian English on Launchpad and other areas on-line.'''
A recent role translating Ubuntu applications into British English and Australian English. This is really great as I feel strongly that Ubuntu should be used in Schools and Businesses, having Ubuntu translated fully into a locale language is a great step forward, as many English speaking countries use a lot of software which comes only with "English" in the form of en_US. See https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/~robert-readman/+activity

* '''Launchpad Beta testing.'''
I beta test Launchpad.

* '''Introduce Ubuntu to Businesses.'''
I have so far introduced Ubuntu Server into 3 different businesses and provided free training into their set-up and upkeep. The business industries are Motor-trade, Financial and Mail Order with the use ranging from web servers to file storage.

* '''Introduce Ubuntu to Others.'''
This has been working great, with myself showing it to Friends, and them adopting it along side windows, the missus installed Ubuntu to completely replace Windows, then telling her farther how great it was on older machines, the introductions have been spreading like wild fire, thus saving many 'old slow machines' from the dustbin.

=== Future Goals ===

* I would like to become an Ubuntu Member at some point in the future!
* I would like to learn to program, so far I can code some basic PHP and ASP, I would love to learn C/C#/C++ and also 68k and 86k assembly.
* I would like to see Ubuntu used more in Business and at Home, so many people just "Surf the Web" and "Type an odd letter" and Ubuntu can serve them many times over.
* I would love to see Ubuntu/Linux progress to be more well known in schools and used in schools in the future more than it is now, especially within Great Britain!
* I would like to see 100% Ubuntu translated in every single Language and Locale, hopefully one day this will be reality.
----
CategoryHomepage
