{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

(layout blatantly stolen from ChristianBjälevik)
=== About Me ===

My name is Robin Sonefors (since you are on this page, you might have figured that by now), and I go under the nick ozamosi. I've been using linux since 2002:ish. From the beginning Gentoo, but when I realized I could no longer remember Why I wanted a certain program by the time it had compiled, I went to Debian. I came in contact with Ubuntu when my girlfriend wanted something easier than Gentoo, and although she decided to use Debian a while longer, I decided to convert to Ubuntu. I didn't convert through the reinstall every sane person would do, but by replacing the repositories. For a while I ran Debian Sid and Ubuntu Hoary (which was then unstable) at once, and I don't know what hurt my computer the most: ubuntus unstable, or ubuntu and debian side-by-side. Interesting times...

When hoary came out, and I played around with it on same girlfriends laptop, I just HAD to install it. I did, and have been using nothing but Ubuntu ever since (it didn't take me more than a few days to upgrade to breezy, though).

=== Ubuntu Active ===
* Swedish translator (<nowiki>[[http://https://launchpad.net/people/ozamosi/+translations|Translations]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ozamosi/+karma|Karma]]</nowiki>)

=== Contact Info ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| GPG:
| 0x595C4D1E
|-
| Mail:
| ozamosi@blinkenlights.se
|-
| Jabber:
| ozamosi@blinkenlights.se
|-
| IRC:
| ozamosi @ freenode
|}
----
CategoryHomepage
