{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== About Me ====

I shall be writing more as we go but here is my start

I am an IT manager for a smallish firm of Stockbrokers on the south coast of England, Bournemouth to be exact.

Having used linux since redhat 5 I have finally taken the plunge and decided that maybe, just maybe I could be of use to a project. The project to have drawn the short straw is the Edubuntu project.

I believe education is one of a countries most important commodities, why should schools be limited to the quality of the education they can provide because half their budget has to go to license fees for software they use. That is the reason I choose to support Edubuntu, well that and the fact that I think it is a neat solution to a fairly big problem world-wide.

I am currently a member of the following teams:-
* Edubuntu Testing Team
* Edubuntu Advocacy Team
* Edubuntu Documentation Team

I have just received approval to become a member of the following team :-
* Edubuntu Cookbook Team

'''''Yay'''''

I have just volunteered to undertake writing the introduction to networks and networking, and the basic 2 introduction sections to Edubuntu standalone installation
