{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi. My name is Udo Pütz but most of the time I go by my old alias Robos. I have been a long time debian user and really like the idea of making debian a little more user- and especially desktop-user-friendlier. My main page at the moment is http://vobcopy.org. I still have some issues with ubuntu that I will list here shortly but overall I really like the work done by the community and canonical and would like to thank them a lot!

Found problems with hoary (in no particular order):
* awoken from hibernation the battery meter applet doesn't realize that the power method has changed
* automounter (of usb sticks, cd's, dvd's) stops working
*** UPDATE: a re-tick of the boxes in the System->Settings->"Removable Media" menu seems to fix this
**** UPDATE to update: this seems only to work sometimes...
* looots of audio problems (linphone doesn't get out/in any audio)
* terminal problems (logging into a debian stable server german umlauts break and sometimes a wrong letter won't be deleted with one press of "del"- utf8 issues). This also was a problem when I tried to log into an IRC channel where they told me my umlauts were "broken" (I saw them fine though) 
* had a dvd drive: dma is fine (on). Added a cd writer: no dma on dvd and cdrw...
*** UPDATE: in /etc/modules (should this still exist?) where these modules listed:  
  ide-cd  
  ide-disk  
  ide-generic  
 now I commented them out (with a # in front of them) and upon reboot I can enable again dma on both drives with ''sudo hdparm -d 1 /dev/hda'' (hda in my case)
* gaim icon sometimes doesn't lock into the panel but is separate (some others too)
* The top panel sometimes screws up and moves the Application menu farther inward and, since moving is diabled, cannot easily be adjusted.
* Hibernate (suspend to harddisk) works fine with my laptop which got an intel graphics chip (i830), but how do I enable a (working) hibernation with nvidia cards?
* nfs mounts take aaaaages and block the whole system startup (ages as in 10 mins or so)
* on an older machine which has only a 33k modem, the modem speed looks more to be 9600baud (1kB download rate) which is really really really slow. I have yet to find out the reason why this is not working...
----
CategoryHomepage 
