{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Rocco Stanzione ===

I like to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xinit/+bug/31241|report]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/alsa-utils/+bug/31893|fix]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kde-guidance/+bug/37275|bugs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2006-March/005562.html|contribute]]</nowiki> to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2006-March/005516.html|documentation]]</nowiki> and help out on #ubuntu and #kubuntu on irc on freenode, where I founded and still moderate #iptables and a few others.  I <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/search?q=%22Rocco+Stanzione%22|google for myself]]</nowiki> and keep track of the number of hits, vainly, like a credit score. I maintain <nowiki>[[http://dev.ufsoft.org/ipkungfu/|ipkungfu]]</nowiki> and contribute occasionally to other open source projects.  I've been trying for a long time, so far without success, to get <nowiki>[[http://iptables-tutorial.frozentux.net/iptables-tutorial.html|the iptables tutorial]]</nowiki> translated to Portugese, since there's so much demand for it (I don't speak Portugese). I'm currently employed by <nowiki>[[http://cavokintl.com/|CAVOK International]]</nowiki> as a programmer and network administrator, and I do odd side jobs.  I'm something of a fanatic about <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2006-March/005481.html|spelling]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2006-March/005425.html|grammar]]</nowiki>, which is what initially led me to get involved with the DocumentationTeam.  Turn-ons and turn-offs include Ruby and Python, respectively.

Email: <<BR>>
Home Page: http://linuxkungfu.org <<BR>>
Blog: http://blog.linuxkungfu.org <<BR>>
Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/people/trappist <<BR>>
GPG key:
<pre>

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.1 (GNU/Linux)
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=SD3L
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
</pre>

----
