{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== RodrigoBelem ==

'''e-mail:''' 
'''gpg id:''' 0xF9F6F2B1

'''blog:''' http://rbelem.info

'''irc nick:''' rbelem

I'm living in <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=manaus,+brazil&spn=0.153066,0.238747&t=k&hl=en|Manaus]]</nowiki>, which is a city at Amazonas, Brazil.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.comunidadesol.org]]</nowiki> Member of comunidade sol

=== Bio ===
My name is Rodrigo Belem. I started to use a computer at the end of '98, when I was 13. I started to use GNU/Linux six months later. My first distro was <nowiki>[[http://www.conectiva.com.br|Conectiva]]</nowiki> Guarani. Since then I have used RedHat, Mandrake, Slackware and finally, in 2002, I met Debian and fell in love. At the end of 2004 IanLawrence told me about Ubuntu and showed me how great it is, explained the philosophy and we became part of the community. I took the cd and installed it on my computer.
Currently I've been helping the Kubuntu team with ramdom stuff, I'm the Kubuntu Mobile maintainer and kde committer.

=== Things that I am doing ===

* Helping the Kubuntu Team with random stuff
* Kubuntu Mobile maintenance
* KDE activities aligned with <nowiki>[[Kubuntu-Todo]]</nowiki>

=== Writing ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.amazon.com/Rodrigo-Cesar-Lopes-Belem/e/B0031TVH86/ref=ntt_athr_dp_pel_2|Professional Ubuntu Mobile Development.]]</nowiki>
