{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Rodrigo Moya, apply for upload rights for packages couchdb-glib, evolution-couchdb, libubuntuone, rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store, tomboy, ubuntuone-client'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Rodrigo Moya
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rodrigo-moya]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[RodrigoMoya]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm Rodrigo Moya and work for Canonical as a Desktop Engineer on the Online Services team. My main focus is GNOME development and, as part of my work at Canonical, the integration of <nowiki>[[https://one.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> features into the GNOME desktop. I have been a Linux user since 1993, and a GNOME developer since 1998.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using Debian in 1999 or 2000, and have been a Debian user since then, although I had to just use it for servers and backup machines from 2003 to 2009, since I was working at Novell and so part of my work was the integration and packaging of GNOME into Novell Linux distributions (Novell Linux Desktop first, then openSUSE). About Ubuntu, I started using it full time on the desktop in early 2009, when I started working at Canonical.

=== My involvement ===
* Developing new Ubuntu One features and integrating and packaging the desktop side of them for Ubuntu since Karmic.
* Submission of packages related to my work, like <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/couchdb-glib|couchdb-glib]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/evolution-couchdb|evolution-couchdb]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/libubuntuone|libubuntuone]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store|rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store]]</nowiki>
* Submission of some fixes to packages related to my work, like Tomboy, json-glib, ubuntuone-client

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* The development and packaging maintainership (not official, but have been doing all the packages for all the releases) of couchdb-glib and evolution-couchdb, both of which are going to be proposed to be part of GNOME as soon as an issue with JavaScript engines raised in discussions with GNOME is solved.
* Making Tomboy synchronize notes to Ubuntu One, and the patches submitted to the package
* Ubuntu One music store
* Contacts picker in ubuntuone-client for Lucid.

=== Areas of work ===
* Make the flow of releases coming from the Online Services team to Ubuntu as quick and as best integrated into Ubuntu guidelines as possible
* Package new software that might be needed for the Online Services team
* Integration of online services into GNOME and Ubuntu

=== Things I could do better ===
* I'd like to get more involved into Ubuntu development, that's why I apply for per-package upload rights.
* Knowing better all the tools, processes and guidelines used for Ubuntu development

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
* I'd really like, as explained in the 'What I like least in Ubuntu' section, to make GNOME community look at Canonical/Ubuntu as one of the top contributors to the development of the GNOME desktop
* I like a lot the tools available for packaging and Launchpad integration, but there's still a lot of room of improvement, so would really like to help in writing, testing, packaging new tools to make teams' work as easy as possible.
* Integrate desktop testing tools, like Mago, into the automatic testing of new packages.
* As part of a better integration between teams at Canonical/Ubuntu, I want to work on making that integration between the Online Services team and the other teams we work with (release team, design team, etc) more tight.
* Once familiarized with the way the packagers team works, I might think about applying for MOTU to help making the above plans come into reality.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Even though in the time I've been working at Canonical things look different from when I was an outsider, I still see in communities (specifically GNOME) the feeling that Canonical (and thus Ubuntu) doesn't work with upstream as close as it could do. So, as a GNOME developer and, if my application is approved, an Ubuntu developer, I would like to work on making that feeling disappear from the free software projects we work with.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I reviewed a couple of Rodrigo's updates and fixes and was quite happy with the quality of the packages. As he is upstream for the packages I definitely trust his view on them.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/evolution-couchdb/+bug/432391
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/couchdb-glib/+bug/416027
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/evolution-couchdb/+bug/414766
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/couchdb-glib/+bug/409378

=== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored a number of packages from Rodrigo, and have been quite pleased with his quality of work.  Earlier on I think there was a few minor things I found reviewing his packages, but he corrected them and I think learned from the experience.  His sponsoring requests are consistently of high quality, he is good about listing important changelog information like bug numbers, etc.  And since he is upstream for the packages, he understands the issues better than I do.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Review/Sponsoring of the following packages on a regular basis:
* couchdb-glib
* evolution-couchdb
* libubuntuone
* rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store
* tomboy
* ubuntuone-client

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

I have sponsored about a handful of Rodrigo's packages, mostly new versions.
These were relatively easy from a packaging POV, but I never had anything to
complain about.

I also remember reviewing the initial packaging of libubuntuone and friends on
REVU; there were a fair number of issues back then, which is to be expected
from someone who just got into packaging, and for new multi-binary packages.
Since then he got a lot more accustomed to packaging.

I cannot judge about his experience with the release cycle and freezes.

I did not sponsor enough packages from him to be able to give him my "thumbs
up" for this, but this is just because I'm not his main sponsor, not because I
have particular concerns about things that went wrong in the past. I would
like to see him become a package uploader.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
