{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Rodrigo Moya, apply for MOTU upload rights for all GNOME-related packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Rodrigo Moya
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~rodrigo-moya]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[RodrigoMoya]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm Rodrigo Moya and work for Canonical as a Desktop Engineer on the Desktop team. My main focus is GNOME development and, as part of my work at Canonical, the integration of GNOME into the Ubuntu distribution. I have been a Linux user since 1993, and a GNOME developer since 1998.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using Debian in 1999 or 2000, and have been a Debian user since then, although I had to just use it for servers and backup machines from 2003 to 2009, since I was working at Novell and so part of my work was the integration and packaging of GNOME into Novell Linux distributions (Novell Linux Desktop first, then openSUSE). About Ubuntu, I started using it full time on the desktop in early 2009, when I started working at Canonical. Since then, I have been developing software for integration of <nowiki>[[http://one.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> into Ubuntu and, in the last year, packaging and developing GNOME-related stuff as part of my work on the Ubuntu Desktop team.

=== My involvement ===
* Integration of <nowiki>[[http://one.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> into GNOME desktop and Ubuntu.
* Maintainance of several GNOME packages in the distribution.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Development and packaging of Ubuntu One-related software for the Ubuntu distribution.
* Ubuntu One music store.
* Learning Ubuntu packaging in the last couple of years.
* My involvement in the last year into the Ubuntu Desktop team.

=== Areas of work ===
* Make the flow of releases coming from GNOME to Ubuntu as quick and as best integrated into Ubuntu guidelines as possible
* Package new software that might be needed for the integration of GNOME upstream features into Ubuntu
* Participate in the relationship with GNOME upstream developers, for a better and painless integration of GNOME into Ubuntu.

=== Things I could do better ===
* Being able to help more in the packaging of GNOME stuff not included in main, which is the reason why I'm applying for MOTU.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
* I'd really like, as explained in the 'What I like least in Ubuntu' section, to make GNOME community look at Canonical/Ubuntu as one of the top contributors to the development of the GNOME desktop
* I like a lot the tools available for packaging and Launchpad integration, but there's still a lot of room of improvement, so would really like to help in writing, testing, packaging new tools to make teams' work as easy as possible.
* Integrate desktop testing tools, like Mago, into the automatic testing of new packages.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Even though in the time I've been working at Canonical things look different from when I was an outsider, I still see in communities (specifically GNOME) the feeling that Canonical (and thus Ubuntu) doesn't work with upstream as close as it could do. So, as a GNOME developer and, if my application is approved, an Ubuntu developer, I would like to work on making that feeling disappear from the free software projects we work with.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

* In particular, I really appreciate all the work Rodrigo has done with System Settings this cycle. He did the work so that Ubuntu-specific items show up in System Settings and added the theme switcher to Appearance, as well as a whole bunch of other work that's not as visible. He also sponsors uploads like mine which I appreciate a lot! And it's obviously great to have Canonical employees that work upstream too like Rodrigo does in GNOME. -- <nowiki>[[JeremyBicha]]</nowiki>

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
