{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
(gdb) bt
   from /usr/lib/libgnome-keyring.so.0
   from /usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/gtk-2.0/gnomekeyring.so
    at ../Python/ceval.c:3749
    at ../Python/ceval.c:3835
    at ../Python/ceval.c:3835
---Type <return> to continue, or q <return> to quit---
    locals=0x0, args=0x88611b8, argcount=1, kws=0x8848300, kwcount=0, 
    defs=0x0, defcount=0, closure=0x0) at ../Python/ceval.c:3000
    at ../Objects/funcobject.c:524
    at ../Objects/abstract.c:2492
    at ../Python/ceval.c:4062
    locals=0x0, args=0x88131c8, argcount=4, kws=0x87dda40, kwcount=0, 
    defs=0x0, defcount=0, closure=0x0) at ../Python/ceval.c:3000
    at ../Objects/funcobject.c:524
    at ../Objects/abstract.c:2492
    at ../Python/ceval.c:4062
---Type <return> to continue, or q <return> to quit---
    locals=0x0, args=0x8855d80, argcount=4, kws=0x8686f88, kwcount=0, 
    defs=0x0, defcount=0, closure=0x0) at ../Python/ceval.c:3000
    at ../Objects/funcobject.c:524
    at ../Objects/abstract.c:2492
    at ../Python/ceval.c:4062
    locals=0x0, args=0x8859a78, argcount=1, kws=0x84a2480, kwcount=0, 
    defs=0x0, defcount=0, closure=0x0) at ../Python/ceval.c:3000
    at ../Objects/funcobject.c:524
    at ../Objects/abstract.c:2492
    at ../Python/ceval.c:4062
    at ../Python/ceval.c:3835
---Type <return> to continue, or q <return> to quit---
    at ../Python/ceval.c:3835
    locals=0x0, args=0x8859838, argcount=1, kws=0x0, kwcount=0, defs=0x0, 
    defcount=0, closure=0x0) at ../Python/ceval.c:3000
    at ../Objects/funcobject.c:524
    at ../Objects/abstract.c:2492
    at ../Objects/classobject.c:2579
    at ../Objects/abstract.c:2492
    arg=0xb7fac02c, kw=0x0) at ../Python/ceval.c:3618
    at ../Modules/threadmodule.c:425
(gdb) 
</pre>

<pre>
<sanderqd> is it expected that ~/.local/share/desktop-couch/couchdb.html has the wrong link in 10.04?
 sandy|lurk sanderqd
 sandy|lurk sanderqd
<rye> sanderqd, if the file is not properly written then this is a bug in desktopcouch
 i believe there is one filed for karmic, but lucid has somehow recent version, so if that is not fixed then it is bad.
<sanderqd> ok, let me try restarting and seeing what gnome-keyring gives
* CardinalFang__ (~cmiller@rrcs-71-42-55-45.se.biz.rr.com) has joined #ubuntuone
* CardinalFang_ has quit (Ping timeout: 240 seconds)
<sanderqd> rye: a desktopcouch restart makes it work. weirdly the dbus-send method didn't work, but requesting the port after killing desktopcouch started it again.
 sandy|lurk sanderqd
<rye> sanderqd, hm, can't find the bug, but I remember having a talk about this some time earlier. I will add a note to try this tomorrow, since now is pretty much end of day for me...
<sanderqd> ok, thanks!
 sandy|lurk sanderqd
<rye> sanderqd, what's your LP id, so that I could add you as a subscriber as well?
<sanderqd> rye: suprisingly, it's sanderqd :-)
</pre>
