{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Romain Perier ==
'''lp:''' https://launchpad.net/~bambi

'''email:''' romain.perier@gmail.com

'''gpg id:''' 445FD6DF

'''irc nick:''' bambee

=== About myself ===

My name is Romain Perier, I am a young system engineer with a degree of MASTER in High Performance Computing (parallel computing, distributed computing, high performance network, cloud, etc...). I started to use GNU/Linux in 2002, when I was 15. My first distro was mandrake (the old mandriva). Then I have used gentoo, open suse and finally I met kubuntu. I started to use kubuntu when <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat|the maverick meerkat]]</nowiki> is out. I love kubuntu because it gets an excellent KDE integration, the community is great, and everything works perfectly with this distro. I started to contribute to kubuntu around february 2011, and it's even better than using it!

=== Kubuntu contributions ===

==== language-selector for KDE ====

I rewrote the KDE frontend for language-selector. Now it's fully integrated into systemsettings, no longer runs as root and it's also fully configurable, with almost the same features than gnome-language-selector.

==== Packaging ====

I did a lot of packaging. I helped to package kde 4.6 and kde 4.7.
I've also write packages rules from scratch for KDE 4.7 since a lot of upstream packages have been splitted. Have a look at my launchpad page, to see the full list .

The following list contains all the technical packaging tasks I've done since February 2011 :

- New upstream release (bump)

- Packaging from scratch

- Packages backports

- Patches backports

- Merges with debian (two or three packages, don't remember...)

- <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment|UDD]]</nowiki>

=== KDE contributions ===

==== phonon/phonon-gstreamer ====

I contribute to the phonon project. Actually I am working on the subtitles feature. I plan to add multitrack audio support in the backend and to fix bugs.

=== what do I plan for kubuntu ? ===

- Continue to do a lof of packaging

- Bug fixing

- Next year, I plan to organize ubuntu activities at my university : Install party, python programming on KDE, kubuntu packaging, etc...

- Become a MOTU

- Become a kubuntu dev

- Get a t-shirt with the harald's photo and join his fan club on launchpad ;D !

=== what do I plan for KDE ? ===

- Continue to contribute to phonon and become a dev

- Become a kde core developer

- Contribute to other projects... probably I don't know yet
