{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is copied from <nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-Bugs]]</nowiki> to help track the tests in ubuntuone-client-diagnose

Repository for the code is located here: http://code.google.com/p/ubuntuone-client-diagnose/

To run diagnostics use the following commands:
<pre>
wget http://ubuntuone-client-diagnose.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ubuntuone-client-diagnose.py
python ubuntuone-client-diagnose.py
</pre>

Example output (rev6) follows:
<pre>
Checking your Ubuntu One client...
Found: #462828 
 Based on:
** Found ERROR - Capabilities query failed in syncdaemon log
  
  While this is an older error, it still affects a number of users,
  mostly those who have installed Karmic and haven't updated after
  the install.
  The client will display a "capabilities mismatch" error.
  This was done intentionally and updating the client and restarting it
  fix this issue.
  
 See https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/462828

 Solution:
   Purge the installed client and reinstall it

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Found: #357395 
 Based on:
** Network manager does not say we are online now
** ubuntuone-client is less than 1.1+r278
  
  Currently, UbuntuOne requires the use of NetworkManager.
  Errors related to this will often have "NetworkManager" in
  either the oauth-login.log or syncdaemon-exceptions.log.
  But, sometimes, there is no error. Like when a user has NetworkManager
  installed but is using an alternative connection like a tethered
  mobile device that uses a different connection manager.
  
 See https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/357395

 Solution:
   Upgrade to PPA version at https://launchpad.net/~ubuntuone/+archive/beta

WARNING: 2 issues were found.
</pre>

The list of bugs that are diagnosed can be obtained as <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntuone-client/+bugs?field.tag=rye-diag|LP search with rye-diag tag]]</nowiki>
