{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Această pagină conține rapoartele echipei Ubuntu România pentru anul 2009. Este scris în limba engleză deoarece aceste rapoarte sunt incluse în rapoartele internaționale Ubuntu. În ziua de 22 a fiecărei luni ele vor fi incluse în rapoartele Ubuntu de la adresa TeamReports.

This page contains monthly report for Ubuntu Romanian team. By the 22nd of each month they will be included in the Ubuntu TeamReports.

 

== January 2009 ==
* The Romanian documentation website is ready. It comptains the translations of Ubuntu Docs for 8.04 and 8.10 togheter with a dedicate wiki a la help.ubuntu.com - http://www.ubuntu.ro/documentatie/comunitate
* Ubuntu 8.04 Desktop Course is available în Romanian language, in PDF (instructor and student) and HTML format. More info here: http://www.ubuntu.ro/documentatie/comunitate

== February 2009 ==
* New design for the Planet Ubuntu-ro page. Theme can be found in bzr (https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~alexeftimie/ubuntu-ro/planet). The page look like this: http://planet.ubuntu.ro/
* Committed our http://forum.ubuntu.ro theme and hacks we use with FluxBB: https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~sushkov/ubuntu-ro/forum

== March 2009 ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-ro|Ubuntu Romanian Localisation]]</nowiki> helped to push the <nowiki>[[http://library.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/2.26/index.html.ro|GNOME]]</nowiki> translation over 80% and Romanian became an official language in GNOME. The translations were made in Launchpad and uploaded upstream to the GNOME project, so those translations are available for Ubuntu too. It was a milestone, but it is still more work to be done. 

== May 2009 ==
* Apr 30 2009: Releasing <nowiki>[[http://kiwilinux.org/en/news.html | Kiwi Linux 9.04]]</nowiki>, based on Ubuntu 9.04. Full <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/kiwilinux/web/kiwi-linux-9-04-release-notes| release notes]]</nowiki>.
* May 19 2009 the release of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.ro/stiri/lansare-ubuntu-9.04-pentru-romania|Ubuntu for Romania]]</nowiki>, a localized version based on Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope. The installation CD is localised into Romanian and holds the majority of the default Ubuntu applications. The disk has specific network conectivity applications and legal restricted multimedia codecs to ease the transition of the new users to the Ubuntu operating system.
* There were several Jaunty release parties in cities around the country 
** Release party Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope in <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ro/stiri/Ubuntu-9.04-Cluj-Napoca |Cluj Napoca]]</nowiki>. After the usual presentation of the operating sistem, the audience and the organizers talked about:     
** Organising the local Ubuntu comunity
** The help and support offered by the local Ubuntu comunity
** The statistics regarding the use of the Ubuntu operating system in Romania
** The means and the methods that should be used to increase the number of the events held by the local comunity
** The usual group pictures can be found <nowiki>[[http://softwareliber.ro/poze/?galleria=Comunitati%20din%20Romania&subgalleria=Ubuntu%20Romania&undersubgalleria=Cluj-Napoca%20Jaunty%20Release%20Party|here]]</nowiki>
** Release party Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope in <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ro/stiri/jaunty-party-arad|Arad]]</nowiki>
** Release party Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope in <nowiki>[[http://www.lug-mures.org/content/ubuntu-jaunty-jack-release-un-succes-la-targu-mures |Targu Mures]]</nowiki> report: almost 25 people were present and this time we had some great discussions and beer talk. We also did some serious presentatations like what is new in <nowiki>[[http://lug-mures.googlegroups.com/web/NoutatiInUbuntu.odp?gda=VO9y30UAAABPSMqI6L0u_ajcSb9wlNbaPzOx6LEce-_6v9DPDbw0q5G4Li6eFRLrvYJNKL54AeC-ncxEZ4rCAxOtc9DB4LrTGu1iLHeqhw4ZZRj3RjJ_-A|jaunty jack]]</nowiki> : new gnome, new kde, new qt browser like arora or development IDE like qt creator, I also showed the new firefox 3.5 ( abrowser 3.5), quassel, gwibber (microblogging client), firebird 2.1.x and some extensive discussion about ext4 crash-ing and it's <nowiki>[[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_ext4&num=4|amazing speed]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://emil.cheriches.ro/2009/04/25/a-fost-release-party.html|Emil Cheriches]]</nowiki> presented the cool stuff on the server side like: eucalyptus (aka EC2 at home), dovecot, ext4 and ufw/apparmour and mysql 5.1.
** Some cool pictures (<nowiki>[[http://www.lug-mures.org/index.php?q=gallery&g2_itemId=1670 |here]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://softwareliber.ro/poze/?galleria=Comunitati%20din%20Romania&subgalleria=Ubuntu%20Romania&undersubgalleria=Jaunty%20Release%20Party%20Mures|here]]</nowiki>) were shot at the event by Emil; also we had some great guests like <nowiki>[[http://zynaddsubfx.sourceforge.net/credits.html|Paul Nasca]]</nowiki> who did some crazy dj-ing demos with <nowiki>[[http://zynaddsubfx.sourceforge.net/|zynaddsubfx]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://adi.roiban.ro|Adi Roiban]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://stas.nerd.ro/|Stas Sushkov]]</nowiki> were present to the event (they came from Cluj Napoca only for this) and it was great to discuss the Romanian Team priorities
** We had <nowiki>[[http://emil.cheriches.ro/2009/05/03/articolul-din-cuvantul-liber-editia-din-29-aprilie-2009.html | mentions]]</nowiki> in local press. The announcement in Hungarian language is here http://hup.hu/node/69899 And yes we are on front page on ubuntu.hu http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2009apr/jaunty-jackalope-release-party-marosvasarhelyen
** Other notes in blogosphere: There is a note on <nowiki>[[http://www.infoms.ro/home/detalii-stiri/article/4475/48.html|infoms website]]</nowiki> 
* The local team was reprezented to the Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope <nowiki>[[http://stas.nerd.ro/index.php/read/490|release party in Moldova]]</nowiki>. The pictures can be found <nowiki>[[http://softwareliber.ro/poze/?galleria=Evenimente&subgalleria=2009-05-02%20-%20Chisinau%20Jaunty%20Release%20Party|here.]]</nowiki>
