{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ronald van Engelen ===

E-mail: 

==== Nederlands ====

Als lid van <nowiki>[[http://nl.gnome.org/|GnomeNL]]</nowiki> en het Ubuntu DutchTeam probeer ik bij te dragen aan een '''compleet Nederlandse Linux-desktop voor bedrijfsmatig gebruik'''.

Ik werk momenteel voor <nowiki>[[http://ict.hethooghuis.nl/|Het Hooghuis]]</nowiki>, een school voor voortgezet onderwijs in Oss en omstreken. Nadat we daar onze 43 Novell en Microsoft servers gemigreerd hebben naar 12 Debian en Ubuntu servers, proberen we nu 75% van onze 1800 werkplekken te voorzien van Ubuntu Desktops.

We doen dit middels <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ltsp.org/|LTSP]]</nowiki>(5) om warmte en geluid uit onze lokalen te weren terwijl we onze leerlingen en budgetten bevrijden van propriëtaire oplossingen.

==== English ====

As a member of the <nowiki>[[http://nl.gnome.org/|Gnome NL]]</nowiki>  and the Ubuntu DutchTeam I try to make Ubuntu a viable enterprise Desktop for Dutch speaking users.

Currently I'm working for <nowiki>[[http://ict.hethooghuis.nl/|Het Hooghuis]]</nowiki>, a high school in the Oss region, The Netherlands. After having migrated all of our 43 (Microsoft and Novell) servers to 12 servers with Debian and Ubuntu we're currently focussing on getting the Ubuntu Desktop on 75% of our (1800) workplaces.

For deployment we chose <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ltsp.org/|LTSP]]</nowiki>(5) as our primary platform, to get heat and sound out of our classrooms, while liberating our pupils (and budgets) from proprietary solutions.

----
CategorieThuisblad
