{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== About Me ==

Roozbeh Shafiee borned in 29th May 1987 in Isfahan-IRAN and he is 27 years old right now. His professes are about linux systems administration and python development. he is living in Tehran-IRAN and his job is virtualization architect and linux systems administrator in a telecommunication company. he uses linux since 2003 (Fedora Core) and uses ubuntu since version of 6.06 . He loves communities based on open source technologies and he is member of Iranian Ubuntu LoCo team since April 2009 and contributes in some of open source projects.

== Contact Information ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| RoozbehShafiee
|-
| GTalk
| <nowiki>[[mailto:Roozbeh.Shafiee@Gmail.Com|Roozbeh.Shafiee@Gmail.Com]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| <nowiki>[[mailto:Roozbeh@Ubuntu.ir|Roozbeh@Ubuntu.ir]]</nowiki>
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://RoozbehShafiee.Com|RoozbehShafiee.Com]]</nowiki>
|}

== Contributions ==

'''Activities in Ubuntu Community'''
* Ubuntu Conference coordinator and presentor in Ubuntu 8.10, October 2008, Isfahan-IRAN (Coordinating By Isfahan LUG)
* Member of Iranian Ubuntu Loco Team since April 2009 // <nowiki>[[http://Ubuntu.ir|Ubuntu IRAN]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu-ir forum moderator since April 2009 // <nowiki>[[http://Forum.Ubuntu.ir|Ubuntu IRAN Forums]]</nowiki>
* KDE/Kubuntu presentation in Ubuntu 9.04 conference, May 2009, Tehran-IRAN (Organizer: Ubuntu Iran LoCo Team)
* KDE/Kubuntu presentation in Ubuntu 9.10 conference, November 2009, Tehran-IRAN (Organizer: Ubuntu Iran LoCo Team)
* KDE/Kubuntu presentation in Ubuntu 10.04 conference, July 2010, Tehran-IRAN (Organizer: Ubuntu Iran LoCo Team)

'''Other Activities in Open Source Communities'''
* Iran OpenStack Community Coordinator // <nowiki>[[https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/OpenStack_User_Groups#Iran|Details]]</nowiki>
* KDE forum moderator since June 2009 // <nowiki>[[http://forum.kde.org|KDE Forums]]</nowiki>
* Iran Arch Linux Community head since November 2009 // <nowiki>[[http://archlinux.ir|Arch Linux IRAN]]</nowiki>
* Chakra GNU/Linux Developer, November 2009 – October 2012 // <nowiki>[[http://chakra-project.org|Chakra Project]]</nowiki>
* Contributing in Amarok, Choqok projects
* Senior Member of Isfahan Linux Users Group (Isfahan LUG) // <nowiki>[[http://isfahanlug.org|Isfahan LUG]]</nowiki>

== Future Goals ==
* Contributing in development of <nowiki>[[http://OpenStack.org|OpenStack]]</nowiki> project
* Continue to support the Ubuntu community actively in the <nowiki>[[http://Forum.Ubuntu.ir|Ubuntu IRAN Forums]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>

== Testimonials ==
If you know me and have something to say about me and my activities, please leave a comment here. Thanks
