{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Rosen Diankov, apply for upload rights for packages related to robotics, in specific <nowiki>[[http://openrave.org | Open Robotics Automation Virtual Environment (OpenRAVE)]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://sourceforge.net/projects/collada-dom/ | COLLADA Document Object Model]]</nowiki>.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Rosen Diankov
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~openrave
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RosenDiankov
|}

== Who I am ==

I've been contributing to open source for over 5 years now mainly in the area of computer vision and robotics. In August 2010, I got a Robotics PhD from <nowiki>[[http://www.ri.cmu.edu | Carnegie Mellon University]]</nowiki> and have mostly been concentrating development around on motion planning technologies for robotics. I've interned at Microsoft, Intel Research, Willow Garage (a robotics startup), and am currently a researcher at University of Tokyo. 

<nowiki>[[http://www.programmingvision.com | Homepage]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://www.programmingvision.com/cv.php | CV]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.programmingvision.com/research.php | Research]]</nowiki>

== My Ubuntu story ==

I've been using Ubuntu since starting my PhD studies in 2006. A lot of my robotics co-workers use Ubuntu, and we've been targeting OpenRAVE for Ubuntu-usage. OpenRAVE has received many requests to make its usage simpler and more integrated, therefore we would like to put its packages and all its dependencies in the Ubuntu universe repositories.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Creator/Core Developer:

* <nowiki>[[http://openrave.org | OpenRAVE]]</nowiki> - Open Robotics Automation Virtual Environment

* <nowiki>[[https://sourceforge.net/projects/libsift/ | libsiftfast]]</nowiki> - Optimized Image Features Library (using alias)

Core Developer:

* <nowiki>[[https://sourceforge.net/projects/cmu-ros-pkg/ | cmu-ros-pkg]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://sourceforge.net/projects/jsk-ros-pkg/ | jsk-ros-pkg]]</nowiki> - open-source robotics packages

* <nowiki>[[http://pcsx2.net | PCSX2 (Playstation 2 Emulator)]]</nowiki> - Was core developer from 2006 to 2008 (using alias).

Contributed to the following projects, although not core developer:

** <nowiki>[[http://ros.org | Robot Operating System]]</nowiki> - too many packages to list

** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/python-nose/ | Python Nose Testing Framework]]</nowiki> - new multiprocessing plugin

** <nowiki>[[http://www.openrtp.jp/openhrp3/en/index.html | OpenHRP3]]</nowiki> - added COLLADA support

=== Areas of work ===

I am the main maintainer/developer of OpenRAVE, and recently become the maintainer of COLLADA-DOM. Currently maintaining Ubuntu packages on Launchpad for both of these libraries <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~openrave/+archive/release | here]]</nowiki>.

=== Things I could do better ===

Better testing for robotics libraries. I would like to make every new release more reliable than the previous, with zero regressions.

== Plans for the future ==

I want to be the main maintainer for OpenRAVE/COLLADA-DOM on Ubuntu universe repositories.

OpenRAVE also has minor dependencies on <nowiki>[[http://assimp.sourceforge.net/ | Open Asset Import Library]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.bulletphysics.com | Bullet Physics]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://lipforge.ens-lyon.fr/www/crlibm/ | Correct Rounded Mathematical Library]]</nowiki>. It would be great to eventually get these libraries in Ubuntu universe repositories.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

I'm just getting into the Ubuntu community, and robotics packages are something new to Ubuntu, so I have not had any contacts with Ubuntu mentors/sponsors.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
