{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/rosetta-desktopfile-ui
* '''Created''':  by CarlosPerelloMarin
* '''Contributors''': CarlosPerelloMarin
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

.desktop file translations are one of the most visible items on the desktop. Rosetta should provide a special edit mode which groups all .desktop file translations together.

The POT files contain the source of a string, so Rosetta already has all the required information. So this is only a UI issue, we do not need to change infrastructure for that.

This spec would need to have https://launchpad.net/products/rosetta/+spec/translations-grouping-view implemented.

=== Rationale ===

We should allow people to translate as soon as possible the most visible UI strings.

=== Implementation ===

* All .desktop messages should be tagged in Rosetta so we can detect them really easy. That could be done while importing the template automatically based on the filename from where the string came.
* Rosetta should be configured to show those tagged messages as defined by the spec https://launchpad.net/products/rosetta/+spec/translations-grouping-view

----
CategorySpec
