{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.'' 

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/products/rosetta/+spec/rosetta-filters-improvements
* '''Created''': 02/01/2007 by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/xdatap1/|Paolo Sammicheli]]</nowiki>
* '''Dependency''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/products/rosetta/+spec/translation-upstream-groupby|translation-upstream-groupby]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/products/rosetta/+spec/translation-needwork-filtering|translation-needwork-filtering]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/rosetta/+spec/rosetta-translation-stat-export|rosetta-translation-stat-export ]]</nowiki>
* '''Contributors''':

=== Summary ===
Template's list for translation, for each language on Rosetta, isn't sorted, filtered or grouped. This is a list of improvements to make easy find what to translate.

=== Rationale ===

=== Features to Implement ===
* Upstream Filter
* Need Work Filter

=== Use Cases ===
* Paul is a Kubuntu enthusiast and work as translator for Dutch group. Bookmarking KDE upstream & "need work" packages stay on touch with the status of Kubuntu related translation. 
* John is an Italian GNOME translator. He focus his work on GNOME upstream packages using "GNOME" and "need work" filtering.
* Henry is a French Ubuntu coordinator. He filter packages "need work" to have the status of translation for ALL packages. Using export-stat feature he download data to a OOo Calc document to analize data offline.
* Milo is a contributor of Ubuntu-it Newsletter. With export-stat feature he creates a pie graph showing the progress of translation in Italian, trying to promote translation contributes from comunity.

=== Implementation ===

=== Discussion ===
* Other benefit if combined with search feature: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/rosetta/+spec/search
=== Unresolved Issues ===

=== Questions and Answers ===

----
CategorySpec CategorySpec
