{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a list of packages which are considered important to be translated first if a team starts translating Ubuntu into a new language.
 
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/debian-installer/+translations|debian-install]]</nowiki> Ubuntu's installer. This package contains the strings of the text-interface-installer and the Ubiquity graphical installer. So these are the first strings someone will see when installing Ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/gfxboot-theme-ubuntu/+translations|gfxboot-theme-ubuntu]]</nowiki> Contains the strings of the very first graphical menu of options during the installation process.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/gdm/+translations|gdm]]</nowiki> The GNOME Display Manager. A login screen in the own language will make everybody happy.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/gnome-panel/+translations|gnome-panel]]</nowiki> Among lesser seen strings, this package contains the strings "Applications", "Places" and "System" which are seen in the top panel.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/gnome-session/+translations|gnome-session]]</nowiki> Contains the "Shutdown, Hibernate, Logout, Switch User, Suspend, Reboot" and the description of the action related to each of those strings.

=== Important applications ===
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/update-manager/+translations|update-manager]]</nowiki> The update manager of Ubuntu

** Nautilus
