{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/rosetta/+spec/rosetta-word-lists/
* '''Created''': 2007-05-29
* '''Drafter''': <nowiki>[[MartinAlbisetti|Martin Albisetti]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

Create a list of preferred translations for specific words per language to make it easier to have consistency among packages in translations.

=== Rationale ===

Packages in Ubuntu should be consistent in every aspect possible. The decentralized nature of Rosetta allows more to be translated, but it makes it very hard to keep common terms consistent across packages (and sometimes in the same package).
It's a frequent practice for translation groups to have <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuSpanishTranslators|a list preferred translations]]</nowiki> for a specific word, and it would would make sense to have these available in Rosetta, and automatically presented when the word comes up.
This would make any random user passing by and translating a few strings much more productive and better quality, and would solve many problems between variations of the language in different countries.

=== Use Cases ===

* John is new to the Ubuntu community, lands on Rosetta and decides to translate a few strings. Suggestions for specific words will guide him and give him more confidence.
* Matt is a regular translator but doesn't remember how he translated a specific term a few months ago, suggestions would serve as a reminder (gnome/kde menus are a good example, not everyone knows what "Preferences" translates into on the actual menu).
* A new package is imported and has many inconsistencies, suggestions would make reviewing it much easier.

=== Design ===

* An interface per language should be created for the translation team to add preferred translations (word in english > word in language)
* Rights management should be the same as translations (open, moderated and restricted)

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

* A list of preferred terms should appear on the row that contain words specified in the list (or maybe on the page?)

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* How to prevent abuse/misuse (think adding "a" to the list)

=== Related Bugs/Blueprints ===
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/rosetta/+bug/44/|Translations should be searchable]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/rosetta/+spec/translate-specific-string/|Translate Specific String]]</nowiki>

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
