{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Rosetta: A Web-based Translation Portal For PO Files ==

Translations: Spanish: RosettaReleaseAnnouncementES, Catalan: RosettaReleaseAnnouncementCA, French RosettaReleaseAnnouncementFR, German RosettaReleaseAnnouncementDE, Lithuanian: RosettaReleaseAnnouncementLT, Zulu: RosettaReleaseAnnouncementZU, Xhosa: RosettaReleaseAnnouncementXH

The Rosetta Translation Portal team is pleased to announce that the portal
is now ready for widespread use. Rosetta's goal is to make the process of
translating free software as easy as possible for both translators and
software maintainers. Maintainers can send us PO Templates and PO Files, 
which will be published through the web for translation. PO Files can then
be downloaded at any time.

Rosetta is part of the Ubuntu Launchpad at:

        https://launchpad.net

Happy translating!

=== Rosetta Resources ===

Several resources are available to Rosetta users and anybody else interested
in Rosetta.

The rosetta-users mailing list is available for discussing Rosetta:

        http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/rosetta-users

Another place for discussion is the #rosetta channel on the Freenode IRC
network (irc.freenode.net)

=== How to Start Using Rosetta ===

In order to do translation with Rosetta, you will need to register an account
on the ubuntulinux.org website:

        http://www.ubuntulinux.org/join_form

Next, find something you would like to translate. If there is something you
would like to translate which you cannot find in Rosetta, feel free to ask on
the mailing list or the IRC channel and we will try and import it for you.

Once you have found the thing you want to translate, start translating!

The Rosetta team is happy to answer any questions you might have.

=== Bugs in Rosetta ===

Although Rosetta is being used for translation today, it is expected that users
will discover bugs. We will endeavour to fix bugs quickly as they are found,
but hope users will understand that this is a new tool.

Currently, the preferred method of reporting bugs in Rosetta is to send a
message to the mailing list. Feedback about Rosetta is encouraged and
welcomed.

=== Acknowledgments ===

We would like to thank all the people who tested Rosetta, found bugs and gave
us feedback before the release.

CategoryArchive
