{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/rosetta/+spec/rosetta-stats-enhancement
* '''Created''': 2007-01-03
* '''Drafter''': <nowiki>[[JoeyStanford|Joey Stanford]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MartinAlbisetti|Martin Albisetti]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

Enhance Rosetta's statistics capabilities to capture weekly deltas for publication in UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter (UWN). 

=== Rationale ===

UWN publishes information of interest to the community including Malone statistics.  It would be a very nice gesture if we could also publish Rosetta statistics.  This serves a real purpose: Just as publishing bug statistics keeps bug management (i.e. triage and resolution) in the forefront of reader's minds, likewise it is expected that a constant, gentle reminder would encourage translators to spend time in Rosetta and potentially encourage the growth of new translators.

=== Use Cases ===

** Each week, the UWN team would visit <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/rosetta/+about]]</nowiki> and transcribe the statistics data into the newsletter for publication.

   Example of UWN issue #26:

   {{{
Changes in Rosetta from January 1st to January 7th:

   Templates:   +161   (4341 -> 4502)
   Strings:     +34916 (697429 -> 732345)
   PO Files:    +10388 (140753 -> 151141)
   Languages:   +6     (223 -> 229)
   Translators: +3352  (14753  -> 18105)}}}

* Other projects wanting to show statistics of Rosetta progress in various creative ways.

=== Scope ===

Today, only fleeting daily statistics are available in Rosetta. UWN members must visit Rosetta each week to record a baseline and then calculate the difference. 

This specification covers only the design of enhanced Rosetta statistics for UWN (and general interest) purposes. It is not meant to detail a full blown statistics system. However, at the spec approver's discretion, this spec can be enhanced to provide additional functionality beyond the original request.

It would also be '''''very useful''''' to a few projects currently in development (see https://blueprints.beta.launchpad.net/launchpad/+spec/ubuntu-stats) to have this information divided per day on a CVS format like: http://people.ubuntu-in.org/~carthik/bugstats/stats

=== Design ===

==== Data Capture ====

The proposed design is to implement 6 additional fields in the backend database which capture daily data integer numbers for the 5 main fields of interest plus a date field:
* Templates
* Total Strings
* Untranslated Strings
* PO Files
* Languages
* Translators
* Date field for storing date of copy

Once a day a job would run which would copy the current daily values (which already exist) into these new fields along with the date of the copy.

==== Data Display ====

 {{{
Rosetta statistics for 2007/05/03 (you should be able to specify for what date)

====== Total Statistics ======

* 4502 Templates 
* 732345 Total Strings 
* 343811 Untranslated Strings
* 151141 PO Files 
* 229 Languages 
* 18105 Translators

Per Language Statistics:

====== Spanish ======
* 12550 Untranslated Strings
* 406 Translators

====== French ======
* 10333 Untranslated Strings
* 612 Translators

etc.}}}

=== Outstanding Issues ===

none yet

=== Comments ===

none yet

----
CategorySpec
