{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Most importantly: keep up-to-date on RTL issues ===
# <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-rtl | Subscribe to the mailing list]]</nowiki>.
# Join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-rtl | team on launchpad]]</nowiki>. The team is subscribed to all changes in the Ubuntu bugs that are tagged with 'rtl' so you will get those by E-mail.
# Subscribe to this wiki page.

=== Mission ===
The Ubuntu RTL Team's mission is to improve the support of ''right-to-left languages'' like Arabic, Farsi and Hebrew in Ubuntu.

We try to contribute our changes upstream as much as possible.

=== What's the Problem? ===
Implementing support for languages that are written from right to left (RTL), requires more than just translation. Since RTL users are accustomed to read from right to left, they naturally scan the UI from right to left. Essentially, they expect to see a mirror image of the UI (there are exceptions). So the UI's layout needs to be changed to facilitate this. For instance, text should be right aligned instead of left aligned, and checkboxes are commonly placed to the right of their label instead of to the left of it, vertical scrollbars are on the left side instead of on the right side and so on. Here are some <nowiki>[[RTLTeam-RTLScreenshots | screenshots]]</nowiki> and there's a <nowiki>[[http://www.chromium.org/developers/design-documents/ui-mirroring-infrastructure | good, more in-depth reading about this RTL mirroring]]</nowiki> at the Chromium project.

There is <nowiki>[[RTLTeam-RTLLanguages | a table with information about the RTL languages]]</nowiki>.

=== Bug Priority ===
# Getting <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/654988 | RTL support in Unity]]</nowiki>
# Getting <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/927931 | RTL enabled in LibreOffice by default or by the presence of an RTL keyboard layout]]</nowiki>.
# <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity-greeter/+bug/834386 | RTL support in Unity Greeter]]</nowiki> (the default Ubuntu login screen)
# <nowiki>[[Bugs-ReportingBugs | Report]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage | triage]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToFix | fix]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=rtl | RTL bugs]]</nowiki>

=== RTL Bug Lists ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=rtl | RTL bugs in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.kde.org/buglist.cgi?keywords=rtl&resolution=--- | RTL bugs in KDE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/buglist.cgi?keywords=rtl&resolution=--- | RTL bugs in Mozilla]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.documentfoundation.org/RTL_Bugs | RTL bugs in LibreOffice]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced;short_desc=rtl;field0-0-0=longdesc;bug_status=UNCONFIRMED;bug_status=NEW;bug_status=ASSIGNED;bug_status=REOPENED;bug_status=NEEDINFO;short_desc_type=allwordssubstr | RTL bugs in GNOME]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=670486 | Request in GNOME to provide an RTL keyword]]</nowiki>)

=== Developer Docs ===

<nowiki>[[RTLTeam-RTLResources]]</nowiki>

=== Achievements ===
1. ✓ Getting the `rtl` tag accepted as one of the <nowiki>[[Bugs-Tags|standard Ubuntu bug tags]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryTeam <nowiki>[[CategoryRTLTeam]]</nowiki>
