{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

====== Biography ======

Hi there. My name is Rubén, aka OuTiMe, and I'm 15 years old. I'm living now at Madrid, Spain, and I born here.

I start with GNU/Linux in 2002, being a noobie that loves MS Windows. Now, I love (and I think forever) GNU/Linux and I use all the time, but I'm waiting for more hardware-software support from Linux (like Counter-Strike...).

====== Working on... ======

- ... my blog. Is a Spanish blog that explain some things for noobies on GNU/Linux. See at http://www.hacked.es.

- ... Kubuntu-ES. Is a Spanish community, hosted by Canonical, that offers community support for Spanish users of Kubuntu. I'm administrator.

- ... translating Ubuntu, in the ubuntu-l10n-es team (see at https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-es).

- ... translating XChat. XChat is a popular multiplataform client created by Zed. See at http://www.xchat.org

- ... administration of wh2001's mailing list. wh2001 is a popular hacklab here (Madrid) that is unused now, but have a lot of members yet.

- ... kill Bill Gates.

====== Me at LaunchPad ======

I'm member of 'Kubuntu España' (Administrator) and Ubuntu Spanish Translators (member).

====== Future projects ======

I'm (trying) to build a new distro based on Kubuntu Dapper that is needed for education on my region. It's only an idea, because I never build any distro, and I don't have 	
knowledge.

Learn more Python and C.

====== Stuff ======

http://www.google.es -- Always your best friend :-)

http://www.securityfocus.com -- Great website for security warning and DB.

http://www.wordpress.com -- Great website for make your own blog
