{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am semi retired from the auto industry.
Well I started using ubuntu and linux distros about 12 years ago. It began as more of a challenge then than a preference then, but as I became more familiar and comfortable it quickly became a passion and my main OS of choice. And for over 7 years now my only OS.<<BR>>
Some of the distros I have used are Novel Suse, Red Hat, Mandriva, Debian (Pure), Gentoo, and Arch.

=== Hobbies and Interests ===

Well of course my family first, computers, travel, philosophy, literature, science, and the great outdoors mostly warm weather activity's.<<BR>>
Love older movies, and very passionate about my music.

=== Contributions ===

I joined Ubuntu Forums in 2005 as a spectator for a bit, just to get a feel for the forum. Well it came to be that I fell in love with this community and made myself at home.<<BR>>
I started in the development (testing) forums which at that time kept me pretty busy in itself then I ventured out to the other venue's New to Ubuntu, General Help, DE and when I can Programming Talk.<<BR>>
And as any non-technical user I had to work and read hard, now I love to help others as others have helped me.

=== Future Goals ===

I want to continue my personal growth with Linux and Ubuntu and again helping others along the way.
My Feelings are I have to give to get. With everyone that I have helped I have also had the pleasure of learning.<<BR>>
I think Mark S has given us a great OS, Community, and leads with great experience.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
