{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== Kuban Team =====
* We are continuing to <nowiki>[[http://kuban.ubuntu.ru/content/rasprostranenie-distributiva-ubuntu-gnulinux|spread]]</nowiki> distributions Ubuntu 9.10 and Ubuntu 8.04.4 LTS.
* We also pass out topical monthly snap-shot Ubuntu 8.04.4 LTS repositories.
* The preparations for the implementation to create a typical automated information management system for business (SMB) based on Ubuntu LTS distributions, are at the finish line. The official start of the project is scheduled for April 13, 2010, the first anniversary of the <nowiki>[[http://kuban.ubuntu.ru/|Kuban community]]</nowiki>.
* We have started activities to prepare for the first anniversary of the Kuban LoCo, including:
** To ensure the coordination and action to spread distribution and customer support designed jabber conference '''kuban-ubuntu''' on the '''conference.jabber.ru''' server;
** <nowiki>[[http://kub-ubuntu.beneficium.ru/forum/index.php?board=36.0|Work]]</nowiki> on the creation of "cloud" service based on the UEC for the participants of Kuban Ubuntu community has begun. Tentative start trial operation of service: 13/04/2010;
** The group have started the preparations for the adoption of the Kuban Ubuntu community in the real (officially approved) Ubuntu Local Community (LoCo);
** We have started discussions on proposals for events associated with the anniversary of the Kuban community and the Ubuntu 10.04 release on a <nowiki>[[http://kub-ubuntu.beneficium.ru/forum/index.php|community forum]]</nowiki>.

===== Ukraine =====

* Seminar <nowiki>[[http://www.gorod.cn.ua/news_15925.html|Using Linux. First steps to freedom]]</nowiki> in Chernihiv.
