{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== The Team =====

* Total number of registered users in Team groups exceeded 1000 (https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ru/+members)!

===== Translations =====

* 25th issue of Full Circle magazine in Russian (http://ubuntu.ru/fullcircle/25).
* The second alpha-version of Ubuntu Desktop Course in Russian has been finished. The proof-reading stage has been started (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Training/Russian).

===== Resources =====

* Managing of ubuntu.ru domain has been enhanced by Google Apps:
** Active members of the Team may use <member>@ubuntu.ru accounts;
** There are plans to use Google services for project coordination.
* Public calendar is up and running (http://ubuntu.ru/calendar).

===== Novosibirsk Team =====

* InstallFest has been organized (http://lug.nsk.ru/lugnskru/2009/05/seminar-ubuntu-installfest.html).
* We started a Club for people willing to learn more about Ubuntu. Three meetings of the club has been held in June:
** http://lug.nsk.ru/lugnskru/2009/06/otchet-o-zasidenii-kluba-ot-11062009.html
** http://lug.nsk.ru/lugnskru/2009/06/otchet-o-vstreche-kluba-18062009.html
** http://lug.nsk.ru/lugnskru/2009/06/otchet-o-vstreche-kluba-25062009.html

===== Kuban Team =====

* Ongoing effort in spreading Ubuntu 9.04 and Ubuntu 8.04.2 LTS.
* Distribution of actual repository snapshots for Ubuntu 8.04.2 LTS.
* Work continues on development of remote interactive courses for Ubuntu.
* Meetings has been held with Commercial and industrial chamber (CIC) of Krasnodarsky kray (ТПП Краснодарского края) management. During the meetings strategic topics has been defined covering interaction between Kuban Ubuntu Team, Krasnodarsky kray CIC, and regional Non-Governmental Organization "Project beneficium" (КРОО «Проект beneficium»). "Project beneficium" is a partner and informational sponsor of Kuban Ubuntu Team:
** http://beneficium.ru/content/vstrecha-rukovoditelei-kroo-proekt-beneficium-i-tpp-krasnodarskogo-kraya
** http://beneficium.ru/content/ocherednaya-vstrecha-rukovoditelei-kroo-proekt-beneficium-i-tpp-krasnodarskogo-kraya

===== Saratov Team =====

* Work on preparation for Software Freedom Day 2009 has been started in collaboration with SarLUG (http://cc.sgu.ru/redmine/projects/show/sfd).
