{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== The Team =====
* Team tools has been organized at https://launchpad.net/:
** The working groups as <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ru/+members | subgroups of ~ubuntu-ru]]</nowiki>;
** Mailing lists for the working groups;
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-ru | Ubuntu-ru meta-project]]</nowiki>;
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ru | Bug tracker]]</nowiki> to organize work processes, for status monitoring and troubleshooting;
** <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ru/index.php?board=44.0 | Dedicated forum section]]</nowiki> to discuss ongoing work.
* The formation of local area teams was initiated. Team reports are below.

===== Translations =====
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ru/fullcircle | Full Circle magazine]]</nowiki> #24 in Russian has been issued.
* Translation of Ubuntu Desktop Course is at the alpha stage now. See details on the project page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Training/Russian.
* Ubuntu Desktop Tour for 9.04 has been translated. To be published on the site soon.

===== Resources =====
* <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ru/index.php?topic=56437.0 | The new code]]</nowiki> for IRC support channel, #ubuntu-ru, has been introduced.
* Hard work on the wiki server for the Russian documentation: http://help.ubuntu.ru/.
* Security problems that had led to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ru/pr/forum | a long interruption]]</nowiki> in the work of the <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ru/ | Russian-speaking forum]]</nowiki> has been overcome: Upgrade to SMF 1.1.9.
* Jabber conference, ubuntu@conference.jabber.ru, has been recognized as the official channel of Russian-speaking support.

===== Moscow Team =====
* Release Party for users from Moscow on the day Ubuntu 9.04 release has been organized. On the meeting the question was raised on organization of the user conferences. All attendees agreed that there is a need for more informative meetings aimed to all Ubuntu, Windows, and other Linux distributions users.
* New ways of Ubuntu distribution in Moscow and Moscow region <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ru/index.php?topic=57917.0 | has been proposed]]</nowiki>.

===== Saint Petersburg Team =====
* <nowiki>[[http://blog.aim.pp.ru/2009/04/27/ubuntu-install-party-%D0%B2-%D1%81%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%BA%D1%82-%D0%BF%D0%B5%D1%82%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B1%D1%83%D1%80%D0%B3%D0%B5/ | Ubuntu Install Fest]]</nowiki> dedicated to release of Jaunty has been organized. Information is also available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RussianTeam/SPB/ReleaseParties/Jaunty.
* An organizational meeting was held to form the structure of the St. Petersburg LoCo Team.

===== Novosibirsk Team =====
* The structure of the Novosibirsk Ubuntu users group has been formed (https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ru-loco-nsk/msg00014.html).
* Channels of communication has been organized:
** Jabber conference linuxnsk@conference.sibnsk.net;
** IRC channel #ubuntu-ru-nsk on Freenode;
** Site: http://ubu.nsk.ru.
* Goals and objectives of the group has been set at the organizational meeting.
* Preparations for the Ubuntu InstallFest.

===== Kuban Team =====
* A Release Party, combined with the regular meeting of the group (<nowiki>[[http://kub-ubuntu.beneficium.ru/content/ocherednoe-sobranie-soobshchestva | report]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/29591959@N05/sets/72157617902340313/show/ | photos]]</nowiki>).
* A project to create a remote interactive courses for Ubuntu 8.04 LTS (<nowiki>[[http://kub-ubuntu.beneficium.ru/forum/index.php?topic=18.0 | discussion]]</nowiki>) has been started.
* Kuban Team site: http://kub-ubuntu.beneficium.ru.
* Ubuntu 9.04 has been downloaded and distributed. We also continue to distribute and support LTS version, providing monthly repository updates for it.

===== Saratov Team =====
* Participation in <nowiki>[[http://saratov.lug.ru/ | SarLUG]]</nowiki> meetings (<nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/AgafonovDmitry/ZeQQ#slideshow | photos]]</nowiki>):
** The initial introduction and presentation of the Russian Ubuntu LoCo Team;
** The distribution of CD and DVD versions of Ubuntu Linux 9.04;
** Discussion of advantages and conveniences of Ubuntu over other distros;
** Ubuntu 9.04 LiveDVD has been successfully tested on MacBook (Intel) - exciting experiment;
** Discussion of new technologies: netbooks and other portable computers and Linux platforms for them, 3D - desktop effects and games, delta updates (to appear in Fedora 11), and other topics.
* Interaction with the Saratov Linux Center (http://linux-saratov.ru/):
** Searching for business and PR ideas to promote Ubuntu;
** <nowiki>[[http://linux-saratov.ru/linux/ubuntu/rubuntu-en.php | Rubuntu]]</nowiki> 9.04.0.1 distribution has been build.
* Active participation in projects of Russian Ubuntu LoCo Team.
