{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== The Team =====

* <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.ru/team/meeting/|Team meetings]]</nowiki> in working groups.

===== Translations =====

* Karmic translation, bugfixing, work with upstream.

===== Resources =====

* Working on ubuntu.ru portal: redesign and integration of resources.

===== Kuban Team =====
* We are distributing Ubuntu 9.10 and 8.04.3 LTS as well as repositories for Ubuntu 8.04.3 LTS.
* We had started preparations for the project of typical automated information management system for business (SMB) based on Ubuntu LTS distributions.
* There was <nowiki>[[http://kub-ubuntu.beneficium.ru/content/vstrecha-v-kubgtu|first meeting]]</nowiki> with reps of Innovative Technologies Laboratory of Kuban State Technological University (KSTU). 
* We agreed to start preparations of holding in KSTU an Ubuntu Install Party in December 2009.

===== Saratov Team =====

* Ubuntu Russian Remix based on Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala released: http://linux-saratov.ru/linux/ubuntu/rubuntu/rubuntu-en.php.

===== Ukraine =====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.org.ru/news/linux-general/4179149|CN.UA Linux Install Fest I]]</nowiki> in Chernihiv, dedicated to release of Ubuntu 9.10.
