{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Welcome ==
You're probably wondering why you are here. So am I. I suppose I should tell you a bit about myself, then:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Height'''
| 5'11" (1.8m)
|-
| '''Weight'''
| 185lb (84kg)
|-
| '''Eyes'''
| Blue
|-
| '''Hair'''
| Blonde
|-
| '''Age'''
| 30-ish
|-
| '''Body Type'''
| Why, yes! I ''did'' eat that extra doughnut! How did you know?
|-
| '''Shoe Size'''
| 10E (EUR 44E)
|-
| '''Sex'''
| Yes, please! (Ooh, my hubby's gonna kill me for that!)
|-
| '''Gender'''
| Male
|-
| '''Pet'''
| Cat (named Alex)
|-
| '''Sense of Humor'''
| Witty, dry snark
|-
| '''OS of Choice'''
| Ubuntu 10.10
|}

Maybe you didn't want to know that much. Sorry, I tend to get carried away with social situations because of the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asperger_syndrome|Asperger Syndrome]]</nowiki> issue. It's kind of made it difficult for me to relate to people, especially on the Internet, due to my pedantry and my lack of any social compass. So I don't try so hard to be liked or to like others I don't really know anymore. If you're interested in talking to me and don't want to be infuriated, try to be patient with me on a personal level because I am likely just telling you what I am thinking without any social meaning at all. Also, and approach me with how I can improve rather than how wrong I am because I don't take destructive criticism well. Oh, and I really don't take jokes about myself well (initially) because I, by default, interpret them as a stated opinion; please make sure I can't miss the fact that you are joking if you want the conversation to continue.

If you like, you can do the whole social networking thing with me, too:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Blog'''
| <nowiki>[[http://blog.deriamis.net|Sophisticated Sophist]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Youtube'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/deriamis|Moving Picture Videos]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Facebook'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/deriamis]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Twitter'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.twitter.com/deriamis]]</nowiki>
|}

Other than all that personal stuff, I am also trying to be an Ubuntu developer.
