{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

This page contains guidelines and help on how to contribute to the documentation in this wiki.

== Contributing ==

This website is free for all to edit, and contributing is extremely easy. All you need is an account for the website (see <nowiki>[[Registration]]</nowiki> for details). It is recommended that you read through this guide before contributing.

When should you contribute? Whenever you see something that could be improved or updated! Also, WikiToDo contains details of things that need doing. If you notice an error and do not want to correct it yourself, you can <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs/+bugs|report it as a bug]]</nowiki>.

== Basics ==

If you haven't contributed to the wiki before, these are the best pages to start with.

* <nowiki>[[PageCreation]]</nowiki> - Guidance on creating pages on this wiki
* <nowiki>[[WritingGuide]]</nowiki> - Writing style and conventions that are encouraged on the wiki
* <nowiki>[[DocumentationTemplate]]</nowiki> - Recommended page structure

=== Wiki Markup ===

This website is a wiki, and therefore uses wiki markup to define how text should be displayed, to make links to other pages and websites, and to add images to pages. Wiki markup is really easy to learn.

* <nowiki>[[Formatting]]</nowiki> - Help on getting started with wiki markup.
* <nowiki>[[IconsPage | Ubuntu Wiki Icons]]</nowiki> - describes availability & use of icons in the Ubuntu wiki

This should be enough to get started, but as you get more comfortable with the wiki and want to try more advanced features, have a look at the "Advanced Reference" section below. 

== Further Guidance ==

Once you are familiar with the basics, it is worth familiarising yourself with the following pages.

* <nowiki>[[Communication]]</nowiki> - Communicating with other editors is an important part of contributing
* <nowiki>[[DeletingAndRenaming]]</nowiki> - Advice on deleting and renaming pages
* <nowiki>[[Screenshots]]</nowiki> - When and how to use screenshots
* <nowiki>[[Tag]]</nowiki> - Tags are used to mark the status of pages

== Getting Involved ==

* See the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Wiki|Ubuntu Documentation Team Wiki page]]</nowiki>.

== Advanced Reference ==

If you use the wiki on a regular basis, you will want to check out the following pages which give more detail about how to use advanced features of the wiki and provide useful functions.

* HelpForUsers - Basic landing page for advanced information about the wiki
* HelpOnActions - Learn all about the options available in the drop-down box when editing

== External Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki|'wiki' (Wikipedia)]]</nowiki> - Wikipedia page on 'wiki'.
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikitext|'wikitext' (Wikipedia)]]</nowiki> - Wikipedia page on 'wikitext'.

== Dicussion ==

To discuss this page, email the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:DocumentationTeam-Contact|documentation team mailing list]]</nowiki>.
