{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

At this page I will list some of my contributions to the Ubuntu community.

=== Overview ===

I became involved with the Ubuntu community by virtue of being an upstream contributor to GNOME and other upstream projects.  I am currently a GNOME foundataion member due to my significant contributions to that project and also have committer access to several other open source projects that are shipped with Ubuntu (HAL, the freedesktop xserver, the GHC Haskell compiler [in universe]).

I am currently in attendance at the UbuntuBelowZero conference.  I have been involved with a number of BOFs, but specifically I am the assignee for the PowerManagementConfiguration specification.  I have started writing some code to implement this specification and continue to do so.  The changes involve extension of the 'pmi' system, the creation of a new configuration application and patches to some upstream applications (battery status applet, gnome screensaver, etc).

I am also involved in local advocacy of Ubuntu, particularly at McMaster University in the Department of Computing and Software.  In October I helped organise an installfest where students new to the department brought their computers in and installed Breezy with our assistance.  I actively provide support to these people who routinely email me with problems and questions.  I'd estimate that about 20-30 people are using Ubuntu at McMaster as a direct result of my actions.

Furthermore, I co-maintain gnome-applets.  I am to understand that this situation affords me a degree of special consideration.

=== Community References ===

The following people have given me permission to use them as sponsors for my application:

* Jeff Waugh
* Martin Pitt
* Daniel Holbach
* Sebastien Bacher
* Fabio Massimo Di Nitto

=== Ubuntu Bugzilla ===

This is a partial list of bugs in the Ubuntu bugzilla to which I have made a contribution to the solution.  I've also filed many bugs and triaged still others but here I focus merely on bugs which I've made a direct contribution to solution:

* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=17670|Bug 17670]]</nowiki> I discovered that an Ubuntu vendor patch (introduced to fix bug #12132) was causing gphoto to crash whenever any application tried to import photos on powerpc or amd64.  I fixed the vendor patch to no longer crash.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=16795|Bug 16795]]</nowiki> I discovered that when powerpcs using madwifi went to sleep they would crash unless the interface is first brought down.  I proposed a fix for this which was accepted into Breezy.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=15464|Bug 15464]]</nowiki> I found an Evince bug that caused the last page of a document to not be displayed in certain situations.  I reported the bug upstream and backported the fix to Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=15019|Bug 15019]]</nowiki> I fixed this gweather bug upstream (and the new version came into Breezy).
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14990|Bug 14990]]</nowiki> I found and diagnosed this odd mkisofs bug caused by the weird makefile system that it uses.  I proposed a fix to Martin which he incorporated into the package to fix it.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14967|Bug 14967]]</nowiki> I helped to nail down this inotify kernel bug by communicating with upstream (who happens to go to the same university as I do) and testing the fix he produced.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14852|Bug 14852]]</nowiki> The HAL daemon used to not survive acpid being restarted.  I found this problem and fixed the upstream HAL to reconnect to the ACPI socket if disconnected.  I backported this fix to Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14535|Bug 14535]]</nowiki> The documentation for gnome-applets in Ubuntu was missing all of the images.  This was caused by a gnome-doc-utils bug.  I reported this bug upstream and committed a workaround to the gnome-applets package which made it into Breezy.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14458|Bug 14458]]</nowiki> I wrote a rant about inotify that caused upstream to change a couple of things.  This was one of them.  I backported this change into Ubuntu's kernel.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14456|Bug 14456]]</nowiki> I annoyed Jeff to keep the Ubuntu cleaned-up kernel headers in sync with all the upstream changes.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14384|Bug 14384]]</nowiki> Found a Launchpad integration bug that was causing Evince to crash.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14364|Bug 14364]]</nowiki> This is another inotify fix in response to my rant and my proposed solution to the problem.  I backported the fix to Ubuntu before it was even officially included upstream.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14338|Bug 14338]]</nowiki> GNOME and pbbuttons were both responding to the power button being pressed.  This caused the logout dialog to popup -and- the machine to go to sleep.  I proposed a change (accepted to Breezy) to the pbbuttons config file to fix this.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14246|Bug 14246]]</nowiki> The battery applet was reporting 118% charge on buggy ACPI implementations.  I created a workaround and committed it to upstream HAL.  I then backported the changes for Breezy.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14165|Bug 14165]]</nowiki> Evince would sometimes open a document multiple times.  I traced this to be caused by some fairly significant upstream problems which I fixed and committed to CVS.  The new upstream version was included in Breezy.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13990|Bug 13990]]</nowiki> HAL was incorrectly handling the case where the ACPI implementation failed to report the battery voltage.  I fixed this problem upstream (Martin merged the fix into Breezy).
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13909|Bug 13909]]</nowiki> pbbuttonsd was eating 100% of CPU on startup of Apple laptops.  I found the cause of this problem.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13312|Bug 13312]]</nowiki> I introduced a nice bit of controversy here :)
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13169|Bug 13169]]</nowiki> I created a small app that pops up a progress dialog when unmounting a filesystem with lots of cached writeback data (so that the user gets some indication that they shouldn't unplug their device yet).  Unfortunately, I was too late for Breezy's feature freeze, but it will be in Dapper.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=12987|Bug 12987]]</nowiki> I found an inotify-related kernel security bug and reported it upstream.  Fabbione backported the fix from upstream following some discussion with him on IRC.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=12584|Bug 12584]]</nowiki> Nailed down an evil compiler bug.  gcc was stripping code, inappropriately, causing mutex lock calls to not be made properly.  This caused a deadlock on totem startup.  Proposed a fix (recompile the package!).
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=9693|Bug 9693]]</nowiki> Evolution was crashing when forwarding messages that were written in a certain character set.  I wrote a fix for this which was integrated into Breezy and is still waiting to be accepted upstream).
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=8281|Bug 8281]]</nowiki> The preferences dialog in gweather was behaving oddly due to some incorrect gconf parsing.  Tracked and fixed the problem upstream (and the new version made it into Breezy).
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=8211|Bug 8211]]</nowiki> I found a bug in an Ubuntu vendor patch to battstat.  I fixed this bug.
* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=15439|Bug 15439]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=14050|Bug 14050]]</nowiki> I wrote additional workarounds for buggy ACPI implementations.  These fixes were a little bit too late to make it into Breezy, unfortunately.  The fixes will be merged into upstream HAL in the Dapper timeframe.

=== Packages In Ubuntu ===

I created a quick list of packages included in a fresh Ubuntu install that my name is visibly connected to.  I did this by grepping for "Lortie" in /usr/share/doc/*/* and cleaning up the results.  By its nature, this is a partial list as Ubuntu only includes the toplevel primary ChangeLog for each project and sometimes my contributions have been logged in ChangeLogs in subdirectories or ChangeLogs which have been rotated.  Some of the packages listed here I have made upstream contributions to.  For some of the packages I have provided Ubuntu vendor patches.  For some, both. 
* eog
* evince
* evolution-data-server and libe* (all the evolution backend stuff)
* gnome-about
* gnome-applets*
* gnome-desktop-data
* gnome-panel*, libpanel-applet*
* hal*, libhal*
* libbonobo*
* libgnome*
* libgnome-desktop*
* libgtk2.0*
* metacity*, libmetacity*
* nautilus*, libnautilus*
* libpango*
* libpoppler*
* librsvg*
* libvte*
* libwnck*
* linux-*
* rhythmbox
* xorg
* yaboot
