{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


-------

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| https://launchpad.net/~ianp
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| --
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| ianp5a
|-
| '''IRC''':
| ianp5a
|-
| '''Email''':
| ianp@gmx.net
|}

=== About Me ===
I want to be able to say Ubuntu is the ideal OS for everyone regardless of technical skills. There is a lot of work to be done to make sure Ubuntu beginners do not fall in to any of the traps there are in an otherwise slick OS. I believe I can help the team move forward to achieve this goal with improvements to the software or documentation.
 
==== Relevant Skills ====
My day job is creating and optimising software for automotive design engineers. Involving analysing the engineering departments scenarios, devising solutions, writing requirements, working with programmers and software suppliers and managing priorities. I am not a programmer or an IT technician. 

==== Aims ====
I'd like to find a way to catch the problems experienced by complete beginners, like children and anyone not expected to grasp the inner workings of an OS, the sort who will never use a terminal command. Then investigate an easiest solution. Then make it incredibly easy to find. Like here:
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/index.html|Official documentation (wiki)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community|Community documentation (wiki)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/|Screencasts]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|Forums]]</nowiki>
* Have I missed something?
Tasks 
* Identify most critical problems in priority order
* Find easiest solution.
* Make sure these solutions are easily found.
* Request software enhancements to make the solution simple for such beginners.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

==== Wiki ====
I've made contributions to following page
 {*} https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DigitalCameraHowTo

----
CategoryHomepage
