{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Contact info ==

Name: '''Ian Dexter R. Marquez'''

'''<nowiki>[[http://iandexter.co.nr|Blog]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://feeds.feedburner.com/Coredump|Feeds]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://iandexter.pbwiki.com|Status page]]</nowiki>'''

Location: '''Science City of Munoz, Philippines'''

Email: '''iandexter@gmail.com'''

IRC: '''iandexter''' on ''irc.freenode.net'' and ''irc.free.net.ph''

GPG key: '''<nowiki>[[http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x707F6E40|0x707F6E40]]</nowiki>'''

== About me ==

I'm a web plumber and network janitor for the <nowiki>[[http://www.philrice.gov.ph|Philippine Rice Research Institute]]</nowiki>, and our current project, the <nowiki>[[http://www.openacademy.ph|Open Academy for Philippine Agriculture - Pinoy Farmers' Internet]]</nowiki>. 

My foray into open source started in 2001, when I got to look after a tiny Red Hat box that does everything from web and DNS caching to doing my laundry. Since then, I've ventured into other distros, including Fedora Core, Slackware, Mandrake and Debian. I frequent the <nowiki>[[http://linux.org.ph|Philippine Linux Users Group]]</nowiki> mailing list, dishing out help to other Linux users from time to time, but mostly asking a lot of questions myself. I'm also a member of the <nowiki>[[http://www.cp-union.org|Computer Professionals Union]]</nowiki>, a Philippine-based group committed to free and open source software and information technology for the people. I'm part of the <nowiki>[[http://tl.linux.org.ph/|Debian-TL translation team]]</nowiki>, as well, doing translations on some packages.

== Involvement on Ubuntu ==

'''Update''': Our organization is now in the midst of migrating 70% of desktops to Kubuntu. We've found, based on informal testing, that KDE provides a more suitable desktop environment for the users who are used to Windows. Our tech support team have tested interoperability with Windows in the still predominantly Microsoft environment. Our deployment will hopefully be complete by December 2005.

I've recently deployed a 30-node LTSP setup running on Ubuntu Hoary for the <nowiki>[[http://www.philrice.gov.ph|PhilRice]]</nowiki> Biotechnology Intellectual Property Rights Training Center. Our organization is currently implementing a migration of desktops to Ubuntu and Philippine-produced <nowiki>[[http://www.bayanihan.gov.ph|Bayanihan Linux]]</nowiki>.

I am also a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/loco-philippine-team|LoCo Philippine Team]]</nowiki>. Hopefully, I can contribute to the localization efforts for the Philippines, as well do some local testing, deployment and promotion of Ubuntu, Edubuntu and Kubuntu distributions in my province.
----
CategoryHomepage
