{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ian Lawrence ==

'''homepage:''' http://ianlawrence.info

'''e-mail:''' 
'''gpg id:''' 0xCE5602B2

'''irc nick:''' ian_brasil

I'm living in <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=manaus,+brazil&spn=0.153066,0.238747&t=k&hl=en|Manaus]]</nowiki>, which is a city in Amazonas, Brazil.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.gudam.org]]</nowiki> Founding member of Debian User group in Amazonas
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-br.org]]</nowiki> Founding member of Brazil LoCoTeam
* <nowiki>[[http://maemo.org]]</nowiki> Maemo Community developer
 

=== Bio ===
Back in the day I started working as a teacher. I then discovered computers and taught myself how to code in Cold Fusion. My first IT contract was at the BBC in London in 2000 and was a disaster. The masochistic side of me kept pushing me on to more contracts and then I found Free Software and Unix, and everything changed. I've been working on both ever since. I've contributed to various free software projects, and I am currently an active developer for the maemo and UME platforms. I get to speak and do interviews too sometimes.

I love 'mobile' things and I live on a floating house on the Rio Negro in Amazonas

=== Things that I am doing ===

* Help creating the Ubuntu Mobile Guide

* Reporting on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/ReportingPage|Mobile Team's]]</nowiki> progress

* Maintaining the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/frothing/|Liferea port to mobile linux handheld devices]]</nowiki>

=== MOTU ===

*** <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ianlawrence/+archive|packaging PPA]]</nowiki>
   

=== Documentation Team ===

*** <nowiki>[[http://umeguide.net|Ubuntu Mobile Guide - lead author and maintainer.]]</nowiki>
 
=== Writing ===

*** <nowiki>[[http://www.amazon.com/Ian-Lawrence/e/B0033I7EQY/ref=ntt_athr_dp_pel_1|Professional Ubuntu Mobile Development.]]</nowiki>
 

  

=== Important links ===

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UMEGuide|UME Guide Version]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ianlawrence/+archive|for the debs]]</nowiki> (PPA)

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/ReportingPage|Mobile Team Reporting]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/frothing|Liferea port to mobile linux handheld devices]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
