{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Information (and quite a bit too much of it) ===
Contact me any time on any of these; I'll get back to it if I'm not around (I'm usually set on away even if I'm there, so be warned).
* Website: <nowiki>[<nowiki>[[http://www.ianmcorvidae.net/|http://www.ianmcorvidae.net/]]</nowiki></nowiki>]
* Email:  * Jabber:  OR ianmcorvidae@livejournal.com
* ICQ: <nowiki>[<nowiki>[[http://www.icq.com/people/webmsg.php?to=306375398|306375398]]</nowiki></nowiki>]
* AIM (note that ICQ above is compatible with AIM): mcewenian2
* Yahoo: <nowiki>[<nowiki>[[http://edit.yahoo.com/config/send_webmesg?.target=ianmcorvidae&.amp;src=pg|ianmcorvidae]]</nowiki></nowiki>]
* MSN (Yeah, I know. Consorting with the devil and all.):  * Skype: <nowiki>[<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/sendmessage.php?do=im&type=skype&u=274476|mcewen.ian]]</nowiki></nowiki>]
* IRC: I sit in the channel all day, nick ianmcorvidae.
* Old Blog: <nowiki>[<nowiki>[[http://ianmcorvidae.livejournal.com|LiveJournal]]</nowiki></nowiki>]

=== Random Other Stuff ===
* "Converted," as it were, to Ubuntu in January, 2007 upon realizing his computer was getting too unstable and he might as well.
* Member, in whatever extent he can be, of <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki>. Officially, leader of the <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Teams/Membership| Membership]]</nowiki> subteam.
* A native of Arizona; born in Flagstaff, now lives in Tucson.
* Runs Feisty on Desktop and Laptop, with fluxbox as window manager.
* High school student; University High School, for the reference of any Tucsonans who stop by.
----
CategoryHomepage CategoryArizonaTeam
