{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Email''':
| <not active>
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ibere-fernandes|ibere-fernandes]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| ibere_SP on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1497392|IbsUser]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Current Status''':
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Get%20Involved/WhoWeAre|Inactive Contributor]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Current Role/Position''':
| Social Media Admin, QA & Testing supporter
|}

== Introduction ==
I've been using Ubuntu as a Windows alternative for several years.  Our relationship began on Hardy Heron. Next level was Lucid Lynx. Then on 2011 I met Lubuntu Oneiric Ocelot and the relationship became a passion. That Ubuntu flavor has brought new life to my old computers, as well as taught me more than I probably ever wanted to know about computers in general. My computers: 2002 Banias Celeron M 1200Mhz, 512mb RAM and 2007 Intel Core 2 Duo 2Ghz, 3Gb RAM. Looking for an i5-3230M and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu|guess what OS]]</nowiki> will be there... Favorite thought: Simplicity is about subtracting the obvious, and adding the meaningful, by John Maeda.

== Ubuntu Involvement ==
Looking to get involved in the Ubuntu cause.

== Lubuntu Involvement ==
Member of the teams <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-testing|Ubuntu Quality]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-qa|Lubuntu-QA]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-brainstorming|Lubuntu Brainstorming]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-comms|Lubuntu Communications]]</nowiki>.

== Projects ==
Improve Lubuntu users experience in two ways: showing the best of Lubuntu in our social media channels and doing QA/test to improve the product quality.

== Experience and Skills ==
Former professional web surfer, community manager, product manager, project manager. Trained on i18n and L10n, testing/QAing, product analysis, SEO, user experience and much more in a web software company (think of a purple Y). Btw, as a Brazilian I speak Brazilian portuguese and English.

== Plans ==
To be a productive member of the community and help the cause of all Lubuntu projects
