{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
Icebuntu right now is in pre-planning stage. The idea is to create an Ubuntu derivative that is lighter than Xubuntu, with the bare minimum of applications installed, but still allowing an acceptable level of customization.
Development was originally started by <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=332495|markp1989]]</nowiki>, but has now been taken over by <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=678841|jaxxstorm]]</nowiki>

The focus is to keep it as lightweight as possible. GTK applications will be used where appropriate, and all applications that are included by default will be lightweight versions of those available in <nowiki>[[Ubuntu]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Xubuntu]]</nowiki>

== Current Status ==

Icebuntu is currently in pre-planning stage. Decisions about suitable applications and desired theme/art work are being made.

The first release will be based on <nowiki>[[JauntyJackalope|the Jaunty Jackalope]]</nowiki> and will be for x86 architecture only.

Currently, the name will be Icebuntu, although this may change in the future.

Midori has been selected as the primary web browser (version 0.9.1) and Sakura has been added as the primary terminal emulator.

== Contact Information ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Original Creator:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=332495|markp1989]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Developer:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=678841|jaxxstorm]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Original Thread:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684890|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Development Thread:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684890&page=38|Ubuntu Forums Development Thread ]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Team Development Page:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~icebuntu-team|Launchpad Page & PPA ]]</nowiki>
|}

== Initial Application Requirements ==

The number of applications included by default will be small. The applications should be either GTK or not require too many dependencies, should be extremely lightweight and should be functional enough for everyday use.

=== Applications ===

* Web browser
* Text Editor
* Terminal Emulator
* Music player
* Video player
* File Manager
* Instant Message Client
* Program Launcher
* Image Viewer
* PDF Viewer

=== System Tools ===

* Network Manager
* Package Manager
* Desktop/Wallpaper Manager
* Interface Manager (if suitable one can be found)
* Login Manager

=== Fringe Applications ===

 '' These applications will only be added once the initial build is added, and if only they do not affect the download size or overall size of the distribution ''

* DVD Burner
* Email client
* Bittorrent client
* Office Applications
* Image Editor

== Application Suggestions ==

=== Web Browser ===

Midori will be used as the main web browser for Icebuntu.

Midori includes flash support and therefore has all the functionality required. It is extremely lightweight.

=== Text Editor ===

There are lots of possibilites for this area, as there are so many choices. Currently the choice is between;

* <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/ged/| ged]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://tarot.freeshell.org/leafpad/| Leafpad ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php/Scratchpad| Scratchpad]]</nowiki>

As well as many other alternatives.

Currently, Ged is being leaned towards as it is the smallest of the ones available. Scratchpad is second choice as it includes some features like syntax highlighting etc.

=== Terminal Emulator ===

Sakura is the default terminal emulator in Icebuntu. It uses GTK libraries and is extremely lightweight.

= Music Player = 

Again a music player is a difficult choice, as the number of applications available are so many.

Possible inclusions are

* <nowiki>[[plai.sf.net|plai]]</nowiki>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
