{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Any similarity between my page and MacoMorgan's page is because is because I used hers as a template.
=== Basic Stuff ===

'''Name:''' Matt Neilson

'''Location:''' Tampa, FL

'''Email:''' 

* ichthyoboy @ gmail.com

'''Jabber:''' ichthyoboy @ gmail.com

'''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~ichthyoboy

'''Current OS:''' Ubuntu Hardy Heron and Kubuntu Intrepid Ibex

I'm usually found as either ichthyoboy, or machoo02 on the Ubuntu Forums

=== Other Stuff ===

==== Programming ====

Not too much.  Took a class in C++ during my masters degree, and I've been trying to learn Python for the last year (but sidetracked by other things)

==== School ====

Currently finishing my PhD in Biology at the University of Toledo.

=== Ubuntu Stuff ===

I started using Ubuntu part time with Breezy, and when Dapper came out that became my OS at school.  I dual booted Dapper/Edgy/Feisty with Windows XP on my laptop (Thinkpad R52) for a while, but now I have only Linux on it.

==== Code ====

Not as of yet...but hopefully sometime in the future.  I'm interested in helping out with the science/biology related packages, and possibly becoming a MOTU for them as well.

==== Help ====

Usually found in Science and Education section, and sometimes in the Absolute Beginners section as well answering questions.  I also test proposed updates, and try to triage bugs when possible.

==== Spreading ====

I've given out a few LiveCD's for people to try, but so far no converts.

==== Community Involvement ====

Former member of TALUG (Toledo, OH).

==== My PPA ====

=== PGP Key ===

{{{
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: SKS 1.0.10
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=u3dZ
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----}}}
