{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xdeltas
* '''Created''':  by MichaelVogt
* '''Contributors''': MichaelVogt, DanielHolbach
* '''Packages affected''':  `ekiga`, `gnome-power-manager`, `gnome-system-tools`, `rhythmbox`, `scim`, `synaptic`, `update-notifier`.

=== Summary ===

The GtkIconTheme support is important for artwork changes (like the ones we have seen in dapper). To make this process as painless as possible all our important apps need IconTheme support. Gnome has a similar goal: http://live.gnome.org/GnomeGoals/AppIcon

=== Rationale ===

With IconTheme support there is no need to upload a package just because some icon changed, there is a central place to change the look.

=== Use cases ===

Michael painted beautiful icons for ''App X'', gets them included in an Icon theme, changes his Icon theme preferences and they don't show up.

=== Scope ===

Find and patch (and send patches upstream) the packages in main that do not support the GtkIconTheme. This includes (that we know of): 
* `ekiga`, 
* `gnome-power-manager` (needs to be verified it has been changed in 2.15.x),
* `gnome-system-tools`,
* `rhythmbox`, 
* `scim`, 
* `synaptic`, 
* `update-notifier`.
* `liferea` (not in main yet)

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== Finished applications ===

* update-notifier
* synaptic

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
* What about `openoffice.org2`. Although it's not a native gtk app, is there a possibility to make it support Icon themes?
** see OpenOfficeHumanIcons --AndreRuediger
* At the very least it would be nice if OOo2 came with a tangofied theme that fits the rest of the desktop, same for FF
* This should also include icons in the window list and notification area for the gnome-panel. Applications such as Terminal Server Client and Gaim are good examples of this.
----
CategorySpec
