{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Dec 2010 - mini meeting, Dec 5

Attended: Paul Wilch, Curtis Elgin, Sheri Elgin

- verified that we want to revive our LoCo, and that the listed goals still apply.

- agree to start w/ one in person meeting monthly, and with 1 IRC meeting min (others as needed). next in person meeting last half of january, date TBD

- agreed to keep group resources housed primarily with ubuntu, will retain external page w/ minimal upkeep but will change format, and be sure 2-3 moderators have access to each of the communication resources (mail list, irc, web page, wiki, forums).

- will look into having table at code camp in february
