{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by CurtisElgin at 03:41:37 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/ubuntu-us-id/2011/ubuntu-us-id.2011-03-10-03.41.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* BCC

* March Meeting Topics
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IdahoTeam/Meetings   (CurtisElgin, 03:56:30)

* Global Jam / Release Party

Meeting ended at 04:27:43 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rihanha (45)
* Paul_Wilch (34)
* CurtisElgin (33)
* ClintBseID (16)
* meetingology (5)

=== Full Log ===

 03:41:37 <CurtisElgin> #startmeeting

 03:41:38 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Mar 10 03:41:37 2011 UTC.  The chair is CurtisElgin. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 03:41:38 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 03:42:05 <CurtisElgin> #topic  March Meeting Topics

 03:42:55 <CurtisElgin> #topic BCC

 03:42:56 <meetingology> TOPIC: BCC

 03:43:19 <CurtisElgin> ok going to do a quick follow up on Code Camp first

 03:44:12 <Paul_Wilch> How was it?

 03:44:29 <Paul_Wilch> A lot of Q's about Ubuntu?

 03:45:40 <CurtisElgin> We handed out around 400 flyers 175 Discs and 55 lanyards. So a popular hit. And a  thanks to Clint for getting steered in the right direction.

 03:45:51 <Paul_Wilch> NICE!

 03:46:04 <Paul_Wilch> Thanks for the assistance Clint!

 03:46:25 <ClintBseID> You guys did all the heavy lifting, great job!

 03:46:41 <CurtisElgin> Popular comment  was Ubuntu has a LoCo team?

 03:46:50 <Paul_Wilch> LOL!

 03:47:13 <CurtisElgin> well that and can i have this

 03:47:25 <ClintBseID> :-)

 03:48:25 <Paul_Wilch> Next year I'll be there and maybe we can plan for a topic...

 03:48:42 <Paul_Wilch> Were there many topics on Open Source or Ubuntu?

 03:49:00 <CurtisElgin> I think Clint hit it on the head with a linux trac perhaps next year

 03:49:12 <Paul_Wilch> For sure!

 03:49:39 <ClintBseID> Drupal and CakePHP.

 03:50:19 <ClintBseID> And Ubuntu hold court in the hallway! :-))

 03:50:35 <Paul_Wilch> NIce!

 03:50:43 <CurtisElgin> Ubuntu usage on machines yes talks specific to ubuntu not really. open source yes there was some

 03:50:47 <Paul_Wilch> Did you give the presentation on CakePHP, Clint?

 03:51:16 <ClintBseID> Yes and it was demonstrated on both 10.04 and 10.10.

 03:51:25 <Paul_Wilch> LOL! Nice!

 03:51:51 <Paul_Wilch> Were there many people using Ubuntu that you saw?

 03:51:57 <Paul_Wilch> Just in the crowd

 03:53:08 <ClintBseID> We had a full house for late in the afternoon.

 03:53:29 <CurtisElgin> Didn't see to many machines other than the presenters.

 03:54:06 <CurtisElgin> So lets gets some ideas flowing shoot them into the mailing list for next years code camp.

 03:54:35 <CurtisElgin> not now, just as a note :)

 03:54:57 <CurtisElgin> #topic March Meeting Topics

 03:54:57 <meetingology> TOPIC: March Meeting Topics

 03:55:10 <Paul_Wilch> Was that on Thursday the 24th?

 03:55:21 <CurtisElgin> the 17th

 03:55:51 <ClintBseID> ??

 03:55:55 <Paul_Wilch> OK got it

 03:56:13 <rihanha> thurs night, 7-8:30

 03:56:13 <rihanha> ?

 03:56:28 <CurtisElgin> Ubuntu Idaho LoCo Meeting

 03:56:28 <CurtisElgin> Thu, March 17, 7:00pm ? 8:30pm

 03:56:28 <CurtisElgin> Where

 03:56:28 <CurtisElgin> ITT Tech - 12302 W Explorer Dr, Boise, ID

 03:56:28 <CurtisElgin> map

 03:56:28 <CurtisElgin> Calendar

 03:56:28 <CurtisElgin> Ubuntu Idaho Team

 03:56:29 <CurtisElgin> Created by

 03:56:29 <CurtisElgin> rihanha@gmail.com

 03:56:30 <CurtisElgin> Description

 03:56:30 <CurtisElgin> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IdahoTeam/Meetings

 03:56:31 <CurtisElgin> 12302 W Explorer Dr, Boise, ID

 03:56:48 <CurtisElgin> that is also on the calendar on the site

 03:58:10 <Paul_Wilch> I'll do a 15 min demo on OpenShot video editor

 03:58:32 <CurtisElgin> current topics Openshot, Ubuntu One, Network/Wifi Management

 03:59:10 <CurtisElgin> does anyone want to add a topic to the list or are we ok with this current listing

 03:59:15 <Paul_Wilch> I can do more on OpenShot if needed. Just wanted to make sure everyone had time

 04:01:34 <rihanha> we can scale the wifi/network up or down, just want to introduce the basics to start. we can delve deeper if anyone in attendance wants to

 04:01:47 <Paul_Wilch> I think that 3 topics would be great. Could be 20 min each, 10 min break, 20 min Q and A

 04:02:13 <rihanha> sounds good.

 04:02:54 <CurtisElgin> alright will stick with the three and adjust the times around.

 04:03:57 <Paul_Wilch> Where should we put documentation? Can it be a presentation or does it have to be Wiki?

 04:03:58 <rihanha> we sent out that announcement earlier this week - are we ok to send it tomorrow? or some slightly edited version. i know we talked a little about where to meet for the global jam and for the release party

 04:04:09 <rihanha> i haven't gone back over to read the replies today as intended...

 04:04:48 <rihanha> we were talking pizza or something similar - was that for the jam or the party?

 04:04:54 <rihanha> or something else?

 04:05:17 <CurtisElgin> id ay upload it to the teams google docs then we can embed.

 04:05:27 <rihanha> either

 04:05:30 <Paul_Wilch> I agree with Clint 100000% on Idaho Pizza Company  :)

 04:05:35 <rihanha> for documentation - embed or wiki will be fine

 04:05:41 <ClintBseID> We going to do the jam at Idaho Pizza Company?

 04:05:59 <rihanha> the limiting reagent on both is wifi

 04:06:04 <Paul_Wilch> Oh I thought pizza was for release party

 04:06:23 <rihanha> and for release there is equipment lugging potential

 04:06:29 <Paul_Wilch> then have an actual release party in May at University of Phoenix

 04:06:44 <rihanha> we could split them out?

 04:07:24 <ClintBseID> Are you going to let people bring their computers to the release party to have an install fest at the same time?

 04:07:45 <rihanha> yeah i think that's the question -

 04:08:22 <CurtisElgin> #topic Global Jam / Release Party

 04:08:22 <meetingology> TOPIC: Global Jam / Release Party

 04:08:26 <Paul_Wilch> Well for the pizza I was thinking no laptops just get to know each other, then two weeks later at the university have the official release party and install

 04:08:31 <rihanha> we did a small release party at pauls a few years back, and folks did lug out their pcs/laptops

 04:08:39 <Paul_Wilch> what do you guys think?

 04:09:09 <rihanha> maybe we could pull off a release party in a room again

 04:09:18 <rihanha> the one at UoP was just about right

 04:09:39 <rihanha> lots of plugs/ wifi is free

 04:10:07 <rihanha> we could combine the april meet and release party

 04:10:16 <ClintBseID> Wired net is very important in order to get wireless working...

 04:10:41 <rihanha> does UoP offer that? i'm guessing its locked down for outsiders

 04:11:03 <rihanha> we can set up a pxe install server

 04:11:05 <Paul_Wilch> yeah i can double check on the wired

 04:12:10 <rihanha> yeah, curt just confirmed we'll have a pxe server/debian proxy so all packages are local/available

 04:12:19 <Paul_Wilch> Elgins rock! Great idea!

 04:12:21 <rihanha> that will conquer some of the issues.

 04:12:26 <ClintBseID> We all know that the public release date is April 28th and from my own experience, Natty is no where near stable.   As far as it being locked down from outsiders, we can always create a wired connection out of a wireless.

 04:13:14 <rihanha> we can work out the details over the next few weeks. thankfully we have a little time yet.

 04:13:31 <Paul_Wilch> Yeah I'm worried about Natty as well. It is still an Alpha though....

 04:14:23 <rihanha> for global jam, curt is contacting steve (vorian) to see if he wants to head up the bug jam part

 04:14:36 <rihanha> we can do testing/documentation

 04:14:58 <rihanha> we'll need a space (and again wifi) to meet, april 2nd

 04:15:08 <Paul_Wilch> Yeah I think Steve would be awesome for that. I haven't met him but just reading what he has done, he would be a lot of help.

 04:15:09 <rihanha> we had slotted 4 hours early to mid day w/ lunch to follow

 04:15:19 <ClintBseID> I have fears of a repeat of 9.04 and that it wasn't "stable" for the better part of a month after its release.  Its going to be interesting from my perspective on when I might hear back on the bug report I filed concerning the major defect in Grub2.

 04:15:19 <rihanha> obviously folks are welcome to come for part/all

 04:16:49 <rihanha> i have never actually documented a bug, i was hoping we could talk vorian into sharing since he's our resident expert. how often have you dealt with bug reporting Clint?

 04:18:17 <Paul_Wilch> Have you heard back from Steve (Vorian) after you emailed him?

 04:18:29 <rihanha> btw Curt and I switched roles, I"m typing he's handling the cranky kiddo

 04:18:36 <rihanha> not yet

 04:18:37 <ClintBseID> I was part of an ISV development team so I have used bugzilla and the ubuntu system was a little more rudimentary in form, but realatively easy to use.  Just be sure to save off syslog and partman before making any changes after the bug is discovered so that conditions are still present.

 04:19:40 <rihanha> cool. if we don't get vorian to give a talk on it can we get you to talk a bit on it for the team? i believe darin has done some as well, but he's out of town a lot lately.

 04:20:05 <ClintBseID> oay

 04:20:07 <ClintBseID> okay

 04:20:10 <rihanha> sweet. thanks.

 04:20:18 <Paul_Wilch> Maybe Chris could pop in real quick?

 04:20:39 <rihanha> we'll keep that in the hopper for a topic soon, don't worry we wont spring it on you w/ out plenty of notice!

 04:20:59 <rihanha> into IRC? He may just be hovering???

 04:21:33 <rihanha> yeah, i think he's just lurking at the moment - could try a private msg

 04:23:21 <rihanha> sorry, pebcak

 04:24:00 <rihanha> so i'll send something very similar to what we sent out to the mailing list tomorrw.

 04:25:02 <rihanha> to recap - we'll announce the march mtg & topics, the april 2 global jam, the april release party and a nod to the processing/data visualization group forming

 04:26:27 <rihanha> is that a wrap?

 04:26:33 <rihanha> we okay for now?

 04:26:34 <Paul_Wilch> yep, i think so

 04:26:39 <Paul_Wilch> Clint?

 04:26:42 <Paul_Wilch> All good?

 04:26:52 <ClintBseID> all good

 04:27:21 <rihanha> oh, by the way, if you (or any fellows) want to give a talk at a future meet, please don't hesitate to speak up. i'm sure folks will get bored with just us. >.<

 04:27:21 <Paul_Wilch> See you all on the 17th!

 04:27:33 <rihanha> the 17th. wow, this month is flying

 04:27:38 <rihanha> thanks all!

 04:27:43 <CurtisElgin> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
