{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Quick meeting notes from June 14, 2011 Ubuntu Idaho LoCo Meeting ===
==== Tuesday, June 14, 7-9 pm at University of Phoenix, Meridian ID ====

OpenShot revisited – Paul gave us a quick look at using the 'Green Screen' options to create movie backgrounds.

Inkscape – Darin gave a presentation on getting started with InkScape tools, including application navigation, creating shapes, converting shapes to paths, adding/removing anchor points, working with layers, working with text, image linking/XML within the SVG format and other bits that are escaping me. You can find additional materials here: http://inkscape.org/, including documentation, clip art, tutorials, wiki, etc. Darin mentioned there are a ton of walk throughs in YouTube as well.

Minecraft – Nicolas gave a presentation on Minecraft and finally convinced me it can be fun, though we didn't get to run from the zombies, they only come out at night. You can run a free version to check it out here: http://www.minecraft.net/play.jsp, and can see some awesome projects folks have developed within Minecraft here: http://www.g4tv.com/thefeed/blog/post/707773/minecraft-top-eight-creations/ (check out the Enterprise, wow).

TestDisk – Paul gave a demo of TestDisk, showing what you can recover from a wiped flash drive. You can read up on this tool here: http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk
