{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== November 2012 ===
''New meeting date and time set'' <<BR>>
We will be meeting once a month, on the last Tuesday of each month (minor adjustments for holidays may be made but will be announced - i.e. next month Christmas Day is the last Tuesday so we'll be bumping that up a bit). We will be meeting from 6:30-7:30 PM, and follow up with some unstructured time for folks to troubleshoot issues, do project work, or just hang out.<<BR>>

''Reboot'' <<BR>>
The LoCo organizers are going to reboot the group. Details on the next meeting, including date/time, agenda and location will be posted on the wiki and the G+ group soon.

=== February 2011 ===
''February Meeting Info'' <<BR>>
Forgoing Feb meeting in favor of getting to <nowiki>[[http://boisecodecamp.org/ | Boise Code Camp]]</nowiki> - Saturday, February 26, 2011.

=== January 2011 ===
''January Meeting Info'' <<BR>>
Our last meeting was at the University of Phoenix, Meridian. We covered general community and getting started topics, and a bit of install advice at the end. Our February meeting will be IRC as our team will be attending the Boise Code Camp at the end of that month and are planning to spot a table at the event. More to come on that soon.

=== December 2010 ===
''Team Updates'' <<BR>>
The forum is set up, we are getting it ready for common use, feel free to start your threads. <<BR>>
The leadership team has reassembled for the new year. We will be starting up physical meetings in addition to IRC meets - our first will be late January. We will be sending out notices on the meeting schedules soon or you can check the calendar. <<BR>>
''Local Events to be aware of:'' <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://linuxfestnorthwest.org/ | Linux Fest Northwest]]</nowiki> (ok, somewhat local) April 30-May1, 2011, and <nowiki>[[http://boisecodecamp.com/ | Code Camp Boise]]</nowiki>, Sat, Feb 26, 2011. <<BR>>
I know it is a while off, but I was very happy to hear OSCON will be back in Portland for 2011! <<BR>>

=== June 2010 ===
''June Meeting Info'' <<BR>>
Our next meeting will be an IRC meet sometime mid to late June. We will post the date on our Meetings page, and will send a notice to the mail list when we get it nailed down.

''Idaho LoCo Forums update'' <<BR>>
We are looking into getting a Forum for use by the Idaho Lo``Co team. We will post any updates when that resources becomes available.

=== May 2010 ===
''New Book Announcement'' <<BR>>
O'Reilly announced a new Ubuntu book last month - <nowiki>[[http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596804848/?utm_content=em-orm-npa-Ubuntu-UR&utm_campaign=NPAs&utm_source=iPost&utm_medium=email&imm_mid=05b4e6&cmp=em-orm-npa-Ubuntu-UR|Ubutnu, Up and Running]]</nowiki>

''Summer 2010 Linux Conferences'' <<BR>>
The Linux Foundation conference, <nowiki>[[http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/linuxcon/schedule|LinuxCon]]</nowiki> is in Boston this year. They have been posting their schedules.
August 10-12, 2010. Boston, MA. 

Happy to say <nowiki>[[http://www.oscon.com/oscon2010|OSCON]]</nowiki> is back in Portland this summer - 
July 19-23, 2010. Portland, OR.
