{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by CurtisElgin at 03:27:35 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/ubuntu-us-id/2011/ubuntu-us-id.2011-02-24-03.27.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Boise Code Camp

* March Meeting

* April Release Party

Meeting ended at 03:56:19 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rihanha (51)
* Paul_Wilch (36)
* CurtisElgin (25)
* nicholasm (10)
* meetingology` (5)

=== Full Log ===

 03:27:35 <CurtisElgin> #startmeeting

 03:27:35 <meetingology`> Meeting started Thu Feb 24 03:27:35 2011 UTC.  The chair is CurtisElgin. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 03:27:35 <meetingology`> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 03:27:56 <CurtisElgin> #topic Boise Code Camp

 03:27:56 <meetingology`> TOPIC: Boise Code Camp

 03:28:32 <CurtisElgin> ok first topic tonight is Boise Code Camp. http://boisecodecamp.com/

 03:28:46 <Paul_Wilch> Hey all!

 03:28:55 <rihanha> howdy, just got started, talking code camp

 03:29:04 <Paul_Wilch> sounds good

 03:29:04 <CurtisElgin> It is this weekend Feb 26, 2011

 03:29:20 <CurtisElgin> Checkin is at 07:30

 03:29:31 <rihanha> we'll have the table - try to get in around 7 to help set it up

 03:29:37 <rihanha> we will that is

 03:29:41 <CurtisElgin> the schedule is here http://boisecodecamp.com/content/2011/schedule_2011.pdf

 03:30:04 <rihanha> thought we'd blast a reminder to the mail list, just in case we catch someone interested

 03:30:13 <rihanha> i almost missed it last year

 03:30:28 <CurtisElgin> other than that hope to see you all there.

 03:30:36 <CurtisElgin> moving on

 03:30:46 <Paul_Wilch> material from Canonical came then...

 03:30:48 <Paul_Wilch> thats good

 03:30:51 <rihanha> yes

 03:30:57 <rihanha> discs and lanyards and

 03:31:02 <rihanha> stickers

 03:31:12 <rihanha> we'll have them at the table, still working on flyer

 03:31:22 <nicholasm> cool

 03:31:29 <CurtisElgin> #topic March Meeting

 03:31:29 <meetingology`> TOPIC: March Meeting

 03:31:41 <rihanha> we're meeting clint and others at fuddruckers to help stuff bags

 03:31:50 <rihanha> on friday at 6pm

 03:31:54 <rihanha> sry, moving on

 03:32:08 <Paul_Wilch> Vorian making it down?

 03:32:14 <rihanha> not sure

 03:32:25 <rihanha> haven't heard from him on that topic

 03:32:47 <rihanha> it wouldn't surprise me, though the topics are even more ms-centric this year than last

 03:32:48 <CurtisElgin> we have narrowed down the 17th or the 24th. Does either of these days work out better for anyone?

 03:32:56 <rihanha> maybe we should arrange to give a talk next year. or two.

 03:33:07 <rihanha> you know my vote - 24

 03:33:25 <rihanha> topics considered so far center around wifi

 03:33:45 <rihanha> wikkd, ifconfig,

 03:34:12 <rihanha> and a command set that is currently eluding me

 03:34:16 <Paul_Wilch> who all is speaking?

 03:35:19 <CurtisElgin> no speakers lined up atm for the march meeting on the topics.

 03:35:53 <rihanha> netstat

 03:35:59 <CurtisElgin> just getting the day hammered out atm

 03:36:12 <rihanha> and gen topics

 03:36:26 <rihanha> any word from darrin? think he'd still be up for one?

 03:36:29 <Paul_Wilch> ill see if i can make the march meet

 03:37:07 <rihanha> could do desktop candy too.

 03:37:15 <Paul_Wilch> where were you thinking for the march meet? a diff place than UoP?

 03:37:23 <Paul_Wilch> i think desktop candy is a good idea

 03:37:32 <rihanha> ITT

 03:37:37 <Paul_Wilch> ok cool...

 03:37:43 <rihanha> curt is asking about the dates, they start school that week

 03:38:03 <CurtisElgin> so 24th is best for all?

 03:38:04 <nicholasm> my spring break is the week after...

 03:38:11 <nicholasm> i think

 03:38:20 <rihanha> boy, no standardization in those eh?

 03:38:28 <nicholasm> no

 03:38:52 <Paul_Wilch> Thursday March 24th?

 03:39:00 <rihanha> yep

 03:39:16 <Paul_Wilch> Well I can make it then

 03:39:19 <nicholasm> what time?

 03:39:23 <rihanha> any burning desires on topics, for this or the next?

 03:39:26 <nicholasm> i probably can't make it.

 03:39:32 <Paul_Wilch> Sat and Sun are hard to get away

 03:39:33 <rihanha> we can discuss on forums, but thought i'd ask...

 03:39:47 <rihanha> we'll post the notes if you don't make it

 03:39:52 <nicholasm> k

 03:39:53 <Paul_Wilch> I've been using OpenShot the video editor

 03:39:58 <Paul_Wilch> i could talk about that

 03:40:11 <rihanha> that would be interesting

 03:40:37 <nicholasm> where are the notes going to be

 03:40:45 <CurtisElgin> for the time we will put a poll on the forums but we are aiming for evening 7 to 8 timeframe

 03:40:55 <rihanha> there is a notes section on the wiki... one sec

 03:42:03 <rihanha> its a link on the meetings page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IdahoTeam/Meetings

 03:42:12 <rihanha> just realized we need to update that, uh oh.

 03:42:28 <CurtisElgin> I think thats it for the March Meeting next topic.

 03:42:47 <CurtisElgin> #topic April Release Party

 03:42:47 <meetingology`> TOPIC: April Release Party

 03:42:50 <rihanha> yeah, party. let's have food

 03:42:53 <Paul_Wilch> Where should we put documentation? Wiki or web page?

 03:43:07 <rihanha> all docs on wiki by convention

 03:43:14 <Paul_Wilch> k

 03:43:17 <rihanha> at least meeting related

 03:43:42 <rihanha> we could have a local repository but i think we'd be better posting for whole community unless specifically idaho related. =)

 03:43:51 <rihanha> then its just us.

 03:44:27 <rihanha> where should we have the release party? and when?

 03:44:31 <rihanha> its a thursday?

 03:44:36 <Paul_Wilch> I was thinking UoP

 03:44:42 <CurtisElgin> the release is April 28th thats on a thursday

 03:44:49 <rihanha> maybe the weekend after, unless we're really diehard on the day of thing

 03:45:04 <CurtisElgin> what were your thoughts Paul

 03:45:07 <Paul_Wilch> May is better I thing

 03:45:17 <rihanha> of course that happens to be a month after our next mtg

 03:45:21 <Paul_Wilch> We can have our systems worked out too

 03:45:24 <rihanha> could do a combo meet/party

 03:45:32 <rihanha> and then do on a thurs w/ a follow up shin dig?

 03:45:43 <rihanha> later in the month

 03:45:46 <rihanha> or may

 03:45:59 <Paul_Wilch> Well we need one for April

 03:46:10 <Paul_Wilch> Can we have that at ITT?

 03:46:32 <Paul_Wilch> I don't know if I can have Ubuntu sessions on Thursday during school hours

 03:46:33 <CurtisElgin> I don't see why not.

 03:46:37 <Paul_Wilch> I'll check though

 03:47:39 <CurtisElgin> All of our class rooms are not spoken for, so there is bound to be an open room.

 03:49:02 <Paul_Wilch> For the release party in May, I was thinking saturday

 03:49:24 <Paul_Wilch> for at least 4 hours. people can leave early if needed but i know some will need help

 03:49:52 <CurtisElgin> first or second saturday?

 03:50:05 <Paul_Wilch> not sure yet

 03:50:14 <Paul_Wilch> have to check family schedule first

 03:50:21 <nicholasm> i'm fine with either

 03:51:15 <Paul_Wilch> What do you guys think about having an April meeting at a pizza place

 03:51:18 <Paul_Wilch> or wherever

 03:51:33 <CurtisElgin> alright. we have time. we'll put that on the burner a bit more. Let's keep the conversation active over the mailing list on it.

 03:51:35 <Paul_Wilch> no laptops, just to get to meet

 03:52:36 <rihanha> it sounds fun, is that just for socializing, or would we talk shop?

 03:53:49 <Paul_Wilch> well no laptops but of course we're bound to talk shop

 03:54:08 <rihanha> true enough

 03:54:11 <Paul_Wilch> get fired up for the may meeting

 03:54:20 <rihanha> gotta run, cranky kiddo

 03:54:27 <Paul_Wilch> ha!

 03:54:29 <Paul_Wilch> ok night

 03:55:02 <CurtisElgin> well we have gone through agenda so unless there are any burning topic that would like to be brought up im going to end the meeting and turn it over to free talk.

 03:55:29 <Paul_Wilch> i'm good.

 03:56:07 <CurtisElgin> nicholasm?

 03:56:13 <nicholasm> nope i'm good

 03:56:19 <CurtisElgin> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
