{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== WELCOME ===
So you're wondering '''what now'''? Then this page is for you. 

===== FIRST =====
I would recommend getting started with the Ubuntu Idaho LoCo by:
1. '''Reading''' more about us on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IdahoTeam|wiki]]</nowiki>,
2. joining the '''email list''',
  - go to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-us-id|mailing list subscribe page]]</nowiki> and enter your email address and preferred name in the subscribing to ubuntu-us-id section then click the subscribe button. 
3. adding yourself to the '''members list''' on the wiki,
  - the wiki is being updated to a new system and occasionally you will still get to the old (tan background) - if that is the case just click the edit button to make your edits. Info on making edits to the wiki can be found by clicking the Help On Editing button at the bottom of all wiki pages in edit mode, or by going <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpOnEditing|here]]</nowiki>. The new system (white and orange theme) will require you to log into your LaunchPad account to make edits. You can find info about getting a Launchpad account further down the page. If you prefer, you can send your membership info to contact@ubuntuidaho.org and request we add you to the membership list.
4. posting to the new members '''forum''' thread, 
   - go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=398|Forums]]</nowiki> and reply to the Introduce Yourself thread.
5. and of course feel free to come the '''meetings'''. Morning meetings we provide donuts, but be sure to bring your own coffee if so inclined. Evening meetings we will bring something snacky, again its bring your own beverage. For any specialty/longer meetings, we will talk pizza/etc. 

===== READY FOR MORE =====
6. Join the '''LaunchPad team''' - go to our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-idaho|LaunchPad Team page]]</nowiki> and click Join the Team. You'll be added to team list, and now have edit rights to the Wiki, can use UbuntuOne resources, and can join other LaunchPad projects. 

7. If you have announcements, or can answer a tech question for a '''forum post''', please feel free to do so. Please remember, we all strive to adhere to the Ubuntu Code of Conduct (respectful and supportive in a nutshell) in all our posts.

8. Hang out in our '''IRC''' room, talk to the fellow members and/or answer questions if you can. We have an easy IRC client embedded in our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuidaho.org/?page_id=9|webpage]]</nowiki>, or you can learn about IRC clients and commands through the IRC Course created by the Ubuntu Women Team <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Courses/IRC/|here]]</nowiki>. There are also many mobile IRC clients available.

9. '''Get involved with the team''' - we always need help! Get some ideas of what the needs are on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IdahoTeam/Pioneers|Pioneers page]]</nowiki>. If you are willing to help out please send us a note to contact@ubuntuidaho.org and we'll find a role for you. You can offer an hour a month, several hours, ask to be a part of the leadership team, or if you are out of the Boise area, start your own local subgroup.

10. Of course what is the #1 way to get and stay involved? '''USE UBUNTU and spread the word!'''

So now you know, and once again, welcome! 
