{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Welcome to the Idea Wall, this page contains all the ideas-thoughts that will benefit the Ubuntu Adverts team. ==

'''You can post images on this page, notes, or whatever idea or thought(s) related to the team that you want to remember or share. If you need help posting an image,  <nowiki>[[irc:--chat.freenode.net-ubuntu-adverts|don't be shy to visit our irc channel.]]</nowiki>'''

 A flyer I made based on the ones Barry made. Please feel fre to modify/improve it: 
* ODT version: http://ubuntuone.com/p/Xja/ 
* PDF: http://ubuntuone.com/p/Xjb/ 
''moiso''

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAdverts|Click here to go to the Main Wiki page]]</nowiki> 

Alan Cocks
An article I wrote for an older persons organisation:
(odt is available)
<nowiki>[[attachment:Ethical and Community based Computer Programs article.pdf]]</nowiki>

Alan Cocks
A Ubuntu information leaflet I currently use when people have heard about Ubuntu and want to know more (some details). Intended to be A4 double sided and folded twice. Strongly aimed at local Berkshire UK residents and computer fair attenders.
(odt is available)
<nowiki>[[attachment:Ubuntu gatefold information leaflet]]</nowiki>

Alan Cocks
A colour leaflet aimed at street level handouts, public libraries etc, intended to arouse some interest and inform at a very basic level. Contains some typos and particularly is *not* intended to be highly politically accurate. For example it does not mention 'Free' software as such, because Windows users all know what free software is, or at least, THINK they know.....
Intended to increase awareness of the 'alternative' to the usual PC stuff.
<nowiki>[[attachment:WhatisOpenSourceSoftware-street-level-leaflet-with-some-typos-and-gross-simplifications]]</nowiki>

Simon Vass

Here are some magazine ideas I have come up with.

http://ubuntuone.com/p/Wrq/ - Creative Brief - A work in progress be kind ;-)

http://ubuntuone.com/p/Wrl/ - Choices 

http://ubuntuone.com/p/Wrm/ - Just works 

http://ubuntuone.com/p/Wrn/ - Loneliness 

http://ubuntuone.com/p/Wro/ - Bunny 

http://ubuntuone.com/p/Wrs/ - Chillin 

http://ubuntuone.com/p/Wrt/ - Security 

http://ubuntuone.com/p/Wrw/ - Prisoner

----------------------------------------

i found the following offer on ebay and thought it would be great to have such bundle (Ubuntu with THAT kind of robust and smart USB-Stick) on online-shops like amazon and in the Ubuntu Shop
also every Ubuntu advertiser and ambassador has to have such Live System to use and to demonstrate the power of Ubuntu ;-)
Ubuntu / Linux is the only OS running from a USB Stick smaller than 4GB, i think that is one unique "selling" point against all other commercial OSs...and this could be one way to show and demonstrate that:

http://cgi.ebay.de/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=170579908813&fromMakeTrack=true&ssPageName=VIP:watchlink:top:de

----------------------------------------

I just saw this official Ubuntu advertisement on http://techrepublic.com
http://i.i.com.com/cnwk.1d/Ads/12138/11/44/20110405/MakeTheChange_300x250_v03_040111.swf

----------------------------------------
