{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/identity-selector
* '''Created''':  by NealMcBurnett
* '''Contributors''':  EricNorman 
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Identity metasystems are finally beginning to mature,
based on growing support for "Laws of Identity" (see reference below
or <nowiki>[[http://www.identityblog.com/?page_id=352]]</nowiki>) and frustration
with the problems of userid/password authentication.

To guard against phishing, the identity selection should incorporate
a clear and unmistakable signal to the user that she is indeed
talking with her own identity selector and not something that just looks like
one, provided by a phisherman.  Various <nowiki>[[http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2005/07/security_skins.html|security skin]]</nowiki>
approaches can help.

=== References ===

For more information about the CardSpace Identity Selector and the InfoCard Identity Metasystem, a real good  place to start is
<nowiki>[[http://www.identityblog.com]]</nowiki> (documents on left side).

See <nowiki>[[http://spwiki.editme.com/InteroperabilitySpace|Interoperability Space]]</nowiki>
at the <nowiki>[[http://spwiki.editme.com|spwiki]]</nowiki>
run by <nowiki>[[http://socialphysics.org|SocialPhysics]]</nowiki>
for how CardSpace, Higgins, XMLDAP and Ian Brown's Mac OSX Card Selector
might fit together.

See http://openliberty.org/wiki/index.php/RelatedProjects for other related projects.

See also the July 2006 Linux Journal article by Doc Searls: <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/9049|Progress Report toward Independent Identity]]</nowiki>

=== Rationale ===

Providing a 
user interface which makes it clear to the user that they are interacting directly
with a layer of the operating system that is more resistant to attack than the
browser or other application would increase user confidence and reduce phishing attacks.

Implementing this purely in an application like a browser leaves the user's identity information more vulnerable, and the user more confused about when it is ok to type in their password.

We will also want to enable more flexible and secure authentication methods for many networked activities besides traditional browsing.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

This spec is focussed on the client side.

Besides an Identity Selector, other Ubuntu specs are needed for other
InfoCard support services.  E.g. probably a
Card Store to manage a user's cards; a log ala the Microsoft "Ledger" that tracks a user's usage of cards at various sites/services; and a Self-Issued Identity Security Token Service (STS) that can be an identity provider for self-issued cards.

Support for the server side (Relying Parties) and for Identity Provider implementations will come through applications such as Apache.

=== Design ===

The Identity Selector would probably consist of a protected user interface, and a protocol module
to get tokens via interactions with Security Token Services.

=== Implementation ===

One promising code base
is Higgins, which
intends to be at least as functional, and fully compatible, with
Microsoft's CardSpace (formerly known as InfoCard) identity selector
that will be shipped with Windows Vista.

See also OSIS - Open Source Identity Selector

There is also the <nowiki>[[http://www.bandit-project.org/index.php/Reference_Application|Bandit reference application]]</nowiki>

=== See also ===

* NetworkAuthentication
* AuthenticationInfrastructure
* ConsistentLoginScreen

----
CategorySpec
