{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Identi.ca is a microblogging site built on laconica that is open, distributed, and generally awesome. The Ubuntu community should leverage this medium to communicate things about the project, and more than just news and a glorified RSS feed, but a realtime feed of Ubuntu.

I think the key thing here is to use identi.ca for transparency, so that users can see what's going on in each corner of the Ubuntu universe.

=== Notes ===

* Nick Ali has reserved "ubuntu" and "ubuntudevelopers" for this purpose.
* We probably need someone with scripting knowledge to cobble this together for the first cut.
* We tried some lame hashtag site thing with twitter during UDS-Prague but it sucked, we can do so much better.
* Rick has started by putting some code here: https://launchpad.net/dentical

=== Brainstorm Ideas ===

* Weekly "Top 10 5-a-day contributors" dent.
* Daily "tips" from the bot in #ubuntu with all the FAQs.
* Announcements, like UWN, etc - but we don't want to replicate RSS feeds, so we need to think about how to do this.
* Field in launchpad for your openmicroblogging address, just like mail and jabber. (Same for the forums)
* Notification when a new video is uploaded, including title to the youtube developer channel and videos.ubuntu.com
* Live per-track denting of UDS/FOSSCamp.
* Jabber-bot where people can "submit news" so one person doesn't block on posting with it. Trusted people should be allowed to submit to this bot and it just shows up on the ubuntu identi.ca account.
* Realtime topic-coverage of Ubuntu Developer Week and Ubuntu Open Week so that people can be reminded about it, etc.
* Post a brainstorm idea when it crosses the X vote threshold?
* Realtime spec tracking for the next release so when a developer implements a spec we know about it.
* Connect it to the ubuntu-uk / fresh ubuntu rss feed so it tells people when there's a new episode.
* A bug bot for every package. Devs/bugsquad can subscribe to the packages they want and get fed live info on new bugs.
* An bot to announce meetings starting and post meeting logs afterwards.
* Sidebar of the identica account on the fridge to freshen up the news on it.
* A new website feature being developed under the working title of <nowiki>[[Website-Wanted|"Ubuntu Wanted"]]</nowiki> may be able to make use of microblogging

=== Why not our own Laconica server? ===

* Mike asked about this and I don't think it's a good idea at this time:
** Laconica is still young and moving too fast.
** Hosting stuff isn't really our forte, we use existing infrastructure like Freenode, Jabber, etc. I don't think microblogging should be any different.
** Identi.ca has a large concentration of open source people already, we should just pile on and add to it.

=== Discussion ===

* I now agree about not creating a separate Laconica server for Ubuntu. The only valid reason I could see for creating one would be to link it more closely with Launchpad (karma for dents anyone). Also Laconica server can talk to each other. - MikeBasinger

* I suggest that corresponding accounts be created in FriendFeed as well. - AlecClews
 
* FriendFeed rooms can read RSS feeds. It is already set up with feeds from the Fridge and Ubuntu developers YouTube videos. - AlecClews
----
CategoryWebsite
