{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== THIS IS NOT WORKING ==

I almost had it, but now it won't install due to some unsolved dependecies. I'll get back with more as soon as possible, working on a clean computer. In other words: iFolder still needs some work. ;)

-- RunarIngebrigtsen

=== P2P filesharing with Dapper using iFolder ===

This howto aims to provide you with serverless file sharing for an office with a few people.

=== Install the iFolder client ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/iFolderClient|iFolderClient in the Ubuntu wiki.]]</nowiki>

=== Getting Ready for iFolder ===
Install all necessary packages for building and installing.

<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-mono mono-xsp liblog4net-cil uuid-dev \
libxml2 libxml2-dev automake1.9 libncurses5-dev libcommoncpp2-1.3c2a libstdc++5 libtool \
asp.net-examples
</pre>

=== Prepare for building the server ===

Modify /usr/lib/pkgconfig/libflaim.pc to the following:
<pre>
prefix=/usr
exec_prefix=${prefix}
libdir=${exec_prefix}/lib
includedir=${prefix}/include
target=x11
Name: libflaim
Description: An extensible, flexible, adaptable, embeddable database engine
Version: 4.8.0
Libs: -lpthread -lncurses -lrt -lstdc++ -ldl -lflaim -L${libdir}
</pre>

=== Get files, build ===
<pre>
$ wget -r -nH -nd -np --accept=ifolder3-server*.tar.gz http://forgeftp.novell.com/ifolder/server/3.5/current/src/
$ tar zxf ifolder3-server*.tar.gz
$ cd ifolder3-server-*
</pre>

Change line 105 in configure.in to read:
<pre>
CSCFLAGS='/d:MONO /d:MONONATIVE /warn:4 /d:TRACE'
...and comment out lines 113-116.
</pre>

Run:
<pre>
$ ./autogen.sh --prefix=/usr --with-simiasdatadir=/var/lib/simias --sysconfdir=/etc/simias
$ make
</pre>

=== Install ===

Run:
<pre>
$ sudo make install
</pre>

=== Configure ===

Edit /etc/apache2/httpd.conf:
<code> Include /etc/simias/simias/apache/default/*.conf </code>

Run:
<pre>
$ sudo mkdir /var/log/ifolder3
$ sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/log/ifolder3
$ sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 stop
$ sudo simiasserver
$ sudo simiasserver --stop
$ sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/lib/simias
$ sudo chmod -R 770 /var/lib/simias
$ sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/log/ifolder3
$ sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 start
</pre>

=== Use ===
Login at <nowiki>[[http://localhost/admin]]</nowiki> using admin/simias as user/pass.
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
