{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Ian Whitfield, apply for the
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team
membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| '''Ian Whitfield'''
|-
| Launchpad Page
| '''https://launchpad.net/~ijwhitfield'''
|-
| Wiki Page
| '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ijwhitfield'''
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is Ian Whitfield, and I have been a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team
since August 2024. As an undergraduate studying Computer Science at the
University of Pittsburgh, I proposed and carried out a research project to
design new materials for the school's operating systems curriculum focused on
adding a scheduling class to the Linux kernel. Having already been interested
in the barrier between software and hardware, this project solidified that
interest and led me to looking for a position on the kernel team at Canonical.

=== My Ubuntu story ===

I've been installing Linux distributions since I was very young, and naturally
got started first with Ubuntu. Ubuntu is still my first pick for a machine that
needs to "just work", so I'm proud to be with the company that holds that
place in the Linux world and introduces more people like myself to free
software.

=== My involvement ===

My focus is primarily on our Google Cloud kernels, so any kernels named with
GCP or GKE, or derivatives of those. My secondary focus is on improving the
quality of our internal tooling, and designing processes to uphold that quality
standard.
Beyond those duties, I've also done a rotation on the CVE backport squad, I created the packaging for the Noble GCP 6.11 backport kernel, and I created the packaging for 64k page size flavors across all GCP kernels.

=== Activity ===
https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ijwhitfield

=== Sponsoring ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Sponsor
| Count
|-
| Kevin Becker
| 39
|-
| Philip Cox
| 11
|-
| John Cabaj
| 8
|-
| Jacob Martin
| 6
|-
| Stefan Bader
| 4
|-
| Bethany Jamison
| 4
|-
| Agathe Porte
| 4
|-
| Noah Wager
| 4
|-
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| 3
|-
| Total
| 83
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Sponsor
| Sponsoree
| Package
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| 2024-09-16 19:43
| Jacob Martin
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gke
| 5.15.0-1067.73
| jammy
|-
| 2024-09-16 19:43
| Jacob Martin
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gke
| 5.15.0-1067.73
| jammy
|-
| 2024-09-16 19:43
| Jacob Martin
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gke
| 5.15.0.1067.66
| jammy
|-
| 2024-10-11 21:30
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1055.62~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-10-11 23:15
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0.1055.62~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-10-11 23:15
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1055.62~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-11-12 20:21
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 5.4.0-1140.149
| focal
|-
| 2024-11-13 16:54
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 5.4.0.1140.142
| focal
|-
| 2024-11-13 16:55
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 5.4.0-1140.149
| focal
|-
| 2024-11-13 16:55
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 5.4.0-1140.149
| focal
|-
| 2024-11-13 21:33
| Stefan Bader
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1076.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-11-13 23:20
| Stefan Bader
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0.1076.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-11-13 23:20
| Stefan Bader
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1076.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-11-13 23:21
| Stefan Bader
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1076.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-12-09 17:21
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.11.0-1006.6
| oracular
|-
| 2024-12-09 18:15
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.11.0-1006.6
| oracular
|-
| 2024-12-09 18:15
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.11.0-1006.6
| oracular
|-
| 2024-12-09 18:15
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.11.0-1006.6
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-08 22:45
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp-6.11
| 6.11.0-1006.6~24.04.2
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-15 18:12
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.11.0-1007.7
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-15 19:05
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.11.0-1007.7
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-15 19:05
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.11.0-1007.7
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-15 19:06
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.11.0-1007.7
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-24 21:01
| John Cabaj
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.11.0-1008.8
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-24 22:09
| John Cabaj
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.11.0-1008.8
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-24 22:10
| John Cabaj
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.11.0-1008.8
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-24 22:10
| John Cabaj
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.11.0-1008.8
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-31 21:34
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.8.0-1023.25
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-31 21:41
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gkeop
| 6.8.0-1006.8
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-31 21:42
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.8.0-1023.25
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-31 21:42
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.8.0-1023.25
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-31 21:42
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.8.0-1023.25
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-31 21:43
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gkeop
| 6.8.0-1006.8
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-31 21:44
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gkeop
| 6.8.0-1006.8
| noble
|-
| 2025-01-31 21:48
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.11.0-1009.9
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-31 22:53
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.11.0-1009.9
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-31 22:53
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.11.0-1009.9
| oracular
|-
| 2025-01-31 22:54
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.11.0-1009.9
| oracular
|-
| 2025-02-03 21:26
| Agathe Porte
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1077.86~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-03 21:46
| Agathe Porte
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0.1077.86~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-03 21:46
| Agathe Porte
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1077.86~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-03 21:47
| Agathe Porte
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1077.86~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-05 21:41
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.8.0-1024.26
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-05 21:45
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.8.0-1024.26
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-05 21:45
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.8.0-1024.26
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-05 21:46
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.8.0-1024.26
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-06 00:38
| Bethany Jamison
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp-6.8
| 6.8.0-1024.26~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-02-06 00:39
| Bethany Jamison
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp-6.8
| 6.8.0-1024.26~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-02-06 00:39
| Bethany Jamison
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp-6.8
| 6.8.0-1024.26~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-02-06 00:40
| Bethany Jamison
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp-6.8
| 6.8.0-1024.26~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-02-18 18:55
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.11.0-1010.10
| oracular
|-
| 2025-02-18 20:15
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gke
| 6.8.0-1020.24
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-18 20:15
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.8.0-1025.27
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-18 20:16
| Jacob Martin
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gkeop
| 6.8.0-1007.9
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:57
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.11.0-1010.10
| oracular
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:57
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.8.0-1025.27
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:58
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gke
| 6.8.0-1020.24
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:58
| Jacob Martin
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gkeop
| 6.8.0-1007.9
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:58
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.11.0-1010.10
| oracular
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:58
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.8.0-1025.27
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:58
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gke
| 6.8.0-1020.24
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:58
| Jacob Martin
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gkeop
| 6.8.0-1007.9
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:58
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.11.0-1010.10
| oracular
|-
| 2025-02-18 21:58
| Philip Cox
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.8.0-1025.27
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-20 19:07
| Noah Wager
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-riscv-5.15
| 5.15.0-1075.79~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-20 23:56
| Noah Wager
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-riscv-5.15
| 5.15.0.1075.79~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-02-25 19:09
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.11.0-1011.11
| oracular
|-
| 2025-02-25 19:52
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.11.0-1011.11
| oracular
|-
| 2025-02-25 19:53
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.11.0-1011.11
| oracular
|-
| 2025-02-25 19:53
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.11.0-1011.11
| oracular
|-
| 2025-02-26 20:14
| John Cabaj
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp-6.11
| 6.11.0-1011.11~24.04.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-26 20:27
| John Cabaj
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp-6.11
| 6.11.0-1011.11~24.04.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-26 20:27
| John Cabaj
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp-6.11
| 6.11.0-1011.11~24.04.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-02-26 20:27
| John Cabaj
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp-6.11
| 6.11.0-1011.11~24.04.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-03-18 22:11
| Noah Wager
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-riscv-5.15
| 5.15.0-1076.80~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-18 22:12
| Noah Wager
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-riscv-5.15
| 5.15.0.1076.80~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-03-25 18:08
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-gcp
| 6.11.0-1012.12
| oracular
|-
| 2025-03-25 23:43
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.11.0-1012.12
| oracular
|-
| 2025-03-25 23:43
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.11.0-1012.12
| oracular
|-
| 2025-03-25 23:44
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.11.0-1012.12
| oracular
|-
| 2025-04-01 14:31
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-meta-gcp
| 6.11.0-1013.13
| oracular
|-
| 2025-04-01 14:31
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-signed-gcp
| 6.11.0-1013.13
| oracular
|-
| 2025-04-01 14:31
| Kevin Becker
| Ian Whitfield
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp
| 6.11.0-1013.13
| oracular
|}

Aside from these public kernels, I've also cranked 3 ESM kernels:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Sponsor
| Kernel
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| linux-oracle-5.4
| 5.4.0-1141.151~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| linux-ibm-5.4
| 5.4.0-1086.91~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| Kevin Becker
| linux-gcp-5.4
| 5.4.0-1142.151~18.04.1
| bionic
|}

=== Upload Rights ===
I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

=== Comments ===
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

=== Endorsements ===

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Philip Cox (philcox) ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have worked with Ian on various tasks, since he started working on the kernel team.  I have reviewed and sponsored many of his kernels.  The first couple kernels have needed some minor adjustments, but once he made those corrections, he didn't repeat the errors.  He learned quickly, and had a good sense of when to ask for help.

I have found his work to be thorough, and him to be diligent.  I trust him to do a good job and endorse him for kernel upload rights.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=Wvuh
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Jacob Martin ===
I have been working with Ian for around 6 months now. I walked him through the kernel preparation process in-depth and provided guidance on
kernel packaging, testing, and other kernel team activities. The kernels from Ian that I have reviewed were prepared correctly and with care. Ian quickly understands new concepts and has an excellent intuition for when something doesn't look right, and when to ask for a second opinion. I fully trust him with the responsibility of kernel package upload rights.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=8zxS
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Kevin Becker (kevinbecker) ===
Ian has quickly learned all parts of the kernel preparation/packaging process. I have reviewed many of his kernels. He carefully prepares his kernels and asks insightful questions whenever something goes beyond what he has worked on before. He has good attention to detail, which he has shown in his handling of new backports as well as respins. I trust him to handle kernel package upload rights responsibly.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=Wais
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Magali Lemes (magalilemes) ===

I have reviewed a few kernel packages prepared by Ian for the SRU and security
cycles, including a re-spin case, and most of them were prepared without
errors. He's quick to understand and act on the feedback he's gotten. Keep up
the good work!
I endorse upload rights for Ian.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=z9Yj
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

==== TEMPLATE ====
<pre>
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
</pre>
