{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ikepanhc|Ike Panhc]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''ikepanhc''' (freenode)
|-
| <|2(> '''Email''':
| ike.pan@canonical.com
|-
| ikepanhc@gmail.com
|-
| '''Location''':
| Taipei, Taiwan (GMT+8)
|}

=== Introduction ===
* I am member of Canonical Hyperscale Team, maintain kernel for hyperscale server on <nowiki>[[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git|kernel.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
* I also join mainline kernel development on LKML and majorly focus on platform-x86 drivers and maintain ideapad-laptop subsystem
=== Find Me ===
* For ideapad-laptop issue, please send email to ike.pan@canonical.com and cc platform-x86@vger.kernel.org
* You can also reach me in #ubuntu-kernel of freenode
=== Current ===
* 31 <nowiki>[[http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux%2Fkernel%2Fgit%2Ftorvalds%2Flinux.git&a=search&h=HEAD&st=author&s=Ike+Panhc|Mainline kernel commits]]</nowiki>. All in platform-x86 subsystem
* ideapad-laptop subsystem maintainer in mainline kernel
* Canonical OEM kernel maintainer. OEM kernels are Canonical released kernel for specific machine, ARM, laptop, server included.
* <nowiki>[[http://coscup.org/2011/en/|COSCUP]]</nowiki> 2011,2012 speaker. Talking about Ubuntu kernel release cycle and mainline kernel developing process.
=== Future ===
* Solve bugs filed against Ubuntu kernel and also contribute to mainline kernel
* Involve more subsystem in mainline kernel.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%; -moz-border-radius: 5px; background-color: #E5E5E5; border: none; font-size: 0.75em; text-align: left;" style="border: none; ">~+'''Sub-pages:'''+~
| <style="border: none; ">
|}
