{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Welcome ==
This is the home page for the Australian Ubuntu Local Community Team. The Australian team focuses on distributing, advertising and demonstrating Ubuntu within Australia. Through the development of our projects we focus on the areas of schools, business and home users.

Please see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.org.au|our website]]</nowiki> for the latest news on our activities and events!  For other activities check out our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-au|Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>

=== About The Ubuntu Australian Team ===
On 12th of May 2010 the Australian Ubuntu LoCo Team lost its official status. The <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-au/2010-May/006166.html|Team's LoCo Re-Approval Application]]</nowiki> contains the details of our application.  Plans are being developed to have the LoCo officially recognised again. 

== How to find us! ==
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-IRC]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net:8001-#ubuntu-au|#ubuntu-au]]</nowiki> on irc.freenode.net:8001 <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-au/|Main (logged) Webchat]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-au-chat/|Offtopic (non-logged) Webchat]]</nowiki> in your browser! 
* <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-MailingLists|Ubuntu-au mailing list]]</nowiki> - a place to seek support and for general discussion on team related matters.
* <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.org.au|Planet Ubuntu-Au]]</nowiki> - a blog feed from various Ubuntu-AU members. It is not strictly “Ubuntu Only” content but offers a window into the lives and interests of Ubuntu-AU members.

=== Ubuntu Au Social! ===
* <nowiki>[[http://flickr.com/groups/ubuntuau/|Flickr Ubuntu-Au group]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.last.fm/group/Ubuntu-Au|Last.fm Ubuntu-Au group]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/group/ubuntuaustralia|Identi.ca Ubuntu Australia Group]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/group/ubuntuaustralia|Identi.ca Ubuntu Australia Group]]</nowiki>

=== Meetings ===
Online meetings are generally held at 9:00 PM AEST on the second Tuesday of the month. Feel free to join us on #ubuntu-au using your favourite IRC client or using the browser based <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/|Freenode Webchat.]]</nowiki>

See <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-Meetings]]</nowiki> for more information about upcoming and past meetings.

=== Team Contact ===
The current team contact of Ubuntu-AU is JaredNorris.

For both Jared's contact details and also contact details of other relevant team personnel please see the <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam-ContactUs|ContactUs]]</nowiki> page.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
