{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 100%; text-align: center">
|-
| <style="color: #816647; background: #d9bb7a; font-weight: bold; font-size: larger"> '''Ubuntu Illinois Local Community Team Page'''
|-
| Ubuntu Illinois is a group of local community members gathered to to advocate and support the Ubuntu Linux Operating System. Ubuntu Illinois get's their inspiration from bug #1, and uses this to aide in the process of marketing throughout the state of Illinois.
|-
| 
|-
| '''Table of Contents'''
|-
| <style="text-align: left; background: white url(/IllinoisTeam?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=ubuntu-illinois.png) no-repeat right">
|}

=== Team Info ===
The Ubuntu Illinois Team is an organization created via the LoCoTeam guidelines for the Ubuntu Community, with the priority of fixing <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/malone/bugs/1/|bug #1]]</nowiki>, by providing support, advocacy, and guidance to the Ubuntu community. The Ubuntu Illinois Team will utilize the structure, standards, and tools created and provided by the various teams within the Ubuntu community and perform tasks above and beyond those expected to maintain competency among the community. <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam|Ubuntu Chicago]]</nowiki> is a sub-team that encompasses the entire Chicago land area, all members of Ubuntu Chicago are also members of Ubuntu Illinois.

=== Team Status ===

The Ubuntu Illinois team is heating up.  We're focusing on spreading knowledge throughout Illinois, and sharing the freedom of Ubuntu with our neighbors.

=== Team Contact ===

Interested parties can contact the Ubuntu Illinois Team via the following:
* '''Webpage:''' Coming Soon!
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-illinois
* '''IRC:''' irc.libera.chat port:6697  #ubuntu-illinois
* '''Matrix:''' https://matrix.to/#/#loco-us-il:ubuntu.com
* '''E-mail:''' Coming Soon!
* '''Mailing List:''' ubuntu-us-il AT lists DOT ubuntu DOT com
* '''View List:''' Coming Soon!

=== Team Meetings ===

=== A Discussion on the Future of Free Software ===

You are invited to a special joint online meeting for members of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-illinois|Illinois Ubuntu LoCo]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://libreplanet.org/wiki/Group:LibrePlanet_Illinois|LibrePlanet Illinois]]</nowiki>, and the <nowiki>[[https://beyond40.codeberg.page/|Beyond 40 Free Software Caucus of Illinois]]</nowiki> (but all are welcome & encouraged to join!)

This won't be a typical meet-and-greet. Instead, we will dive deep into a critical question facing our community: '''Is free and open source software sustainable?'''

Our discussion will be centered around the recent FOSSforce article, "[https://fossforce.com/2025/04/is-free-or-open-source-software-sustainable/ Is Free or Open Source Software Sustainable?]" We will explore the challenges of funding, burnout, and corporate influence, and brainstorm how we, as a community, can contribute to a healthier FOSS ecosystem.

'''To Prepare:'''
Please '''read the article''' before the meeting and come prepared for a lively and thoughtful discussion.

'''Details:'''
* '''Date:''' Thursday, August 21st, 2025
* '''Time:''' 7:00 PM - 8:30 PM Central Time
* '''Location:''' Online (Jitsi)

'''Action Required: Please RSVP to Receive the Meeting Link!'''

To ensure a secure and productive meeting, the Jitsi link will be sent out to attendees on the day of the event. To receive the link, please send a confirmation email to '''[freedom@zackhacks.xyz]''' by August 20th.

Let's talk about how we can build a sustainable future for the software we love.

=== 🚀 Join Us for an Illinois Tech & Libre Software Meetup! 🐧🔓 ===

Hey everyone! Let’s get together for a chill and nerdy evening of discussion, collaboration, and community!  

'''📅 Date:''' Thursday, March 13, 2025  
'''⏰ Time:''' 8:00 PM CST  
'''📍 Location:''' [https://matrix.to/#/#loco-us-il:ubuntu.com Matrix Chat]  

I’ll be broadcasting live from my '''top-secret underground lair''' (okay, it’s just my basement, but still 😆). Whether you're into '''GNU/Linux, Free Software, tech in general''', or just want to chat about '''life, dreams, and open-source world domination'''—this is the place to be!  

No need to RSVP—just drop in and hang out. Hope to see you there!  

🤓🧑🏼‍💻💻⌨️

== Document Freedom Day Celebration at Eureka College ==

Join us at **Eureka College** in Eureka, Illinois for a celebration of **Document Freedom Day**! We're gathering to raise awareness about open standards and promote digital freedom.

=== Event Details ===
* **Date:** Document Freedom Day (Wednesday, March 26, 2025)
* **Time:** 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM
* **Location:** Cerf Center, Eureka College, Eureka, IL

=== What to Expect ===
* A short talk on the importance of open standards and document freedom
* Demonstrations of Free/Libre Open Source Software (FLOSS) for document editing and sharing
* Opportunities to meet local FLOSS enthusiasts and Ubuntu Illinois community members
* Free stickers, resources, and good conversation!

=== Why Document Freedom? ===
Open standards empower users, ensure access to knowledge, and prevent vendor lock-in. Celebrating Document Freedom Day is a great way to learn, share, and build a more equitable digital future.

=== Who Should Come? ===
Everyone is welcome—students, educators, technologists, activists, and anyone curious about Free Software and digital rights.

=== Organized by ===
Ubuntu Illinois LoCo & LibrePlanet Illinois

----

Visit our wikis to learn more:
* Ubuntu Illinois: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IllinoisTeam
* LibrePlanet Illinois: https://libreplanet.org/wiki/Group:LibrePlanet_Illinois

<nowiki>[[IllinoisTeam-Sep212024|Software Freedom Day 2024]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[IllinoisTeam-Nov102024|November Illinois LoCo Meeting!]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[IllinoisTeam-Dec102024|December Illinois LoCo Meeting!]]</nowiki>

=== Team Projects ===

=== Team List ===
<nowiki>[[IllinoisTeam-TeamList|Enter your information in the team membership list!]]</nowiki>

=== Team Speak ===
<nowiki>[[IllinoisTeam-TeamSpeak|Using Ubuntu? Kubuntu? Edubuntu? Xubuntu? Let us know!]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
