{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Summary ==
Ubuntu-Illinois is going to be having a release celebration meeting, coupled with a no-cost community computer workshop in Mahomet, IL on the 20th of October.  From 1200 noon until 1300 there will be a meeting, and then from 1300 until 1700 there will be a no-cost community workshop where we invite the local community to bring computer problems and questions, and Ubuntu-Illinois will attempt to answer them while sharing Ubuntu with folks.

This event will be at the Villa Caffe in Mahomet, IL on IL-150 (<nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2hokg2|directions]]</nowiki>) in their conference room.  There is an optional $5 contribution to help cover the cost of the meeting space (note, this is *OPTIONAL*), and there is food available at cost for those who are interested.  If there is enough interest ahead of time I can pre-order lunch for our meeting (PLEASE email me <<manchicken AT kubuntu DOT org>> if you're interested) then we'll do that, too.

Please bring yourself, any information you'd like to share, and all of your computer know-how.  We'll be answering questions for all sorts of different problems, and while most of the questions will be about proprietary operating systems and programs, this will be a golden opportunity for us to share the freedom and help people see that there are alternatives to proprietary software.

== Rideshare Info ==
This place to help coordinate rides to / from the event for Chicagoland GNU/Linux folks.  
* '''Offering a Ride''': Use the table below to indicate the following information:
*** Your name
*** Your email address
*** What part of Chicagoland you live in 
*** How many open spots you currently have in your vehicle (If your vehicle is full, just write ''FULL'' in the passengers section)
*** When you last updated this information (so that we'll know how current the listing is)

If you aren't comfortable with editing the wiki, just email your information to manchicken, and he will assist you.

=== Offering Rides ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name:'''
| '''Email'''
| '''General Location'''
| '''Passenger Spots Avail'''
| '''Updated Date'''
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
* '''Needing a Ride''': Use the table below to indicate the following information:
*** Your name
*** Your email address
*** What part of Chicagoland you live in
*** Whether you still need a ride (note "Need Ride" if you still need a ride.  If you have a ride, please change this to "OK").  

* '''Passenger Courtesy''':  We expect that passengers will chip in on gas costs, but if you're just broke . . .  please try and scrounge up some change, or politely ask a friend to cover for you.  However, all passengers are expected to not make fun of the driver's tastes in music, to use deodorant, and to generally not be annoying to the driver or fellow passengers. :)

* Again, if you aren't comfortable editing the wiki, just let manchicken know.

=== Needing Rides ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name:'''
| '''Email'''
| '''General Location'''
| '''Transport Status'''
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

Thanks, all!
