{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Summary ==
Manchicken, aka Michael Stemle, has taken the initiative to schedule the first-ever Ubuntu-Illinois meeting, and has graciously chosen to host it at his home.  The meeting will be held on Saturday, May 19th, from noon to 5pm.  There will be pizza and hacking on Ubuntu.  

An RSVP is required to attend.  If you have not RSVP'ed, <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2ludwq|contact Manchicken]]</nowiki> for further information.

== Rideshare Info ==
This page is in place to help coordinate rides to / from the event for Chicagoland GNU/Linux folks.  
* '''Offering a Ride''': Use the table below to indicate the following information:
*** Your name
*** Your email address
*** What part of Chicagoland you live in 
*** How many open spots you currently have in your vehicle (If your vehicle is full, just write ''FULL'' in the passengers section)
*** When you last updated this information (so that we'll know how current the listing is)

If you aren't comfortable with editing the wiki, just email your information to Jim Campbell, and he will assist you.

=== Offering Rides ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name:'''
| '''Email'''
| '''General Location'''
| '''Passenger Spots Avail'''
| '''Updated Date'''
|-
| Aaron Taddei
| aarontaddei@gmail.com
| Hinckley
| 3
| 17 May 2007
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
* '''Needing a Ride''': Use the table below to indicate the following information:
*** Your name
*** Your email address
*** What part of Chicagoland you live in
*** Whether you still need a ride (note "Need Ride" if you still need a ride.  If you have a ride, please change this to "OK").  

* '''Passenger Courtesy''':  We expect that passengers will chip in on gas costs, but if you're just broke . . .  please try and scrounge up some change, or politely ask a friend to cover for you.  However, all passengers are expected to not make fun of the driver's tastes in music, to use deodorant, and to generally not be annoying to the driver or fellow passengers. :)

* Again, if you aren't comfortable editing the wiki, just let Jim Campbell know.

=== Needing Rides ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name:'''
| '''Email'''
| '''General Location'''
| '''Transport Status'''
|-
| Jim Campbell
| jwcampbell@gmail.com
| North Side, Chicago
| '''OK'''
|-
| Eddie Martinez
| eddiemartinez@gmail.com
| Soutside/Midway, Chicago
| '''OK'''
|-
| FreddyMartnize
| freddymartinez9@ubuntu.com
| Southside / Midway, Chicago
| '''OK'''
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

Thanks, all!
