{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Ilya Barygin, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Ilya Barygin
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~randomaction
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IlyaBarygin
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a physicist from Saint Petersburg, Russia, born in 1982.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===
I learned the basics of packaging when in December 2008 there was an initiative to package Eclipse for Debian/Ubuntu. This eventually got nowhere, but at least I knew what debian/rules and debhelper were.

My first contribution to archive was when I isolated upstream's fix for https://launchpad.net/bugs/364069 (pidgin: ICQ protocol update, March 2009). It quickly got SRU'd, but the folks using hardy-backports got stuck with the old version, so I created a debdiff, which was sponsored by pitti. A couple of months later I merged a new version of g3data (a tool of use for me) from Debian.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/364069 : FTBFS fix for wesnoth
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/415782 : new release of gnome-commander
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/462059 : multiple FTBFS fixes of root-system, made it installable

List of contributions: <nowiki>[[IlyaBarygin|wiki]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~randomaction/+uploaded-packages|LP]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===
The bulk of my contributions are merges/syncs and FTBFS fixes. This is a scattered, QA-like activity, and this is why I apply for general upload rights. As such, my uploads were sponsored by many (over 20) developers. However, my principal sponsors are fabrice_sp and sistpoty. Other than that, there are several packages in universe I especially care about (I use them daily), these include claws-mail{,-extra-plugins} and gnome-commander.

=== Things I could do better ===
* Changelogs. Like mentioning which files were modified.
* Get more familiar with Python packaging.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I plan to continue in the same vein, as there seems to be no shortage of pending merges and unbuildable packages.
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I'm a little jealous when my Arch friends start using new versions of software days after they are being released :) This is a design choice and doesn't need fixing.

Actually, one thing that seems out of hand is REVU. MOTUs can't review that many packages, so maybe uploads should indeed be restricted to Ubuntu devs or u-u-c.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== ScottKitterman ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored three packages from randomaction: klear, givaro, and crawl.  All of the packages were uploaded when I first looked at them.  Technically it's clear that randomaction definitely knows what he is doing and his help at the end of the Karmic cycle with fixing FTBFS was very useful.  With only three uploads, I can't say if I trust him, but I definitely have no reason not to.  Our interactions on IRC have been good too.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Klear was a non-trivial FTBFS fix and I uploaded it on the first review, so perfect score.   As you can see, https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/klear/+bug/459734 had a bit of work to it.   Crawl was a trivial missing header issue to fix FTBFS.  Givaro was relibtoolization (never fun IMO).  No complaints.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
None noted in the bit we've worked together.

=== fabrice_sp ===
==== General feedback ====
As you can see looking at the sponsored upload list (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IlyaBarygin), I sponsored more than 40 uploads of Ilya, half of them with fixes to FTBFS. Iliya did a great job to find a real solution to a FTBFS, looking after the root cause of the FTBFS and not only the symptom.

He did also a so very good job reporting the fixes to Debian, that almost the other half of what I sponsored are sync requests.

Ilya will definitively be a very good asset to the MOTU team!

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
gcc4.4 and globc2.10 fixes in Karmic: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nepenthes/+bug/486015 , https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/t1utils/+bug/453828

Non trivial fixes: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/luatex/+bug/453929 , https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/root-system/+bug/462059 , https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp-gap/+bug/451419

==== Areas of Improvement ====
The changelog entry could be better documented, even if the latest packages I have sponsored  (merges, mostly), this is a lot better.
Apart from that, nothing :-)

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I'm quite happy with Ilya's contributions. The quality was always good and I get the feeling Ilya would be a good addition to the MOTU team.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/440187
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/436587
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/428852
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/426175
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/396910
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/392879
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/385301
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/382116
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/380841

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I think I remember having asked "can you forward this to Debian" couple of times, but this might have changed in the meantime. Generally I'm very happy though. :)

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
