{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Install ===

Follow the MacBook install instructions, but ignore everything after step 10.

=== Wireless ===

As of this writing the wireless card (Broadcom 4328, pciid 14e4:4328) is unsupported by bcm43xx, the Linux driver for Broadcom wireless cards.  To work around this you will have to use ndiswrapper.

For 64-bit Ubuntu installations (AMD64) and 32-bit Ubuntu installations (i386), download <nowiki>[[http://support.dell.com/support/downloads/download.aspx?c=us&cs=04&l=en&s=bsd&releaseid=R140746&SystemID=INS_PNT_P4_9400&os=WXPX&osl=en&deviceid=9805&devlib=0&typecnt=1&vercnt=2&formatcnt=1&libid=5&fileid=187886|R140746.EXE]]</nowiki> to your desktop.
Run the following commands:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install ndiswrapper
mkdir ~/wireless-driver
unzip ~/Desktop/R140746.EXE -d ~/wireless-driver
cd ~/wireless-driver/DRIVER
sudo ndiswrapper -i bcmwl5.inf
sudo ndiswrapper -m
</pre>

Optionally, if you would like to easily switch between wireless networks, install <code>network-manager</code> by following the NetworkManager documentation.

=== Sound ===

The sound card driver (snd-hda-intel) currently only outputs (albeit softly) to the headphone jack.  A bug report has been filed <nowiki>[[https://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/alsa-bug/view.php?id=2708|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Accessing OS X Files ===

To access files from your OS X partition, type the following commands:
<pre>
sudo mkdir /mnt/mac
sudo gedit /etc/fstab
</pre>
Copy and paste the following to the bottom of the document:
<pre>
/dev/sda2     /mnt/mac     hfsplus     rw,users     0 0
</pre>
Save and close the file.
Reboot or mount the filesystem by typing:
<pre>
mount /mnt/mac
</pre>

The hfsplus filesystem type seems to ignore the uid, gid, and umask options.  Therefor you will not be able to access files in OS X home directories.
----
CategoryCleanup
