{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Those machine are very nice. The only difference with its successor is the CPU which will be an intel for the next "revision". Most of the harware is working, but you still need some tweak to get all working properly.

== Overview ==
=== Needs ===

* an iMac G5 iSight
* Alternate PPC install CD : http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/
* either a Mac OS X installation or at least, backup /System/Library/Extensions/IOUSBFamily.kext/Contents/PlugIns/AppleUSBVideoSupport.kext/Contents/MacOS/AppleUSBVideoSupport in order to extract the built-in iSight firmware later.
* Some knowledge about how to build a kernel, rebuild a debs, etc.

=== What works ===

* display (3D acceleration, extended desktop)
* Wired network
* iSight
* Fans

=== What does not work ===

* Airport Extrem ?
* Apple Remote

== Details ==

=== Installation ===

Boot with <code>install-powerpc64 video=ofonly</code>

=== Kernel ===

You should avoid radeonfb, even if radeonfb works with latest version, it's broken with ati Xorg driver. Kernel mode setting will fix this making radeonfb useless.

==== Windfarm PM121 ====

In order to get the fan silent, you need the windfarm-pm121 driver. Get latest Linux 2.6.24 source and apply windfarm-pm121.patch available at http://bersace03.free.fr/pub/Linux/iMac%20G5/windfarm-pm121.patch . Ensure you have windfarm-pm121 built. The module should be loaded automatically.

=== Xorg ===

You'll need an updated xf86-video-ati driver. Use Tormold Volden PPA src package : https://edge.launchpad.net/~tormodvolden/+archive . Rebuild using debuild. Then, no need to tweak xorg.conf.

=== Built-in iSight ===

Built-in iSight  shiped within this mac is exactly the same as the one found in next iMacs and MacBooks. Check out latest linux-uvc driver at http://linux-uvc.berlios.de/ . Those device need firmware loading. This is done using isight-firmware-tools. See http://bersace03.free.fr/ift/ . Debs are available at https://edge.launchpad.net/~bersace/+archive , build using debuild.

=== Apple Remote ===

The driver hasn't been ported yet. The device seems to send different data.

=== Airport Extreme ===

I report bcm43xx listing AP but not attaching. I never get b43 to load properly the firmware. Needs investigation.
----
CategoryHardware
