{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for image-store-proxy ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/image-store-proxy]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures (it's a pure python package).
# ''Rationale:''
** The newly introduced Image Store UI in Eucalyptus relies on a local proxy in order to perform searches, queries, and to emit commands for image downloading and installation.
** The Image Store Proxy sits in the middle of three entities: the Eucalyptus Image Store UI, the Eucalyptus S3 and EC2 APIs, and the upstream Canonical Image Store API:
** <pre>
                Canonical Image Store API
                -------------------------
                           ^
                           |
                           |
                 ---------------------
                 | Image Store Proxy |
                 ---------------------
                   ^               |
                   |               |
                   |               v
    ------------------           -----------------
    | Eucalyptus     |           |   Eucalyptus  |
    | Image Store UI |           | S3 & EC2 APIs |
    ------------------           -----------------
</pre>
** The Eucalyptus UI talks to the proxy to obtain information about which images are available, and also to do requests for installing images, canceling previously requested actions, and obtaining progress information about on going requests.
** The Image Store Proxy talks to the upstream Canonical Image Store API to satisfy information requests done by the Eucalyptus UI, and once requested to install an image, will download the necessary files to the local file system using information provided by the upstream Canonical API, and then use the euca2ools suite to bundle, upload and register images in Eucalyptus through the EC2 and S3 APIs.
  
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=image-store-proxy|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: 0.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=image-store-proxy|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: 0
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No
** Any daemons: yes. The proxy is a daemon based on twisted.
** Network activity: 
*** Does it open any port ? yes
*** Does it handle incoming network data ? yes.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No. Although images from the Canonical Store are downloaded it uses the euca2ools/ec2 (external) tools to actually modify the downloaded images.
** Any source code review performed ?  No.

 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None. The default installation starts a daemon which listen on port 52780.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No.
** Debian bugs: Not in Debian.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/image-store-proxy/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/image-store-proxy|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 0 bugs.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? Yes.
*** Is it enabled to run in the build ? No.
 0. ''UI standards:''
** There is only a command line to start the daemon.
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? No.
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? No.
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? Not applicable.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes.
** Packaging system: cdbs. No Patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** python-twisted-web, python-pycurl,eucalyptus-common
** All in main.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? Simple package.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? Ubuntu Server team with the upstream Canonical developers.
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? The ubuntu-server team.
 0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ? image-store-proxy.
*** Has it had different names in the past ? No
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? No GUI.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/429894]]</nowiki>

''MathiasGug''
