{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== What is Ubuntu Kylin ? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for previous Windows users all over the world. We are committed to provide you with a simpler and more enjoyable experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing UKUI Desktop Environment which provide a ‘familiar Windows-style layout’ to windows. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since Ubuntu Kylin 13.04. Now, we are working on 21.10.

== What's new in Ubuntu Kylin 21.10 ==

=== Kernel ===

What's new in Ubuntu Kylin 21.10
Kernel
Same as Ubuntu, Ubuntu Kylin 21.10 includes the 5.13 Linux kernel. This includes numerous updates and added support since the 5.11 Linux kernel released in Ubuntu Kylin 21.04. Some notable examples include:
* Basic M1 support.

* Preliminary Intel Alder Lake S graphics support.

* AMD GPU FreeSync/Adaptive-Sync HDMI support.

* AMD Aldebaran accelerator support.

* A new generic USB display driver.

* Much better RISC-V support.

=== Desktop Environment ===
==== ukui-panel ====
* update udisk management tool: handle dual monitor issue.

* fix the wrong display position of calendar.

* fix the abnormal taskbar transparency.

* fix the problem that the icon of udisk management tool is not displayed.

* solve the problem of abnormal taskbar tray click area under high split screen.

* solve the problem that the preview window is abnormal under special circumstances.

* fix the abnormal anti-white problem after theme switching.

* fix the stroke problem in dark mode.

* optimize the startup.

* solve the problem of abnormal cpu usage.

* fix the crash when there is no control panel.

* fix the failure when uninstalling applications for the first time

* fix the problem that the right-click menu of the preview window cannot be opened.

==== Themes ====
* replace arrows with icons.

* fix the crash on x11 platform.

* add style of buttons when they are not animated

* fixed the bug that QLable font setting does not work

==== ukui-control-center ====
* fix the problem of main window when dragging

* update translation

* fix that can't adjust the screen brightness

* fix incomplete font display

* add mechanism to detect display output

* correct available memory size

* fix brightness initialization error

* add search timer

==== ukui-greeter ====
* fix the problem that you can continue to enter the password before pam returns the authentication result.

* make the language consistent with the session language.

* fix the problem on dual monitors.

* repair the problem of black screen in the login interface when the computer is turned on without a monitor

* add multi-factor authentication support

* adjust the style of onscreen keyboard

* fix the problem under 4k screen

* fix the problem that the shutdown window is not centered on dual screen.

* solve the problem of incorrect background

* startup optimization

==== ukui-menu ====
* optimize Chinese search.

* adjust the application layout

* update translation

* modify the default window pop-up position

* reduce the CPU utilization when uninstalling software

* repair the display displacement caused by resolution change

* add the function of switching to the search result by pressing the key directly after searching

* modify the pressed button effect

* fix the problem after zooming

* modify the single character only search the first letter of the application

* modify the problem of truncated search box text after changing the font

* support drag and drop the application to create desktop shortcuts

==== ukui-power-manager ====
* update translation

* fix the icon display error

==== ukui-screensaver ====
* fix the wrong time on dual monitors.

* fix that cannot lock the screen when using gdm.

* fix that the border shows white lines in dark color mode

* fix the authentication error when the password is empty

* fix that the time will not be updated after more than 100 minutes 

* keep the time format of the lockscreen consistent with the control-center settings

==== ukui-session-manager ====
* set the mouse size and high dpi at startup

* use systemd interface to logout

* update time and date format

* fix the problem of not playing music when shutting down and restarting

* update translation

==== ukui-sidebar ====
* fix that no icon in notification entry

* fix the loading error when fixing multiple files in clipboard

* reduce the cpu consumption

* fix the abnormal icon of special symbol folder in clipboard

* fix the bug that the browser icon is not displayed when reading the notify information

==== kylin-display-switch ====
* change hover opacity

* fix spelling errors in desktop files

* update translation

* add dbus module

==== kylin-nm ====
* fix that the window blocking when connecting or disconnecting wifi

* fix that not showing tray icon animation when disconnecting wifi

* fix that the user interface cannot be refreshed after connecting hidden wifi

* fix that the wired network cannot be reconnected after inserting the wired cable

* fix the inconsistent notification messages

* fix that wifi scan cannot be triggered after turning on wifi switch

* fix the Ethernet device initialization error

== Download ==

The Release ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/21.10/release/ | here]]</nowiki>.

== Support ==

* Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Project page: http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* Bug tracker: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* IRC channel: <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntukylin-devel|irc.librera.chat #ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntukylin-devel | ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Chinese QQ Group: 
** Developers: 125729037
** Users 1: 262012757
** Users 2: 306929327
** Users 3: 75642661
** Users 4: 398104181
** Users 5: 8010855 
* Weibo: http://weibo.com/u/3265288504
* Business Email: contact@ubuntukylin.com

== Thanks ==
Thanks to Aron, RikMills, kc2bez, dbungert, bdmurray, franksmcb, and others who involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 21.10 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide and https://developer.ubuntukylin.com.
