{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

GeemanUk: (Recommend merging with [EventsGlobal]) 

== ImportantEvents ==

<pre>
  This page is based on a conversation I had with Mark Shuttleworth at Linux World in Frankfurt. 
  It shall be a starting point on how we can organize the promotion of Ubuntu at certain events.
</pre>

=== Intention of this page ===

These pages shall gather all '''important''' events around the world, where the (local) Ubuntu Community can or even should organize a booth to present the Ubuntu Project to the public.

It shall also help Canonical Inc. to clarify, which events they participate offically, which could result in a combinated Canonical and Ubuntu booth, presenting both the company and the project.

At smaller events, a joint effort with other projects, mainly Debian, might be an option?

=== Adding an event ===

So, if you know any event (like fairs), which might be a good place to promote Ubuntu, add it to the list in the appropriate country page.

If your country isn't listed yet, add an subtopic to this page with the name ``Events_In_Yourcountry`` without the underscores. Community members  in big countries like the US, Canada, Australia, etc. should consider also adding the states as subtopics to the country.

On the country page, the events are organized in definition lists, in order to annotate, why Ubuntu should be there. An annotation should include:

* topic of the event (general computing, linux-centered, etc.)
* target audience (mainly whether it's consumer or business oriented)
* city
* whatever you think might be important to know

=== Australian Events ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Start'''
| '''End'''
| '''Location'''
| '''Conference / Event'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| 2006-05-24
| 2006-05-28
| Sydney, Australia
| CeBIT Australia http://www.cebit.com.au
| 
|-
| 2008-05-18
| 2006-05-23
| Gold Coast, Australia
| AusCERT2008 http://conference.auscert.org.au/conf2008/
| Added late (20080513), but there's always 2009 and beyond
|}

=== Belgium Events ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Start'''
| '''End'''
| '''Location'''
| '''Conference / Event'''
|-
| 2006-09-18
| 2006-09-21
| Brussels, Belgium
| O'Reilly  EuroOSCON http://conferences.oreillynet.com/euos2006/
|}

=== Greek Events ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Start'''
| '''End'''
| '''Location'''
| '''Conference / Event'''
|-
| 2006-09-28
| 2006-10-01
| Salonica, Greece
| Infosystem Exhibition http://www.helexpo.gr/portal/default.aspx?lang=en-US&loc=gr&page=309
|}

=== Turkey Events ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Start'''
| '''End'''
| '''Location'''
| '''Conference / Event'''
|-
| 2006-06-24
| 2006-06-28
| Beylikdüzü-Istanbul, Turkey
| CeBIT Bilisim Eurasia http://www.cebitbilisim.com
|}

=== United States Events ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Start'''
| '''End'''
| '''Location'''
| '''Conference / Event'''
|-
| 2006-07-24
| 2006-07-28
| Portland, OR
| O'Reilly OSCON http://conferences.oreillynet.com/os2006/
|-
| 2006-08-14
| 2006-08-17
| San Francisco, CA
| LinuxWorld http://www.linuxworldexpo.com/
|}
