{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This should go into StableReleaseUpdates!

----

This page describes the procedures for uploads to $dist-updates (e.g. breezy-updates, dapper-updates). Only bugfixes for major problems should be uploaded here. 

If it the bug is a security releated issue, look at the procedure for SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures.

The versionnumber of the upload must be distinct from any version number of the package in any other distro (hoary, breezy, dapper). It also must be newer than the version that is patched, but older than the version in the current development tree. In general the NMU version number scheme of adding a 0.1 to the current ubuntu revision is recommended. If there is no ubuntu revision you should add one. Examples:

<pre>
=====================  ====================
''Previous version'' ''update version''
2.0-2                2.0-2ubuntu0.1
2.0-2ubuntu2         2.0-2ubuntu2.1
2.0-2ubuntu2.1       2.0-2ubuntu2.2
2.0                  2.0-0ubuntu0.1
=====================  ====================
</pre>

For some -updates that are based on newer versions (and not patches) the versionnumber should be derived from the new version and a "~distroN" (e.g. ~breezy1) should be added. Example:
<pre>
===================== ============================== ======================
''Previous version'' ''base version of the update''  ''update version''
2.0-2                3.0-0ubuntu1                    3.0-0ubuntu1~breezy1
2.0-2                3.0-1                           3.0-1~breezy1
===================== ============================== ======================
</pre>
