{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/improved-networking
* '''Created''':  by JohnMoser
* '''Contributors''': JohnMoser
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
This spec depends on a number of sub-specs to supply improvements to networking in Ubuntu related to bandwidth usage efficiency and security.

=== Rationale ===
There are a number of tweaks that can be done to improve general security and performance of a network, including sysctl tweaks and extra daemons.
=== Use cases ===
Pertinent to the sub-specification

=== Scope ===
* <nowiki>[[ImprovedNetworking/DansGuardian]]</nowiki>:  Deploy Dan's Guardian; disable by default, allow it to be enabled by user.  Enabling works by telling Squid to proxy through it.
* <nowiki>[[ImprovedNetworking/KernelSecuritySettings]]</nowiki>:  Tweak `sysctl` settings for improved security.
* <nowiki>[[ImprovedNetworking/NFSDefaults]]</nowiki>:  Tweak NFS defaults for improved performance, mainly by increasing the block size from default 4K or 8K up to 32K when mounting.
* <nowiki>[[ImprovedNetworking/SnortByDefault]]</nowiki>:  Use Snort as an intrusion prevention system, by default.
* <nowiki>[[ImprovedNetworking/SquidByDefault]]</nowiki>:  Install Squid, bind it to 127.0.0.1 only, and enable it by default.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
