{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ImreKaloz ==

=== Intro ===
Hello, my name is Imre Kaloz. I am 22 years old and I live in Budapest, Hungary. My computer addiction was started when I received my C64 for christmas, when I was 7 or so. I met Linux first in 1995, in a magazine called "Forráskód" ("Source code" in english). It had a bootable floppy included, and when I watched the lines scrolling on the screen, I knew I have to understand, what is happening :) I have tried some Debian versions from time to time, but without help, I had to go on my own. My real adventure began with Bo in 1998. After playing with other distributions, I always got back to Debian. Until I met Ubuntu...

=== Contact ===
* email: kaloz()dune!hu
* IRC: Kaloz @ freenode
* ICQ: 179014627

=== Ubuntu ===
What have I done for Ubuntu?
* Nothing yet.

What I want to do?
* Do an embedded nubuntu (nano-ubuntu) port, based on Hoary with busybox and uClibc,
* help Ubuntu to be as secure as possible by default,
* help Ubuntu to be one of the most up-to-date distros in the world,
* help Ubuntu to support all kind of wireless equipment out-of-the-box.

=== Interests ===
I am interested in network and kernel security, wireless and in embedded systems. I am one of the developers of <nowiki>[[http://openwrt.org|OpenWrt]]</nowiki>, a LFS distribution for wireless routers based on Broadcom boards. I am hosting the hungarian mirror of <nowiki>[[http://grsecurity.net|GrSecurity]]</nowiki>. I am a member of the <nowiki>[[http://huwico.hu|Hungarian Wireless Community]]</nowiki>.

=== Availability ===
I am available on semi-nightly basis, depending on my work. I am working as a teacher now, on two weeks of each months. When I am free, I can help daytime, too.
----
CategoryHomepage
