{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Incident Description ====

CDBS 0.4.62+nmu1ubuntu6 was uploaded to address bug #535650.  Unfortunately, the X_Gettext_Domain entry appeared above the [Desktop Entry] line, causing a number of parse failures reading result .desktop files.  This was built and installed and affected builds of empathy, evolution, gedit, gnome-disk-utility, gnome-panel, nautilus, rhythmbox, and totem.  The parse failures for gnome-panel and nautilus broke the autostart, leaving users who had updated with a nonfunctional desktop on login.  Bug #542343 was filed by a user experiencing this issue.

==== Crisis Response Team ====

* Jorge Castro
* Emmet Hikory
* Chris Coulson
* Ken Vandine
* William Grant (Community)
* Mike Basinger (Community) 
* Steve Kowalik
* Sarah Hobbs (Community)

==== Events ====

All times are in UTC.

===== 2010-03-19 =====

 20:06:: CDBS causing misbuilds is published to archive

<Unknown to Emmet Hikory>

===== 2010-03-20 =====

 01:30-ish:: Mike Basinger's panel and nautilus don't work when he logs in. (<nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/Technoviking/status/10751134966|Tweet]]</nowiki>.)
 01:48:: Laserjock pm's jcastro on IRC asking if someone is working on the GNOME desktop failures
 02:00:: Jorge updates and upgrades, finds desktop broken, couldn't find anyone awake on -release or -devel. Decides to call Rick, who isn't available, so calls Robbie at 02:05. Soon after Robbie updates the platform twitter account to warn users.
 02:05:: Jorge asks Laserjock and kklimoda to help him find the cause of the problem; Jorge pings Ken Vandine on IM to see if he can help.
 02:10ish:: Jorge sees thread on forums with people having the problems, asks Mike to immediately make a sticky to warn users. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1434160|Thread]]</nowiki>.
 02:20ish:: Ken Vandine tests the CD image in a test and confirms that it indeed was an update that caused the problem.
 02:25:: Chris Coulson finds the problem and triages <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/542343|the bug]]</nowiki> accordingly.
 03:17:: Jorge needs to leave, hands off to Emmet

 04:33:: Emmet Hikory calls for help fixing the bug (notifications from #ubuntu-devel backscroll, #ubuntu-desktop backscroll, jcastro@/query, anmar@#distro)
 04:49:: William Grant contacts Steve Kowalik out-of-band
 04:55:: Steve Kowalik begins fixing issue
 05:00:: Steve Kowalik uploads reverted CDBS
 05:21:: William Grant publishes list of affected packages
 05:34:: Rick Spencer assigns #542343 to Canonical Desktop Team
 05:58:: Emmet Hikory updates CDBS task of #542343 to Fix Released
 06:58:: William Grant provides notice that fixed CDBS is available for new builds
 07:28:: Steve Kowalik uploads rebuilds for all affected packages
 07:38:: Sarah Hobbs completes adjustment of buildd queue priorities to be able to finish i386/amd64 within the publisher run
 08:00:: William Grant confirms gnome-panel and nautilus are in publication for i386/amd64
 08:58:: William Grant confirms publication of gnome-panel and nautilus
 09:06:: Emmet Hikory updates gnome-panel task of #542343 to Fix Committed and notes that the fix may be delayed for some users while mirrors push
 09:47:: William Grant comments to #542343 that all affected packages have been rebuilt except on sparc/armel
 11:11:: Sebastien Bacher updates gnome-panel task of #542343 to Fix Released

==== Successes ====

* Jorge escalated rather quickly as soon as it was known that the desktop was broken and that it would take multiple people to fix.
* Mike and Wgrant did a good job of keeping the affected forum users notified of progress throughout the incident.

==== Problems ====

* Rounding up core devs inbetween the west coasters and the people in Asia turned out to be difficult.

==== Recommendations ====

* Escalation procedures for community members - it was dumb luck that Jorge happened to be around, would they have known the process for escalating if no one responded for hours?
