{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Owner: Marc Deslauriers

==== Intro ====

This template is used to track events during a crisis or potential crisis.  The goal is not to analyse the entire event, but rather to provide whiteboard-style communications with the key people involved in the reaction plan.  If you are not directly involved, '''do not''' speculate on pages of this type.

==== Incident Description ====

==== Crisis Response Team ====

* Marc Deslauriers (security)
* Jamie Strandboge (security, archive)
* Steve Beattie (security)
* tiaz (IS)
* elmo (IS)

==== Events ====
All times are in UTC.
<Build a chronological list of events as they unfold.>
* Oct 18 16:25: http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-1232-1/ published and mdeslaur begins monitoring xorg-server bugs for any regressions
* Oct 19 05:11: https://launchpad.net/bugs/877905 filed against the wrong package (xorg, instead of xorg-server). Reported only against Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
* 17:04: mdeslaur notices bug and begins investigating
* 17:19: mdeslaur escalates to manager (jdstrand)
* 17:24: jdstrand informs canonical-support and platform-managers
* 17:32: !regression-alert announced in #ubuntu-devel
* 17:33: skaet acks
* 17:33: inform IS of problem
* 17:37: tiaz responds to 1) block updates from internal machine, 2) rm the files on the mirror master and trigger an update to all other mirrors
* 17:38: incident report started
* 17:40: elmo informs !DealingWithCrisis is incorrect for package of this importance
* 18:10: jdstrand updates bug for notification and provides workaround
* 18:15: tiaz finishes IS tasks (external mirrors have been triggered, but propagation will take longer)
* 18:22: mdeslaur confirms Ubuntu 10.04 LTS is affected
* 18:22: mdeslaur compiles package reverting the patch believed to cause the issue
* 18:29: mdeslaur confirms reverting patch fixes the issue and proceeds to upload packages for 10.04 LTS to the security PPA
* 18:42: sbeattie confirms that Ubuntu 10.10 is not affected
* 19:03: security PPA finishes building i386 and am64, mdeslaur downloads for testing
* 19:12: mdeslaur tests i386 and amd64 successfully, still waiting for other platforms to build
* 20:09: all platforms finish building
* 20:10: packages are unembargoed
* 20:10: mdeslaur notifies tiaz that mirroring may be resumed
* 21:14: publisher finished publishing update and mdeslaur publishes USN-1232-2

==== Successes ====
<Identify positive things that happened.  What went right in the course of our response?>
* once bug was identified, the response by all teams was decisive and swift

==== Problems ====
<Identify problems with the events.  What went wrong in the course of our response?>
* https://wiki.canonical.com/UbuntuEngineering/DealingWithCrisis documents archive admin procedures which are were inappropriate for this update. This should be updated
* bug filed against the wrong source package which resulted in issue not being caught sooner
* while the xorg-server updates were performed on real hardware for all releases, this testing was performed when using the nvidia glx drivers, which were not affected by the regression.

==== Recommendations ====

<Suggest changes to process to minimize problems in the future.  These should correspond to the problems identified above.>
* '''DONE''': make sure bare-metal installs are available for all supported releases within the team to ensure bug confirmation and timely testing can be performed
