{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by nigelb at 15:30:51 UTC.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mohan_chml/IndianLoCo   (nigelb, 15:31:24)
* Make a registry to count number or Indian Ubuntu users to plan about teaching and involving in development
''ACTION:'' Create a list where people can list their name, skills, and link to wiki page.  (nigelb, 15:46:21)
''ACTION:'' nigelb to take forward team reports and get people to do it every month.  (nigelb, 15:49:02)
''ACTION:'' IAmNotThatGuy and mingo to update mailing list on status of new website.  (nigelb, 15:52:54)

* Maintaining a separate wiki(or a category in the existing page) to note all the events happening regarding Ubuntu in India
''ACTION:'' Section on new website for events and promote use of loco directory.  (nigelb, 15:57:48)

* Mailings list and a new forum moderators team
''ACTION:'' lut4rp to shutdown the Ubuntu forums.  (nigelb, 16:06:25)
''ACTION:'' lut4rp to do whatever he just listed out ;)  (nigelb, 16:10:38)

* A team to plan events regarding the awareness of Ubuntu around various parts of India
''ACTION:'' Ubuntu IN members to help spread Ubuntu in colleges and schools and workplaces.  (nigelb, 16:13:06)

* Contribute to the community by development, bug triaging, help and distribute
''ACTION:'' Loco Members to take up teaching on IRC via #ubuntu-classroom  (nigelb, 16:23:09)

* Next Meeting?

* Any other topic?
''ACTION:'' nigelb to mail reminder before next meeting  (nigelb, 16:30:40)

Meeting ended at 16:30:57 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* Meeting every first friday at 9 pm IST
   For: 7 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* Remove Ubuntu-in forum
   For: 7 Against: 1 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* Create a list where people can list their name, skills, and link to wiki page.
* nigelb to take forward team reports and get people to do it every month.
* IAmNotThatGuy and mingo to update mailing list on status of new website.
* Section on new website for events and promote use of loco directory.
* lut4rp to shutdown the Ubuntu forums.
* lut4rp to do whatever he just listed out ;)
* Ubuntu IN members to help spread Ubuntu in colleges and schools and workplaces.
* Loco Members to take up teaching on IRC via #ubuntu-classroom
* nigelb to mail reminder before next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* IAmNotThatGuy
* * IAmNotThatGuy and mingo to update mailing list on status of new website.
* lut4rp
* * lut4rp to shutdown the Ubuntu forums.
* * lut4rp to do whatever he just listed out ;)
* mingo
* * IAmNotThatGuy and mingo to update mailing list on status of new website.
* nigelb
* * nigelb to take forward team reports and get people to do it every month.
* * nigelb to mail reminder before next meeting
* **UNASSIGNED**
* * Create a list where people can list their name, skills, and link to wiki page.
* * Section on new website for events and promote use of loco directory.
* * Ubuntu IN members to help spread Ubuntu in colleges and schools and workplaces.
* * Loco Members to take up teaching on IRC via #ubuntu-classroom

=== People present (lines said) ===

* nigelb (138)
* m4n1sh (100)
* IAmNotThatGuy (100)
* mingo (46)
* meetingology (44)
* droidslayer (42)
* lut4rp (41)
* coolbhavi (39)
* geekosopher (30)
* rahul27 (17)
* bihari (12)
* shadeslayer (10)
* mingo_ (9)
* Ramakrishna_cse (8)
* pjarnahom (1)

=== Full Log ===

 15:30:51 <nigelb> #startmeeting

 15:30:51 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Dec 17 15:30:51 2010 UTC.  The chair is nigelb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 15:30:51 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 15:31:11 <nigelb> Starting meeting for Ubuntu India Loco Team

 15:31:12 <droidslayer> Im here to watch :-P

 15:31:20 <nigelb> The agenda is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mohan_chml/IndianLoCo

 15:31:24 <nigelb> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mohan_chml/IndianLoCo

 15:31:39 <IAmNotThatGuy> Hello all

 15:31:44 <nigelb> So who's here for the meeting? Please respond with 'o/'

 15:31:47 <nigelb> o/

 15:31:55 <m4n1sh> o/

 15:32:06 <IAmNotThatGuy> any others

 15:32:24 <rahul27> o/

 15:32:28 * nigelb pokes shadeslayer

 15:32:38 <droidslayer> Here

 15:32:43 <droidslayer> What up

 15:32:50 <nigelb> oh, well, he's here

 15:33:21 <nigelb> Ok, so IAmNotThatGuy not that guy has been working on reviving our loco.

 15:33:27 <IAmNotThatGuy> pjarnahom, Ramakrishna_cse

 15:33:33 <nigelb> And today's agenda is basically stuff that he's come up with

 15:33:46 <nigelb> So thanks a lot IAmNotThatGuy for working on them.

 15:33:49 <pjarnahom> IAmNotThatGuy, yes

 15:34:20 <nigelb> #topic Make a registry to count number or Indian Ubuntu users to plan about teaching and involving in development

 15:34:20 <meetingology> TOPIC: Make a registry to count number or Indian Ubuntu users to plan about teaching and involving in development

 15:34:21 <IAmNotThatGuy> Its our community and we planned it. and not "me"

 15:34:36 <nigelb> IAmNotThatGuy: yeha, but you took the action :)

 15:34:43 <IAmNotThatGuy> I wish to elaborate this =]

 15:34:48 <nigelb> Go ahead :)

 15:34:58 <droidslayer> BTW we need to update the wiki as well

 15:35:20 <droidslayer> The Indian loco wiki page

 15:35:24 <IAmNotThatGuy> I watched many Ubuntu Users in India. and we are not having good contacts among each other

 15:35:24 <m4n1sh> droidslayer: sure

 15:35:34 <m4n1sh> IAmNotThatGuy: we have so many on ##linux-india

 15:35:41 <m4n1sh> just that the community is scattered

 15:35:49 <nigelb> m4n1sh: Let him finish :)

 15:35:55 <m4n1sh> nigelb: fine Go ahead IAmNotThatGuy

 15:36:34 <IAmNotThatGuy> and I felt that we should make some stuff to bring everyone together, separately to our LoCO involvement and Motivate people about Our community

 15:37:20 <IAmNotThatGuy> Like, when we are together, we can get some more helping hands and I believe each and every Ubuntu user motivates others to try it

 15:37:21 <bihari> Yes we shud know each other

 15:38:16 <IAmNotThatGuy> and I believe that "I motivate others" is not a successful word that "We can motivate others and can give a choice"

 15:38:37 <IAmNotThatGuy> so, The first step I like to take is, identify all and group them

 15:39:02 <IAmNotThatGuy> and this also involves in combining all LoCos In India to one

 15:39:07 <nigelb> o/

 15:39:11 <geekosopher> 0/ sorry I am late

 15:39:26 <rahul27> IAmNotThatGuy, we could use divide and conquer

 15:39:38 <nigelb> rahul27: that would make us weaker instead of stronger

 15:39:55 <rahul27> have SPOC's for each Loco in India

 15:40:00 <IAmNotThatGuy> rahul27, yes. and we can do one more thing. we can tell our friends to join the LoCo and participate in activities and tell him to spread

 15:40:24 <rahul27> So that people are reachable

 15:40:40 <rahul27> we could have get togethers

 15:41:21 <rahul27> so the SPOC's could send updates to the Indian LoCo

 15:41:31 <IAmNotThatGuy> rahul27, making all to get here, or to a forum (or some kinda counter with their mail ID) is needed

 15:41:33 <nigelb> We really don't want too many levels of governance

 15:41:55 <nigelb> I'd rather have a simple stucture with few people responsible for bits and rotate their responsibilities

 15:42:12 <IAmNotThatGuy> rahul27, each of us has power here. and I believe discussing in a group or consulting one of the group is enough

 15:42:42 <rahul27> nigelb, that would also work

 15:42:55 <IAmNotThatGuy> Okay

 15:43:16 <m4n1sh> dont forget to send LoCo updates to Amber

 15:43:22 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, what action we can take for this? (Grouping all)

 15:43:36 <IAmNotThatGuy> Guys. any suggestions?

 15:43:48 <nigelb> I think we can have a registry of Ubuntu volunteers from India and whom to contact for what

 15:43:53 <droidslayer> Put them on a wiki page

 15:43:57 <droidslayer> ;-)

 15:44:05 <nigelb> Please note that it should be volunteered.  No forcing another persons's name on the list

 15:44:19 <droidslayer> Yep ^^

 15:44:19 <IAmNotThatGuy> +1 nigelb

 15:44:26 <m4n1sh> also asking people what they can do for

 15:44:29 <nigelb> If you feel you ahave experieince in say unity hacking, put your name down

 15:44:43 <m4n1sh> like some are very willing to provide help for troubleshooting.. while some cannot

 15:44:54 <nigelb> exactly

 15:45:12 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, so the action will be, creating a page for Indian users to tell their personal contacts and their skills

 15:45:28 <bihari> unity hacking ?

 15:45:29 <droidslayer> No personal contacts please

 15:45:30 <IAmNotThatGuy> right?

 15:45:40 <IAmNotThatGuy> bihari, its an example

 15:45:44 <droidslayer> Email is fine with me

 15:45:45 <nigelb> droidslayer: name and IRC nick?

 15:45:46 <bihari> oh ok

 15:45:58 <droidslayer> nigelb: and email

 15:46:04 <geekosopher> I think first of all, a new user needs to know that there is an active Indian LoCo and that there is way to contribute in the LoCo. How do we do that?

 15:46:04 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, or launchpad account with nick ?

 15:46:19 <droidslayer> No phone numbers :-P

 15:46:21 <nigelb> #action Create a list where people can list their name, skills, and link to wiki page.

 15:46:21 * meetingology Create a list where people can list their name, skills, and link to wiki page.

 15:46:24 <m4n1sh> nigelb: LP page too. can use Contact this user

 15:46:41 <IAmNotThatGuy> droidslayer, :P

 15:46:41 <nigelb> m4n1sh: wiki page will have all of the details

 15:46:59 <droidslayer> Yep ^^

 15:47:02 <IAmNotThatGuy> geekosopher, we will discuss it soon =]

 15:47:14 <geekosopher> sure :)

 15:47:17 <nigelb> Another thing would be team reports

 15:47:31 <nigelb> We'd like volunteers to  help prepare team reports every month.

 15:47:35 <IAmNotThatGuy> and there should be monthly meetings

 15:47:41 <nigelb> Probably rotate the responsiblity around

 15:47:46 <nigelb> Thoughts on this?

 15:47:47 <geekosopher> +1 nigelb

 15:47:50 <m4n1sh> +1

 15:47:54 <IAmNotThatGuy> +1 right away

 15:47:54 <rahul27> +1

 15:48:03 <droidslayer> I do hate team reports

 15:48:05 <bihari> +1

 15:48:07 <IAmNotThatGuy> lol

 15:48:12 <IAmNotThatGuy> droidslayer, any reasons?

 15:48:18 <nigelb> droidslayer: lol, looks like you have done them before.

 15:48:26 <droidslayer> But...  as long as I don't have to prepare those

 15:48:31 <nigelb> droidslayer: I sometimes end up doing 3 a month :/

 15:48:32 <mingo> Hi guys.

 15:48:36 <droidslayer> nigelb: yeah

 15:48:53 <Ramakrishna_cse> hi all

 15:48:56 <droidslayer> IAmNotThatGuy: who will read our report BTW?

 15:48:58 <Ramakrishna_cse> i joined long back

 15:48:59 <IAmNotThatGuy> hey mingo

 15:49:02 <nigelb> #action nigelb to take forward team reports and get people to do it every month.

 15:49:02 * meetingology nigelb to take forward team reports and get people to do it every month.

 15:49:08 <nigelb> droidslayer: UWN.

 15:49:11 <Ramakrishna_cse> but i am struck with other work so i cannot participate much here

 15:49:19 <mingo> So what are we discussing on?

 15:49:23 <IAmNotThatGuy> droidslayer, we can upload it and all can read

 15:49:27 <m4n1sh> droidslayer: comes up in UWN

 15:49:30 <droidslayer> nigelb: whats that?

 15:49:35 <IAmNotThatGuy> about our past month activities and next months

 15:49:40 <nigelb> droidslayer: Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

 15:49:50 <droidslayer> Ah

 15:49:57 <nigelb> I think in the agenda, we just finished item 1, 2, and 3

 15:50:28 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, ubuntu-in.info updating

 15:50:43 <m4n1sh> I think maitrya is working on it

 15:50:55 <mingo> I just joined in. can anyone please tell me what's going on?

 15:51:00 <geekosopher> I think it lost steam lately

 15:51:01 <mingo> Maitraya here.

 15:51:05 <IAmNotThatGuy> mingo, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mohan_chml/IndianLoCo

 15:51:08 <mingo> Working..

 15:51:16 <IAmNotThatGuy> that is what we are discussing =]

 15:51:20 <nigelb> Can someone volunter to find out about the status of the website?

 15:51:21 <m4n1sh> mingo: you need a chat log?

 15:51:33 <IAmNotThatGuy> o/

 15:51:38 <m4n1sh> nigelb: mingo is working on it

 15:51:56 <mingo> Yes. I am working. But Aanjhan told me that he does not allow wordpress to write on the filesystem of the server.

 15:52:06 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, I think I can go with mingo and can look the status

 15:52:10 <nigelb> mingo: Can you update the malining list on the status of it?

 15:52:33 <mingo> So he is going to create a separate UID for me, so that I can upload the pics and stuff.

 15:52:50 <nigelb> mingo: ok, actioning you and IAmNotThatGuy to look into it

 15:52:54 <mingo> Currently, u can't do any sort of uploading.

 15:52:54 <nigelb> #action IAmNotThatGuy and mingo to update mailing list on status of new website.

 15:52:54 * meetingology IAmNotThatGuy and mingo to update mailing list on status of new website.

 15:53:21 <nigelb> #topic Maintaining a separate wiki(or a category in the existing page) to note all the events happening regarding Ubuntu in India

 15:53:21 <meetingology> TOPIC: Maintaining a separate wiki(or a category in the existing page) to note all the events happening regarding Ubuntu in India

 15:53:39 <IAmNotThatGuy> mingo, Okies i will check, ask the right person and give you the powers =]

 15:53:51 <mingo> Why a wiki? Anyone with a wordpress account can do that///

 15:54:07 <nigelb> mingo: Because wiki is more open

 15:54:07 <m4n1sh> mingo: you need to add a section on the website in that case

 15:54:12 <IAmNotThatGuy> This is the important thing that we have to do

 15:54:20 <mingo> Yup. I'll do that Monday IST

 15:54:25 <mingo> Eveninng.

 15:54:30 <nigelb> I'd vote using the loco directory for this please?

 15:54:40 <nigelb> We have an Ubuntu resource just for events, so use it.  Please.

 15:54:42 <IAmNotThatGuy> as we have many events going on in Indian, people are not aware of what is going on

 15:54:48 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, sure

 15:54:59 <IAmNotThatGuy> thats a good choice

 15:55:18 <mingo> So someone has to inform on the mailing list and we'll put it on right away. Pics would be welcome.

 15:55:44 <IAmNotThatGuy> mingo, wait till the end of the meeting =]

 15:56:02 <mingo> We do have one: http://ui.xinh.org/index.php/events/

 15:56:03 <nigelb> Yep, true true

 15:56:29 <IAmNotThatGuy> Any others to vote for Ubuntu resource?

 15:56:38 <Ramakrishna_cse> if somebody involved in programming/development pm me please

 15:56:56 <droidslayer> +9999

 15:57:03 <IAmNotThatGuy> droidslayer, ;)

 15:57:06 <m4n1sh> Ramakrishna_cse: is this related to meeting? or offtopic to this?

 15:57:08 <nigelb> Ramakrishna_cse: lots of people, depending on what you're doing.  Hang around after the meeting and talk to m4n1sh, droidslayer, and others

 15:57:23 <nigelb> Okay, I'm going to action this one off

 15:57:29 <nigelb> Lets move on

 15:57:35 <IAmNotThatGuy> kay

 15:57:44 <Ramakrishna_cse> sorry,completely out of meeting topic

 15:57:48 <nigelb> #action Section on new website for events and promote use of loco directory.

 15:57:48 * meetingology Section on new website for events and promote use of loco directory.

 15:57:56 <mingo> You know what? I think we should create ebooklets for new users as well as Computer companies so that they can ship Ubuntu. Make it more popular..

 15:58:12 <nigelb> #topic Mailings list and a new forum moderators team

 15:58:12 <meetingology> TOPIC: Mailings list and a new forum moderators team

 15:58:47 <nigelb> I think we already have pretty good mailing list admins.

 15:58:48 <IAmNotThatGuy> I think we all know about this issue. Our mailings list is not moderated

 15:58:54 <mingo> Wait. I'll show you guys an example..

 15:58:56 <nigelb> IAmNotThatGuy: It is.

 15:58:57 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, moderateD?

 15:59:03 <nigelb> IAmNotThatGuy: Yep.

 15:59:16 <IAmNotThatGuy> hmm! I think I saw some posts wrongly

 15:59:16 <nigelb> IAmNotThatGuy: aanjan does a pretty good job

 15:59:19 <geekosopher> +1 IAmNotThatGuy

 15:59:27 <IAmNotThatGuy> ah

 15:59:51 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, Okies then it is good. we have to look for the suggestions regarding Forum

 15:59:51 <m4n1sh> how many people are the admins of mailing list?

 16:00:02 <geekosopher> never saw any problems on mailing list and forums

 16:00:09 <droidslayer> I think I habe

 16:00:11 <rahul27> mingo, how about getting in touch with Linux for You

 16:00:16 <droidslayer> Gah

 16:00:23 <droidslayer> I think I habe a

 16:00:32 <mingo> rahul27: Why?

 16:00:37 <droidslayer> Nvm

 16:00:42 <nigelb> We have 4 admins for the mailining list.

 16:00:43 <rahul27> mingo, instead of booklets

 16:00:51 <mingo> yeah?

 16:00:55 <nigelb> Now, if something is wrong, please talk to them

 16:01:06 <rahul27> we could promote Ubuntu there

 16:01:09 <nigelb> mingo, rahul27: Please keep things on topic to what's being discussed :)

 16:01:33 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, and would you suggest to start a new forum?

 16:01:36 <mingo> sorry nigelb. Got over enthu..

 16:01:40 <IAmNotThatGuy> or the main Ubuntu Forum?

 16:01:41 <nigelb> mingo: heh

 16:01:42 <droidslayer> I wouldn't

 16:01:49 <nigelb> IAmNotThatGuy: No.

 16:01:58 <mingo> Clean the forum. PURGE,,,

 16:01:58 <droidslayer> Why not use ubuntu forums

 16:01:59 <geekosopher> we already have a forum on ubuntu-in right?

 16:02:09 <m4n1sh> well, sadly I still find mailing list and IRC easier to use than forums

 16:02:13 <mingo> yeah we have

 16:02:15 <nigelb> Aren't we using the Ubuntu forums?

 16:02:20 <nigelb> m4n1sh: same here

 16:02:24 <mingo> nope nigelb

 16:02:27 <droidslayer> Get a separate section on ubuntu forums

 16:02:27 <m4n1sh> we have a section in the ubuntu forum?

 16:02:32 <nigelb> So, we don't have a forum?

 16:02:40 <m4n1sh> nigelb: we have on ubuntu-in.info

 16:02:46 <mingo> Purge our own one

 16:02:46 <m4n1sh> but hardly and activity

 16:02:51 <m4n1sh> mingo: +1

 16:02:52 <m4n1sh> no use

 16:03:07 <geekosopher> yes, activity is the problem on ubuntu-in forums

 16:03:07 <m4n1sh> of having seperate one every time if we have say. 5 users

 16:03:14 <m4n1sh> geekosopher: it has to be

 16:03:15 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, then I can say that we should forward all to the main Ubuntu Forums and remove from Ubuntu-in.info

 16:03:36 <m4n1sh> login every time to forums.. probably registering and then forgetting password every other week

 16:03:44 <nigelb> Ok, who wants to investigate into this?

 16:04:04 * nigelb looks at droidslayer and/or m4n1sh

 16:04:07 <lut4rp> I personally find ubuntu-in forums to be (now) useless

 16:04:07 <mingo> Let's create separate section in Ubuntu forums. Purging is no use. Its too junk

 16:04:25 <lut4rp> What do you want me to do with them :)

 16:04:26 <nigelb> I'm not too much of a forums person tbh

 16:04:34 <m4n1sh> nigelb: ask lut4rp

 16:04:34 <mingo> mee too

 16:04:35 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, make a vote for removing the forums of ubuntu-in

 16:04:39 <rahul27> lut4rp, I agree

 16:04:44 <m4n1sh> nigelb: he knows how to handle forums

 16:04:45 <droidslayer> I didn't know lut4rp was watching :-P

 16:04:48 <lut4rp> I run the forums, I can pull them down :P

 16:04:57 <mingo> +1 lut4rp

 16:05:00 <droidslayer> Pull them down

 16:05:02 <droidslayer> Or

 16:05:03 <lut4rp> droidslayer, I have constant logs for this channel since 2006 :P

 16:05:06 <m4n1sh> lut4rp: +1 for pull down

 16:05:10 <lut4rp> OK

 16:05:12 <nigelb> #vote Remove Ubuntu-in forum

 16:05:12 <meetingology> Please vote on: Remove Ubuntu-in forum

 16:05:12 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:05:12 <geekosopher> or let them be

 16:05:19 <nigelb> +1

 16:05:19 <meetingology> +1 received from nigelb

 16:05:20 <IAmNotThatGuy> +1

 16:05:20 <meetingology> +1 received from IAmNotThatGuy

 16:05:22 <droidslayer> Make them point to ubuntu forums

 16:05:24 <rahul27> +1

 16:05:24 <meetingology> +1 received from rahul27

 16:05:26 <m4n1sh> +1

 16:05:26 <meetingology> +1 received from m4n1sh

 16:05:26 <lut4rp> +1

 16:05:26 <meetingology> +1 received from lut4rp

 16:05:37 <bihari> +1

 16:05:37 <meetingology> +1 received from bihari

 16:05:39 <lut4rp> Hmm

 16:05:39 <m4n1sh> geekosopher: your chance for poll

 16:05:41 <geekosopher> -1

 16:05:41 <meetingology> -1 received from geekosopher

 16:05:43 <droidslayer> +1

 16:05:43 <meetingology> +1 received from droidslayer

 16:05:48 <nigelb> anymore votes?

 16:06:02 <droidslayer> Are they needed?

 16:06:12 <nigelb> #endvote

 16:06:12 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Remove Ubuntu-in forum

 16:06:12 <meetingology> Votes for:7 Votes against:1 Abstentions:0

 16:06:12 <meetingology> Motion carried

 16:06:19 <lut4rp> lol.

 16:06:21 <lut4rp> OK :)

 16:06:24 <lut4rp> I'll mail the list.

 16:06:25 <nigelb> #action lut4rp to shutdown the Ubuntu forums.

 16:06:25 * meetingology lut4rp to shutdown the Ubuntu forums.

 16:06:30 <lut4rp> wat

 16:06:32 <IAmNotThatGuy> geekosopher, any reasons for opposing?

 16:06:32 <droidslayer> lut4rp: lol... you are our channel logger...

 16:06:34 <lut4rp> don't scare me.

 16:06:38 <mingo> yeah. Shut down.

 16:06:46 <lut4rp> do I have to sign in blood or something?

 16:06:54 <geekosopher> IAmNotThatGuy: i am not in the favour of pulling down the content

 16:06:59 <nigelb> lut4rp: Your nick is in red for me coincidentally.

 16:07:00 <mingo> lut4rp: That would be great.

 16:07:09 <lut4rp> geekosopher, content on the forum?

 16:07:12 <IAmNotThatGuy> geekosopher, we will be having the content but not the fourm

 16:07:15 <geekosopher> yes

 16:07:17 <mingo> lut4rp: lolz

 16:07:18 <lut4rp> Is there are "archive-worthy" content on the forum?

 16:07:26 <IAmNotThatGuy> ah

 16:07:29 <m4n1sh> we can seach for archive worthy content

 16:07:31 <m4n1sh> and put them on wiki

 16:07:32 <geekosopher> for whatever its worth

 16:07:33 <lut4rp> yes

 16:07:37 <mingo> lut4rp: yeah some//

 16:07:39 <geekosopher> lut4rp: ^

 16:07:43 <lut4rp> okay, so let's take a week for that

 16:07:47 <lut4rp> for the searching and archiving thing

 16:07:55 <nigelb> lut4rp: Hold off on the pulling for a while so we can get an Ubuntu forum for us

 16:08:03 <lut4rp> eh

 16:08:05 <IAmNotThatGuy> +1 for <m4n1sh> and put them on wiki

 16:08:06 <mingo> lut4rp: Make a tar for people to still access the content.

 16:08:10 <lut4rp> wait, we already *have* a forum

 16:08:12 <geekosopher> lut4rp: yes, we can keep the archives and redirect new ones to ubuntu forums

 16:08:30 <nigelb> lut4rp: yes, but we'll just use the main forum, that's probably more traffic

 16:08:30 <lut4rp> I am saying that we don't need an ubuntu *india* forum

 16:08:31 <mingo> lut4rp: Yeah. Move to Ubuntu forums

 16:08:37 <lut4rp> because ubuntuforums.org serves the purpose

 16:08:39 <nigelb> lut4rp: +1

 16:08:43 <droidslayer> Yep

 16:08:44 <mingo> lut4rp: +1

 16:08:45 <m4n1sh> lut4rp: +1

 16:08:46 <lut4rp> we don't need an India specific forum

 16:08:52 <IAmNotThatGuy> yup

 16:08:54 <lut4rp> OR an india specific subforum

 16:08:58 <lut4rp> we don't need that either

 16:09:02 <m4n1sh> redirect forum.ubuntu-in.info to ubuntuforums.org

 16:09:03 <bihari> lut4rp: +1

 16:09:06 <mingo> lut4rp: That will be done on the mailing lsit/

 16:09:07 <lut4rp> m4n1sh, okay

 16:09:09 <lut4rp> yes

 16:09:16 <lut4rp> all India specific stuff should go on the ML

 16:09:24 <IAmNotThatGuy> and IRC

 16:09:26 <lut4rp> yes

 16:09:27 <lut4rp> ok

 16:09:28 <lut4rp> so

 16:09:28 <nigelb> and askubuntu.com

 16:09:32 <droidslayer> m4n1sh: that's what I said earlier

 16:09:36 <lut4rp> I have to move out

 16:09:44 <lut4rp> so can someone else mail the list with this decision?

 16:09:49 <geekosopher> nigelb: is askubuntu.com official?

 16:09:53 <m4n1sh> geekosopher: yes

 16:09:57 <geekosopher> ok

 16:10:03 <m4n1sh> official Q&A for ubuntu

 16:10:05 <nigelb> geekosopher: Its not a canonical resource though.

 16:10:07 <mingo> yas. It is official

 16:10:08 <lut4rp> a. we will shut down the forum

 16:10:12 <nigelb> err, *Canonical resource

 16:10:14 <mingo> Ok.

 16:10:15 <lut4rp> b. we will redirect to ubuntuforums

 16:10:19 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, have an action for redirecting the forum

 16:10:22 <nigelb> lut4rp: +1

 16:10:24 <m4n1sh> well canonical has put it's employee to work on the design

 16:10:27 <lut4rp> c. everthing india specific goes to IRC/ML

 16:10:38 <nigelb> #action lut4rp to do whatever he just listed out ;)

 16:10:38 * meetingology lut4rp to do whatever he just listed out ;)

 16:10:43 <lut4rp> :)

 16:10:43 <lut4rp> k

 16:10:45 <m4n1sh> lut4rp: +1 these two things are more convenient to use

 16:10:48 <lut4rp> I'll do it in the night

 16:10:53 <lut4rp> mail the list, taht is

 16:10:53 <IAmNotThatGuy> lol

 16:10:54 <nigelb> ok, lets move on people.

 16:10:54 <lut4rp> that*

 16:11:01 <nigelb> #topic A team to plan events regarding the awareness of Ubuntu around various parts of India

 16:11:01 <meetingology> TOPIC: A team to plan events regarding the awareness of Ubuntu around various parts of India

 16:11:22 <mingo> Yeah. Take me. I'm in on this one.

 16:11:22 <IAmNotThatGuy> I think we people are already doing it =]

 16:11:31 <coolbhavi> nigelb, me too

 16:11:39 <m4n1sh> IAmNotThatGuy: the current situation is still not so good

 16:11:46 <mingo> I am already in the process of spreading Ubuntu. Check this: https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&pid=explorer&chrome=true&srcid=0BzzTjIT9dTZ0MThiZjUxYjUtYjdhZi00ZTE4LWFjYTAtYmJmYjA3MjRlZTU2&hl=en

 16:11:54 <mingo> Work in progress

 16:11:59 <bihari> well for awareness in india we must aproch to university and colleges of india and conduct some sort of saminar

 16:12:01 <droidslayer> Ok I need to leave as well

 16:12:04 <geekosopher> I think it should go the Ubuntu release party way

 16:12:06 <nigelb> What we could do, is add people interested in this add your names and add an item about interest in spreading Ubuntu.

 16:12:07 <droidslayer> I'll check logs

 16:12:10 <droidslayer> Cya

 16:12:11 <m4n1sh> @ everyone .. we need to goto any engg  colleges near our residence/hometown

 16:12:11 <meetingology> m4n1sh: Error: "everyone" is not a valid command.

 16:12:15 <m4n1sh> and give a talk if possible

 16:12:20 <IAmNotThatGuy> m4n1sh, yeah. so, as said at the first point of this agenda, lets combine all of us, and bring it on =]

 16:12:35 <coolbhavi> nigelb, IAmNotThatGuy how about packaging sessions?

 16:12:43 <nigelb> coolbhavi: that works too :)

 16:12:47 <mingo> Someone go for a tv ad?

 16:12:52 <m4n1sh> coolbhavi: cool.

 16:12:56 <m4n1sh> +1 for packaging

 16:13:02 <coolbhavi> nigelb, then m up to it

 16:13:05 <coolbhavi> :)

 16:13:06 <IAmNotThatGuy> coolbhavi, yeah. we will be having a lot of technical sessions too and it will be you, nigelb and droidslayer

 16:13:06 <nigelb> #action Ubuntu IN members to help spread Ubuntu in colleges and schools and workplaces.

 16:13:06 * meetingology Ubuntu IN members to help spread Ubuntu in colleges and schools and workplaces.

 16:13:17 <mingo> Schools.. Ok

 16:13:18 <m4n1sh> coolbhavi: in that case we can call some debian people too for teaching packaging

 16:13:21 <m4n1sh> I am looking at rrs

 16:13:30 <droidslayer> Err

 16:13:39 <IAmNotThatGuy> m4n1sh, FYI coolbhavi is a great guy in that

 16:13:39 <coolbhavi> IAmNotThatGuy, m4n1sh sure rrs kart_ etc

 16:13:54 <m4n1sh> coolbhavi: I mean kart_ is not in bangalore

 16:13:55 <m4n1sh> but rrs is

 16:13:56 <droidslayer> Id rather not advise getting debian people

 16:14:03 <m4n1sh> droidslayer: any spl reason?

 16:14:07 <mingo> droidslayer: why?

 16:14:10 <nigelb> Debian people rock generally.

 16:14:14 <droidslayer> Hold o.

 16:14:14 <coolbhavi> IAmNotThatGuy, DD's are great

 16:14:19 <nigelb> At least the ones I know do.

 16:14:20 <m4n1sh> droidslayer: I knw rrs personally.. He is very much affectionate towards ubuntu

 16:14:25 <nigelb> m4n1sh: +1

 16:14:32 <m4n1sh> me and nigelb have met him

 16:14:37 <nigelb> He came to our Ubuntu hour!

 16:14:41 <nigelb> Kartik is awesome too.

 16:14:43 <bihari> we must write a letter to CBSE and some other state board to have a seprate chapter inside computers books on opensource

 16:14:46 <mingo> whu's rrs? Please anyone?

 16:14:47 <nigelb> We've talked a few times.

 16:14:48 <m4n1sh> nigelb: after you people left that Ubuntu Hour.. me and rrs talked together on ubuntu for some 2 hours

 16:14:54 <IAmNotThatGuy> Okay

 16:14:55 <coolbhavi> nigelb, +1

 16:14:58 <nigelb> mingo: He's a Debian Developer in Bangalore.

 16:15:00 <IAmNotThatGuy> we have a point from bihari

 16:15:00 <geekosopher> we should concentrate on spreading the userbase first then the developer base

 16:15:02 <nigelb> Anyway, we're off topic

 16:15:03 <IAmNotThatGuy> GUYS

 16:15:04 <mingo> Tahnks

 16:15:08 <nigelb> Lets move on

 16:15:08 <m4n1sh> yeah

 16:15:09 <shadeslayer> ok so

 16:15:15 <shadeslayer> just to clarify

 16:15:15 <m4n1sh> +1 for first userbase and then developer base

 16:15:18 <nigelb> shadeslayer: after the meeting.

 16:15:19 <m4n1sh> or together

 16:15:27 <m4n1sh> but userbase gets higher preference

 16:15:28 <shadeslayer> nigelb: i wont be available then

 16:15:28 <nigelb> #topic Contribute to the community by development, bug triaging, help and distribute

 16:15:28 <meetingology> TOPIC: Contribute to the community by development, bug triaging, help and distribute

 16:15:32 <bihari> i  mean we can send an e-mail to CBSE and state Board chairman

 16:15:47 <IAmNotThatGuy> bihari, okies. just wait =]

 16:16:00 <bihari> to have a 1 chapter on open source specually ubuntu - linux

 16:16:03 <coolbhavi> nigelb, I think you can handle the topic :)

 16:16:04 <nigelb> There are a few of us active in different parts of the community.

 16:16:14 <shadeslayer> DD's are great, but they expect a level of expertise from whom theyre teaching, so bringing in DD's to teach new people is a bad idea imho

 16:16:15 <nigelb> coolbhavi is involved with packging

 16:16:21 <Ramakrishna_cse> there is an free OS developed by Govt of India

 16:16:26 <mingo> BOSSS

 16:16:30 <Ramakrishna_cse> it is called Bharat Operating system

 16:16:31 <Ramakrishna_cse> yes

 16:16:32 <geekosopher> distribute yes, but for triaging and developing, I think we should leave it to non-loco teams

 16:16:38 <nigelb> PEOPLE! Topic :)

 16:16:44 <IAmNotThatGuy> Ramakrishna_cse, please stay with the topic

 16:16:51 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, (:

 16:17:03 <shadeslayer> and im out ....

 16:17:03 <nigelb> geekosopher: Yes, but that doesn't stop at having session by our loco team memberes

 16:17:03 <m4n1sh> out topic right now is development, bug traiging and packaging

 16:17:04 <shadeslayer> cya

 16:17:13 <coolbhavi> shadeslayer, +1 mate they expect you to know atleast /debian dir :)

 16:17:20 <shadeslayer> coolbhavi: yep

 16:17:23 <nigelb> The classroom channel is open for us and I can get us a session all the time :)

 16:17:24 <m4n1sh> coolbhavi: you need to handle it

 16:17:27 <m4n1sh> I knw packaging a bit

 16:17:28 <m4n1sh> but not much

 16:17:34 <m4n1sh> I can supplement

 16:17:34 <bihari> yes if we want's revolution in FOSS we must encrouge teen agers and IT industry to  adopt FOSS

 16:17:51 <coolbhavi> m4n1sh, sure shadeslayer you can also step in

 16:17:54 <m4n1sh> yeah

 16:17:56 <m4n1sh> great

 16:18:01 <m4n1sh> we have kde packagers too

 16:18:03 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, arranging sessions for development, bug triaging, help and distribute and informing it all over India

 16:18:20 <shadeslayer> m4n1sh: im one of those KDE packagers ;)

 16:18:21 <geekosopher> for distribution, I liked that wiki page listing people ready to share their cds

 16:18:25 <m4n1sh> shadeslayer: yes I know

 16:18:30 <coolbhavi> nigelb, what about slytherin?

 16:18:32 <shadeslayer> oh ok :P

 16:18:35 <nigelb> IAmNotThatGuy: We have a great resource over the internet and we should be using it

 16:18:42 <nigelb> coolbhavi: I haven't seen him in a longish time

 16:18:42 <IAmNotThatGuy> yeah!

 16:18:45 <shadeslayer> cya

 16:18:50 <m4n1sh> yo mean Onkar Shinde?

 16:18:52 <mingo> Page on people living where and willing to share.

 16:19:02 <coolbhavi> please do get in touch with him and ask

 16:19:02 <nigelb> m4n1sh: yep

 16:19:03 <geekosopher> mingo: yes

 16:19:10 <coolbhavi> he is a great guy

 16:19:16 <m4n1sh> coolbhavi: if he can come to events

 16:19:19 <m4n1sh> its a happy moment

 16:19:35 <nigelb> Shall I action it as 'Loco Members to conduct triaging and other development sessions over IRC' ?

 16:19:37 <coolbhavi> m4n1sh, atleast on irc he can turn up

 16:19:43 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, wait

 16:19:45 <nigelb> Can someone own this action item?

 16:19:54 <IAmNotThatGuy> id that be a LoCo members?

 16:20:02 <IAmNotThatGuy> we can get some others too

 16:20:05 <coolbhavi> nigelb, yes m ready

 16:20:05 <IAmNotThatGuy> I thik

 16:20:05 <m4n1sh> nigelb: I think more than one person can take it up

 16:20:07 <coolbhavi> :)

 16:20:14 <m4n1sh> I am ready for helping on development part

 16:20:16 <IAmNotThatGuy> think(

 16:20:24 <m4n1sh> shadeslayer and coolbhavi on packaging

 16:20:24 <nigelb> We need to remember 2 tings

 16:20:31 <m4n1sh> and nigelb on bug triaging

 16:20:39 <coolbhavi> m4n1sh, sure m4n1sh

 16:20:44 <coolbhavi> +1

 16:20:47 <nigelb> (a) Ubuntu as a developer platform (b) Developing for Ubuntu -> like packaging and bug fixing

 16:20:55 <nigelb> m4n1sh: vish! I forgot :)

 16:21:02 <m4n1sh> nigelb: yeah.. bug triaging

 16:21:06 <m4n1sh> ahhh.. my bad

 16:21:09 <coolbhavi> vish is mr qa

 16:21:11 <m4n1sh> forgot hundred paper cuts

 16:21:12 <nigelb> heh

 16:21:14 <coolbhavi> in ubuntu

 16:21:17 <m4n1sh> add it too to bug traiging

 16:21:18 <IAmNotThatGuy> heh

 16:21:28 <nigelb> ok, so what do we action out of this?

 16:21:29 <m4n1sh> best way to get people involved slowly

 16:21:41 <m4n1sh> nigelb: we need to conduct sessions

 16:21:48 <m4n1sh> on IRC or pysically events

 16:21:48 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, Okay do what you said before =]

 16:21:56 <m4n1sh> this is the action point

 16:21:59 <coolbhavi> m4n1sh, we can have sessions like MOTU school

 16:22:03 <m4n1sh> coolbhavi: yeah

 16:22:12 <m4n1sh> #ubuntu-meeting  is always available

 16:22:16 <m4n1sh> just need to book it beforeand

 16:22:37 <geekosopher> #ubuntu-meeting or #ubuntu-classrooms?

 16:22:41 <m4n1sh> ah sory

 16:22:42 <m4n1sh> latter

 16:22:44 <nigelb> m4n1sh: #ubuntu-classroom :)

 16:22:44 <coolbhavi> i m ready to take it on on the packaging and bug triage side

 16:22:46 <mingo> video tuts?

 16:22:57 <m4n1sh> I am ready to take development classes

 16:23:09 <nigelb> #action Loco Members to take up teaching on IRC via #ubuntu-classroom

 16:23:09 * meetingology Loco Members to take up teaching on IRC via #ubuntu-classroom

 16:23:24 <coolbhavi> nigelb, m ready

 16:23:26 <coolbhavi> :)

 16:23:45 <IAmNotThatGuy> coolbhavi, First you should come daily :P

 16:23:56 <m4n1sh> coolbhavi: be on this channel

 16:24:00 <m4n1sh> when you come online

 16:24:07 <coolbhavi> IAmNotThatGuy, will try my level best sure

 16:24:11 <coolbhavi> :)

 16:24:11 <IAmNotThatGuy> Okay guys. any other topics that you want to discuss?

 16:24:38 <nigelb> #topic Next Meeting?

 16:24:38 <meetingology> TOPIC: Next Meeting?

 16:24:38 <coolbhavi> mingo_, there are awesome tutorials by dholbach

 16:24:50 <mingo_> link?

 16:24:56 <geekosopher> in the new year :)

 16:24:57 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, what about the point of bihari's about contacting universities about FOSS subjects

 16:25:01 <coolbhavi> check ubuntudevelopers on youtube

 16:25:14 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, every second fridays of a month?

 16:25:15 <nigelb> IAmNotThatGuy: Lets tackle that over the mailing list or after the meeting.

 16:25:17 <mingo_> ok

 16:25:23 <nigelb> I'd rather have monthly meeting.

 16:25:24 <IAmNotThatGuy> okies

 16:25:30 <nigelb> How about every first friday at 9 pm?

 16:25:38 <IAmNotThatGuy> no worries =]

 16:25:42 <mingo_> Ok

 16:25:50 <IAmNotThatGuy> shadeslayer, coolbhavi rahul27

 16:25:51 <geekosopher> any day 9pm is good for me

 16:25:53 <nigelb> #vote Meeting every first friday at 9 pm IST

 16:25:53 <meetingology> Please vote on: Meeting every first friday at 9 pm IST

 16:25:53 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:25:57 <IAmNotThatGuy> +1

 16:25:57 <meetingology> +1 received from IAmNotThatGuy

 16:26:00 <geekosopher> +1

 16:26:00 <meetingology> +1 received from geekosopher

 16:26:01 <bihari> +1

 16:26:01 <meetingology> +1 received from bihari

 16:26:03 <rahul27> +1

 16:26:03 <meetingology> +1 received from rahul27

 16:26:08 <coolbhavi> nigelb, thats great sorry guys had been to temple today +1

 16:26:11 <mingo_> +1

 16:26:11 <meetingology> +1 received from mingo_

 16:26:24 <coolbhavi> +1

 16:26:24 <meetingology> +1 received from coolbhavi

 16:26:29 <IAmNotThatGuy> coolbhavi, may God bless you today only

 16:26:30 <IAmNotThatGuy> :P

 16:26:32 <nigelb> +1

 16:26:32 <meetingology> +1 received from nigelb

 16:26:39 <nigelb> any more votes?

 16:26:40 <coolbhavi> thanks IAmNotThatGuy

 16:26:42 <coolbhavi> :)

 16:27:11 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, end vote =]

 16:27:13 <nigelb> #endvote

 16:27:13 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Meeting every first friday at 9 pm IST

 16:27:13 <meetingology> Votes for:7 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 16:27:13 <meetingology> Motion carried

 16:27:19 <nigelb> #topic Any other topic?

 16:27:19 <meetingology> TOPIC: Any other topic?

 16:27:23 <m4n1sh> so that we can leave you messages

 16:27:29 <nigelb> We have 3 more minutes

 16:27:34 <nigelb> I don't want to go over 1 hour.

 16:27:41 <rahul27> why are there two sites http://ubuntu-in.info and http://ui.xinh.org/ ?

 16:27:55 <nigelb> rahul27: the second one is work in progress to replace the first one.

 16:28:00 <mingo_> onr for developing the sie.

 16:28:10 <coolbhavi> rahul27, site transition i guess

 16:28:20 <rahul27> oh ok

 16:28:30 <mingo_> :)

 16:28:40 <IAmNotThatGuy> any other topics?

 16:28:43 <m4n1sh> one more topic

 16:28:47 <m4n1sh> this channel should be logged

 16:28:51 <mingo_> Planet Ubuntu India

 16:28:57 <m4n1sh> so that it shows up on irclogs.ubuntu.com

 16:28:57 <coolbhavi> m4n1sh, +1

 16:28:58 <geekosopher> we should decide on having a wiki page somewhere so that we can put up the follow up to this meeting

 16:29:03 <rahul27> +1

 16:29:11 <IAmNotThatGuy> I dont think so

 16:29:25 <m4n1sh> planet ubuntun india is a nice idea

 16:29:26 <IAmNotThatGuy> No LoCo channel has a logbot I think

 16:29:27 <m4n1sh> i am +1

 16:29:28 <nigelb> m4n1sh: logging is a complex issue.  I'd rather take it up next meeting

 16:29:33 <m4n1sh> nigelb: fine

 16:29:53 <nigelb> IAmNotThatGuy: Its coming up.  Most loco channels are getting logged nowadays

 16:29:53 <coolbhavi> IAmNotThatGuy, some channels do have

 16:29:53 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb, so we came to the end?

 16:29:58 <coolbhavi> i guess

 16:30:05 <IAmNotThatGuy> k k

 16:30:06 <nigelb> ok, we're closing now

 16:30:07 <nigelb> 5

 16:30:08 <geekosopher> ok

 16:30:08 <m4n1sh> one more thing

 16:30:11 <nigelb> 4

 16:30:13 <nigelb> 3

 16:30:17 <mingo_> Bye

 16:30:17 <IAmNotThatGuy> nigelb,

 16:30:17 <nigelb> m4n1sh: ?

 16:30:22 <m4n1sh> mail 2 days before a meeting

 16:30:23 <coolbhavi> m4n1sh, go on

 16:30:25 <coolbhavi> :)

 16:30:29 <m4n1sh> on the list

 16:30:30 <m4n1sh> a reminder

 16:30:31 <mingo_> :)

 16:30:35 <coolbhavi> :)

 16:30:36 <m4n1sh> or else we forget

 16:30:40 <IAmNotThatGuy> m4n1sh, yep :D

 16:30:40 <nigelb> #action nigelb to mail reminder before next meeting

 16:30:40 * meetingology nigelb to mail reminder before next meeting

 16:30:47 <geekosopher> \0/

 16:30:47 <nigelb> 5

 16:30:49 <nigelb> 4

 16:30:50 <nigelb> 3

 16:30:52 <nigelb> 2

 16:30:53 <nigelb> 1

 16:30:57 <nigelb> #endmeeting
