{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== A Hardy Party! ==

In celebration of the release of Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron), the Indiana Ubuntu Local Community team will have a '''Hardy Release Party''' from '''Noon until 8:04 PM''' on '''Saturday, April 26, 2008''' at the '''Reddick Shelterhouse''' at '''Fort Harrison State Park in Indianapolis'''.

The shelter house has been reserved from 7:00 AM until 8:30 PM - you're welcome to show up early to help set up.

Fort Harrison State Park is a day use park and '''we must exit the park prior to the gate's closing at 8:30 PM'''.  The park entrance is located at Post Road and East 59th Street on Indianapolis' East side.  '''There is a $5 entrance fee per car''' with Indiana license plates (your receipt gives you in and out privileges for the day).

<nowiki>[[http://www.in.gov/dnr/parklake/properties/maps/2007/ftharrison_trail.pdf|Park Map and Brochure]]</nowiki>

Please RSVP by adding your name to the chart below so we know how much food is needed.

=== Park Rules ===
* Dogs and cats must be on leashes less than 6 feet long and attended to at all times
* All trash must be removed from the shelter per the Carry In/Carry Out policy
* Refer to the <nowiki>[[http://www.in.gov/dnr/parklake/properties/maps/2007/ftharrison_trail.pdf|Park Brochure]]</nowiki> for additional rules
 

=== Shelter Amenities ===
* 27 picnic tables
* Charcoal grill
* Fireplace
* 4 electrical outlets

=== Stuff to bring ===

* Charcoal
* Lighter fluid
* Food
* Soft Drinks (limited quantities of alcohol are also allowed per park rules)
* Trash bags
* Coolers
* Ice

=== Hardy Release Party Attendees ===

Number and Name and What You're Bringing are most important - other information is used to help people recognize attendees by means other than their names.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Number
| Name
| What You're Bringing
| Planned Arrival Time
| Wiki Page
| E-mail
| IRC nick
| Forums nick
| Note
|-
| 1.
| Michael Schultheiss
| Hamburgers
| ~11:00 AM
| MichaelSchultheiss
| schultmc@cinlug.org
| schultmc
| schultmc
| I'll be wearing a <nowiki>[[http://www.cafepress.com/inloco|Team T-shirt]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2 & 3.
| Simón A. Ruiz & Sarah Baurley
| Salad
| ~11-12
| <nowiki>[[SimonARuiz]]</nowiki>
| simon.a.ruiz@gmail.com
| SimonAnibal
| simon.a.ruiz
| We'll be wearing <nowiki>[[http://www.cafepress.com/inloco|Team T-shirts]]</nowiki>
|-
| 4.
| Rob Ludwick
| Chips and Community Soda (Moutain Dew)
| Fashionably late
| NDA required to view
| rcludw@gmail.com
| rcludw
| rcludw
| Ubuntu on a key
|-
| 5
| Jason Corfman
| I can bring 18 lbs of charcoal that doesn't need lighter fluid, and I can bring the lighter fluid... brownie-like dessert
| 2:30-3
| <nowiki>[[Corfy2]]</nowiki>
| 
| corfy
| corfy
| 
|-
| 6, 7, 8, 9, & 10.
| Ben & Espie Crowe
| I can bring large trash bags
| TBD
| 
| ben.crowe@gmail.com
| bcrowe
| bcrowe
| Bringing my 3 small kids
|-
| 11.
| Keith Karnafel
| ''TBD''
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| May bring Akita
|-
| 12 & 13.
| Vern Ceder & Becky Brys
| something non-perishable
| not sure - 5-ish
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 3 aussies
|-
| 14
| John McClellan
| signs & banner
| in/out all day
| 
| 
| 
| arpanaut
| dazed & confused
|}

=== Carpool ===

If you have space to give a ride, or would like a ride, please make a note down here:
