{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by geekosopher at 16:15:25 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/ubuntu-in/2011/ubuntu-in.2011-03-14-16.15.log.txt
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous action items

* How we all contributed to Ubuntu since last meeting? - Added by manishsinha
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/devweek1103/RockingWithZeitgeist   (manish, 16:18:28)

* Preparation for Ubuntu Global Jam - Added by manishsinha
''LINK:'' ttps://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianTeam/Jam201104  (geekosopher, 16:21:22)
''ACTION:'' Bipul` to take Raipur jam  (geekosopher, 16:40:25)
''ACTION:'' abhinav- to take Lucknow jam  (geekosopher, 16:41:07)
''ACTION:'' manish_ to co-ordinate with viggy_prabhu on Bangalore Jam  (geekosopher, 16:41:47)

* Taking up IRC sessions for newcomers/knowledge sharing - Added by manishsinha
''ACTION:'' m4n1sh_ to take intro session on libraries  (geekosopher, 16:50:26)
''ACTION:'' m4n1sh_ to co-ordinate with bilal to organise a packaging session on #ubuntu-classroom  (geekosopher, 16:56:30)

* Participation in conf.kde.in (if any) - Added by manishsinha

* Next month team reports - Chair

* Next month meeting chair - Chair

Meeting ended at 17:10:20 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* m4n1sh_ to chair next meeting
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* abhinav- to do next months team reports
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* Bipul` to take Raipur jam
* abhinav- to take Lucknow jam
* manish_ to co-ordinate with viggy_prabhu on Bangalore Jam
* m4n1sh_ to take intro session on libraries
* m4n1sh_ to co-ordinate with bilal to organise a packaging session on #ubuntu-classroom

=== Action items, by person ===

* abhinav-
* * abhinav- to take Lucknow jam
* Bipul`
* * Bipul` to take Raipur jam
* m4n1sh_
* * m4n1sh_ to take intro session on libraries
* * m4n1sh_ to co-ordinate with bilal to organise a packaging session on #ubuntu-classroom
* manish
* * manish_ to co-ordinate with viggy_prabhu on Bangalore Jam
* manish_
* * manish_ to co-ordinate with viggy_prabhu on Bangalore Jam
* viggy_prabhu
* * manish_ to co-ordinate with viggy_prabhu on Bangalore Jam

=== People present (lines said) ===

* geekosopher (124)
* m4n1sh_ (97)
* manish (45)
* Bipul` (44)
* meetingology (33)
* abhinav- (26)
* viggy_prabhu (26)
* IAmNotThatGuy (2)
* manish_ (2)

=== Full Log ===

 16:15:25 <geekosopher> #startmeeting

 16:15:25 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Mar 14 16:15:25 2011 UTC.  The chair is geekosopher. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 16:15:25 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 16:15:41 <geekosopher> so everyone here just say hi!

 16:15:45 <manish> hi

 16:15:49 <Bipul`> hi

 16:16:21 <abhinav-> back

 16:16:28 <abhinav-> hi

 16:16:34 <geekosopher> #topic: Previous action items

 16:16:34 <meetingology> TOPIC: : Previous action items

 16:16:42 <geekosopher> I don't think there were any

 16:16:47 <IAmNotThatGuy> o/

 16:16:57 <manish> yeah

 16:17:07 <manish> geekosopher: i dont remember any

 16:17:08 <geekosopher> so lets move on

 16:17:18 <manish> yes

 16:17:23 <Bipul`> yap

 16:17:29 <geekosopher> #How we all contributed to Ubuntu since last meeting? - Added by manishsinha

 16:17:42 <geekosopher> damn

 16:17:47 <geekosopher> #topic How we all contributed to Ubuntu since last meeting? - Added by manishsinha

 16:17:47 <meetingology> TOPIC: How we all contributed to Ubuntu since last meeting? - Added by manishsinha

 16:18:03 <geekosopher> manish: anything to say?

 16:18:04 <manish> me - took a session in Ubuntu Developer Week

 16:18:18 <geekosopher> cool!

 16:18:21 * abhinav- submitted 4 patches since developer week :D

 16:18:28 <manish> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/devweek1103/RockingWithZeitgeist

 16:18:54 <geekosopher> abhinav-: thats great dude!

 16:18:57 <geekosopher> :)

 16:19:09 <abhinav-> geekosopher, thanks :)

 16:19:15 <manish> and a bit of bug triaging

 16:19:20 <geekosopher> the lazy me did some advocacy at the office

 16:19:55 <geekosopher> shall we go to the next topic then?

 16:19:57 <manish> yes

 16:20:21 <geekosopher> last chance for anyone to pat his own back

 16:20:27 <manish> lo

 16:20:32 <abhinav-> I am going to do a session day after tomorrow in college

 16:20:33 <geekosopher> #topic: Preparation for Ubuntu Global Jam - Added by manishsinha

 16:20:33 <meetingology> TOPIC: : Preparation for Ubuntu Global Jam - Added by manishsinha

 16:20:51 <manish> so what shall we do

 16:20:56 <manish> abhinav-: you ready to participate?

 16:21:11 <geekosopher> I guess everyone knows about the UGJ

 16:21:20 <abhinav-> manish ah, I am all alone here :-/

 16:21:22 <geekosopher> #link: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianTeam/Jam201104

 16:21:22 <manish> Bipul`: you ready to participate

 16:21:24 <Bipul`> UGJ nops

 16:21:25 <manish> abhinav-: on IRC

 16:21:30 <manish> Bipul`: busy?

 16:21:33 <abhinav-> manish, oh yes sure

 16:21:35 <Bipul`> no i am here

 16:21:45 <IAmNotThatGuy> geekosopher, give a small introduction too

 16:21:49 <manish> Bipul`: i mean not ready for UGJ, busy in work that time

 16:21:55 <Bipul`> yes

 16:22:00 <manish> okay

 16:22:08 <geekosopher> UGJ is a global event

 16:22:17 <geekosopher> by the community

 16:22:19 <Bipul`> ok

 16:22:39 <manish> basically an event for LoCos to show their might

 16:22:40 <geekosopher> It is basically about people in the LoCo coming together

 16:22:51 <Bipul`> ok

 16:22:56 <geekosopher> and helping improve Ubuntu

 16:23:02 <Bipul`> ok got it

 16:23:07 <manish> like Bug Traiging

 16:23:12 <geekosopher> they do translations,

 16:23:13 <manish> sending patch upstream

 16:23:16 <manish> writing documentation

 16:23:21 <manish> improving documentation

 16:23:21 <geekosopher> packaging

 16:23:29 <manish> updating documentation for latest release

 16:23:34 <Bipul`> ok

 16:23:39 <geekosopher> testing cds and stuff

 16:23:44 <manish> artwork too

 16:23:48 <geekosopher> yes!

 16:24:04 <Bipul`> aha got it

 16:24:09 <geekosopher> so as the name suggest, just 'jam' together

 16:24:10 <manish> anything you know

 16:24:12 <manish> you can help

 16:24:20 <manish> even the smallest thing counts

 16:24:41 <geekosopher> it is preferably done in person

 16:24:51 <manish> usually meeting at coffee shops

 16:24:54 <Bipul`> yes i am ready to take participate in it

 16:24:57 <manish> i not possible then on IRC

 16:25:15 <geekosopher> so all you guys can bring your friends together in your city and do a UGJ event

 16:25:23 <abhinav-> the current alpha3 is not running on my laptop, gives all kinds of crash reports :-/. Hopefully, by that time situation will be improved

 16:25:33 <manish> yeah

 16:25:39 <geekosopher> it would a lot abhinav-

 16:25:43 <manish> esp jockey crashes too

 16:26:10 <geekosopher> abhinav-: but don't wait, just submit your crash report

 16:26:15 <manish> Bipul`: you can try your hands on documentation

 16:26:22 <Bipul`> manish,  sure

 16:26:28 <abhinav-> geekosopher, tried a lot. Even firefox crashes :D

 16:26:36 <geekosopher> lol

 16:26:41 <manish> lol

 16:26:43 <geekosopher> ubuntu-bug?

 16:26:46 <Bipul`> just guide me... but my  examination is coming

 16:26:47 <manish> yeah

 16:26:51 <manish> no issues

 16:26:56 <manish> do as much as you can

 16:27:02 <manish> it is all voulentary event

 16:27:03 <Bipul`> ok :)

 16:27:06 <abhinav-> geekosopher, ubuntu-bug also opens a browser in the end, right ?

 16:27:33 <geekosopher> those who can't do a in-person event, can just log in to this channel and start jamming

 16:27:45 <geekosopher> oh yes!

 16:27:50 <Bipul`> ok

 16:27:53 <manish> done

 16:28:00 <manish> Bipul`: you  can bring your friend too

 16:28:03 <manish> teach then about ubuntu

 16:28:08 <manish> just some intro would also be fine

 16:28:36 <Bipul`> yes i have already converted my grave yard linux lab into Ubuntu lab

 16:28:44 <manish> cool

 16:28:47 <manish> Jam also includes Marketing

 16:28:53 <manish> though not explicitly mentioned I think

 16:29:24 <geekosopher> Bipul`: which city?

 16:29:30 <Bipul`> if you need a picture i can show you i have installed ubuntu on 24 pc

 16:29:33 <Bipul`> Raipur

 16:29:57 <geekosopher> ok, so you can do a Raipur jam :)

 16:30:07 <Bipul`> yes sure

 16:30:11 <manish> and we all are here on this channel

 16:30:14 <manish> as central place

 16:30:14 <Bipul`> i love to do that

 16:30:23 <geekosopher> abhinav-: can do a mysore jam

 16:30:25 <geekosopher> am I right?

 16:30:41 <abhinav-> geekosopher, Lucknow :)

 16:30:49 <geekosopher> ooops!

 16:30:59 <geekosopher> yes, then Lucknow jam it is?

 16:31:02 <geekosopher> :)

 16:31:09 <abhinav-> geekosopher, I am taking a session in college day after on getting the junior students started with ubuntu

 16:31:18 <geekosopher> cool

 16:31:22 <abhinav-> also on 25th march, a session on programming in ubuntu

 16:31:33 <geekosopher> great

 16:31:43 <abhinav-> thanks

 16:31:48 <geekosopher> get as many of those coming on 25th to the come to the jam

 16:32:08 <abhinav-> yes, will try me best to get them interested

 16:32:21 <geekosopher> and guys, just don't forget to get the pictures taken

 16:32:25 <geekosopher> very important

 16:32:46 <Bipul`> geekosopher,  why dont we conduct a workshops on Linux in diffrent diffrent colleges of india

 16:33:17 <geekosopher> good idea, but not covered in UGJ, can be a separate topic

 16:33:19 <manish_> yes. Pics.will

 16:33:21 <geekosopher> Bipul`: ^

 16:33:31 <manish_> help us in approval

 16:33:53 <geekosopher> send the pics to the email mentioned in the link I gave above

 16:33:59 <Bipul`> and also we can organised some certification also

 16:34:52 <geekosopher> Bipul`: can you send your ideas to the mailing list? it would be a great place to start this topic

 16:35:07 <Bipul`> geekosopher,  sure why not

 16:35:12 <geekosopher> cool :)

 16:35:23 <m4n1sh_> got disconn

 16:35:25 <m4n1sh_> now back

 16:35:27 <m4n1sh_> or also update the wiki page

 16:35:39 <geekosopher> manish_: any plans on bangalore jam?

 16:35:51 <m4n1sh_> geekosopher: have to check with nigelb

 16:35:55 <m4n1sh_> and coolbhavi

 16:36:00 <geekosopher> hmmm

 16:36:22 <viggy_prabhu> hi friends,

 16:36:30 <geekosopher> hi viggy_prabhu

 16:36:34 <m4n1sh_> Hi

 16:36:40 <viggy_prabhu> just went through the meeting till now

 16:36:46 <viggy_prabhu> hope I can barge in too

 16:36:54 <m4n1sh_> viggy_prabhu: translations?

 16:36:57 <geekosopher> viggy_prabhu: most welcome

 16:37:01 <viggy_prabhu> will be glad to be a part of bangalore jam

 16:37:18 <m4n1sh_> great

 16:37:19 <viggy_prabhu> m4n1sh_, basically advocacy :)

 16:37:30 <geekosopher> cool, bangalore seems to be in no dearth of foss lovers

 16:37:44 <m4n1sh_> viggy_prabhu: or updation of documentation ?

 16:37:44 <geekosopher> :)

 16:37:52 <viggy_prabhu> m4n1sh_, sure

 16:38:26 <geekosopher> ok, anyone wants to add anything else?

 16:38:32 <geekosopher> any more questions?

 16:38:37 <m4n1sh_> nope

 16:38:38 <m4n1sh_> am fine

 16:38:58 <Bipul`> me also

 16:39:04 <geekosopher> ok

 16:39:07 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, we have a small office dedicated for such FOSS meetings

 16:39:24 <geekosopher> cool

 16:39:28 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, we will more than happy to host Bangalore Jam

 16:39:30 <geekosopher> manish_: you found the venue!

 16:40:07 <m4n1sh_> :)

 16:40:12 <m4n1sh_> so we can move on to next topic?

 16:40:13 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, it is in wilson garden, so hopefully at the centre of Bangalore

 16:40:25 <geekosopher> #action Bipul` to take Raipur jam

 16:40:25 * meetingology Bipul` to take Raipur jam

 16:40:57 <Bipul`> yes i do accept

 16:41:07 <geekosopher> #action abhinav- to take Lucknow jam

 16:41:07 * meetingology abhinav- to take Lucknow jam

 16:41:22 <geekosopher> are we cool?

 16:41:23 <abhinav-> yes sure

 16:41:24 <m4n1sh_> yeah

 16:41:35 <m4n1sh_> next topic?

 16:41:41 <Bipul`> yes

 16:41:47 <geekosopher> #action manish_ to co-ordinate with viggy_prabhu on Bangalore Jam

 16:41:47 * meetingology manish_ to co-ordinate with viggy_prabhu on Bangalore Jam

 16:42:02 <geekosopher> #topic: Taking up IRC sessions for newcomers/knowledge sharing - Added by manishsinha

 16:42:02 <meetingology> TOPIC: : Taking up IRC sessions for newcomers/knowledge sharing - Added by manishsinha

 16:42:14 <geekosopher> there you go manish_

 16:42:30 <m4n1sh_> yeah

 16:42:39 <m4n1sh_> we should take up sessions on #ubuntu-classroom

 16:42:42 <m4n1sh_> like we have jams

 16:42:44 <m4n1sh_> open week

 16:42:46 <m4n1sh_> app developer week

 16:43:04 * geekosopher wonders what happened to the packaging session by coolbhavi

 16:43:07 <m4n1sh_> like abhinav- told he started contributing after Barry's "Ubuntu Distributed Development" session

 16:43:12 <m4n1sh_> geekosopher: AFAIK he took it

 16:43:16 <m4n1sh_> last day of user days

 16:43:26 <geekosopher> but it was to be taken every fortnight

 16:43:36 <m4n1sh_> i dont think every fortnight is feasible

 16:43:42 <geekosopher> hmm

 16:43:52 <geekosopher> just trying to remember what was planned

 16:43:59 <m4n1sh_> okay Bipul` geekosopher viggy_prabhu

 16:44:03 <m4n1sh_> if you want to contribute to ubuntu

 16:44:11 <m4n1sh_> what you think is a roadblock?

 16:44:32 <geekosopher> manish_: abhinav- would feel neglected ;)

 16:44:43 <m4n1sh_> he is a geek now :)

 16:44:47 <m4n1sh_> okay abhinav- you too tell

 16:45:17 <abhinav-> ok

 16:45:24 <geekosopher> m4n1sh_: I guess it is lack of knowing how to go about it

 16:45:26 <m4n1sh_> geekosopher: Bipul` your turn too

 16:45:31 <m4n1sh_> in which aspect

 16:45:39 <Bipul`> i am thiking

 16:45:41 <m4n1sh_> using Launchpad?

 16:45:47 <m4n1sh_> packaging?

 16:45:49 <m4n1sh_> writing code?

 16:45:51 <m4n1sh_> triaging bugs?

 16:45:53 <abhinav-> well for me the roadblock was the lack of understanding of the various tools and the whole process used in distributed development

 16:46:09 <geekosopher> abhinav-: so you mean bzr

 16:46:15 <m4n1sh_> bzr and launchpad

 16:46:16 <viggy_prabhu> m4n1sh_, for me I guys it is mainly getting started and finding a package with which I can start with easily

 16:46:19 <abhinav-> otherwise, almost everyone knows programming to contribute

 16:46:42 <m4n1sh_> viggy_prabhu: some more insight?

 16:47:10 <viggy_prabhu> like I would really like to add a feature in xchat so that it remembers all the session I was logged in last time

 16:47:19 <m4n1sh_> hmm

 16:47:23 <viggy_prabhu> s/sessions/channels

 16:47:23 <m4n1sh_> so that comes in programming

 16:47:29 <m4n1sh_> adding features

 16:47:36 <m4n1sh_> not application packaging

 16:48:03 <m4n1sh_> so what all sessions you people think one should take so that you can learn contributing to Ubuntu?

 16:48:14 <Bipul`> communication gap and  poor cordination with partners and ego this 3 thinks may be the path of obstruction for the ubuntu development

 16:48:37 <m4n1sh_> Bipul`: ego like?

 16:48:45 <m4n1sh_> amongst?

 16:49:02 <viggy_prabhu> m4n1sh_, I think it will be great if we can pick up some package which does not have its latest version in .deb format

 16:49:07 <Bipul`> Ego like  Ego problem

 16:49:18 <abhinav-> m4n1sh_, tools are the first thing. also perhaps the libraries used in development, a tutorial introduction would provide a head start to the beginners

 16:49:23 <m4n1sh_> Bipul`: that I understand, but with whom and amongst whom?

 16:49:25 <viggy_prabhu> and we can learn how to get the source code packaged to .deb

 16:49:33 <m4n1sh_> abhinav-: yeah. that is great

 16:49:38 <m4n1sh_> geekosopher: add to action what abhinav- says

 16:49:43 <viggy_prabhu> m4n1sh_, I hope that is what is meant by application packaging

 16:49:47 <m4n1sh_> yeah

 16:49:57 <geekosopher> whos taking it m4n1sh_

 16:50:00 <m4n1sh_> that needs to be taken up by either shadeslayer or coolbhavi

 16:50:02 <Bipul`> m4n1sh_,  i have seen sometimes it happens with you partners

 16:50:08 <m4n1sh_> geekosopher: intro to libraries  by me

 16:50:25 <m4n1sh_> Bipul`: yeah. there is an epic flamewar going on

 16:50:26 <geekosopher> #action m4n1sh_ to take intro session on libraries

 16:50:26 * meetingology m4n1sh_ to take intro session on libraries

 16:50:27 <Bipul`> and Freinds when you come more closer

 16:50:49 <m4n1sh_> geekosopher: am not sure who can take packaging session

 16:50:51 <m4n1sh_> lets wait

 16:51:00 <geekosopher> yes, will have to

 16:51:01 <m4n1sh_> I can take up a session on git or bzr

 16:51:17 * geekosopher will be the first attendee! :)

 16:51:18 <m4n1sh_> depends on interest

 16:51:26 <Bipul`> to them as when you go more closer to you freinds you both started more expectation

 16:51:39 <m4n1sh_> yeah true

 16:51:46 <m4n1sh_> anything else to add?

 16:52:01 <Bipul`> from each other after that resultant becomes Ego pROBLEM :P

 16:52:08 <geekosopher> abhinav-: would you like to take any session of your choice?

 16:52:10 <Bipul`> WHICH IS NOT good for any one

 16:52:25 <geekosopher> abhinav-: that you can take

 16:52:26 <geekosopher> ?

 16:52:34 <m4n1sh_> Bipul`: true

 16:52:53 <abhinav-> geekosopher, I havn't thought anything about it yet. Maybe I can think of something and add it to the wiki ?

 16:53:01 <m4n1sh_> okay

 16:53:04 <m4n1sh_> shall we move on?

 16:53:07 <geekosopher> abhinav-: sure

 16:53:09 <m4n1sh_> we have bigger list

 16:53:16 <Bipul`> thank you m4n1sh_  :)

 16:53:20 <geekosopher> yes, viggy_prabhu want to add anything?

 16:53:44 <geekosopher> viggy_prabhu: you were saying about finding software to package

 16:53:54 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, yeah

 16:54:13 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, I guess we can start with the session on libraries and then start from there

 16:54:20 <geekosopher> m4n1sh_: can that be covered in packaging session

 16:54:23 <geekosopher> ?

 16:54:28 <m4n1sh_> covered what?

 16:54:37 <m4n1sh_> FYI all these have to taken on #ubuntu-classroom

 16:54:38 <geekosopher> finding software to package?

 16:54:47 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, however I feel that if even during the session attendees can get to contribute, it will give them more confidence

 16:54:49 <m4n1sh_> geekosopher: yeah

 16:54:56 <m4n1sh_> but for that we need some packaging expert

 16:55:14 <geekosopher> ok, so not actioning anything about it yet

 16:55:18 <m4n1sh_> yeah

 16:55:22 <geekosopher> next topic?

 16:55:23 <m4n1sh_> I can ask cdbs to take it

 16:55:26 <m4n1sh_> lets see

 16:55:37 <m4n1sh_> if he is ready

 16:55:40 <m4n1sh_> yeah next topic

 16:55:41 <Bipul`> cdbs? who is he or she ?

 16:56:03 <m4n1sh_> he is BIlal Akhtar

 16:56:05 <m4n1sh_> *bilal

 16:56:08 <m4n1sh_> *Bilal

 16:56:16 <Bipul`> yes popular name in ubuntu :p

 16:56:18 <m4n1sh_> a 14 yrs old Ubuntu Developer :)

 16:56:29 <Bipul`> is he indian ?

 16:56:30 <geekosopher> #action: m4n1sh_ to co-ordinate with bilal to organise a packaging session on #ubuntu-classroom

 16:56:30 * meetingology : m4n1sh_ to co-ordinate with bilal to organise a packaging session on #ubuntu-classroom

 16:56:34 <m4n1sh_> yeah originally from India

 16:56:37 <m4n1sh_> now in Riyadh

 16:56:40 <Bipul`> ok

 16:56:49 <geekosopher> m4n1sh_: cool?

 16:56:55 <m4n1sh_> yeah

 16:56:57 <m4n1sh_> next topic

 16:57:04 <geekosopher> #topic: Participation in conf.kde.in (if any) - Added by manishsinha

 16:57:04 <meetingology> TOPIC: : Participation in conf.kde.in (if any) - Added by manishsinha

 16:57:12 <geekosopher> so who were there at konf

 16:57:47 <m4n1sh_> I was not

 16:57:56 <Bipul`> ohh that was mine bad luck mine HOD does not grant me a leav to atteand that kde.in confrence :p just beacuse of class test :(

 16:57:57 <m4n1sh_> could not attend

 16:58:09 <m4n1sh_> shadeslayer gave a talk in conf.kde.in

 16:58:10 <abhinav-> me neither :-|

 16:59:00 <Bipul`> I think such even shud organised in january or in summer holiday so that student get benifited

 16:59:05 <m4n1sh_> yeah

 16:59:42 <m4n1sh_> anything else to add here?

 16:59:44 <geekosopher> so no one from the Konf here?

 17:00:29 <m4n1sh_> nope

 17:00:32 <geekosopher> ok so we come to the last part of this meeting

 17:00:34 <m4n1sh_> nigelb met kdeconf people

 17:00:45 <geekosopher> #topic: Next month team reports - Chair

 17:00:45 <meetingology> TOPIC: : Next month team reports - Chair

 17:01:19 * geekosopher wants to keep it with myself, but if someone wants to snatch it from me, feel free

 17:01:27 <m4n1sh_> I support geekosopher

 17:01:35 <m4n1sh_> abhinav-: want to take up this role?

 17:01:38 <m4n1sh_> no big deal

 17:01:56 <geekosopher> #vote abhinav- to do next months team reports

 17:01:56 <meetingology> Please vote on: abhinav- to do next months team reports

 17:01:56 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 17:02:05 <m4n1sh_> +1

 17:02:05 <meetingology> +1 received from m4n1sh_

 17:02:05 <geekosopher> +1

 17:02:05 <meetingology> +1 received from geekosopher

 17:02:10 <Bipul`> +1

 17:02:10 <meetingology> +1 received from Bipul`

 17:02:14 <abhinav-> ah, ok. I will try my best :-D

 17:02:16 <abhinav-> +1

 17:02:16 <meetingology> +1 received from abhinav-

 17:02:23 <m4n1sh_> abhinav-: it is easy

 17:02:28 <m4n1sh_> it isnt rocket science :)

 17:02:30 <geekosopher> viggy_prabhu: any objections?

 17:02:41 <m4n1sh_> just take some tips from geekosopher before starting

 17:02:42 <viggy_prabhu> what are team reports?

 17:02:45 <m4n1sh_> and it's done

 17:03:03 <abhinav-> m4n1sh_, geekosopher will keep in contact with both of you for that :)

 17:03:09 <geekosopher> viggy_prabhu: reporting the events of the last month

 17:03:14 <geekosopher> in the loco

 17:03:41 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, so i need to update regarding the coming month activity next month?

 17:03:56 <geekosopher> viggy_prabhu: the one who takes up team reporting

 17:04:12 <geekosopher> and its the last month, not coming month

 17:04:40 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, but I didnt do anything related to Ubuntu last month

 17:04:54 <viggy_prabhu> so I think I cant take it up?

 17:05:05 <geekosopher> viggy_prabhu: not just you, anyone in the loco

 17:05:32 <geekosopher> okay, so lets end the vote

 17:05:35 <geekosopher> #endvote

 17:05:35 <meetingology> Voting ended on: abhinav- to do next months team reports

 17:05:35 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 17:05:35 <meetingology> Motion carried

 17:05:46 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, oh got it

 17:05:52 <geekosopher> :)

 17:05:59 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, every month one person is appointed to write a team report

 17:06:01 <geekosopher> and the last item on the agenda

 17:06:18 <geekosopher> viggy_prabhu: bingo

 17:06:28 <viggy_prabhu> geekosopher, thanks for explaining :)

 17:06:30 <geekosopher> #topic: Next month meeting chair - Chair

 17:06:30 <meetingology> TOPIC: : Next month meeting chair - Chair

 17:06:52 * geekosopher nominates m4n1sh_

 17:06:59 <m4n1sh_> okay fine

 17:07:06 * Bipul` geekosopher

 17:07:18 <m4n1sh_> but yeah geekosopher does it great

 17:07:33 * geekosopher blushing

 17:07:52 <geekosopher> I am going for the vote

 17:08:02 <geekosopher> #vote m4n1sh_ to chair next meeting

 17:08:02 <meetingology> Please vote on: m4n1sh_ to chair next meeting

 17:08:02 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 17:08:08 <geekosopher> +1

 17:08:08 <meetingology> +1 received from geekosopher

 17:08:14 <viggy_prabhu> +1

 17:08:14 <meetingology> +1 received from viggy_prabhu

 17:08:14 <Bipul`> +1

 17:08:14 <meetingology> +1 received from Bipul`

 17:08:32 <geekosopher> abhinav-: ?

 17:08:51 <abhinav-> +1

 17:08:51 <meetingology> +1 received from abhinav-

 17:09:14 <geekosopher> m4n1sh_: no self voting ;)

 17:09:22 <m4n1sh_> +1

 17:09:22 <meetingology> +1 received from m4n1sh_

 17:09:26 <geekosopher> #endvote

 17:09:26 <meetingology> Voting ended on: m4n1sh_ to chair next meeting

 17:09:26 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 17:09:26 <meetingology> Motion carried

 17:09:35 <m4n1sh_> anything else left?

 17:09:44 <geekosopher> ok folks time to disperse

 17:09:58 <geekosopher> thank you all for coming ;)

 17:10:20 <geekosopher> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
