{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In celebration of the release of Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex), the Indiana Ubuntu LoCo team is holding an Intrepid Release Party (dinner) on Saturday, November 1, 2008 at the Castleton Square location of <nowiki>[[http://www.bucadibeppo.com/locations/default.aspx?location=1402| Buca di Beppo]]</nowiki> on the northeast side of Indianapolis (behind Castleton Square Mall).  The party is scheduled to start at 6:00 PM.  Anyone is welcome to attend but please RSVP in the Attendee table below so we can let the restaurant know how many people are coming.

Hope to see you there!

=== Location ===

<pre>
Buca di Beppo Castleton Square
6045 E 86th St
Indianapolis, IN 46250
</pre>

<nowiki>[[http://www.bucadibeppo.com/locations/default.aspx?location=1402| Buca di Beppo]]</nowiki> is a family style Italian restaurant and fits in quite well with the spirit of Ubuntu!

A reservation has been made for 15 people under the name "Ubuntu Party"

=== Intrepid Release Party Attendees ===

Number and Name are most important - other information is used to help people recognize attendees by means other than their names.  Remember when you arrive to say you're part of the Ubuntu party.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Number
| Name
| Suggested Start Time
| Suggested Restaurant
| Wiki Page
| E-mail
| IRC nick
| Forums nick
| Note
|-
| 1.
| Michael Schultheiss
| 6:00 PM
| Buca di Beppo
| MichaelSchultheiss
| schultmc@cinlug.org
| schultmc
| schultmc
| I'll be wearing a <nowiki>[[http://www.cafepress.com/inloco|Team T-shirt]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2.
| Seth Dudenhofer
| 6:00p
| Buca
| VisualDeception
| sdudenhofer@gmail.com
| visualdeception
| visualdeception
| I'll also be wearing a team shirt
|-
| 3 & 4.
| Simón & Sarah Ruiz
| 6:00p
| Buca di Beppo
| <nowiki>[[SimonARuiz]]</nowiki>
| simon.a.ruiz squiggly-bit gmail.com
| SimonAnibal
| simon.a.ruiz
| Ditto
|-
| 5 & 6
| Jason and Gayle Corfman
| 6:00p
| 
| <nowiki>[[Corfy2]]</nowiki>
| computers at corfyscorner dot com
| corfy
| corfy
| 
|-
| 7.
| Jeremiah Dodds
| 6:00 p
| 
| <nowiki>[[JeremiahDodds]]</nowiki>
| jeremiah.dodds at gmail
| jdd
| kaens
| 
| 
|-
| 8 & 9
| Carol & Wayne Rutz
| 6 pm
| Buca di Beppo
| <nowiki>[[http://www.carolrutz.com/blog|Webpage]]</nowiki>
| predigtamt att gmail dott com
| MadTheologian
|}
