{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by geekosopher at 15:32:49 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/ubuntu-in/2011/ubuntu-in.2011-04-13-15.32.log.txt
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous action items - Chair
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianTeam/Meetings/20110314   (geekosopher, 15:34:32)

''LINK:'' http://milky.manishsinha.net/2011/04/07/gnome-asia/   (manish, 15:39:01)

''ACTION:'' nigelb to post about bangalore ugj  (geekosopher, 15:40:33)

* m4n1sh_ to take intro session on libraries

* The way ahead with the new website - mistrynitesh

''ACTION:'' geekosopher to remind mingo to continue upgrade the website  (geekosopher, 15:47:13)

* Next month team reports - Chair

Meeting ended at 15:59:10 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* abhinav- to do this month's team reports
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* Next month meeting chair - Chair
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* nigelb to post about bangalore ugj
* geekosopher to remind mingo to continue upgrade the website

=== Action items, by person ===

* geekosopher
* * geekosopher to remind mingo to continue upgrade the website
* nigelb
* * nigelb to post about bangalore ugj

=== People present (lines said) ===

* geekosopher (70)
* manish (53)
* meetingology (27)
* vikash (16)
* nigelb (16)
* abhinav- (9)
* tazz (8)
* akshatj (1)

=== Full Log ===

 15:32:49 <geekosopher> #startmeeting

 15:32:49 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Apr 13 15:32:49 2011 UTC.  The chair is geekosopher. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 15:32:49 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 15:33:18 <geekosopher> #topic Previous action items - Chair

 15:33:18 <meetingology> TOPIC: Previous action items - Chair

 15:33:31 <geekosopher> so what did we agree to do last?

 15:33:43 <manish> I think there was a list

 15:33:48 <manish> right?

 15:34:03 <geekosopher> yes, pulling it up

 15:34:32 <geekosopher> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianTeam/Meetings/20110314

 15:34:53 <geekosopher> how was the ugj?

 15:34:59 <manish> nigelb: ping

 15:35:10 <geekosopher> nigelb: waiting for your post

 15:35:14 <geekosopher> :)

 15:35:49 <nigelb> It was awful

 15:35:55 <nigelb> which is why I haven't blogged yet

 15:36:00 <geekosopher> abhinav-: there was no lucknow UGJ, right

 15:36:04 <manish> yes, I was supposed to come

 15:36:07 <manish> to UGJ

 15:36:14 <manish> but could not due to some unavoidable reasons

 15:36:23 <manish> some serious unavoidable reasons. I botched up

 15:36:29 <abhinav-> right, I was waiting on IRC, there are not many geeks around me :)

 15:36:51 <geekosopher> ok

 15:36:53 <manish> geekosopher: next

 15:36:55 <nigelb> manish: and I don't think you want those reasons on the record :p

 15:37:05 <manish> nigelb: yes

 15:37:08 <geekosopher> so I guess we missed this opportunity to gang up

 15:37:09 <manish> :P

 15:37:11 <nigelb> heh

 15:37:22 <geekosopher> we should be planning for natty release parties then

 15:37:24 <vikash> hello everyone!

 15:37:29 <manish> vikash: hello

 15:37:34 <manish> geekosopher: yeah. Lets try

 15:37:36 <geekosopher> hi vikash

 15:37:41 <manish> geekosopher: also UGJ clashes with gnome.asia

 15:37:48 <manish> *clashed

 15:37:58 <geekosopher> hmmm

 15:38:07 <geekosopher> anybody here participated in it?

 15:38:11 <geekosopher> manish: ^

 15:38:22 <manish> geekosopher: where? UGJ or gnome.asia?

 15:38:28 <geekosopher> gnome.asia

 15:38:41 <manish> geekosopher: yes

 15:38:44 <manish> I have a report too

 15:38:49 <geekosopher> link please

 15:39:01 <manish> http://milky.manishsinha.net/2011/04/07/gnome-asia/

 15:39:13 <geekosopher> thanks

 15:39:32 <geekosopher> ok so what about natty release parties?

 15:39:50 <geekosopher> are we going to plan a local one in our cities?

 15:40:04 <geekosopher> I am sure bangalore will have one ;)

 15:40:08 <manish> hope so

 15:40:24 <geekosopher> first of all let me action an item

 15:40:25 <vikash> manish, hello *

 15:40:26 <vikash> So is this meeting going one

 15:40:26 <vikash> *on

 15:40:26 <vikash> gnome asia was awesome

 15:40:33 <geekosopher> #action nigelb to post about bangalore ugj

 15:40:33 * meetingology nigelb to post about bangalore ugj

 15:40:42 <manish> vikash: you should write a small post

 15:40:46 <manish> and send it to geekosopher

 15:40:57 <geekosopher> vikash: please do what manish says

 15:40:58 <vikash> about gnome asia

 15:41:02 <geekosopher> yes

 15:41:04 <vikash> ?

 15:41:07 <manish> vikash: yes

 15:41:16 <vikash> sure

 15:41:26 <manish> anything left?

 15:41:29 <akshatj> ah, so there is a meeting going on

 15:41:47 <geekosopher> anyone from delhi here right now?

 15:42:02 <geekosopher> akshatj: welcome to the party

 15:42:03 <vikash> geekosopher, your email?

 15:42:27 <manish> vikash: you can ping him

 15:42:30 <manish> or send to the mailing list

 15:42:39 <vikash> ok

 15:42:41 <geekosopher> vikash: see my pm

 15:42:49 <vikash> gt it

 15:43:00 <vikash> geekosopher, got it thnx

 15:43:15 <manish> next topic

 15:43:21 <geekosopher> anyways, there is a contact@ubuntu-in.info

 15:43:29 <geekosopher> yes

 15:43:48 <geekosopher> m4n1sh_ to take intro session on libraries

 15:44:11 <geekosopher> oops

 15:44:17 <geekosopher> #topic m4n1sh_ to take intro session on libraries

 15:44:17 <meetingology> TOPIC: m4n1sh_ to take intro session on libraries

 15:44:23 <manish> I took one session

 15:44:26 <manish> but not on library

 15:44:35 <geekosopher> ok

 15:44:41 <geekosopher> do we have logs?

 15:44:44 <manish> Zeitgeist API & Zeitgeist Application Integration

 15:44:52 <manish> Logs - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/appdevweek1104/Zeitgeist

 15:45:02 <geekosopher> cool

 15:45:22 <geekosopher> so thats about this topic, next one up

 15:45:46 <geekosopher> #topic The way ahead with the new website - mistrynitesh

 15:45:46 <meetingology> TOPIC: The way ahead with the new website - mistrynitesh

 15:45:58 <manish> I think our designer is not here

 15:46:10 <geekosopher> yes, I was expecting him here today

 15:46:22 <manish> we can defer it

 15:46:25 <geekosopher> we need to remind him of his promise ;)

 15:46:33 <manish> yes

 15:46:46 <geekosopher> will mail him in a day

 15:46:50 <manish> sure

 15:47:13 <geekosopher> #action geekosopher to remind mingo to continue upgrade the website

 15:47:13 * meetingology geekosopher to remind mingo to continue upgrade the website

 15:47:56 <geekosopher> anything else left to discuss, before we vote for the next chair and team reporter?

 15:48:20 <manish> I dont think so

 15:48:24 <abhinav-> my lp membership is pending :-/

 15:48:40 <nigelb> abhinav-: that's an lp bug

 15:48:42 <nigelb> which is now fixed

 15:48:56 <geekosopher> bug?

 15:49:09 <manish> geekosopher: bug in launchpad system

 15:49:10 <nigelb> yeah

 15:49:14 <geekosopher> oh yes

 15:49:24 <nigelb> I'll poke someone to make it open again

 15:49:24 * abhinav- checks his memberships

 15:49:40 <manish> nigelb: catch gary_poster on #launchpad-dev

 15:49:43 <nigelb> anyway, being part or not being part, doesn't stop you from contributing

 15:49:45 <manish> or jml or lifeless

 15:49:45 <nigelb> manish: no no

 15:49:51 <nigelb> I need to catch one of our admins

 15:49:53 <manish> they can redirect them

 15:50:02 <manish> yes, then can redirect it to the admins

 15:50:08 <abhinav-> nigelb: yeah :)

 15:50:10 <nigelb> No.

 15:50:21 <nigelb> Our team admin must make it open, that's it

 15:50:30 <nigelb> need to poke gosub or tuxmaniac

 15:50:53 <manish> that way

 15:50:53 <manish> hmm

 15:51:07 <manish> anything else?

 15:51:31 <geekosopher> we have 10 more minutes,

 15:51:56 <manish> I dont think there is much left

 15:52:15 <geekosopher> ok

 15:52:21 <geekosopher> #topic Next month team reports - Chair

 15:52:21 <meetingology> TOPIC: Next month team reports - Chair

 15:52:45 <geekosopher> I propose abhinav- since he missed the opportunity last month

 15:53:21 <geekosopher> anyone else want to nominate ?

 15:53:24 <manish> abhinav-: fine?

 15:53:34 <tazz> i like the way you put it. "missed the opportunity last month"

 15:53:38 <geekosopher> #vote abhinav- to do this month's team reports

 15:53:38 <meetingology> Please vote on: abhinav- to do this month's team reports

 15:53:38 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 15:53:39 <abhinav-> yeah.

 15:53:50 <geekosopher> +1

 15:53:50 <meetingology> +1 received from geekosopher

 15:53:52 <abhinav-> +1

 15:53:52 <meetingology> +1 received from abhinav-

 15:53:58 <tazz> +1

 15:53:58 <meetingology> +1 received from tazz

 15:53:58 <manish> +1

 15:53:58 <meetingology> +1 received from manish

 15:54:15 <geekosopher> tazz: ;)

 15:54:39 <geekosopher> vikash: your vote?

 15:54:40 <manish> tazz: I thought you were afk

 15:54:41 <nigelb> +1

 15:54:41 <meetingology> +1 received from nigelb

 15:54:48 <tazz> manish, why?

 15:55:00 <manish> tazz: you were not taking part in the meet

 15:55:10 <manish> so thought u are afk

 15:55:13 <tazz> manish, ah, i was afk

 15:55:15 <tazz> mostly.

 15:55:18 <geekosopher> ok so times up

 15:55:20 <manish> anything else left

 15:55:22 <geekosopher> #endvote

 15:55:22 <meetingology> Voting ended on: abhinav- to do this month's team reports

 15:55:22 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 15:55:22 <meetingology> Motion carried

 15:55:29 <vikash> +1

 15:55:38 <tazz> vikash, dosnt count now.

 15:55:40 <geekosopher> vikash: too late :P

 15:55:45 <vikash> :(

 15:55:52 <geekosopher> #vote Next month meeting chair - Chair

 15:55:52 <meetingology> Please vote on: Next month meeting chair - Chair

 15:55:52 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 15:56:09 <geekosopher> I nominate manish

 15:56:23 <geekosopher> he missed the opportunity today :)

 15:56:27 <manish> lol

 15:56:28 <abhinav-> :)

 15:56:37 <geekosopher> +1

 15:56:37 <meetingology> +1 received from geekosopher

 15:56:37 <abhinav-> +1

 15:56:37 <meetingology> +1 received from abhinav-

 15:56:39 <tazz> +1

 15:56:39 <meetingology> +1 received from tazz

 15:56:45 <vikash> keh do ki yeh jhooth hai!

 15:56:48 <vikash> +1

 15:56:48 <meetingology> +1 received from vikash

 15:58:04 <geekosopher> counting till 10 to close vote

 15:58:07 <geekosopher> 1

 15:58:10 <geekosopher> 2

 15:58:15 <tazz> 3

 15:58:17 <geekosopher> 10

 15:58:26 <geekosopher> #endvote

 15:58:26 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Next month meeting chair - Chair

 15:58:26 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 15:58:26 <meetingology> Motion carried

 15:58:28 <nigelb> you shoulda said 1 2 10 ;)

 15:58:41 <abhinav-> 1 and 10 in the world of binaries :)

 15:58:50 <geekosopher> ok, so wrap up the business this time

 15:58:53 <manish> yes

 15:59:01 <geekosopher> thank you all for rocking the party ;)

 15:59:09 <manish> :)

 15:59:10 <geekosopher> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
