{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Lucid Release Party! ==

In celebration of the release of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (Lucid Lynx), the Indiana Ubuntu Local Community team will have a '''Release Party''' to celebrate.  Just like the past two springs, we will celebrate the release of the newest Ubuntu version from Noon until 8:30 PM (the park closes at 8:30 so we unfortunately can't stay until 10:04 PM) at the '''Reddick Shelterhouse''' at '''Fort Harrison State Park in Indianapolis'''.  We're holding our Lucid Release Party on Saturday, May 8, 2010.

Fort Harrison State Park is a day use park and '''we must exit the park prior to the gate's closing at 8:30 PM'''.  The park entrance is located at Post Road and East 59th Street on Indianapolis' East side.  '''There is a $5 entrance fee per car''' with Indiana license plates (your receipt gives you in and out privileges for the day).

<nowiki>[[http://www.in.gov/dnr/parklake/files/ftharrison_trail.pdf|Park Map and Brochure]]</nowiki>

Please RSVP by adding your name to the chart below so we know how much food is needed.

=== Park Rules ===
* Dogs and cats must be on leashes less than 6 feet long and attended to at all times
* All trash must be removed from the shelter per the Carry In/Carry Out policy
* Refer to the <nowiki>[[http://www.in.gov/dnr/parklake/files/ftharrison_trail.pdf|Park Brochure]]</nowiki> for additional rules
 

=== Shelter Amenities ===
* 27 picnic tables
* Charcoal grill
* Fireplace
* 4 electrical outlets

=== Stuff to bring ===

* Charcoal
* Lighter fluid
* Food
* Soft Drinks (limited quantities of alcohol are also allowed per park rules)
* Trash bags
* Coolers
* Ice

=== Lucid Release Party Attendees ===

Number and Name and What You're Bringing are most important - other information is used to help people recognize attendees by means other than their names.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Number
| Name
| What You're Bringing
| Planned Arrival Time
| Wiki Page
| E-mail
| IRC nick
| Forums nick
| Note
|-
| 1.
| Michael Schultheiss
| Hamburgers
| ~11:00 AM
| MichaelSchultheiss
| schultmc@cinlug.org
| schultmc
| schultmc
| I'll be wearing a <nowiki>[[http://www.cafepress.com/inloco|Team T-shirt]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2&3
| Jason & Gayle Corfman
| charcoal, lighter fluid, dessert
| ~11:00 AM
| Corfy2
| computers at corfyscorner.com
| corfy
| corfy
| 
|-
| 4&5
| Simón & Sarah Ruiz
| Brats, Veggies & Beer / Trash Bags
| ~11:00 AM
| 
| 
| 
| see IndianaTeam page
| <nowiki>[[http://www.cafepress.com/inloco|Team T-shirt]]</nowiki>, too. Can't stay too late.
|}

=== Carpool ===

If you have space to give a ride, or would like a ride, please make a note down here:
