{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

We are participating in Ubuntu Global Jam!

=== Introduction ===
IndianTeam is participating in UbuntuGlobalJam for Natty Narwhal cycle. UbuntuGlobalJam is the time when you groove and jive with your friends in the local community while contributing to the improvement and polishing of the upcoming ubuntu release (this time or Natty Narwhal which will eventually become Ubuntu 11.04).

The events will be held all over the world on 1st, 2nd and 3rd of April. During these 3 days, we come together to:
* Test the latest development release and file/triage/fix bugs
* Update the documentation of your favourite applications
* Translate Ubuntu to your language
* Package software for Ubuntu
* Test the process of upgrading to Natty and give your feedback
* Anything else that you can think of including marketing/promotion of Ubuntu

=== Events ===
Global jam is best conducted by meeting in person. Even if you are 4-5 of your area/city, try to gang up at some place where you can find a power source and internet connection and start ''jammin`''. In case this is too cumbersome (long distance or lack of mobile equipment or whatever), just join #ubuntu-in irc channel on irc.freenode.net and start grooving with rest of the Indians from there.

If you are jamming in person, just add your area/city here with the date, time and address
* Bangalore: 
** 3rd April 2011
** 11:30 UTC (4:00 PM IST)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.jaaga.in | Jaaga, Bengaluru]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps/place?cid=6204047418301939679 | Google Maps]]</nowiki>
** Participants:
** <Name of Participants>
** Pics

Don't forget to take pictures of your event and add them below your city name here (or if your wiki-fu is not optimum, send them to contacts -AT- ubuntu-in -DOT- info and we will upload your pics here.

=== Tasks ===
