{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by nigelb at 15:39:29 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/ubuntu-in/2011/ubuntu-in.2011-01-07-15.39.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous action items
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianTeam/Meetings/20101217   (nigelb, 15:43:09)

* Ubuntu User Days
''LINK:'' http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays   (nigelb, 15:47:42)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam/CourseSuggestions   (nigelb, 15:48:18)

* Team Reports
''ACTION:'' geekosopher to update team reports for January for Ubuntu India, guided by nigelb  (nigelb, 15:52:24)

* packaging sessions
''ACTION:'' coolbhavi to start packaging training at 9 pm IST every fortnight  (nigelb, 16:01:39)

* Support for getting Telugu  at boot level on 11.04

* Ubuntu Developer Day in Bangalore
''ACTION:'' arjunaraoc and nigelb to attend Ubuntu Developer Day and submit report to the list  (nigelb, 16:15:17)

* AOB

* Chair for next meeting
''ACTION:'' coolbhavi to chair next meeting  (nigelb, 16:20:32)

Meeting ended at 16:21:12 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* geekosopher to update team reports for January for Ubuntu India, guided by nigelb
* coolbhavi to start packaging training at 9 pm IST every fortnight
* arjunaraoc and nigelb to attend Ubuntu Developer Day and submit report to the list
* coolbhavi to chair next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* arjunaraoc
* * arjunaraoc and nigelb to attend Ubuntu Developer Day and submit report to the list
* coolbhavi
* * coolbhavi to start packaging training at 9 pm IST every fortnight
* * coolbhavi to chair next meeting
* geekosopher
* * geekosopher to update team reports for January for Ubuntu India, guided by nigelb
* nigelb
* * geekosopher to update team reports for January for Ubuntu India, guided by nigelb
* * arjunaraoc and nigelb to attend Ubuntu Developer Day and submit report to the list

=== People present (lines said) ===

* nigelb (113)
* coolbhavi (38)
* geekosopher (21)
* m4n1sh (15)
* arjunaraoc (14)
* meetingology (14)
* lut4rp (12)
* aanjhan (9)
* rohitnikcool (1)
* tazz (1)

=== Full Log ===

 15:39:29 <nigelb> #startmeeting

 15:39:29 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Jan  7 15:39:29 2011 UTC.  The chair is nigelb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 15:39:29 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 15:39:30 <coolbhavi> me too

 15:39:45 <nigelb> Hello folks and welcome to the monthly meeting of Ubuntu India loco community

 15:39:56 <coolbhavi> hey nigelb

 15:40:03 <nigelb> who's here for the meeting today? o/

 15:40:06 <nigelb> o/

 15:40:08 <arjunaraoc> o/

 15:40:08 <m4n1sh> o/

 15:40:21 * coolbhavi lifts his hands up

 15:40:48 <coolbhavi> o/

 15:41:01 <rohitnikcool> m4n1sh: r u there

 15:41:05 <m4n1sh> rohitnikcool: yes

 15:41:16 <m4n1sh> rohitnikcool: let the meeting finish

 15:41:27 <nigelb> #topic Previous action items

 15:41:27 <meetingology> TOPIC: Previous action items

 15:41:55 <nigelb> I had a bunch of action items from last time which I haven't been able to get to.

 15:42:03 <nigelb> I'll get them done in the next few days or so.

 15:42:29 <nigelb> neither Mohi or mingo is here

 15:42:42 <tazz> /

 15:42:45 <geekosopher> yes

 15:42:52 <nigelb> But mingo updated the list that he's having exams and he won't be able to deal with the website for some time.

 15:42:58 <geekosopher> mingo already took the leave i guess

 15:43:03 <nigelb> I'm looking at action items at this link btw https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianTeam/Meetings/20101217

 15:43:09 <nigelb> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianTeam/Meetings/20101217

 15:43:21 <nigelb> lut4rp: ping

 15:43:31 <nigelb> lut4rp: Hey, were you able to find time to shut down the forums?

 15:43:44 <nigelb> I spoke to lut4rp last month and he said there wasn't much to glean from the forums.

 15:44:06 <geekosopher> hmm

 15:44:15 <nigelb> Anyone else left over from last topic?

 15:44:33 <coolbhavi> nigelb, on packaging sessions?

 15:45:05 <nigelb> coolbhavi: hrrm, we didn't action it last time. I'll bring it up this time

 15:45:23 <coolbhavi> nigelb, oh okay

 15:45:37 <coolbhavi> shadeslayer, ping

 15:45:53 <nigelb> Anyone has something to talk about, place it here http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/ruJjatsRTi

 15:46:25 <nigelb> so, we'll go in that order today.

 15:46:36 <geekosopher> ok

 15:46:50 <nigelb> I think next time I'll get it more organized.

 15:46:56 <nigelb> Sorry about the mess this time around

 15:47:00 <geekosopher> np

 15:47:11 <nigelb> ok, moving on

 15:47:20 <nigelb> #topic Ubuntu User Days

 15:47:20 <meetingology> TOPIC: Ubuntu User Days

 15:47:32 <nigelb> As you folks might probably know, we're having the Ubuntu User Days again.

 15:47:39 <coolbhavi> yes

 15:47:41 <geekosopher> \0/

 15:47:42 <nigelb> #link http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays

 15:47:55 <nigelb> We have about 18 sessions already signed up.

 15:48:18 <nigelb> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam/CourseSuggestions

 15:48:47 <nigelb> If you want to suggest a course or want to take a course, please get in touch with pleia2, nhandler, or me in #ubuntu-classroom-backstage

 15:49:06 <nigelb> We'd like your help in getting word out about the sessions since they are all user oriented

 15:49:15 <geekosopher> but how do we involve our loco in it, or is it not intended to be?

 15:49:16 <nigelb> A lot of sessions will be beginner friendly too.

 15:49:32 <nigelb> geekosopher: We'd like the locos to spread the word out and get people to attend

 15:49:41 <geekosopher> ok

 15:49:58 <nigelb> Any questions/suggestions about UUD?

 15:50:47 <geekosopher> nothing comes to mind right now

 15:51:06 <nigelb> lets move on then

 15:51:18 <nigelb> #topic Team Reports

 15:51:18 <meetingology> TOPIC: Team Reports

 15:51:27 <nigelb> I'd like to have a volunteer for team reports.

 15:51:36 <nigelb> I already have to deal with team reports for like 3 teams.

 15:51:53 <nigelb> so if somone would like to help out, now would be a nice time to say so.

 15:51:53 <geekosopher> I propose my candidature

 15:52:00 <nigelb> geekosopher: accepted.

 15:52:01 <geekosopher> but under some guidance

 15:52:24 <nigelb> #action geekosopher to update team reports for January for Ubuntu India, guided by nigelb

 15:52:24 * meetingology geekosopher to update team reports for January for Ubuntu India, guided by nigelb

 15:52:57 <geekosopher> as I understand, it would involve interacting with various team members and updating the status of action items, right?

 15:53:13 <nigelb> geekosopher: No, I'll explain after the meeting.

 15:53:17 <geekosopher> ok :)

 15:53:19 <aanjhan> Is there a possibility to link all these team reports from our wikki?

 15:53:32 <nigelb> aanjhan: the reports have to be done on the wiki

 15:53:44 <aanjhan> ok cool. Use ubuntu-in.info for that :)

 15:53:48 <nigelb> aanjhan: But the ubuntu wiki, since its linked to newsletter

 15:54:08 <aanjhan> nigelb: then please do link them atleast on our site

 15:54:19 <nigelb> aanjhan: Yeah, I'll do that

 15:54:27 <nigelb> or I'll get whoever who's doing it to do that

 15:54:30 <aanjhan> All meeting logs also go here http://ubuntu-in.info/wiki/Releasedlogs

 15:54:30 <nigelb> ;)

 15:54:40 <nigelb> Ah, ok

 15:54:46 <aanjhan> Its been quite sometime since that happened

 15:54:47 <aanjhan> :)

 15:54:48 <geekosopher> cool

 15:54:58 <nigelb> aanjhan: heh, true :)

 15:55:00 <nigelb> will do

 15:55:07 <nigelb> anything more on team reports topic?

 15:55:11 <aanjhan> If you have any problem regarding protected page you know whom to ping

 15:55:13 <aanjhan> Am done

 15:55:27 <nigelb> aanjhan: heh, yes

 15:55:29 <nigelb> you

 15:55:32 <aanjhan> :)

 15:55:44 <nigelb> #topic packaging sessions

 15:55:45 <meetingology> TOPIC: packaging sessions

 15:55:54 <coolbhavi> o/

 15:55:54 <nigelb> coolbhavi: floor's yours :)

 15:56:05 <coolbhavi> thanks nigelb

 15:56:24 <coolbhavi> any suggestions on the framework anyone?

 15:56:35 <nigelb> o/

 15:56:42 <coolbhavi> i m ready with shadeslayer

 15:56:46 <nigelb> Can we join up with the packaging training?

 15:57:01 <nigelb> The one that dholbach and I are all involved in.

 15:57:15 <coolbhavi> yes I can contact dholbach

 15:57:24 <coolbhavi> and slytherin too

 15:57:30 <coolbhavi> if he is free

 15:57:39 <nigelb> So, what is the proposal as of now?

 15:58:21 <coolbhavi> I intend to take up sessions every fortnight if possible here

 15:58:39 <nigelb> hrm, is it possible to do in #ubuntu-classroom?

 15:58:53 <nigelb> The resource is available and we could serve a bigger crowd too.

 15:59:10 <coolbhavi> yes but you need to pullin bigger audience

 15:59:28 <nigelb> we can start small and go big

 15:59:42 <coolbhavi> thats fine from me

 15:59:46 <nigelb> spread the word that the indian loco is taking packaging training every fortnight at $foo time.

 16:00:33 <nigelb> we'll map out the details after the meeting and mail the list

 16:00:39 <geekosopher> i suggest we take it at a time suitable to this region

 16:00:44 <coolbhavi> nigelb, will put up on ML btw is the timings perfect every fortnight 9PM IST

 16:00:59 <nigelb> coolbhavi: that would be perfect for us

 16:01:04 <nigelb> us = India

 16:01:12 <coolbhavi> nigelb, thanks!

 16:01:39 <nigelb> #action coolbhavi to start packaging training at 9 pm IST every fortnight

 16:01:39 * meetingology coolbhavi to start packaging training at 9 pm IST every fortnight

 16:01:57 <coolbhavi> :)

 16:02:27 <nigelb> #topic Support for getting Telugu  at boot level on 11.04

 16:02:27 <meetingology> TOPIC: Support for getting Telugu  at boot level on 11.04

 16:02:36 <nigelb> arjunaraoc: hey, all yours :)

 16:02:50 <arjunaraoc> nigelb thx

 16:03:10 <arjunaraoc> I want to have Telugu support at boot level for 11.04

 16:03:42 <arjunaraoc> Finished debian installer translation and it it available on debian squeeze beta weekly build. any past best practices?

 16:04:09 <coolbhavi> arjunaraoc, anyone collaborating with d-i along with you?

 16:04:10 <nigelb> Have you talked to the Ubuntu translation people?

 16:04:21 <nigelb> specifically, dpm

 16:04:26 <coolbhavi> yes

 16:04:28 <arjunaraoc> yes

 16:04:39 <arjunaraoc> yet talk to dpm in detail

 16:04:48 <arjunaraoc> working with christian (debian)

 16:05:00 <coolbhavi> great!

 16:05:03 <nigelb> dpm should be able to help you on the debian side or at least get you to somone who can help

 16:05:43 <arjunaraoc> just wanted to know whether we have anyone from India?

 16:06:24 <coolbhavi> arjunaraoc, isnt there a telugu translation team in ubuntu?

 16:06:35 <arjunaraoc> yes.

 16:06:58 <arjunaraoc> we have 76 people interested but hardly  3 people active

 16:07:49 <nigelb> yeah, that's normal

 16:07:53 <coolbhavi> arjunaraoc, :( you can start a specific mailing list i think for collaboration

 16:07:53 <nigelb> badge collectors

 16:08:04 <coolbhavi> +1

 16:08:29 <arjunaraoc> I did  couple of months back. There is slight response recently

 16:08:51 <nigelb> so, do we have an action for this?

 16:09:08 <coolbhavi> nigelb, your call

 16:09:08 <arjunaraoc> I guess no. I will ping back if I need support

 16:09:50 <nigelb> okay, lets move on to next topic

 16:09:59 <nigelb> #topic Ubuntu Developer Day in Bangalore

 16:09:59 <meetingology> TOPIC: Ubuntu Developer Day in Bangalore

 16:10:14 <arjunaraoc> any updates?

 16:10:21 <coolbhavi> m4n1sh, nigelb attending?

 16:10:35 <m4n1sh> coolbhavi: not sure

 16:10:44 <m4n1sh> its on 27th ? right?

 16:10:45 <coolbhavi> me too :(

 16:10:52 <nigelb> Well, it seemed to be overly focused on people developing *on* Ubuntu particularly hardware manufactureres

 16:10:53 <coolbhavi> yes on a weekday

 16:10:58 <m4n1sh> yeah

 16:10:59 <geekosopher> mumbaikars should be green with envy with all the events happening in Banglore

 16:11:09 <m4n1sh> more of OEM and ISV conference

 16:11:13 <nigelb> I for one wasn't all that excited seeing the talks.

 16:11:18 <nigelb> m4n1sh: exactly

 16:11:18 <coolbhavi> yes

 16:11:32 <nigelb> I'm having second thoughts about attending, but I might go for it.  maybe.

 16:11:40 <m4n1sh> I think one person shoulld go

 16:11:48 <m4n1sh> and send a detailed writeup to the list

 16:11:54 <m4n1sh> with his/her experiences

 16:11:56 <nigelb> I'll do that then.

 16:12:00 <arjunaraoc> i am planning to. I will be happy to share a report

 16:12:06 <lut4rp> back

 16:12:07 <nigelb> If somone would like to go, get in touch with me.

 16:12:09 <lut4rp> hi hi hi

 16:12:14 <nigelb> I don't want to be the bored guy there

 16:12:20 <nigelb> hey, its a lut4rp :p

 16:12:26 <lut4rp> yep

 16:12:29 <lut4rp> it's the third one

 16:12:31 <nigelb> lut4rp: Were you able to shut down forums etc?

 16:12:40 <nigelb> (darn, the etc habbit has caught on)

 16:12:52 <coolbhavi> m4n1sh, right idea :)

 16:12:56 <lut4rp> nigelb, no, I haven't done that yet

 16:13:05 <lut4rp> But everyone is with me?

 16:13:11 <lut4rp> that we *do* have to shut them down?

 16:13:17 <m4n1sh> nigelb: have a vote

 16:13:19 <nigelb> yeah, we voted last time

 16:13:42 <m4n1sh> only one -1

 16:13:46 <m4n1sh> and rest all was +1

 16:13:52 <lut4rp> yeah ok

 16:14:08 <lut4rp> so do I just take them down?

 16:14:16 <lut4rp> or is there anything "archive worthy"

 16:14:16 <nigelb> yeah, go ahead :)

 16:14:29 <nigelb> lut4rp: I thought you told me there wasn't much archive worthy

 16:14:36 <lut4rp> yes, I dont think there is

 16:14:58 <nigelb> Then, kill it.

 16:15:01 <lut4rp> kk

 16:15:17 <nigelb> #action arjunaraoc and nigelb to attend Ubuntu Developer Day and submit report to the list

 16:15:17 * meetingology arjunaraoc and nigelb to attend Ubuntu Developer Day and submit report to the list

 16:15:29 <nigelb> #topic AOB

 16:15:29 <meetingology> TOPIC: AOB

 16:15:37 <nigelb> Any Other Buisness?

 16:16:59 <geekosopher> i guess the silence says it all

 16:16:59 <nigelb> Anyone

 16:17:04 <nigelb> hehe

 16:17:39 <m4n1sh> yes

 16:18:09 <nigelb> m4n1sh: You want to say something?

 16:18:37 <m4n1sh> nigelb: none

 16:18:53 <nigelb> in that case, I'll move on to the last topic

 16:19:22 <geekosopher> sure

 16:19:22 <nigelb> #topic Chair for next meeting

 16:19:22 <meetingology> TOPIC: Chair for next meeting

 16:19:33 <coolbhavi> o/

 16:19:37 <nigelb> I've been charing the last 2 meetings and taking care of stuff.  Anyone interested in helping?

 16:19:44 <geekosopher> I have never seen a better moderator than nigelb :)

 16:19:53 <nigelb> geekosopher: why thank you

 16:19:58 <nigelb> coolbhavi: Want to take a shot?

 16:20:12 <coolbhavi> if you want I can :) nigelb

 16:20:16 <geekosopher> may be this is the only meeting i attend

 16:20:22 <geekosopher> ;)

 16:20:25 <nigelb> heh

 16:20:32 <nigelb> #action coolbhavi to chair next meeting

 16:20:32 * meetingology coolbhavi to chair next meeting

 16:20:43 <coolbhavi> :)

 16:20:47 <nigelb> ok, closing call.

 16:20:49 <nigelb> 10

 16:20:51 <nigelb> 9

 16:20:53 <nigelb> 8

 16:20:55 <nigelb> 7

 16:20:56 <coolbhavi> thank you

 16:20:57 <nigelb> 6

 16:20:59 <nigelb> 5

 16:21:02 <nigelb> 4

 16:21:04 <nigelb> 3

 16:21:06 <coolbhavi> night nigelb

 16:21:07 <nigelb> 2

 16:21:09 <nigelb> 1

 16:21:12 <nigelb> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
