{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
The allocation to the aspirant of ''' membership ubuntu-in ''' represents an acknowledgment to the same aspirant of its support to the Indian community of Ubuntu.

The support is defined like the participation of the aspirant in the community in various ways which: 

* the creation and/or the translation of documentation for our wiki, in Rosetta or in the contents of our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-in.org/wiki/Main_Page|website]]</nowiki>, 

* support to the other customers in forum, in channel IRC ''' #ubuntu-in ''' inside Freenode net or in the mailing list or in the <nowiki>[[https://answers.edge.launchpad.net|answer tracker]]</nowiki>

and all other asset that contributes to the increase and the improvement of the Indian community of Ubuntu.

== Requirement for membership ==
(!) First of all, it assures you to have indeed carried out one ''' substantial contribution '''. If that were not, You still wait and continue to improve our community before the proposal to be a  member. 

Moreover they are necessary to have: 

* acquaintance of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IndianTeam/Structure|structure of our community]]</nowiki>; 

* signed having conduct code of Ubuntu 

== Deserve Membership? How do I proceed? ==
The procedure is following: 

You prepare a personal page in our wiki in which you describe same you little, but above all indicates the job made inside of the community (on rosetta, the pages of the wiki that you have created/translate, messages on the forum and in the mailing list, etc…) 

To have an other member that “guarantees” for you, in the sense that can testify your “reliability”. It is not a crucial point, but it can however be an aid. 

You make the question in the group ubuntu-in members in Launchpad to this address: https://launchpad.net/~indmembers 

Post on the appropriate forum assuring you to leave a link your personal page. Then, you wait for  your candidacy approval. You can encourage other people to support your candidacy approval on the irc.         

Your candidacy will come eventually considered and approved of from the members of Council.

== Already approved? Then What? ==
You continue, to greater reason, your support to the community.

You will have an address username @ubuntu-in.org 

Our LoCo Council  will activate redirect the email when the address approves of you (is username@ubuntu-in.org, username will be that one of yours account on Launchpad; the email sent to that address will be attached to the address that you have set up as preferred on Launchpad). If address email does not work, You can contact our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-in.org/wiki/User:Soumyadip|System Administrator]]</nowiki>

== Final Word ==
The membership it expires after 1 year, but it can be renewed. Its a renew obviously,But depends also on the fact that the person who possessed such acknowledgment ''' has continued to to contribute in consistant  manner to the community '''.
