{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Halaman ini berisi daftar pedoman untuk menambah dan menghapus software di Ubuntu

=== Pedoman dalam kategori ini ===
* <nowiki>[[IndonesianSynapticHowto]]</nowiki> - Synaptic (graphical tool untuk apt-get) memungkinkan instalasi, upgrading dan penghapusan program. Instruksi ini menganggap bahwa anda memiliki hak untuk menjalankan <nowiki>[[RootSudo|sudo]]</nowiki>. (Jika anda meng-install sendiri Ubuntu, maka anda memilikinya).
* AddingRepositoriesHowto - Menambah jumlah dari paket yang tersedian untuk di-install di sistem anda. Apa itu repositories? Bacalah: <nowiki>[[Repositories]]</nowiki>
* AptGetHowTo - Cara untuk menggunakan sistem manajemen paket apt-get
* AptitudeSurvivalGuide - Menggunakan aptitude untuk manajemen paket
* <nowiki>[[AudioCDCreation]]</nowiki> - Software untuk membuat CD audio
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats|Non-free multimedia formats]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu tidak memasukkan dukungan untuk mp3/dvd/flash/java dalam CD. Halaman ini memberi tahu anda cara untuk meng-installnya
* <nowiki>[[P2PHowTo|Peer-2-Peer How-To]]</nowiki> - Cara meng-install software p2p, seperti Azureus (Bit Torrent), Limewire, DC++ dan Amul

=== Software spesifik yang dikenali oleh Gnome ===
Software spesifik terdaftar di bawah tab yang akan anda temukan di dalam desktop gnome. Tambahkan software lain di bawah kelompok yang sesuai
==== Applications > Accesories ====
==== Applications > Games ====
* <nowiki>[[http://icculus.org/neverball/|Neverball]]</nowiki> - Similar to Monkeyball
* <nowiki>[[http://www.reptilelabour.com/software/chromium/|Chromium]]</nowiki> - Unique space shooter
* <nowiki>[[http://www.frozen-bubble.org/|Frozen Bubble]]</nowiki> - Similar to Puzzle Bobble
* <nowiki>[[http://supertux.berlios.de/|SuperTux]]</nowiki> - Jumping side-scroller
* <nowiki>[[http://vegastrike.sourceforge.net/|Vega Strike]]</nowiki> - an OpenSource 3d Space Simulator
* <nowiki>[[http://tuxracer.sourceforge.net/|Tux Racer]]</nowiki> - Downhill penguin racing
==== Applications > Graphics ====
* <nowiki>[[TheGimpHowto|The Gimp]]</nowiki> - powerful graphic design program
==== Applications > Internet ====
* FirefoxTipsAndTricks - How to tweak Firefox to make surfing the web faster, easier and more pleasant.
* <nowiki>[[SSHHowto|SSH]]</nowiki> - you can use this to log into other machines remotely
* <nowiki>[[GaimHowto|Gaim]]</nowiki> - multi-protocol internet chat program (e.g. MSN)
==== Applications > Office ====
* <nowiki>[[EvinceMozilla|Evince & Firefox]]</nowiki> - Howto embed PDFs with Evince in Mozilla/Firefox
==== Applications > Other ====
==== Applications > Programming ====
* <nowiki>[[NanoHowto|Nano]]</nowiki> - the simple text editor
==== Applications > Sound and Video ====
* <nowiki>[[MultimediaApplications]]</nowiki> - General intro to multimedia applications in Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats|Non-free multimedia formats]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu does not come with support for mp3/dvd/flash/java. This page tells you how to install it
* <nowiki>[[MplayerInstallHowto|Install Mplayer]]</nowiki> - the popular and powerful media player
* <nowiki>[[BeepMediaPlayer]]</nowiki> - Install Beep Media Player and configure plugins
* <nowiki>[[GJay]]</nowiki> - Playlist generator which chooses appropriate songs to follow the previous one
* <nowiki>[[Amarok]]</nowiki> - a KDE media player
* <nowiki>[[MythTV]]</nowiki> - a digital video recorder
==== Applications > System Tools ====

=== Specific Software ===
(not recognised by Gnome, listed by category)
==== Accesories ====
==== Games ====
* <nowiki>[[LokiInstaller|Loki-Installer]]</nowiki> - Information about games with the Loki-Installer
* <nowiki>[[RushingBender|Rushing Bender]]</nowiki> - a futuristic single and a multiplayer racing game.
* <nowiki>[[EnemyTerritory| Enemy Territory]]</nowiki> - How to install '''Enemy Territory'''
* <nowiki>[[AmericasArmy| Americas Army]]</nowiki> - How to install '''Americas Army'''
* <nowiki>[[Doom3| Doom 3]]</nowiki> - How to install '''Doom 3'''
* <nowiki>[[Cube]]</nowiki> - an opensource first person online shooter
* <nowiki>[[Nexuiz]]</nowiki> - an opensource first person online shooter
* <nowiki>[[Frenesia]]</nowiki> - an addictive retro arcade Linux game.
* <nowiki>[[Tutris]]</nowiki> - a simple Tetris clone
* <nowiki>[[Cedega]]</nowiki> - to run Windows games on linux.
==== Graphics ====
==== Internet ====
* <nowiki>[[SkypeHowto|Skype]]</nowiki> - internet telephony software
* <nowiki>[[Gizmo]]</nowiki> - internet telephony software
* <nowiki>[[OperaBrowser]]</nowiki> - an alternative web-browser
* <nowiki>[[HulaHowTo|Hula]]</nowiki> - the mail and calendar server
==== Office ====
==== Other ====
==== Programming ====
* ZopeOnUbuntu - Install '''Zope'''
==== Sound and Video ====
* <nowiki>[[DVDAuthoring]]</nowiki> - Software for authoring DVDs
==== System Tools ====
==== Applets ====
* <nowiki>[[GXMMS|gxmms]]</nowiki> - GNOME panel applet that lets you control the basic functions of XMMS or BMP
==== Unsorted ====
* <nowiki>[[AcrobatHowTo|Adobe Acrobat]]</nowiki> - pdf viewer
* <nowiki>[[iFolderHowto]]</nowiki> - Install and configure '''iFolder 3.0 with Simpleserver''' to share and synchronize files over the network

----
* <nowiki>[[DMA|Improve CD/DVD drive performance]]</nowiki> - activate Direct Memory Access
* <nowiki>[[MidiSoftwareSynthesisHowTo|MIDI Software Synthesis]]</nowiki> - most soundcards will need this to play MIDI

=== Related categories ===

=== Automatically generated list of pages in this category ===

<<FullSearch>>

To add a page to this category, add a link to this page on the last line of the page. You can add multiple categories to a page.

----
