{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Lucian ===

Hello, everyone! I originally started my venture in to the computer science world when I was 11 years old. I worked on my parents PC that was booted in to Windows 95 and IRC was the first place I started 'hanging out'. As I became more experienced with the Windows platform, I started studying C++ and Java programming. The first useful project I completed was coding my own unique compression algorithm which led to the development of my own file compression utility. I kept adding on until the software was compatible with all other major compression formats. Afterwards, I developed my own IRC clients, a primitive IRCd and an all-in-one instant messaging client for AIM, Yahoo and IRC. When I was 16 I started building custom PC's for friends, family and occasionally to clients so I could have some real spending money. I have dabbled in various web design languages including HTML (duh), javascript, php, perl, and sql. I create computer graphics for my father whenever he makes a new product for his business. When I use his system, I always use Adobe Photoshop CS2, Illustrator and a few others. When on Linux, always The Gimp and Inkscape. 

=== Why I Vanquished Windows ===

I started using Ubuntu Linux in May, so that gives me about 7 months of experience. I pretty much kicked Windows like a bad habit because I was sickly tired of the resource hogging applications that have pretty much become manditory to keep your PC clean of virii, malware, spyware and other external threats. I had ZoneAlarm, AVG Antivirus, Windows Defender, Ad-aware, Spybot, and a few other applications installed and constantly updating them one by one. This can become VERY tiring I was looking for a more secure way for my computing needs without the resource constraints. I had previously tried out OpenSUSE and Fedora and hated them. I was finally inspired to try Ubuntu and I have to say, I dont regret it one bit. :D

=== Goals ===

I begin college in Jan 2008 and am going for a Bachelors in Computer Science. If my finances are all right when I graduate, I plan to keep going for my Masters and Doctorate degrees. 

=== Primary PC ===

* CPU: AMD Athlon 64 3800+
* Memory: 1024 Mb (DDR)
* HDD: 250 Gb + 250 Gb External
* Other: SD/CF/SM/MS Reader, 6 USB, 1394, DVDR/CDR Combo

Upgrades: Plan on replacing the Motherboard with a faster model, add an additional 250Gb HDD, swap my two 512Mb DDRs with two 1 Gb DDRs, implement a liquid cooling system and upgrading my graphics card to something better with included HDMI output.

=== Contacting Me ===

* IRC Nick: lucian and indylucian
* AOL IM: convolucian
* Yahoo IM: lucian.adamson
* Jabber: evolucian

I only wish to be contacted by IRC, AOL IM, Yahoo IM, or Jabber. I do not use any of the email services associated with any of the names. Please do not try to contact me by email.
----
CategoryHomepage
