{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== IndyTim's Home Page ===

Personal Background:

Currently living in a suburb of Indianapolis.  Born and raised in Wisconsin.  A job transfer took me to Indiana in 1995.

Computer Background:

I've been involved in computers in one form or another since 1967 (IBM 360).  In my current employment, I spend the majority of my time designing, building and rolling out corporate information systems.  These systems are on a global basis serving the information needs of 1000+ users.  My main platforms for these applications include a Apache web server running on a Unix box.  We are using php predominantly with a little bit of java scripting.  The data backend is handled by a MySQL server.

Operating System Information:

My Linux (Ubuntu family of operating systems) started in January, 2006.  My initial installation was Ubuntu V5.10.  Subsequently, I have built in Ubuntu V6.10.  In November, 2006, I removed Ubuntu V6.10 and did a full replacement with Kubuntu V6.10.  On 11-Mar-2007, I added Xubuntu V6.10 to the lineup of active operating systems.  I retain boot capabilities into Window 2000 Pro in support of some AV programs that I cannot find suitable replacements for in the Linux world.

Computer Hardware:

The principal PC is configured as:

Intel P4 @2.4G

1 G RAM

Radeon Video

1 DVD ROM Optical

1 DVD RW Optical

HD #1 160G SATA (used for ops)

HD #2 320G SATA (used for data storage and initial backups)

Adding 1 external HD (320G SATA)

Broadband access

Printer Lexmark E322 (laser)

Preferred Applications:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Amarok | Sound Juicer | K3B | Firefox | Thunderbird | Krusader | Scite | Partimage
|}

----
CategoryHomepage
