{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
Ubuntu is an open source software platform that runs from the cloud, to the smartphone, to all your things.
=== The story of Ubuntu ===
Ubuntu is an ancient African word meaning ‘humanity to others’. It also means ‘I am what I am because of who we all are’. The Ubuntu operating system brings the spirit of Ubuntu to the world of computers.
=== Where did it all being? ===
Linux was already established as an enterprise server platform in 2004, but free software was not a part of everyday life for most computer users. That’s why Mark Shuttleworth gathered a small team of developers from one of the most established Linux projects — Debian — and set out to create an easy-to-use Linux desktop: Ubuntu.
The vision for Ubuntu is part social and part economic: free software, available to everybody on the same terms, and funded through a portfolio of services provided by Canonical.
=== How you can contribute ===
As an open source platform it is easy for anyone to be able to contribute to Ubuntu projects. These can range from bug fixes to building apps to adding features to the OS to cool IoT projects. 
We have put together some kits, project ideas and resources to get you started. 
== The Kits ==
Kits will contain the following items to get you started, plus a bit of swag to make you look cool: <<BR>>
* Stickers
* Pens
* T Shirts - maybe
* USBs with Ubuntu on
* IoT boards
* Cheat sheets
* Infographic/poster
* Notebooks
* Videos

Please note: These items may be subject to change depending on availability. 

== Install Ubuntu ==
You can work on projects using Ubuntu desktop or Ubuntu core for IoT (Internet of Things) or both. The instructions below will show you how to get started with these options. 
=== CS/other track ===
* Put <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/install-ubuntu-desktop|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> on your machine (or buy a machine with Ubuntu)
* Use ubuntu-make to set-up environment
* Install any specialist software you need

=== IoT track ===
* Use Ubuntu on your machine and ubuntu-make 
* IoT install <nowiki>[[https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/snappy/start/|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> and find board that supports Ubuntu

== Cool projects ==
=== Contribute to an existing project ===
There are several ways you can contribute to Ubuntu (and not all of them involve writing code). <<BR>>
==== The trusty techy ====
For the trusty techy in you, you can: 
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Writing_Code|Write code for new features]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Maintaining_Ubuntu|Maintain Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Testing_and_Bug_squashing|Test and squash bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Helping_others_with_Ubuntu|Help others use Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
==== The clever creative ====
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Creating_Artwork|Create artwork]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Usability|Help with usability]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Giving_Ideas_and_Feedback|Give ideas and feedback]]</nowiki>
==== The adventurous advocate ====
* Spread the word through:
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Converting_Friends|Converting friends]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Marketing|Marketing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Ubuntu_Women|Ubuntu women]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#Donating|Donating]]</nowiki>

=== Create your own project ===
Come up with a cool idea and then make it. <<BR>>
You can get started with <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/a/canonical.com/presentation/d/1EMuUESdFxZ17iQmDXaHj9W7bcrScrk0H6o_paQn2pLY/edit?usp=sharing|Snaps from zero to hero]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Example projects coming soon so watch this space! 
=== Join the Community ===
* Subscribe to a <nowiki>[[https://community.ubuntu.com/contribute/support/mailinglists/|mailing list]]</nowiki>
* Join <nowiki>[[https://community.ubuntu.com/contribute/support/irc/|Community IRC channels]]</nowiki>
* Use <nowiki>[[https://community.ubuntu.com/contribute/support/launchpad-answers/|Launchpad answers]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://community.ubuntu.com/contribute/support/ask-ubuntu/|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
== Resources ==
<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/governance| Governance]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu <<BR>>
Dual boot instructions for <nowiki>[[http://www.tecmint.com/install-ubuntu-16-04-alongside-with-windows-10-or-8-in-dual-boot/|Windows]]</nowiki>. <<BR>>
Create <nowiki>[[http://snapcraft.io|Snap packages]]</nowiki>. <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://jvns.ca/blog/2016/09/07/new-zine-linux-debugging-tools-youll-love/|Linux debugging tools]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
