{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Aka: Cyberanger
=== My Contact Info ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Zach Gibbens
|-
| '''Jabber:'''
| cyberanger@jabber80.com
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| https://launchpad.net/~infocop411
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| cyberanger on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=336041|cyberanger]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Personal Site:'''
| Upgrade in Progress <nowiki>[[http://www.zachgibbens.org]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
I've been involved in computers since I was 3. (It was 1993 & Tandy didn't have the slim laptops as today, but I had fun with it for sure) A Linux Fan Since I don't know when, I've used Live Disks of many distro's & try to be knowledgeable on many too. I obtained my first computer in 2006, & wasn't too long after that I installed xubuntu on it. I have really gotten to like Ubuntu over the years.

I recently was a college student studying for an IT degree, but have taken a break for (among other reasons) it's cost.

I had worked for Real IT Concepts & Have also done commission work for <nowiki>[[http://www.radiatedcomputers.com/|Radiated Computers]]</nowiki>.
=== Contributions To The Ubuntu Community ===
* Op for irc://irc.freenode.net/ubuntu-us-tn (Current)
* Helped with the Computer Gaming at Chattacon 34 & 35 (Running Xubuntu)
* Helped setup & run the Ubutnu LoCo table at the 1st SouthEast Linux Fest 
   <nowiki>[[http://amber.redvoodoo.org/2009/06/my-first-linux-fest-self-southeast.html]]</nowiki>
* Volunteered at Atlanta Linux Fest in Oct. 2009 & Fosscon RIT in June 2010
* Volunteered at Chattacon 34 & 35 in Computer Gaming (we had Xubuntu on all the computers)
* I was the Poc for East TN section of the Tennessee LoCo, & am currently the Trustee Poc for the Tennessee LoCo

=== Testimonials ===
* Zach is a bright young man with a real passion for Ubuntu and GNU/Linux. He spends a great deal of his time making himself available for other LoCo members, family, and friends. A true enthusiast. --Rich Gray (netritious)
* Zach is always willing to lend a hand and help folks out he is our LoCo's resident expert on the command line and also extremely helpful with security issues. -- WesleyStout
