{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

** IIIMF
** SCIM/UIM
** UIM
** XIM

=== IIIMF ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.openi18n.org/modules.php?op=modload&name=Sections&file=index&req=viewarticle&artid=30&page=1|IIIMF]]</nowiki> is a project part of the <nowiki>[[http://www.openi18n.org/|Free Standard Group Open Internationalization Initiative]]</nowiki>. It is an input method framework aimed to be platform independent, multilingual and unicode based, multiuser, windowing system independent, extensible and more.
On Linux, IIIMF is supported by RedHat, see the <nowiki>[[http://apac.redhat.com/iiimftest/|Fedora IIIMF testing page]]</nowiki> for more info.

==== IIIMF packages ====
** im-sdk
*** iiimf-htt-csconv
*** iiimf-htt-le-canna
*** iiimf-htt-le-indic
*** iiimf-htt-le-newpy
*** iiimf-htt-server
*** iiimf-htt-xbe
*** iiimgcf
*** im-sdk-docs
*** im-sdk
*** libiiimcf-dev
*** libiiimcf2
*** libiiimp-dev
*** libiiimp0

=== SCIM ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.scim-im.org/|SCIM]]</nowiki> is a Freedesktop project. Can use UIM's language input method with the scim-uim wrapper. SCIM is designed so it is easy to develop input methods with it.

==== SCIM packages ====
** scim
*** scim
*** scim-server-socket
*** scim-gtk2-immodule
*** scim-frontend-socket
*** scim-dev
*** scim-config-socket
** scim-uim
** scim-chinese
** scim-hangul
** scim-m17n
** scim-tables

=== UIM ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.freedesktop.org/Software/uim|UIM]]</nowiki> is a Freedesktop project. It is a multilingual input method library. The languages Input Methods are written in scheme. All the UIM input methods can be used with SCIM with the scim-uim wrapper.

==== UIM packages ====
** uim
*** libuim0
*** libuim-dev
*** libuim-dev
*** uim-applet-gnome
*** uim-common
*** uim-fep
*** uim-gtk2.0
*** uim-helper-server
*** uim-utils
*** uim-xim
*** uim-xim
*** uim-xim
*** uim

=== Related ===
** [JapaneseInputHowto] using UIM (can be applied to other languages)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.m17n.org/|The M17N project]]</nowiki> is badly needed for some languages like Vietnamese. But the corresponding packages, `libm17n-0` and `m17n-db`, have not been updated (in Debian and so in Ubuntu) for almost 2 years! During that time there has been new releases with the last one bringing a major enhancement (say requirements for Vietnamese typing) in functionnalities. I did package them myself (which is very easy with Gutsy) and put them in our <nowiki>[[http://wiki.hanoilug.org/soft:apt:hanoilug|HanoiLUG repository]]</nowiki> but I would rather love to see them in some standard Ubuntu repository instead! Any option to do this? -- ProgFou
Fill a Launchpad bug for the packages in question, request an update in the bug, link the diff files for your packages and it should make it easy. Join the ubuntu-devel-discuss mailing list if you need help - it's always a shame to see some packages limited to a small group of users when it would benefit everybody if the person building the packages would just submit :( -- Loïc

From SimosXenitellis Sun Apr 24 00:45:14 +0100 2005
From: SimosXenitellis
Date: Sun, 24 Apr 2005 00:45:14 +0100
Subject: On IIIMF and a global Input Method
Message-ID: <20050424004514+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

See the blog of Iich (http://www.livejournal.com/users/llch/).
Specifically, entry http://www.livejournal.com/users/llch/2396.html

OpenOffice.org only supports IIIMF (see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/openoffice.org/+bug/44626|Malone#44626]]</nowiki>.  If SCIM or UIM is selected, it would be nice to provide an IIIMF bridge to support OOo.

CategoryArchive
