{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Steps ===

Follow these steps to install WebSphere Portal Server 6.1 on Kubuntu 8.10 x64

# Download the Required Files from IBM
# Install Java
# Make DNS Entry
# Install Required Libraries
# Install
# Access the Portal Page

=== Version Information ===

This installation guide was tested with the following software and versions.

It may work for other versions as well.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Software'''
| 
| '''Version'''
|-
| Linux
| 
| Kubuntu 8.10 x64 Intrepid Ibex KDE 4
|-
| Portal Server
| 
| IBM WebSphere Portal Server 6.1.0.1
|-
| JDK
| 
| Sun Java x64 1.6.0.10 (build 1.6.0_10-b33)
|-
| Web Browser
| 
| Mozilla Firefox 3.0.5 x64
|}

=== Download the Required Files from IBM ===

Download the following IBM packages.
Unpack the files to the indicated folders. (You must use these folder names).
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Folder'''
| 
| '''IBM Package'''
| 
| '''Description'''
|-
| IL-Setup
| 
| C1TL1ML
| 
| Setup CD - BM WebSphere Portal Server Install V6.1.0.1
|-
| IL-1
| 
| C1TQ8ML
| 
| WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment for Linux on x86-32
|-
| IL-2
| 
| C1TR9ML
| 
| IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment for Linux on x86-64
|-
| IL-3
| 
| C1U2UML
| 
| IBM WebSphere Portal Server Server component (Disk 1 of 4)
|-
| IL-4
| 
| C1U2XML
| 
| IBM WebSphere Portal Server Server component (Disk 2 of 4)
|-
| IL-5
| 
| C1U30ML
| 
| IBM WebSphere Portal Server Server component (Disk 3 of 4)
|-
| IL-5A
| 
| C1U34ML
| 
| IBM WebSphere Portal Server Server component (Disc 4 of 4)
|}

=== Install Java ===

'''1. Install Sun's JDK 1.6'''
<pre>
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk
</pre>

'''2. Install the Iced Tea Java Browser Plugin for Firefox (optional)'''
<pre>
sudo apt-get install icedtea6-plugin
</pre>

'''3. Select the correct Java version'''
<pre>
sudo update-alternatives --config java
</pre>

If prompted, select the number corresponding to <code>/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun/jre/bin/java</code>.

'''4. Verify the Java Version'''
<pre>
java -version
</pre>

The output will look like this.
<pre>
java version "1.6.0_10"
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.6.0_10-b33)
Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 11.0-b15, mixed mode)
</pre>

=== Make DNS Entry ===

A fully qualified DNS entry is required during installation.

'''1. To configure the DNS entry for your computer, edit the hosts file.'''
<pre>
kdesudo kate /etc/hosts
</pre>

'''2. Add an entry to your hosts file.'''

Add <code>mycomputer.mydomain.com</code> as shown in the third line below.  Do not change any of the other lines.

''(The value here is an example; you may use any fully qualified host name and domain name you wish.)''
<pre>
127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1    mycomputer
127.0.0.1    mycomputer.mydomain.com

::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts
</pre>

=== Install Required Libraries ===

The installer requires version 5 of the Standard C++ libraries (<code>libstdc++5</code>), and the 32 bit libraries (<code>ia32-libs</code>).
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libstdc++5 ia32-libs
</pre>
Note that without the 32 bit libraries, the installer silently exists during launch without even giving an error message.

=== Set the Shell ===

Kubuntu uses dash as the default shell, but the installer requires bash. Change the shell using the following steps.
<pre>
ls -la /bin/s*
sudo rm /bin/sh
ls -la /bin/s*
sudo ln -s /bin/bash /bin/sh
ls -la /bin/s*
</pre>
(After installation you can optionally reset the shell to dash; see the ''Reset the Shell'' section below for instructions).

=== Install ===

==== Launch the Installer ====

'''1. Make installation files executable.'''

Navigate to the parent folder of the installation folders.

(This is the directory where you placed IL-Setup, IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, and IL-5A).

<pre>
cd <location of installation folders>
</pre>

Change the installer file permissions.
<pre>
sudo chmod a+x ./IL-Setup/install.sh
sudo chmod a+x ./IL-Setup/dist/linwpinstall
</pre>

'''2. Launch the installer.'''
<pre>
kdesudo ./IL-Setup/install.sh
</pre>
When launched from the parent folder, the installer will access all necessary installation files automatically.

==== Installer Steps ====

'''1. Begin the installation.'''

Click Next

'''2. Software License Agreement.'''

Select: I accept the terms in the license agreement
 
Click Next

'''3. Select the installation type you prefer.'''

Select: Full
 
Click Next

'''4. Warning Dialog'''

Ignore the following warning message.

''EJPIC0007E: Operating System prerequisite check failed. Refer to the message log file /tmp/installmessages.txt for additional information.''
 
Click OK

'''5. Enter the installation directory.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Enter the WebSphere Portal Installation directory.
| 
| /opt/IBM/WebSphere
|}

Click Next

'''6. Enter Node and Host Information.'''

Enter the same host and domain information from your DNS entry above.

''(The node name here is an example; you may use any node name name you wish.)''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Node Name:
| 
| Node01
|-
| Host Name:
| 
| mycomputer.mydomain.com
|}
 
Click Next

'''7. Warning Dialog'''

Ignore the following warning message.

''EJPIC0071W: Host name mycomputer.mydomain.com does not match local host name. Enter the host name again if it is incorrect.''
 
Click OK

'''8. Enter Administrator Information.'''

''(The values here are examples).''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Administrative user ID:
| 
| admin
|-
| Administrative password:
| 
| admin
|-
| Confirm password:
| 
| admin
|}

Click OK

'''9. IBM WebSphere Portal is ready to install.'''

You will see the following message.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Products to install:'''
| 
| <(>IBM WebSphere Portal 6.1.0.1
|-
| '''Installation type:'''
| 
| <(>Full
|-
| '''Installation details:'''
|-
| WebSphere Portal installation location:
| 
| <(>/opt/IBM/WebSphere/PortalServer
|-
| WebSphere Application Server installation location:
| 
| <(>/opt/IBM/WebSphere/AppServer
|-
| WebSphere Portal profile location:
| 
| <(>/opt/IBM/WebSphere/wp_profile
|-
| Host name:
| 
| <(>mycomputer.mydomain.com
|-
| Node name:
| 
| <(>Node01
|-
| Administrator user ID:
| 
| <(>admin
|-
| '''Total size on disk:'''
| 
| <(>4 GB
|}

Verify the above information, then Click Next

''Note: The installation process will take 40 minutes or more. The progress bar will remain unchanged for a long period of time, but the installation is under way, and you should not cancel.''

'''10. Installation was successful.'''

Uncheck: Launch First Steps
 
Uncheck: Launch the configuration wizard
 
Click Finish.

==== Access the Portal Page ====

'''1. Launch Firefox and enter the following URL...'''

http://mycomputer.mydomain.com:10040/wps/portal

'''2. Enter the User ID and Password.'''

Enter the same user id and password you setup during installation.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| User ID:
| 
| admin
|-
| Password:
| 
| admin
|}

'''3. Click Login'''

=== Reset the Shell (Optional) ===

Since Kubuntu uses dash as the default shell, you can reset this shell (instead of bash) using the following steps.
<pre>
ls -la /bin/s*
sudo rm /bin/sh
sudo ln -s /bin/dash /bin/sh
</pre>

If you reset the shell to dash, you must also fix all of the installed IBM scripts using the following steps.
<pre>
sudo perl -p -i -e "s/\/sh$/\/bash/" /opt/IBM/WebSphere/AppServer/bin/*
sudo perl -p -i -e "s/\/sh$/\/bash/" /opt/IBM/WebSphere/PortalServer/bin/*
</pre>

=== Important Commands & URLs ===

==== Portal Server ====

===== Start the Portal Server =====
<pre>
sudo /opt/IBM/WebSphere/wp_profile/bin/startServer.sh WebSphere_Portal
</pre>

===== Stop the Portal Server =====
<pre>
sudo /opt/IBM/WebSphere/wp_profile/bin/stopServer.sh WebSphere_Portal
</pre>

===== Portal Server Main Page =====

http://mycomputer.mydomain.com:10040/wps/portal

...or...

http://localhost:10040/wps/portal

===== Admin Console =====

https://localhost:10041/ibm/console

==== WebSphere Application Server ====

===== Start the Application Server =====
<pre>
sudo /opt/IBM/WebSphere/wp_profile/bin/startServer.sh server1
</pre>

===== Stop the Application Server =====
<pre>
sudo /opt/IBM/WebSphere/wp_profile/bin/stopServer.sh server1
</pre>

===== Admin Console =====

http://localhost:10001/ibm/console
