{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Launchpad (go here for bugs, people, etc.): <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-installer|ubuntu-installer]]</nowiki>

== Where to File Bugs ==

If you have a bug in the installer found on the "desktop" or "live" CD (the graphical installer), then please file that against the "ubiquity" package.

If you have a bug in the installer found on the "alternate", "server", or "install" CD (the text-based installer), then please file that against the "debian-installer" package in the first instance. It may be assigned to a more appropriate package later.

== Goals and Responsibilities ==

* Maintain the Ubuntu installer at the quality of the last stable release or better.
* Keep the Ubuntu installer in sync with the Debian installer as much as we can, and feed back relevant changes.
* Develop new installer features, in cooperation with Debian and with the other groups using d-i.
* Support users who have problems installing Ubuntu.

== Development ==

InstallerDevelopment has plenty of information on getting started as an installer developer.

== Warning ==

Please put general thoughts on mailing lists or elsewhere on the wiki, and bugs in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu|Launchpad]]</nowiki>, rather than leaving messages here.

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
