{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Install Adobe Acrobat Reader in Ubuntu ==

In this guide we will give you a short description off how to install the software '''Adobe Acrobat Reader''' on '''Ubuntu'''.

This guide works for '''Ubuntu 8.04''' known as Hardy Heron, and '''Ubuntu 7.10''' (Gutsy Gibson) .

=== Guide ===
1. You must go to Adobe website, specifically to the address http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep2_allversions.html;

2. You must choose the options that follow your requirements. But note, that in "Select an Installer" option you must choose the DEB instaler. The option is: "Linux - x86(.deb);

3. Press select and the download will start;

4. Go to folder where the the download as send, and double click in the debian package named AdobeReader_lan-x.x.x-x.i386.deb.

5. Then the Package Installer will open for you, and you must choose the Install Package option;

6. Because you need, administrative rights to install software in Linux, for your system security, it will prompt to you a window so that you enter your password. Do it;

7. The Package Installer will do the rest of the job.
   When the Package Installer finished, Adobe Acrobat will be installed in your computer.

   It will accessible by going to Applications -> Office. Or right click on a PDF document, and choosing the option "Open With".

==== Note ====
In the fourth step:

'''lan''' - indicates the chosen language;

'''x.x.x-x''' - indicates the version off software;

=== Important Notes ===
==== Note 1 ====
'''Adobe Acrobat Reader''' is not free and open software, it's a proprietary product created by <nowiki>[[http://www.adobe.com/|Adobe]]</nowiki>.

So this software, it is not maintained by any member off the Ubuntu Community, and any possible errors (bugs) presented by it is not responsibility off the Ubuntu Community;

=== Related Links ===
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/10/28/how-to-install-adobe-acrobat-reader-on-ubuntu-710/|Install Adobe Acrobat Reader in Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon - Ubuntu Tutorials]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2008/06/23/install-adobe-acrobat-reader-812-on-ubuntu-804/|Install Adobe Acrobat Reader in Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron - Ubuntu Tutorials]]</nowiki> 
