{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page is out of date.  You probably want <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CitrixICAClientHowTo|CitrixICAClientHowTo]]</nowiki>.

=== Install Citrix ===
==== Citrix 10.6 ====

Version 10.6 of the Citrix Presentation Server Client for Unix was released on Jun. 28, 2007. Fortunately, it provides a much simpler installation process than the previous version (see below) in which one was forced to convert an rpm package to a Debian package. Unfortunately, there are still only x86 and ARM versions available, so PowerPC users are out of luck.

The procedure for version 10.6 is as follows:

1. Download the .tar.gz version from this page:
<pre>
http://www.citrix.com/English/SS/downloads/details.asp?dID=2755&downloadID=3323&pID=186#top
</pre>

2. Install required libraries:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libxaw6 libmotif3
</pre>

On Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex) there is no package libxaw6. Instead, there is libxaw7, which is installed by default. Thus, you only need to run:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libmotif3
</pre>

3. Unzip the package, using a GUI tool or the command:
<pre>
tar xvfz en.linuxx86.tar.gz
</pre>

4. Open a terminal in or <code>cd</code> into the directory where you unzipped it, and run the command:
<pre>
sudo ./setupwfc
</pre>
You will enter the installation menu. Choose <code>1</code> to install. (The same application is also used to uninstall. You will be asked to choose an installation directory - the default should be fine. You are given one last chance to backout, and then the installation proceeds. When it's done, so are you.

5. Use your browser to navigate to your Citrix server site. When you click on an application's icon for the first time, you will be presented with a dialog asking what to do with .ica files. Click the Browse button next to "Open with:" and use the file menu to choose <code>/usr/lib/ICAClient/wfica</code>. (Adjust this for the directory where you installed the client if you did not use the default.) Make sure you have "Do this every time" checked, and hit OK. The Citrix client should launch and you will have access to your applications. (You may or may not need to create links in the Firefox plugins folder as described below.)

===== Troubleshooting =====

On Ubuntu x64 you may need to get 32 bit version of libmotif3 library to make Citrix client to work.

1. Download 32 bit package of libmotif3 from http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/i386/libmotif3/download.

2. Extract files from the downloaded package:

<pre>
dpkg -x libmotif3_2.2.3-2_i386.deb /tmp
</pre>

3. Copy libmotif3 library to lib32:

<pre>
sudo cp /tmp/usr/lib/libXm.so.3 /usr/lib32/
</pre>

4.  Citrix client should work now. Extracted files in /tmp can be deleted.

==== Citrix 9 ====

Download Citrix 9.0 client for Linux (RPM version): 
<pre>
http://www.citrix.com/site/SS/downloads/details.asp?dID=2755&downloadID=3323#top
</pre>

Install addtional libraries and alien:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libxaw6 libmotif3 alien
</pre>

Link libXm.so.3 so wfcmgr.bin can see it (bug in Citrix client):
<pre>
ln -s /usr/X11R6/lib/libXm.so.3 /usr/lib/libXm.so.3
</pre>

Convert .rpm to .deb using alien command:
<pre>
sudo alien ICAClient-9.0-1.i386.rpm
</pre>

Install newly created icaclient_9.0-2_i386.deb file:
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i icaclient_9.0-2_i386.deb
</pre>

Copy over plugins for Firefox/Mozilla:
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/ICAClient/npica.so /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/npica.so
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/ICAClient/npica.so /usr/lib/mozilla-firefox/plugins/npica.so
</pre>

==== Older Citrix Server ====

Configure ICAClient:
<pre>
sudo /usr/lib/ICAClient/wfcmgr -icaroot /usr/lib/ICAClient
</pre>
Goto the Tools menu –> Select Server Location from the selection bar –> Goto Network Protocol selection bar –> Change it to only TCP/IP

Click the Apply button.
