{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The first step of the installation will be booting the machine with the installation program. The selection of boot media depends entirely on what your machine can boot from, so there's the list, in decreasing order of convenience:

=== Booting from CD ===

* Step 1: Configure your machine to boot from CD. (Might need to insert the CD and issue some commands.)
* Step 2: Insert the CD
* Step 3: Reboot

'''Where to find the images?'''

=== Booting from the Network ===

'''Refer to the system administrator, who should know how to set up BOOTP images on your installation.'''

 This method has the added charm that the networking connection is up and running right from the beginning, so you can continue the installation without having to worry about networking.

=== Booting from Hard Disk ===

'''Need information on how to place the boot image on a HD'''

This may be one of your options for machines that you administer remotely, with no means of placing an installation medium in the drive.

=== Have a running Unixoid system, no need to boot ===

The boot step is just so that the installer has a Unix-like environment in which to run. If you're already running some variant of Unix, this is obviously not necessary.

If your machine can boot either from its hard disk or something Unixish from somewhere else (that "somewhere else" is usually the network, and some minimal Linux distribution dubbed the "rescue system" or similar), then this is the only method.

It is also the method of choice if you find that the Ubuntu boot media don't work properly, but you manage to install ; or when the Ubuntu boot media don't work for any reason, but you find that some other Linux would boot and install.

'''Need information from the Ubuntu Installation Guide at https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/installation-guide/i386/linux-upgrade.html'''

'''Might want to adjust position of this paragraph to reflect convenience'''

=== Booting from Floppy ===

'''PowerPC architecture note:''' If you have a CHRP system, you can't boot the installation program from floppy. Choose another boot method.

'''Need information on where to get floppy boot images'''
