{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page describes the release process for new versions of debian-installer and ubiquity.

=== debian-installer ===
'''TODO'''

=== ubiquity ===
# Run <code>debconf-updatepo</code> and commit the result, if any, of that.
# Run <code>./debian/rules update</code>, then check and commit the result.  It's important to not commit runs of <code>./debian/rules update</code> until you're ready to release, as failing to creates noise in the history.
# Run <code>dch -r</code> then <code>debuild -S</code>.  Grab the source of the version of ubiquity in the archive by running <code>apt-get source ubiquity</code>, then run <code>debdiff</code> against the archive version and your just built copy, and pipe it into your editor of choice to review the changes.  It's often helpful to use filterdiff to remove translation noise.  For example:<<BR>>
 <code>debdiff /tmp/ubiquity_1.13.8.dsc ~/bzr/ubiquity_1.13.9.dsc | filterdiff -x 'debian/po/*.po' -p1 | view -</code>
# If your review of the <code>debdiff</code> does not uncover any problem code or files that do not belong in the package (temporary files created by your editor, for example), sign and upload the package to the archive by running <code>debsign</code> and <code>dput</code> on the <code>.changes</code> file, in that order.
# If in your review of the debdiff you notice major new features or new preseed questions, it's worth noting them in a message to .
# If the next ubiquity release is going to be in a new release of Ubuntu, bump the minor version in configure.ac, then run ./autogen.sh and commit.
