{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Steps ===

Follow these steps to install IBM Rational Software Architect 7.5 on Kubuntu 8.10 x64

# Download the Required Files from IBM
# Install Java
# Install Required Libraries
# Set the Shell
# Install RSA
# Fix Installation Manager K-Menu Entries
# Reset the Shell (Optional)

=== Version Information ===

This installation guide was tested with the following software and versions.

It may work for other versions as well.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Software'''
| 
| '''Version'''
|-
| Linux
| 
| Kubuntu 8.10 x64 Intrepid Ibex KDE 4
|-
| Rational Software Architect
| 
| IBM Rational Software Architect 7.5
|-
| JDK
| 
| Sun Java x64 1.6.0.10 (build 1.6.0_10-b33)
|}

=== Download the Required Files from IBM ===

Download the following IBM packages.
The zip files will be extracted into the indicated folders. (You must use these default folder names).
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Folder'''
| 
| '''Zip File'''
| 
| '''IBM Package'''
| 
| '''Description'''
|-
| PEK
| 
| RSASE75_LAK.zip
| 
| C1LQ4ML
| 
| IBM Rational Software Architect Standard Edition V7.5 License Activation Kit Multilingual Multiplatform Part 1
|-
| RSASE_SETUP
| 
| RSASE75_P1.zip
| 
| C1LR6ML
| 
| IBM Rational Software Architect Standard Edition V7.5 Multilingual Multiplatform Part 1
|-
| RSASE
| 
| RSASE75_P2.zip
| 
| C1LS8ML
| 
| IBM Rational Software Architect Standard Edition V7.5 Multilingual Multiplatform Part 2
|-
| 
| 
| RSASE75_P3.zip
| 
| C1LS9ML
| 
| IBM Rational Software Architect Standard Edition V7.5 Multilingual Multiplatform Part 3
|-
| RSA_SE
| 
| RSASE75_QSG.zip
| 
| C1K0PML
| 
| Quick Start Guide - IBM Rational Software Architect Standard Edition V7.5 Multilingual Multiplatform - Read Me First
|}

=== Install Java ===

'''1. Install Sun's JDK 1.6'''

<pre>
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk
</pre>

Note that the installer and RSA use an internal JRE, so this step may not be necessary.

'''2. Install the Iced Tea Java Browser Plugin for Firefox (optional)'''

<pre>
sudo apt-get install icedtea6-plugin
</pre>

'''3. Select the correct Java version'''

<pre>
sudo update-alternatives --config java
</pre>

If prompted, select the number corresponding to <code>/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun/jre/bin/java</code>.

'''4. Verify the Java Version'''
<pre>
java -version
</pre>

The output will look like this.
<pre>
java version "1.6.0_10"
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.6.0_10-b33)
Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 11.0-b15, mixed mode)
</pre>

=== Install Required Libraries ===

'''1. Install C++ Libraries and 32 Bit Libraries'''

The installer requires version 5 of the Standard C++ libraries (<code>libstdc++5</code>), and the 32 bit libraries (<code>ia32-libs</code>).

<pre>
sudo apt-get install libstdc++5 ia32-libs
</pre>

Without the 32 bit libraries, the installer silently exists during launch without even giving an error message.

'''2. Install 32 Bit <code>libqtcurve</code>'''

Go to http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/i386/gtk2-engines-qtcurve/download

Select a mirror and download the file <code>gtk2-engines-qtcurve_0.59.4-0ubuntu1_i386.deb</code> to your Desktop.

<pre>
cd ~/Desktop
sudo dpkg -x gtk2-engines-qtcurve_0.59.4-0ubuntu1_i386.deb ./extracted
sudo cp ./extracted/usr/lib/gtk-2.0/2.10.0/engines/libqtcurve.so /usr/lib32/gtk-2.0/2.10.0/engines
sudo rm -r ./extracted
rm gtk2-engines-qtcurve_0.59.4-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
</pre>

Without the 32 bit version of <code>libqtcurve</code>, the RSA/Eclipse gui does not have the nice KDE look and feel.

=== Set the Shell ===

Kubuntu uses dash as the default shell, but the installer requires bash. Change the shell using the following steps.

<pre>
ls -la /bin/s*
sudo rm /bin/sh
ls -la /bin/s*
sudo ln -s /bin/bash /bin/sh
ls -la /bin/s*
</pre>

(After installation you can optionally reset the shell to dash; see the ''Reset the Shell'' section below for instructions).

=== Change File Permissions ===

'''1. Make installation files executable.'''

Navigate to the parent folder of the installation folders.

(This is the directory where you placed PEK, RSASE_SETUP, RSASE, and RSA_SE).

<pre>
cd <rsa install directory>
</pre>

Change the installer file and JRE permissions.

<pre>
sudo chmod a+x ./RSASE_SETUP/InstallerImage_linux/install
sudo chmod a+x ./RSASE_SETUP/InstallerImage_linux/jre_5.0.2.sr5_20070511/jre/bin/java
</pre>

Note that the installer uses an internal JRE, <code>jre_5.0.2.sr5_20070511</code>.

=== Install Installation Manager ===

'''1. Launch the installer.'''

Navigate to the parent folder of the installation folders.

(This is the directory where you placed PEK, RSASE_SETUP, RSASE, and RSA_SE).

<pre>
sudo ./RSASE_SETUP/InstallerImage_linux/install
</pre>

When launched from the parent folder, the installer will access all necessary installation files automatically.

'''2. Install the Installation Manager'''

Select ''IBM Installation Manager''

Select ''Version 1.2''

Do not select ''Show all versions''

Do not Click on ''Check for Other Versions and Extensions'' button

'''3. Accept the License Agreement'''

If you agree, select ''I accept the terms of the license agreements''

Click Next

'''4. Select a location for Installation Manager'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Installation Manager Directory:
| 
| /opt/IBM/InstallationManager/eclipse
|}

Click Next.

'''5. Review the summary information.'''

Click Install

'''6. Success'''

You will receive a message ''Success! The installation was successful.''

Click the ''Restart Installation Manager'' button

=== Update Installation Manager ===

'''1. The Installation manager will restart.'''

Three main options will be listed: Install, Update, Modify

Click Install

'''2. Install newer version'''

You will receive a warning message: ''A new version of Installation Manager is available.  You must update Installation Manager before you can continue.  To update Installation Manager, Click Yes.  To return to the Start page, click No.  Do you want to update the Installation Manager?''

Click Yes

An ''Updating Installation Manager''  progress bar will appear.

When the update is finished, you will receive a message ''Installation Manager has been updated to version: 1.2.1''

Click OK

=== Install RSA ===

'''1. The Installation manager will restart.'''

Three main options will be listed: Install, Update, Modify

Click Install

'''2. Select the packages you want to install.''' (Install)

Select ''Show all versions''

Click on ''Check for Other Versions and Extensions'' button

You will receive a message ''2 other versions of the selected packages, fixes and extensions were found.''

Click OK

Select ''IBM Rational Software Architect Standard Edition''

Select ''Version 7.5.1''

Click Next

'''3. Accept the License Agreement''' (License)

If you agree, select ''I accept the terms of the license agreements''

Click Next

'''4. Select a Shared Resources Directory''' (Location)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Shared Resources Directory:
| 
| /opt/IBM/SDPShared
|}

Click Next

Select ''Create a new package group''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Installation Directory:
| 
| /opt/IBM/SDP
|}

Click Next

'''5. Eclipse'''

Do not select ''Extend an existing Eclipse'' 

Click Next

English is selected as the default language.

Click Next

'''6. Select Features'''

Default features are already selected.

Click Next

Select ''Access help from the Web''

Click Next

'''7 Begin Installation''' (Summary)

Click Install

The installer will download the latest 7.5.1 files.

'''8. Installation Complete'''

The installation will take approximately 10 minutes.

You will receive a message ''Success! The installation was successful.''

Click Finish.

Exit the Installation Manager.

=== Fix Installation Manager K-Menu Entries ===

Installation Manager requires root privileges.  Change the K-Menu entry to prompt you for a root password each time you launch Installation Manager.

'''Fix the Installation Manager Entry'''

1 .Click K | Right Click | Click Menu Editor

2 .Click System | Select IBM Installation Manager

3. Change the value in the Command text box

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| From:
| 
| /opt/IBM/InstallationManager/eclipse/IBMIM
|-
| To:
| 
| kdesudo /opt/IBM/InstallationManager/eclipse/IBMIM
|}

4 .Click IBM InstallationManager | Select IBM Installation Manager

5. Change the value in the Command text box

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| From:
| 
| /opt/IBM/InstallationManager/eclipse/IBMIM
|-
| To:
| 
| kdesudo /opt/IBM/InstallationManager/eclipse/IBMIM
|}

'''Fix the Uninstall IBM Installation Manager Entry'''

1 .Click K | Right Click | Click Menu Editor

2 .Click System | Select Uninstall IBM Installation Manager

3. Change the value in the Command text box

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| From:
| 
| /var/ibm/InstallationManager/uninstall/uninstall
|-
| To:
| 
| kdesudo /var/ibm/InstallationManager/uninstall/uninstall
|}

4 .Click IBM InstallationManager | Select Uninstall IBM Installation Manager

5. Change the value in the Command text box

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| From:
| 
| /var/ibm/InstallationManager/uninstall/uninstall
|-
| To:
| 
| kdesudo /var/ibm/InstallationManager/uninstall/uninstall
|}

=== Reset the Shell (Optional) ===

Since Kubuntu uses dash as the default shell, you can reset this shell (instead of bash) using the following steps.
<pre>
ls -la /bin/s*
sudo rm /bin/sh
sudo ln -s /bin/dash /bin/sh
</pre>
