{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Intel DQ35JO Desktop Board

* Intel Core 2 Quad 2.4GHz
* 4GB Ram
* ST3250410AS SATA drive
* IBM Deskstar ICL35L060 IDE Drive
* Intel GM35 Chipset
* Intel GMA 3100 Dual Independent Display
* 2 Dell 1707FP Monitors
* Ubuntu 8.04 (2.6.24-22-generic)

Hardy-64 installed virtually without a hitch. All sub systems (Audio, USB, Network, etc) are fully functional. Even the dual-monitor setup (one analog, one DVI) went smoothly using the standard screen setup tools and a single change to xorg.conf. The machine has no serial or parallel ports, and BIOS is a bit strange (understatement), but other than that it is a solid and reliable machine. If you intend to use VirtualBox to run parallel copies of other OS's, this machine performs remarkably well. For those few applications for which I cannot find Linux replacements, I have been able to run parallel copies of Windows 2K and Windows XP, simultaneously, in VirtualBox machines, and both at near standalone performance.

Dual Screen note:

The default settings for the size of the screen buffer is not wide enough for 2 side by side screens. You will need to add an item to ''Section "Screen"'' in ''xorg.conf'':
<pre>
 Section "Screen"
  :
  :
  SubSection "Display"
   Virtual 2560 1024
  EndSubSection
  :
  :
 EndSection
</pre>
If xorg.conf already has a Display subsection, simply add the Virtual option. If it already has a virtual option, simply change it.

Note from Another User:  I installed Ubuntu 8.10 on this motherboard with no problems, sound, video and networking worked out of the box.  Sincerely, Dave :o)
