{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Intel's Mobo Page:

http://www.intel.com/products/motherboard/D865PERL/index.htm

I have tested this Motherboard with the following OS:

1. Ubuntu v6.06 (Dapper Drake)

2. Ubuntu v6.10 (Edgy Eft)

The Motherboard works perfectly in both cases!

However, you might have to check on the following 2 things:

1. Activate the Motherboard's audio out to hear sound.

To do this, perform the following steps:

a. Launch a Terminal window (from your Menu, select "Applications\Accessories\Terminal").

b. Type "alsamixer"

c. To select a "control", use your keyboard's left & right arrow keys.

d. To increase/decrease a "control's" volume, use your keyboard's up & down arrow keys.

e. To mute/unmute a "control", use your keyboard's M key.

f. Move around to adjust other "controls", by repeating above steps 3-5.

g. To exit the "alsamixer", press your keyboard's "ESC" key twice.

If you have unmuted the correct "controls" in alsamixer & your speaker jacks are plugged in the right place in your Mobo's audio-out, your audio should now work fine!

2. Make your Microphone work with Ubuntu.

To do this, perform the following steps (for Ubuntu v6.10):

a. Make sure that inside "alsamixer", your microphone is activated.

b. From the Menu, select "Applications\Sound & Video\Sound Recorder"

c. From the Menu, select "File\Open Volume Control"

d. From the Menu, select "Edit\Preferences"

e. Make sure the following are selected:

    1. Line-in Capture
    2. Microphone Capture
    3. Capture
    4. Stereo Mic

f. Click on the button named "Close".

g. Click on the Tabs: "Playback",  "Capture"  & "Switches"

h. Activate all options under "Line-in", "Microphone" & "Capture".

i. Close the open window.

After changing these, the "Sound Recorder" should be working fine!!!
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
