{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I have successfully installed Ubuntu 8.04.4 (via SATA CDROM drive) on a system built around this motherboard.

Intel Product Link: http://www.intel.com/products/desktop/motherboards/DP45SG/DP45SG-overview.htm

Bios version 0125 (Date 2010-Jan-21)

Worked out of the box
** Audio (Back output)
** SATA CD/DVD reader
** SATA HD
** USB (both front and back)
** Updating BIOS using the ISO CD from http://downloadcenter.intel.com/SearchResult.aspx?lang=eng&ProductFamily=Desktop+Boards&ProductLine=Intel%C2%AE+4+Series+Chipset+Boards&ProductProduct=Intel%C2%AE+Desktop+Board+DP45SG&OSVersion=OS+Independent

Did not worked out of the box
** Ethernet (NIC, LAN). Find below note for a workaround that worked for me.

Not tested
** Firewire
** Serial port
** Other audio outputs than back output on motherboard.

----
Important note about Ubuntu installation.
When I try to install Ubuntu from the CD the installer returns the following error message: 'BusyBox v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-5ubuntu12) ...' Here are the steps to fix this
1. Go into your BIOS. Find the setting for the SATA controller. Change it from IDE to AHCI.
2. Boot with Ubuntu intallation CD.
3. Don't change anything into the Ubuntu install screen. Leave it to default normal.

   Read more about this issue at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8952609#post8952609

----
Note about Ethernet (NIC, LAN). 
	Steps to install the drivers.
	Download driver at http://sourceforge.net/projects/e1000/files/e1000e%20stable/
	Copy the file 'e1000e-1.1.2.tar.gz' to your desktop.
	Type in the following commands in TERMINAL

		cd ~/Desktop
		sudo mv e1000e-1.1.2.tar.gz /usr/local/src/e1000e
		gksudo nautilus

	A new browser window will open. Navigate to /usr/local/src/e1000e/
	Right click on the file 'e1000e-1.1.2.tar.gz'.
	Select 'Extract Here' option.
	Type in the following commands in TERMINAL

		cd /usr/local/src/e1000e/e1000e-1.1.2/src/

	If not working check the read write permissions on the newly created files and folders.

		sudo make install

			Note 1: TERMINAL will return a few errors. Ignore them.
			Note 2: For your information the binary will be installed as:
     		/lib/modules/<KERNEL VERSION>/kernel/drivers/net/e1000e/e1000e.[k] 
	Type in the following command in TERMINAL

		sudo modprobe e1000e

	The network LAN will start connecting automatically.
		
		That's it. If the LAN disconnect by itseft type in the following command in TERMINAL

			sudo modprobe e1000e

		When you update Ubuntu kernel you might have to redo all the above steps.
	

	If above steps don't work another option is to buy an independent Ethernet (NIC) card.
 
----
	sources
		Readme file at e1000e-1.1.2/README
		http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8021944&postcount=35

----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
