{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2008-February/025136.html|"Intrepid Ibex"]]</nowiki> is the code name of Ubuntu 8.10, which was released on October 30th 2008.  See the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidReleaseSchedule|Intrepid release schedule]]</nowiki>.

Still the information on <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Intrepid|Ubuntu Intrepid Developers' Summit]]</nowiki>, which took place from 19-23 May 2008 in Prague, Czech Republic.

== Reporting Bugs ==

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs through <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs|the Ubuntu bugtracker]]</nowiki>

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Ubuntu Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== More Information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

If you want to see what the developers have cooking for the final release, feel free to take a look through the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid|Intrepid Ibex blueprint page]]</nowiki> or the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidIbex/TechnicalOverview|Intrepid Ibex Technical Overview]]</nowiki>.

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, please take a look at the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|Get Involved]]</nowiki> page.

To have future Ubuntu development announcements emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce|ubuntu-devel-announce]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

To have future Ubuntu package updates emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/intrepid-changes|intrepid-changes]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

Until this wiki is completed, more information can be found at <nowiki>[[http://kubuntuguide.org/Intrepid|Kubuntuguide]]</nowiki>. 
----
CategoryMarketing
