{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''
* '''Please nest a reply when you are responding on another reaction. Otherwise it will grow in a mess.... Thank you.'''
* '''We do not usually respond to these comments, there are too many, but they do go directly into the developers e-mail and every one is read

== WARNING ==
Known issues:
* KNetworkManager doesn't work with wireless connections.

== Feedback ==
* I'm glad that Kubuntu didn't go to KDE release schedule, now we get patched up KDE versions. KDE 4.1.1 still has major usability issues and glitches that make it look like it's not ready. Not to mention the missing applications. Hopefully these applications are finished before the 8.10 release. I'm concerned about Kopete's usability especially. It alone prevents me from upgrading the computers I manage. I urge Kubuntu's dev team to look into these, and maybe backport them from KDE 4.2 if that is the case... Here are the Kopete bugs:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=167144|#167144]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=167976|#167976]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=168617|#168617]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=168933|#168933]]</nowiki>
 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:toni-helenius]]</nowiki> 

* Have tested the LiveCD but after the installation it will not start. It seems that X3100 cannot run Intrepid.
 I will also vote for including the Crystal Window Decoration as an option.
 There is a port for KDE 4.x in: http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php/crystal?content=75140
 It looks much nicer and gives some "backwards" compatibility to the look.

* Here are some comments. Thanks for your hard work.
   1. digikam & kipi-plugins won't install due to unmet dependencies (kdebase-kio-plugins for digikam and libkcal2b for kipi-plugins).
   2. redland has been built against libdb4.6. However, librdf0-dev pulls in libdb-dev which in turn pulls libdb4.7-dev. This results in unusable librdf.la and redland.pc files when building packages against librdf0-dev. Please consider rebuilding redland against libdb4.7
   3. still some usability issues with the kdm configuration in systemsettings (language is not properly kept, user icons are not configured).
   4. it may be worked out later in the release process, but kde does not hnour the locale settings even if kde-l10n-xx packages are installed.
 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pw1517]]</nowiki> 
* Thank you for another great Alpha release! I really like the inclusion of KDE 4.1.1 and the new adept! funny thing, when I come across a bug it's fixed really quickly before I can even report it (happened twice) so good work :-) I'm really impressed and looking forward to a great release! 

* The Alpha release is nice. Not so many crashes and KDE 4.1 is just beautiful. Thanks for all your work, you're the best! However, I have some issues/criticisms:
   1. Mounted devices with accents aren't mounted in UTF-8 and, therefore, don't work properly. Already reported here: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/199165
   2. Gwenview doesn't have any plug-ins and, as someone else already noted, you can't install kipi-plugins alongside gwenview because of dependency conflict
   3. Adding non-KDE4 apps to favorites menu (e.g.: firefox, skype, amarok, smplayer, openoffice, etc.) shows a "gear" icon and the name of the executable (instead of the pretty name)
   4. On System Settings / Advanced / File Associations - can't change icons associated with mime-types
   5. Kopete still doesn't follow the proxies configuration set in System Settings... What's up with that? Seriously?
   6. Adept's icon is missing, so is NetworkManager's under System Settings / Solid
   7. Speaking of adept, the new version made me install dselect because, sorry to say, it's really not good! I prefer the old one
   8. Some icons in the system tray have the background messed up: kmix, battery monitor, kmail... Maybe my graphics card?
   9. KDE3 allowed us to select least-used icons in the system tray and hide them. Why haven't they ported this functionality to KDE4?
 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:vitorsouza]]</nowiki> 
* I miss a feedback page and a release announcement for the recently published Alpha 6. Would be nice, if it would be there, so one knows what things to look for (I hope someone reads it here, I did not exactly know where to put this else).
