{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
The Kubuntu developers are working hard to bring you the absolute latest and greatest software that the Free and Open Source Community has to offer. The Intrepid Ibex Alpha 3 is the third alpha release of Kubuntu 8.10, and with this new alpha release comes a whole host of excellent new features and applications.

'''NOTE: This is still an alpha release. Do not install it on production machines. The final stable version will be released in October 2008.

== In General ==
The following features are showcased for your attention. Please test them and report any bugs you find. If you want to see what the developers are working on for Kubuntu 8.10, please review the blueprints page at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid.

=== Upgrading from Kubuntu 8.04 ===
To upgrade from Kubuntu 8.04, run "update-manager -d" using the update-manager package from Hardy.

=== Xorg 7.4 ===
The latest <nowiki>[[http://www.x.org/|Xorg]]</nowiki> is available in Hardy, Xorg 7.4, with new cutting-edge features. In the short term, this will cause increased instability for some users while the video drivers catch up.

=== Linux kernel 2.6.26 ===
Alpha 3 includes the 2.6.26-4.11 <nowiki>[[http://kernel.org/|kernel]]</nowiki> based on 2.6.26-rc8.

=== KDE 4 ===
Alpha 3 includes the latest <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org|KDE]]</nowiki> 4.0.98 (RC 1). The next alpha release will include the first stable release of KDE 4.1.

== Download Alpha 3 ==
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/intrepid/alpha-3/

== Caveats ==

== Reporting Bugs ==
It should come as no surprise that this alpha release of Intrepid Ibex contains other bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs through the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs|Ubuntu bugtracker]]</nowiki>.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== Participate in Kubuntu ==
If you would like to help shape Kubuntu, join '''#kubuntu-devel''' on <nowiki>[[InternetRelayChat|IRC]]</nowiki> and ask how you can help!

== More Information ==
You can find out more about Kubuntu on our <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org|website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Kubuntu|wiki]]</nowiki>.

To sign up for future Kubuntu development announcements, please subscribe to Kubuntu's development list at:
* http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-devel
