{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Tässä julkaisumuistiossa kerrotaan tunnetuista huomion arvoisista asioista Ubuntun 8.10-versiossa ja Ubuntun sisarjulkaisuissa.

== Laitevaatimukset ==

Vaadittu keskusmuistin määrä Ubuntu 8.10 -julkaisulle on 256MB (huomioi, että osa järjestelmän keskusmuistista saattaa olla näytönohjaimen käytössä).

Pienimmällä vaaditulla muistin määrällä asennus kestää tavallista pidempään, mutta valmistuu lopulta, ja järjestelmä toimii kohtuullisella nopeudella asennuksen jälkeen. Tietokoneilla, joilla on vähän muistia, voi mahdollisesti suorittaa asennuksen käyttämällä "Asenna Ubuntu" -käynnistysvalintaa. Tällöin käynnistetään vain asennusohjelma koko työpöydän sijaan, joka käynnistyy valittaessa "Kokeile Ubuntua ilman muutoksia koneelle". 

== Asentaminen ==

=== Kovalevy ei näy asennettaessa Live-cd-tilassa ===

Jos live-CD:tä käytettäessä selataan kiintolevyn sisältöä ennen asennusta, Ubiquity-asennusohjelma ei voi asentaa Ubuntua tälle levylle sillä leyvä ei voida irrottaa osiointia varten levyn ollessa liitettynä tiedostojärjestelmään. Irrota levy ennen asennusta.

=== "Vain vapaita ohjelmia" -asennus asentaa myös suljettuja komponentteja ===

"Asenna vain vapaita komponentteja" -toiminto, joka löyty painamalla F6-näppäintä kahdesta levyn alkuvalikossa, asentaa epävapaan paketin <code>linux-restricted-modules-2.6.27-7-generic</code>. Ongelma voidaan kiertää poistamalla paketti <code>linux-restricted-modules-2.6.27-7-generic</code> asennuksen jälkeen.

Mitään muita epävapaita ohjelmia ei kuitenkaan asenneta.

Lisätietoja löytyy virheilmoituksesta <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-release-notes/+bug/290925|290925]]</nowiki>

=== "Valitse ja asenna ohjelmia" -osio käynnistyy hitaasti tekstipohjaisessa asennuksessa ===

Tekstiasennuksen "Valitse ja asenna ohjelmia" -kohdassa asennus saattaa vaikuttaa pysähtyvän toiminnon alkuvaiheessa. Näin tapahtuu etenkin käynnistettäessä kone verkosta, jolloin paketteja ladattaessa ei näy tietoja lataamisen edistymisestä. Ongelma johtuu kommunikaatio-ongelmista asennusohjelman ja apt-get-sovelluksen välillä ja se huomattiin liian myöhään Ubuntu 8.10:tä varten. Lisätietoja löytyy virheraportista <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/290234|bug 290234]]</nowiki>.

Asennuksen tilasta saa lisätietoja painamalla asennuksen aikana Alt+F4 joka näyttää asennuslokin. Takaisin asennukseen pääsee näppäinyhdistelmällä Alt+F1. Jos asennus suoritetaan virtuaalikoneessa (esim. QEMU tai KVM) on syytä varmistaa, että näppäinpainallukset menevät virtuaalikoneen sisällä olevalle käyttöjärjestelmälle napsauttamalla ruutua. Muutoin Alt+F4 sulkee virtuaalikoneen.

=== oem-config epäonnistuu joidenkin kielien käsittelyssä ===

The OEM end-user configuration tool mishandles selection of languages that do not use the ASCII or ISO-8859-1 character sets, and the end user will end up with no localisation set after selecting such languages (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/290580|bug 290580]]</nowiki>). The list of ''known-good'' languages is as follows: Basque, Catalan, Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, Galician, German, Indonesian, Italian, Northern Sami, Norwegian Bokmål, Norwegian Nynorsk, Portuguese, Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish, Swedish, Tagalog.

For the meantime, OEMs affected by this problem may apply this <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/oem-config/trunk/revision/555|patch]]</nowiki> (the `scripts/tzsetup` part) to the file `/usr/lib/oem-config/timezone/tzsetup` before running "Prepare for shipping to end user". We expect to release an update for this in due course, which will be installable via the normal packaging system at that same stage.

=== MID-levykuva tarvitsee verkkoyhteyden onnistuneeseen asennukseen ===

Kun Ubuntu yritetään asentaa MID-levykulvalta (Mobile Internet Device, Internet-yhteydellä varustettu mobiililaite) ilman verkkoyhteyttä, asennusohjelma avaa asennuksen loppupuolella ikkunan lukiessaan pakettilähdettä. Ainoa keino jatkaa asennusta on yhdistää laite verkkoon. (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/288320|Virheilmoitus 288320]]</nowiki>).

=== Suositellut paketit asentuvat oletuksena ===

Debianin käytäntöjen mukaisesti paketinhallintaohjelma asentaa automaattisesti asennettavan paketin suosittelemat (Recommends) paketit riippuvuuksien lisäksi. Jos tätä toimintoa ei haluta käyttää tiettyä pakettia asennettaessa on paketti asennettava komennolla `apt-get --no-install-recommends`. Jos tämä ominaisuus halutaan kytkeä pysyvästi pois päältä, se tapahtuu asettamalla avain `APT::Install-Recommends` arvoon `false` tiedostossa '/etc/apt/apt.conf'. Huomaa että tämä saattaa joissain tilanteissa johtaa puuttuviin ominaisuuksiin. 

=== Salasanaa koskevat rajoitukset ecryptfs:ää käytettäessä ===

Jos alternate- tai server-asennuksessa asennuksessa on asetettu salasana joa sisältää "%"- tai "-"-merkin, kotihakemistoon luotavaa ~/Private-hakemisto ei liitetä automaattisesti käynnistyksen yhteydessä. Ongelma voidaan korjata seuraavasti:
1. Päivitä ecryptfs-utils uusimaan versioon 53-1ubuntu12 heti kun se tulee saataville päivityksenä
2. Aja komento <code>$ encryptfs-setup-private --foce</code>

Lisätietoja löytyy virheilmoituksesta <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/290445|#290445]]</nowiki>.

=== PlayStation 3 -asennusongelmat ===

Asennus alternate-levyltä Playstation 3 -laitteelle onnistuu mutta saattaa aiheuttaa hieman ongelmia. Lisätietoja löytyy <nowiki>[[http://psubuntu.com/wiki/IntrepidReleaseNotes|PS3-version julkaisumuistiosta]]</nowiki>.

== Päivittäminen ==

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS -käyttäjät voivat päivittää Ubuntu 8.10 -versioon helposti ja automaattisesti. Vanhempien Ubuntu-julkaisujen käyttäjien tulee päivittää ensin Ubuntu 8.04 LTS -versioon, ja sitten versioon 8.10. Täydelliset ohjeet löytyvät osoitteista http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading (englanniksi) ja http://wiki.ubuntu-fi.org/Paivittaminen (suomeksi).

=== nVidian "legacy"-ajurin tuki ===

The 71 and 96 series of proprietary nVidia drivers, as provided by the <code>nvidia-glx-legacy</code> and <code>nvidia-glx</code> packages in Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, are not compatible with the X.Org included in Ubuntu 8.10.  Users with the nVidia TNT, TNT2, TNT Ultra, Ge``Force, Ge``Force2, Ge``Force3, and Ge``Force4 chipsets are affected and will be transitioned on upgrade to the free <code>nv</code> driver instead.  This driver does not support 3D acceleration.

Users of other nVidia chipsets that are supported by the 173 or 177 driver series will be transitioned to the <code>nvidia-glx-173</code> or <code>nvidia-glx-177</code> package instead. However, unlike drivers 96 and 71, drivers 173 and 177 are only compatible with CPUs that support <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streaming_SIMD_Extensions|SSE]]</nowiki> (e.g. Intel Pentium III, AMD Athlon XP or higher). Systems with older CPUs will also be transitioned to the <code>nv</code> driver on upgrade.

=== ATIn "fglrx"-ajurin tuki ===

The ATI video driver in 8.10 drops support for video cards with r300 based chips (the Radeon 9500 - X600 Series of cards). If you have such a card, please use "Hardware Drivers" at System/Administration to disable it before the upgrade.
Please see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/284408|bug 284408]]</nowiki> for more information

=== X.Org-syötelaitteet ===

The X.Org configuration file (<code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code>) still has Input``Device entries for the mouse and keyboard, but they are ignored now because input-hotplug is used. The keyboard settings now come from <code>/etc/default/console-setup</code>; to change them please use `sudo dpkg-reconfigure console-setup`. After that, HAL and X
need to be restarted (e.g., by rebooting your system).

=== X.Org:n evdev-ajurin xmodmap-näppäinkoodien epäyhteensopivuus ===

Uudella <code>evdev</code>-ajurilla luodut X.orgin näppäinkoodit X.org 1.5:lle eivät ole yhteensopivia Ubuntu 8.04 LTS -versiolla tai vanhemmalla tehtyjen näppäinkoodien kanssa. Jos olet muokannut näppäinten toimintaa <code>~/.xmodmap</code>-tiedoston avulla on ne muutokset muutettava uuteen järjestelmään tai poistettava käytöstä.

=== UbuntuStudion ytimen reaaliaikaisen toiminnan tuki ===

Ubuntu 8.10:n reaaliaikainen Linux-ytimen vaihtoehto ei sisällä SMP-tukea. Niiden Ubuntu``Studio 8.04:n käyttäjien, jotka tarvitsevat reaaliaikaista ydintä tuplaydin-, tuplasuoritin- tai monimutkaisemmilla SMP-järjestelmillä, ei suositella päivittävän Ubuntu``Studio 8.10:een tällä hetkellä.

=== Toshiba-kannettavien pikanäppäintuki ===

The <code>tlsup</code> kernel driver included in Linux 2.6.27 for support for Toshiba laptops is not compatible with the X.Org 1.5 event model, as a result of which hotkeys on these laptops are not usable with Ubuntu 8.10. This will be addressed in a post-release kernel update to reintroduce the <code>toshiba_acpi</code> driver.

=== Käynnistys epäonnistuu Intel D945 -emolevyillä ===

Users have reported slower than normal detection of SATA hard drives on systems with Intel D945 motherboards in Ubuntu 8.10. This may cause the system to drop to a busybox initramfs shell on boot with a "Gave up waiting for root device." error. Wait a minute or two and then exit the initramfs shell by typing 'exit'. Booting should proceed normally. If it doesn't, wait a bit longer and try again. Once the system boots, edit <code>/boot/grub/menu.lst</code> and add <code>rootdelay=90</code> to the kernel stanza for your current kernel. (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/290153|Bug 290153]]</nowiki>).

=== Kubuntu KDE4 remix ===

In some cases an upgrade from Kubuntu 8.04 KDE 4 Remix to Kubuntu 8.10 will not update all applications. This will happen if the package <code>kubuntu-desktop</code> was removed. We strongly advise to ensure <code>kubuntu-desktop</code>, and if KDE 4 is installed also <code>kubuntu-kde4-desktop</code>, is installed before upgrading. If using the release upgrader, this will be handled automatically.

==== Sisäänkirjautuminen ei onnistu Kubuntu 8.04 KDE 4 Remix -version päivittämisen jälkeen ====

After an upgrade from Kubuntu 8.04 KDE 4 Remix, logging in will return directly to the login screen again. The <code>x-session-manager</code> alternative link is not correctly updated. Select "KDE" from the Session Menu before logging in and fix it with <code>update-alternatives --set x-session-manager /usr/bin/startkde</code>. (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/287488|Bug 287488]]</nowiki>)

=== ssl/blowfish-v0.2:n version 2:0:1 tuki poistettu encfs:stä ===

Compatibility for this old algorithm was dropped in the 1.4.x version of <code>encfs</code> included in Ubuntu 8.10. Before upgrading, users of this algorithm will have to manually migrate their encfs volumes to a new one created with the new version. Alternatively, you may stay at an old version of encfs to be able to read the volumes.

=== PlayStation 3 -päivitysongelmat ===

The graphical boot splash must be turned off when upgrading Play``Station 3 systems from Ubuntu 8.04 (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/285218|bug 285218]]</nowiki>). See the <nowiki>[[http://psubuntu.com/wiki/IntrepidReleaseNotes|PS3 release notes]]</nowiki> for more details.

== Muut tunnetut ongelmat ==

=== Järjestelmä kaatuu Intel 4965 -WLAN-piiriä käyttävissä koneissa ===

The version of the <code>iwlagn</code> wireless driver for Intel 4965 wireless chipsets included in Linux kernel version 2.6.27 causes kernel panics when used with 802.11n or 802.11g networks. Users affected by this issue can install the <code>linux-backports-modules-intrepid</code> package, to install a newer version of this driver that corrects the bug. (Because the known fix requires a new version of the driver, it is not expected to be possible to include this fix in the main kernel package.)

=== Intelin 3945/4965-WLAN-piirien aktivointi ei onnistu jos järjestelmä on käynnistetty WLANin tappokytkimen ollessa päällä ===

On laptops with Intel 3945 or Intel 4965 wireless chipsets and a killswitch for the wireless antenna, starting the system with the killswitch enabled (i.e., with wireless disabled) will prevent re-enabling the wireless by toggling the killswitch. As a workaround, users should boot the system with the killswitch disabled. Lisätietoja, katso <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/193970|bugi 193970]]</nowiki>. A future kernel update is expected to address this issue.

=== Atheros ath5k -wlan-ajuri ei ole käytössä oletuksena ===

The version of the <code>ath5k</code> driver for Atheros wireless devices included in Linux 2.6.27 interferes with the use of the <code>madwifi</code> driver for some wireless devices and as a result has been disabled by default. Many Atheros chipsets will work correctly with the <code>madwifi</code> driver, but some newer chipsets may not, and the <code>madwifi</code> driver may not work with WPA authentication. If you have an Atheros device that does not work with <code>madwifi</code>, you will want to install the <code>linux-backports-modules-intrepid-generic</code> package, which includes an updated version of the <code>ath5k</code> driver. While not installed by default, this <code>linux-backports-modules-intrepid-generic</code> package is included on the Ubuntu 8.10 CD and DVD images for ease of installation.

=== Wacomien piirtopöytien kytkeminen lennosta toimii vain osittain ===

X.Org 1.5 includes support for autodetection of input devices, but for Wacom tablets this is currently limited to detecting the stylus only. Users of tablet devices who wish to use other input features will need to statically configure their input devices in <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code>.

A complete discussion of this issue can be found in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/282203|bug 282203]]</nowiki>.

=== iSCSI-käynnistysjärjestys ===

File systems hosted on iSCSI targets may not be mounted automatically at boot time, even if they have an entry in `/etc/fstab`, if a bridged or bonded Ethernet interface is required to reach the iSCSI target. As a work-around, you would have to restart the open-iscsi service and manually mount the file system in question after system boot, once the required network interface have been brought up. Systems equipped with a plain Ethernet interface are not affected.

See <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/227848|bug 227848]]</nowiki>.

=== Enempää kuin yksi iSCSI-kohde ei voida liittää ===

Mounting multiple iSCSI targets at the same time is currently not supported. Systems configured to use more than one iSCSI targets should not be upgraded to Ubuntu 8.10.

For more information on the bug and solution approach see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/289470|bug 289470]]</nowiki>.

=== Langaton verkkoyhteys ei toimi keskeytystilan jälkeen ath_pci-ajurilla ===

Wireless devices that use the <code>ath_pci</code> kernel driver, such as the Atheros AR5212 wireless card, will be unable to connect to the network after using suspend and resume. To work around this issue, users can create a file <code>/etc/pm/config.d/madwifi</code> containing the single line:
<pre>
   SUSPEND_MODULES=ath_pci
</pre>

This will cause the module to be unloaded before suspend and reloaded on resume.

=== Ennen julkaisua päivittäin luoduista testiversioista asennetusta järjestelmästä puuttuu muutama tiedosto ===

A bug present in pre-release daily desktop images caused some files related to language support to be missing from installed systems. Uninstalling and reinstalling the language support packages should correct this issue.

This issue does not affect users who installed using the Ubuntu 8.10 Beta or Release Candidate.

=== Kubuntun bluetooth-tuki ===

Bluetooth is not supported in Kubuntu 8.10 because KDE does not yet support the bluez 4.x stack required for compatibility with the kernel used in 8.10.
A fix for this is being evaluated as a post-release update. (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/280997|Bug 280997]]</nowiki>)

=== KNetworkManager ei hallitse yhteyksiä joissa käytetään staattista IP-osoitetta ===

KNetwork``Manager in Kubuntu 8.10 sometimes fails with network connections that require static IP address configuration (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/280762|bug 280762]]</nowiki>). Connections which use DHCP for IP address configuration are not affected by this problem.

=== Ohjelman usb-creator käyttäminen 8.04.1 (Hardy) -levykuvien kanssa ===

Persistence support in 8.04.1 images is broken. Creating a USB disk with usb-creator and an 8.04.1 image results in a busybox prompt if the persistence option is checked.

=== Vain yhdysvaltojen kanavat aktivoitu Intel 3945:ssä ===

The <code>iwl3945</code> wireless driver defaults to the US regulatory domain for wireless, so wireless networks on channels forbidden by US regulations but permitted by European or Japanese regulations will not work out of the box. This affects IEEE 802.11b/g channels 12 (Europe and Japan), 13 (Europe and Japan), and 14 (Japan only), as well as all 802.11a channels. (Some other wireless drivers may be affected; this is the only one we are sure of so far.)

To work around this, add the following line to the `/etc/modprobe.d/options` file if you use this driver and need to use European wireless channels: <pre>
options cfg80211 ieee80211_regdom=EU
</pre>

Alternatively, add the following line if you use this driver and need to use Japanese wireless channels: <pre>
options cfg80211 ieee80211_regdom=JP
</pre>

=== Cyrus SASL -tietokanta luodaan väärillä oikeuksilla ===

Cyrus SASL creates the database for its sasldb2 plugin with incorrect permissions. As a result, other users of this database, such as cyrus-imap, will not be able to access it and will fail. This does not affect upgrades of existing databases from a previous release. The workaround is to manually change the group of /etc/sasldb2 to sasl: <pre>
$ sudo chgrp sasl /etc/sasldb2
</pre>

See <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/288478|bug 288478]]</nowiki> for details.

=== Javan ajonaikainen ympäristö ===

To use Java programs, you need to install the `openjdk-6-jre` package whch contains the Java Runtime Environment. If you want to develop Java programs, then install the `openjdk-6-jdk` package. To work with Java applets in the Firefox browser and compatible browsers on x86 architectures, you need to install the `icedtea6-plugin` package by hand.

The JRE and the Java applet plugin are installed by default in the live session on the Ubuntu DVD, but are not currently installed elsewhere due to space constraints. However, a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/290400|missing feature]]</nowiki> in the installer means that these packages will not be installed when installing using the graphical installer on the DVD, so you will need to install them afterwards.

=== Ongelmia CD-levyn poistamisessa asemasta ===

After ejecting a CD tray containing a disc, the tray will be immediately retracted, making it difficult to remove the disc (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/283316|bug 283316]]</nowiki>). This can be worked around by pressing the eject button again before the disc is fully mounted, after which it will stay open. We expect to fix this in a post-release update.

=== Session save/restore does not work, and applications cannot auto-save on logout ===

The "Automatically remember running applications when logging out" option found in Session Preferences does not work at all in this release (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/249373|bug 249373]]</nowiki>).

Many applications are capable of automatically saving, or offering to save, any open documents when you log out. The GNOME session manager in this release does not notify them when you log out, giving no opportunity to save their state. As a result, logging out of the session while modified documents are open may cause data loss.

=== Visuaalisten tehosteiden hallinta Intelin 830MG- ja 845G-näytönohjaimilla varustetuissa järjestelmissä ===

There is a bug in the Intel video driver for the older intel 830 and 845 integrated video cards that are used on laptops like the IBM R30. Desktop effects with compiz will not work on those chips and will freeze the system. For new installations, please install using the safe graphics mode (press F4 in the startup screen) on these systems and disable desktop effects via <code>System -> Preferences -> Appearance</code>, clicking on "Visual effects" and choosing "None".

=== PlayStation 3 -ongelmat ===

There are a variety of other known issues affecting Play``Station 3 systems, documented in more detail in the <nowiki>[[http://psubuntu.com/wiki/IntrepidReleaseNotes|PS3 release notes]]</nowiki>. They include:

* To get back to the Sony Play``Station 3 XMB operating system from the boot prompt, users need to type `game` and press the Return key (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/277839|bug 277839]]</nowiki>). If this is for some reason not possible, carrying out a hard-reset (see PS3 instruction manual) will return to the XMB on next run.
* Users may occasionally see an intermittent shutdown hang with a message like "IRQ 50: nobody cared". The problem has been reported upstream. Press and hold the PS3 power button until you hear 2 beeps will force power off. The system will boot normally on next run (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/220370|bug 220370]]</nowiki>).
* Network``Manager does not list available wireless networks, although it is possible to connect to a wireless network with a known SSID using the "connect to hidden wireless network" option (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/289977|bug 289977]]</nowiki>); and it cannot connect to WPA/WPA2 wireless networks, although WEP works (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/289982|bug 289982]]</nowiki>).
