{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:intrepid-menus-review
* '''Packages affected''': the applications which have a menu item listed there

=== Summary ===

Simplify the menus where it's possible and use consitant naming

=== Rationale ===

The menus should be easy to use

=== Use Cases ===

* Vincent is looking for some photos he took during the uds, he wants to use the search feature for that but wonders why there is different menu items for that and which one he should be using

=== Design ===

==== Applications ====

Accessories
* the tracker menu item will be masked since the places menu has a similar entry [required upstream work to have the search menu item using tracker]
* remove the "manage print jobs" entry, the icon is displayed in the notification area when a print job is active [the icon is displayed because users complained about the need to print to see the jobs in the queue otherwise, do we still want to do the change]
* the feature should be available in the nautilus properties dialog
* the xsane icon needs to be updated

Internet
* tsclient and vinagre should be one application, that requires upstream work though
* "bit torrent client", client is not required there
* sound-juicer should be removed from the default installation since rhythmbox can copy cds now [changed in intrepid]

Places
* the search entry will run the nautilus search dialog which should use tracker is available and fallback to normal search otherwise
* the search and recently used items should be listed first in the menu so they are easier to use

==== System ====

Settings
* the encryptions and keyrings entry should be removed since it's available in seahorse already [the seahorse preferences doesn't show those options in intrepid]

==== System ====

* "Authorizations" should change name (Access control?)

=== Implementation ===

 the changes described before will applied during the cycle

=== Remarks ===

* [markba] Naming of Thunderbird in the menu should be 'Thunderbird' and not 'Mozilla Thunderbird'. People scan for Thunderbird and then the Mozilla-entry is quickly overlooked. AFAIK this is the only exception to the rule to not mention the supplier/owner. Note that Thunderbird is not part of the standard setup, so maybe this remark is obsolete.
 
* [zekopeko] Please change Totem entry from "Movie player" to "Totem Movie player". That is inconsistent with the rest of the menu entries.

* [charlespax] The games menu should automatically divide into sub-catagories if I have many games installed (e.g. Board Games, Arcate, 3D, Puzzle).

* [twright] Sound juicer should stay as it is better at ripping than totem, it isn't installed in linux mint and this annoys some users as rhythmbox rips slower and if it is already running when a CD is inserted playback may be interrupted (it certainly is with media players). Also if you want to listen to rip an audio book it would be harder to do in rhythmbox as it would be added to your music library.
 
* [nanleychery] Checkout the MenusRevisited2 wiki I made for Hardy. It should provide some good ideas...
----
CategorySpec
