{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Links ==

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-doc/+spec/intrepid-server-guide|intrepid-server-guide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-doc/ubuntu-doc/ubuntu-intrepid|ubuntu-intrepid bzr branch]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==

Gather and confirm ideas on additions and updates for the Server Guide during the Ubuntu 8.10 release cycle.

== Rationale ==

A significant amount of problems with any computer system can be solved with good documentation.  To that end having relevant and up to date documentation for the Ubuntu Server Edition is a worthwhile venture.

== Use Cases ==

Documentation shipped with Ubuntu Server Edition in the ubuntu-serverguide package.  Also, the content is available on the help.ubuntu.com web site.

== Design ==

Currently the Ubuntu Server Guide is drafted in DocBook XML files.  There are also corresponding pages in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/|Community Wiki]]</nowiki> related to topics in the guide.

== Implementation ==

Confirm or add to the proposed list of ideas gathered on the ServerTeam/IdeaPool page.  Then document the confirmed subjects in DocBook format.  Also, updating any relevant pages in the community wiki. 

=== Confirmed ===

* Update the '''Windows Networking''' section. <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/windows-networking.html|Ready for Reiew]]</nowiki>
** Add configuration guides for Samba Domain Controller, File Server, Print Server etc.
** Move to a use cases:
** File server <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/samba-fileserver.html| Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** Print server <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/samba-printserver.html| Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** PDC <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/samba-dc.html| Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** PDC and BDC with LDAP. <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/samba-ldap.html|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** Heterogenus env. with Windows and Macs (integrating with AD). <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/samba-ad-integration.html| Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** Anti-virus scanning on SMB shares. (Not sure how to do this?)
   
* Software RAID <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/advanced-installation.html|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>

* Likewise-open <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/likewise-open.html|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** Document why DNS is needed.
** How to setup Windows DNS with AD.
** Likewise-open Troubleshooting.
  
* JeOS section update based on ISO availability.

* Include a PDF version of the Server Guide with the package.

* Any new features in Ubuntu-VM-Builder.

* Any new features in ufw. <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/firewall.html|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>

* Server Guide bug fixes, updates, etc. '''Some filed bugs are Fixed'''
 
* OpenLDAP cn=config documentation needed. <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/openldap-server.html|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** Expand the OpenLDAP section to include libnss-ldap information. <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/openldap-server.html#openldap-auth-config|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** Cover auth-client-config usage.  Related to NameServicesIntegration <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/openldap-server.html#openldap-auth-config|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** Update '''Samba and LDAP''' section. <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/samba-ldap.html|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>

  
* Review the layout of the sections and standardize them.

* Kerberos authentication server. <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/kerberos.html|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>

* White listing using Amavisd-new and DKIM. <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/mail-filtering.html#amavisd-new-configuration|Ready for Review]]</nowiki>
** Also relates to <nowiki>[[ServerAmavisdDKIMSpec]]</nowiki>
** Detailed instructions are in the RELEASE_NOTES file for the amavisd-new packages.
** Instructions should be added to the Mail Filtering section.

=== Discussion ===
* Add a network authentication section that give an overview of LDAP, Kerberos for servers and clients. And then add sub-sections about how to configure an LDAP and/or Kerberos server for authentication, how to configure clients to authenticate against your server (using auth-client-config).
