{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the Release Candidate for Ubuntu 8.10
Desktop and Server.  Codenamed "Intrepid Ibex", 8.10 continues Ubuntu's
proud tradition of integrating the latest and greatest open source
technologies into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution.

We consider this release candidate to be complete, stable, and suitable
for testing by any user.

Ubuntu 8.10 Desktop Edition delivers the features you need for an
increasingly mobile digital life, including 3G wireless support and
guest sessions that lets users temporarily share computers without
compromising security.

Ubuntu 8.10 Server Edition consolidates its support for virtualization with
an integrated Virtual Machine builder, and brings with it a fully-supported
Java stack and support for per-user directory encryption.

The Ubuntu 8.10 family of variants, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, UbuntuStudio, and
Mythbuntu, also reach RC status today.

The final release of Ubuntu 8.10 is scheduled for 30 October 2008 and will
be supported for 18 months on both desktops and servers.  Users requiring a
longer support lifetime may choose to continue using Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, with
security support until 2011 on the desktop and 2013 on the server, rather
than upgrade to 8.10.

Before installing or upgrading to Ubuntu 8.10 please read
http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810

About The Release Candidate
---------------------------

The purpose of the Release Candidate is to solicit one last round of
testing before the final release. Here are ways that you can help:

* Upgrade from Ubuntu, Kubuntu, or Edubuntu 8.04 to the Release            
   Candidate by following the instructions in the release notes referenced
   above.

* Participate in installation testing using the Release Candidate CD
   images, by following the testing and reporting instructions at
   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO

Desktop features
----------------

Xorg 7.4 brings improved support for automatic configuration of input
hardware, such as keyboards and mice.

3G support: Network Manager 0.7 comes with a number of greatly anticipated
features, including management of 3G connections (GSM/CDMA) and PPP/PPPoE
connnections.

Guest sessions: the User Switcher panel applet provides a new option for
starting a Guest session.  This creates a temporary, password-less user 
account with restricted privileges - perfect for lending out your laptop for
a quick email check.

Server features
---------------

Encrypted private directories: the installer now offers the option to
configure a secret encrypted folder for each user, to be unlocked and
mounted at login time, using ecryptfs.

Virtualization: Ubuntu 8.10 ships with a Virtual Machine builder that allows 
complete Virtual Machines to be built from the command line in less than
five minutes, with support for scripting custom virtual images.

Java: a complete free Java™ stack is supported in Ubuntu 8.10, including
OpenJDK and Apache Tomcat 6.0, making Ubuntu a great choice for Java
development and deployment.

Kubuntu features
----------------

Kubuntu builds on the groundwork of the Kubuntu 8.04 KDE 4 Remix to provide 
a fully-supported KDE 4 desktop in Kubuntu 8.10.

Please see https://wiki.kubuntu.org/IntrepidIbex/RC/Kubuntu for details.

Xubuntu features
----------------

Xubuntu comes with the light-weight Xfce 4.4.2 desktop environment for those who want a 
desktop that is easy to use, but places particular emphasis on conserving system resources.  

Please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidIbex/RC/Xubuntu for further details.

UbuntuStudio features
---------------------

Ubuntu Studio includes the updates to input hardware and sound device management from Ubuntu Desktop, and includes a complete suite of tools for generation of audio, video, and graphic content.

Mythbuntu features
------------------

See http://mythbuntu.org/8.10/rc for information about the Mythbuntu release
candidate.

A more complete tour of the features new in 8.10 can be found at
http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/810rc

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, and
servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and
an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

To Get the Ubuntu 8.10 Release Candidate CD
-------------------------------------------

To perform a new installation or try out 8.10 "live" from CD, download
the Ubuntu 8.10 Release Candidate (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Africa:

*** http://bw.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (Botswana)
*** http://ls.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (Lesotho)
*** http://mz.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (Mozambique)
*** http://sz.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (Swaziland)
*** http://ubuntu.mirror.ac.za/ubuntu-release/8.10 (South Africa)
*** http://zw.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (Zimbabwe)

  Asia:

*** ftp://ftp.corbina.net/pub/Linux/ubuntu-cd/8.10 (Russian Federation)
*** http://ftp.cse.yzu.edu.tw/pub/Linux/Ubuntu/ubuntu-cd/8.10 (Taiwan)
*** http://ftp.daum.net/ubuntu-releases/8.10 (Korea, Republic of)
*** http://ftp.linux.org.tr/ubuntu-releases/8.10 (Turkey)
*** http://ftp.tcc.edu.tw/iso/Ubuntu/8.10 (Taiwan)
*** http://ftp.twaren.net/Linux/Ubuntu/ubuntu-cd/8.10 (Taiwan)

  Europe:

*** http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-releases/8.10 (Germany)
*** http://ubuntu.ipacct.com/releases/8.10 (Bulgaria)
*** http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (Sweden)
*** http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/8.10 (Netherlands)
*** http://es.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (Spain)
*** http://ftp-stud.hs-esslingen.de/pub/Mirrors/releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (Germany)

  North America:

*** http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/CDs/8.10 (United States)
*** http://less.cogeco.net/ubuntu-releases/8.10 (Canada)
*** http://linux.nssl.noaa.gov/releases/8.10 (United States)
*** http://mirror.csclub.uwaterloo.ca/ubuntu-releases/8.10 (Canada)
*** http://mirrors.ccs.neu.edu/releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (United States)
*** http://mirrors.gigenet.com/ubuntu/8.10 (United States)

  Oceania/Australia:

*** http://ftp.citylink.co.nz/ubuntu-releases/8.10 (New Zealand)
*** http://ubuntu-releases.optus.net/8.10 (Australia)
*** http://mirror.internode.on.net/pub/ubuntu/releases/8.10 (Australia)
*** http://mirror.pacific.net.au/linux/ubuntu-releases/8.10 (Australia)
*** http://planetmirror.com/pub/ubuntu/releases/8.10 (Australia)

  South America:

*** http://ubuntu.c3sl.ufpr.br/releases/8.10 (Brazil)
*** http://espelhos.edugraf.ufsc.br/ubuntu-releases/8.10 (Brazil)
*** http://ftp.ucr.ac.cr/ubuntu-cd/8.10 (Costa Rica)

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/8.10 (Great Britain)

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.  See
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BitTorrent for more information about
using Bittorrent.

Upgrading from Ubuntu 8.04 LTS
------------------------------

To upgrade to Ubuntu 8.10 Release Candidate from Ubuntu 8.04 LTS,
follow these instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IntrepidUpgrades

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you
can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn this Release
Candidate into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please report bugs through the
Launchpad bug tracker:

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but are not
sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode, on the Ubuntu
Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on our
website, IRC channel and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please visit:  

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
