{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===

The Iowa team <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat | IRC]]</nowiki> channel is a place where members of our team can collaborate on projects and meet up with each other in real-time. It is also a place where people in Iowa can find out about Ubuntu and receive support.

Location of channel: '''<nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-us-ia|#ubuntu-us-ia]]</nowiki>''' on '''chat.<nowiki>[[http://freenode.net|freenode.net]]</nowiki>'''

=== Help with Common IRC Clients ===
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|How to Use Xchat]]</nowiki>

=== Channel Emergencies ===
If a channel operator is required, but not present, please join the '''#ubuntu-irc''' or '''#ubuntu-ops''' channel. Any Ubuntu Member, Ubuntu IRC Council Member, or Freenode Staff will be able to assist you.

=== Guidelines ===
The following are excerpts taken from the <nowiki>[[IRC-Guidelines|Ubuntu IRC Guidelines]]</nowiki>.

These guidelines do not cover every single aspect of the Ubuntu channels' etiquette. Specific practices are encouraged and discouraged, according to these guidelines' intent as well as to practical channel needs. Recommendations from channel operators, including those stored in the channel bots, should be followed.

'''The <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> should always be obeyed'''
 This one should not need further explanation, the Code of Conduct forms the basics of the pleasant atmosphere in Ubuntu. Being nice to each other, being cooperative and respecting each other is a must.

'''Don't flood the channel'''
 Flooding the channel disrupts all conversations. Please don't do it. If you want to show large texts, such as errors, use <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com|the pastebin]]</nowiki>.

'''Don't use public away messages'''
 <nowiki>[[http://sackheads.org/~bnaylor/spew/away_msgs.html|Really, dont!]]</nowiki> Imagine 600 people doing that. It's not a pretty sight. Changing your nick to user-away is frowned upon.
 If you use away messages, you may get kicked without warning. Given that you are away, a warning would not help anyway; consider a kick to be a warning since it can be followed by a ban if you don't stop using them. If you want to set away do it silently with "/away Reason" then when someone uses your name they are told you are away and the channel is not disturbed.
 On that same thread, you shouldn't spam the channel with the music you are playing currently.

'''Don't be annoying'''
 Flooding, away messages, repeating, CTCPs and bot abuse are not the only ways you can be annoying. Personal attacks when things don't go as planned, other attention-seeking behavior, and continued misbehaving after you have been advised to stop is disruptive and obnoxious. Such behavior may result in a removal from the channel.

'''Don't ask for operator privileges'''
 Whenever #ubuntu-us-ia needs new operators, we will ask the helpful and polite members of the chat whether they want to take on the responsibility. Please ''don't'' ask to become an operator or get upset if you're turned down. Being an operator in #ubuntu-us-ia is not a privilege, it is a responsibility.
