{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

== Project: UbuntuRadio ==
KRUU-LP, in Fairfield, is using Ubuntu for all radio station operations and day-to-day functions. Most of the features necessary for a radio station (specifically the audio editing and playback) are provided with the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org|UbuntuStudio]]</nowiki> release. However <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org|UbuntuStudio]]</nowiki> only goes so far, and includes a lot of things that are either unnecessary or irrelevant to a radio station's operations.

The specific requirements for community-radio operations are in the list below. The intention of this project is to package the best applications that meet these requirements, and bundle them into an UbuntuRadio release. Most of the background and code is probably going to come from the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org|UbuntuStudio]]</nowiki> project, which has done an excellent job of creating a simple, and usable package for multimedia needs. The <nowiki>[[http://campware.org|CampCaster]]</nowiki> radio station package is also a motivator in making UbuntuRadio a complete solution.

Ideally the entire package would be administered/installed from a single simple web-based interface.

=== Latest News ===
KRUU-FM is working with <nowiki>[[http://wikieducator.org|WikiEducator]]</nowiki> and the Commonwealth of Learning to promote FOSS-based community-media solutions. Ubuntu factors heavily thanks to easy of use, projects like !UbuntuStudio and widespread deployment. More information on this will be at <nowiki>[[http://wikieducator.org/Community_Media/KRUU_FM|KRUU-FM's WikiEducator page]]</nowiki>

=== Centralized music management server and web-based music administration system ===
==== Media Library Database ====
This is a network-storage solution which allows any tracks ripped using serpentine or whatever other program to link to a database automatically. 

Alternatively, the tracks could be post-processed into a database, which would require that the entire collection of music be re-indexed regularly.

==== Media management web-application ====
Should have the following features:
* Playlist creation into a central location so that playlists can be retrieved/played anywhere on the network
* Selective visibility based on user permissions - this is to allow external access to the music
* Lyrics integration from external lyrics servers.
* Annotation and comments on tracks - so that hosts can create their own descriptions, notes, etc.
* Freetagging - so that anyone can tag any track with any simple keywords
* Rating
* Explicit flag - this may be integrated with the Freetagging or Annotation features

=== CMS for station website ===
* Should contain templates, modules, etc. for schedules, programs, and host management
* Wiki system, pre-configured for use in a radio-station environment

=== Streaming server (with mp3 and ogg support) ===
One of the functions that the streaming server should also perform is regular splits of the audio streams based on the program schedule. These splits would be stored to a central podcast location, and also inserted into the CMS database.

=== Upload server - an FTP/HTTP based upload repository for shows to be uploaded to by users ===
=== Audio Editing, Conversion and Synthesis Tools ===
==== Recording ====
==== Editing and conversion ====
==== Playback ====
=== Contact Management System ===
* Contact Manager, including mailing-list and events manager

=== Publicity and promotion tools ===
* Basic tools (and templates) for brochures, posters, printed schedules, etc.

=== Backup and Maintenance ===
* Backup system for regular backup of all content
* LDAP server - for setting authentication/access levels for different functions for station operations

== Project: Ubuntu Small Business Server ==
