{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Welcome ===

=== Contact ===

The Ubuntu Iowa Loco is open to everyone, and we welcome everyone to join so that you can start contributing and sharing right away. The ways to reach out and connect with an IowaTeam member:

* Email: . <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ia|Subscribe]]</nowiki>.
* Forums: <nowiki>[[http://iowa.ubuntuforums.org|iowa.ubuntuforums.org]]</nowiki>
* IRC Channel: <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-us-ia|#ubuntu-us-ia]]</nowiki> on chat <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net|freenode.net]]</nowiki>. See the <nowiki>[[IowaTeam-IRC|Iowa IRC page]]</nowiki> for details.
* Check out the current <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-ia/+members|Iowa Team Members]]</nowiki> and add yourself to the list.

=== How to Contribute ===

If you live anywhere in Iowa and would like to join us, feel free to contact a team member via IRC or the mailing list.

=== Projects ===

=== Launchpad Membership Policy ===

To become an official IowaTeam member, you must do the following:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/+login|Register]]</nowiki> on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad.net]]</nowiki>. Use of your full name as your display name is encouraged (and pretty common).
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct|Sign]]</nowiki> and abide by the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. For help on GPG key signing, visit the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GnuPrivacyGuardHowto#Launchpad%20Key%20Signing|Gnu Privacy Guard How-to]]</nowiki> community help page.

=== Meetings ===

Currently, we have informal meetings the last Thursday of the month at 8:00 PM local time in our <nowiki>[[#Contact|IRC channel]]</nowiki>. Visit our <nowiki>[[IowaTeam-Meetings|meetings page]]</nowiki> for more information.

'''Next Meeting:''' Thursday, May 26, 2011 at 8:00 PM CDT

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
