{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===

KRUU-LP 100.1FM is one of the projects featured on the Ubuntu.com website, as an Ubuntu Case Study. KRUUFM is a community radio station, and part of the "community" directive has been to ensure that all the technology we use is accessible to anyone in the community. This has meant that we run the operations 100% with Free/Open Source Software, release all our content under Creative-Commons-Attribution-!ShareAlike licenses and assist anyone who comes into the station to evaluate FOSS alternatives or solutions to their requirements.

=== Contact KRUUFM ===

The KRUUFM Team can be contacted via email at , or via phone at (641) 209-1083.

=== How to Contribute ===

=== Projects ===

The KRUUFM team uses a combination of Ubuntu and FreeBSD. The former is used on all desktops. The latter on the servers. KRUU's current projects:
* Automate radio station operations with FOSS tools
* Set up a community computing resource for everyone - requires the set up and use of several donated machines
* Create a decentralized media-management system
* Document the steps necessary to create a FOSS-based community radio station that's easy to use and administer
