{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

IPv6 support is paramount to the continued operation and connectivity of Ubuntu servers around the globe. Unfortunately, like boiling a frog slowly, little thought is given to IPv6 support. It gets dismissed because it is "too far away", "too hard", "little real world use", and so on. The time has come where this needs to change, and the work that needs to be done to effect this change is documented here.

=== Desktop ===

* <nowiki>[[http://avahi.org/|Avahi]]</nowiki> doesn't advertise services over IPv6 by default (/etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf sets use_ipv6=no). (This has a domino effect with regards to other services, such as VNC, SSH, PulseAudio, any many other Avahi–enabled applications.)
* <nowiki>[[http://0pointer.de/lennart/projects/nss-mdns/|nss-mdns]]</nowiki> (for resolving things like hostname.local) only discovers IPv4 addresses by default. Requires changing 'mdns4' to 'mdns' in /etc/nssswitch.conf.
* DNS lookups don't strictly conform to RFC as a result of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/417757|LP #417757]]</nowiki>.

=== Server ===

* libvirt disables IPv6 on the bridge interface by default. (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/528934|LP #528934]]</nowiki>)
* Postfix only listens on 0.0.0.0:25 by default. <nowiki>[[http://www.sixxs.net/wiki/Postfix|Configuration]]</nowiki> is necessary to enable IPv6.

=== Ubuntu Web Services ===

* The <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki>, and related sites such as the <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/|package browser]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://one.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki>, and mirrors, including archive.ubuntu.com, are not IPv6–enabled and do not have AAAA records.

=== Other implementation bugs ===

Aside from the general implementation issues that need adjustment, there are a number of outstanding bugs discovered when using IPv6.  These are tracked in Launchpad via the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=ipv6|ipv6 tag]]</nowiki>.
