{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2012 Re Approval Application for Iranian Team (ubuntu-ir) ==

The Iranian Ubuntu team is a growing OPEN community of free software, mostly Ubuntu users and one of the biggest opensource communities in Iran and the Middle-east. The Ubuntu Iranian Team plans to grow the local ecosystem of individuals, companies, non-profits and governmental and intergovernmental institutions in Iran working (or wanting to work) with Ubuntu. We're doing that, by organizing and supporting promotional, educational and community activities.

Ubuntu-ir (aka Ubuntu Iranian Team) has been an approved LoCo Team since September 2006 and since then we've held Release Parties, Global Jams and take part in Software Freedom days.
Persian is the main language of IranianTeam and we welcome other persian talking neighbor countries like Afghanistan/Tajikistan using our resources to shape their community.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - December 2012
* '''Team Contact''' - Mehdi Hassanpour <mehdi@ubuntu.com>
* '''Membership''' - Our forums has ~12200 members as of Dec. 2012
* '''Web Site''' - http://www.ubuntu.ir
* '''Wiki''' - http://wiki.ubuntu.ir
* '''Forums''' - http://forum.ubuntu.ir
* '''Planet''' - http://ubuntu.ir/planet (Down for a while, Theme update)
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-ir on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-ir on Freenode

=== The Teams ===
Whe have a centralized community that works together in each segment and subteams, which are the following ones:

The Council Team: The Ubuntu Iranian Team Community Council is the group which determines the social policies and structure of the Ubuntu Iranian Team Projects. You may read more info about it <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ir-council|here]]</nowiki>

Documentation Team: This team is responsible for content of our Persian wiki. They write, translate and put together documents that people with poor English knowledge need to start with Ubuntu. We have documents in different levels for beginner to advanced users in our wiki and forums right now.

Forum Moderators Team: This team is responsible for moderating our Persian fast growing forums. Our forums are more popular than other web stuff. You may read more info about it <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ir-forum-moderators|here]]</nowiki>

The Web Team: This team is responsible to maintain our web stuff. We've redesigned our forums theme and the wiki and planet theme is under active development. You may read more info about it <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ir-web|here]]</nowiki>

=== Events ===
Iranian Team has had regular release parties since Ubuntu 7.04 with growing number of users in each party. We started with ~20 people in our first event and the last event has more than 300 audience. Datak Telekom one of the biggest Iranian Internet providers and some universities like Khajenasir Technical University and Azad University were sponsor of some of these events.

More info and pics of our Release Parties can be found in our wiki and ubuntu-ir facebook page.

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ir/index.php?topic=47817.0|Ubuntu 12.10 release Party discussion - will be held soon]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.501564593202304.136891.135757403116360|Ubuntu 12.04 release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ir/1385/detail/|Ubuntu 11.10 release Party on loco-events]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/events/292901824061893/|Ubuntu 11.10 release Party on facebook]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10150408156478793.411875.527123792|Ubuntu 11.04 release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ir/index.php/topic,14175.0.html|Ubuntu Installed, now What?]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/KarmicKoalaReleaseParty|Ubuntu 9.10 Release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/JauntyJackalopeReleaseParty| Ubuntu 9.04 Release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/IntrepidIbexReleaseParty| Ubuntu 8.10 Release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/ReleaseParty/HardyReleaseParty| Ubuntu 8.04 Release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.ir|Facebook Page]]</nowiki>

Beside events we arrange, there are other events that we support, take part and have seminars in.

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://isfahansfd.org/live/?p=70|Isfahan SFD]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.4645608304462.2185360.1420771613|zconf 2012 FOSS conference]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ir/index.php?topic=37182.0|zconf 2012 FOSS conference discussions]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.2380521718713.2140430.1420771613|zconf 2011 FOSS conference]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===
* Improving the organization of the Iranian Team to work more effectively
** Setting up new teams where needed 
** Improving the coordination within the teams
** Get more feedback from members

* Promotion
** Continue Our regular Release Parties
** Presence at more computer and other fairs
** Setting up a shop to sell and spread Ubuntu Mugs, T-Shirts, DVD's &...
** Continue to have events
** Continue to distribute DVDs
** Continue to provide best web support

* Web Site Development
** We need more development and customization on our web resources since these resources are the key to support and help users.
** We've finished redesigning/upgrading forums, wiki is under heavy development and will be ready soon then we'll start work on planet and other stuff
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
