{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2010 Re Approval Application for Iranian Team (ubuntu-ir) ==

The Iranian Ubuntu team is a growing OPEN community of free software, mostly Ubuntu users and one of the biggest opensource communities in Iran and the Middle-east. The Ubuntu Iranian Team plans to grow the local ecosystem of individuals, companies, non-profits and governmental and intergovernmental institutions in Iran working (or wanting to work) with Ubuntu. We're doing that, by organizing and supporting promotional, educational and community activities.

Persian is the main language of IranianTeam and we welcome other persian talking neighbor countries like Afghanistan using our resources to shape their community.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 
* '''Team Contact''' - Mehdi Hassanpour <mehdi@ubuntu.com>
* '''Membership''' - Our forums has ~8000 members as of Aug. 2010
* '''Web Site''' - http://www.ubuntu.ir
* '''Wiki''' - http://wiki.ubuntu.ir
* '''Forums''' - http://forum.ubuntu.ir
* '''Planet''' - http://ubuntu.ir/planet
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-ir on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-ir on Freenode

=== The Teams ===
Whe have a centralized community that works together in each segment and subteams, which are the following ones:

The Council Team: The Ubuntu Iranian Team Community Council is the group which determines the social policies and structure of the Ubuntu Iranian Team Projects. You may read more info about it <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ir-council|here]]</nowiki>

Documentation Team: This team is responsible for content of our Persian wiki. They write, translate and put together documents that people with poor English knowledge need to start with Ubuntu. We have documents in different levels for beginner to advanced users in our wiki and forums right now.

Forum Moderators Team: This team is responsible for moderating our Persian fast growing forums.

=== Events ===
Iranian Team has had regular release parties since Ubuntu 7.04 with growing number of users in each party. We started with ~20 people in our first event and the last event has more than 300 audience. Datak Telekom one of the biggest Iranian Internet providers was sponsor of our last event.

More info and pics of our Release Parties can be found in our wiki and ubuntu-ir facebook page.

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/KarmicKoalaReleaseParty|Ubuntu 9.10 Release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/JauntyJackalopeReleaseParty| Ubuntu 9.04 Release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/IntrepidIbexReleaseParty| Ubuntu 8.10 Release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.ir/ReleaseParty/HardyReleaseParty| Ubuntu 8.04 Release Party]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.ir|Facebook Page]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===
* Improving the organization of the Iranian Team to work more effectively
** Setting up new teams where needed 
** Improving the coordination within the teams
** Get more feedback from members

* Promotion
** Continue Our regular Release Parties
** Presence at more computer and other fairs
** Setting up a shop to sell and spread Ubuntu Mugs, T-Shirts, DVD's &...

* Web Site Development
** We need more development and customization on our web resources since these resources are the key to support and help users.
