{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


When the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> appoint an new operator to an IRC channel, they will begin a three (3) month introductory period, after which their operator status will be reviewed by the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> and fully approved, extended or rejected. The <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> reserve the right to extend this introductory period after review, or terminate operator status before the period is complete.

=== What is the introductory period ===
As it is difficult to determine the suitability of someone of being an operator without them actually being an operator, all new operators will go through an ''introductory'' period. This period is like a test run for an operator, it will be used to see how the new operator reacts to the new role and expectations, and to give the new operator a chance to see what it's like being an operator. The period will last for three (3) months from the point a new operator is approved by the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki>.

=== Why have an introduction ===
When a new operator is appointed they gain operator status in one or more channels. It is unreasonable to expect a new operator to suddenly become familiar with the responsibilities and pressures associated with this new role. Some people will react well to this, some less so. This period is as much a chance for the new operator to become familiar with this new role as it is for the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[IrcTeam|IRC operators]]</nowiki> to guide and assess the new appointment. This is important because being an IRC operator is not for everyone, and not everyone can handle the responsibility and pressures, or wants to.

=== What is expected of an operator during the introductory period ===
Nothing extra is expected that is not expected of any other operator, the new operator will have all the powers and responsibilities any other operator would have. As a new operator it is common to be unsure about how to act/react in certain circumstances, the other <nowiki>[[IrcTeam|IRC operators]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> are there to help. The introductory period is just a formal process every new operator goes through to gain practical experience. 

=== What happens after the introductory period is complete ===
Once the introductory period for a operator is complete, the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> will review the appointment and discuss any issues with the new operator. The <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> will either:
* Accept the new appointment
   In this case, the operator becomes a ''full'' operator, there is no difference between a ''full'' operator and one in their introductory period. This is simply a formal approval process.
* Reject the new appointment.
   If, for some reason, the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> feel that they cannot approve the appointment, and that no progress can be made, the council will reject the appointment and operator status will be removed.
* Extend the introductory period.
   In the case where the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> in unwilling or unable to accept the appointment in full, possibly because of issues that arose during the introduction, the council has the option to extend the introductory period of the new operator. The <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> will discuss any issues with the new operator and explain exactly why the extended introduction was applied to them.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryIRC]]</nowiki>
