{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Draft ==
=== Long Term Problem User Process ===

This is the process to be followed for bans across the core channels on users who continue to be problematic for long periods of time. Please read and follow all of the instructions, where possible.

1. Take note of the persons poor behaviour across several ubuntu channels over an extended period of time.
2. Send an email to ircc-appeals@ubottu.com, a private IRC Council ticket system, to create a new ticket to track the issue. This email should include logs/links to logs from across the various channels including attempts to catalyze and encourage better behavior, re-tests if practically possible(removal of bans and poor behavior present again) ban evading (if present) and more than one operator involved.
3. The IRCC will consider if all reasonable avenues of communication and persuasion have been tried, and if so, will contact Libera Chat staff to see if there is a greater problem on the network, and if not, or if staff disagree, consider whether to take action.
4. If action is to be taken, there will be an appropriate ban placed in the core channels, and the person banned informed publically in an officially logged channel. Ubuntu IRC operators may be notified via a mail to the Ubuntu IRC mailing list.
5. If ban evasion is noted, the issue should be passed then to Libera Chat staff, who will act in accordance with network policy.

This policy is for Core Ubuntu channels, as listed at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcTeam/Scope

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryIRC]]</nowiki>
