{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


By using the Ubuntu IRC Channels you indicate that you have read and agree to adhere to the <nowiki>[[https://libera.chat/|Libera Chat]]</nowiki> policies and procedures (as described on their website) and that you agree to the following:

=== Channel Rules ===
* In every Ubuntu IRC channel (this includes any channel starting with #ubuntu, #kubuntu, #xubuntu, #edubuntu, #lubuntu and #ubuntustudio) the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> must be followed at all times by every user. This Code of Conduct is central to all aspects of Ubuntu and IRC is no exception.
* You should check the topic and any entry message (send as a notice by Chan``Serv) when you enter a channel, they may give important information on specific channel rules and possibly channel logging.
* In the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core Channels]]</nowiki> the <nowiki>[[IRC-Guidelines|IRC Guidelines]]</nowiki> constitute the main channel rules, they must be followed by all users at all times.

=== Logging ===
* Some of the Ubuntu IRC channels are publicly logged on the internet, channels which are publicly logged will have "ubuntulog", and some may have other external logging bots.
* When joining a channel which is publicly logged, either  Chan``Serv will send you a notice when you enter the channel informing you that it is logged, or it may be noted in the channel topic.
* By participating in one of these channels you agree to have anything you send to the channel publicly stored or processed on http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/, or other external sites. (Note: these sites are also indexed by search engines, such as Google).

=== Translations ===

Please list any translations of this message (for loco channels) here. (translations should be added at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/TermsOfService/$LanguageCode )

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Translation Language'''
| '''Date of last review'''
| '''Last Reviewer'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[ar|Arabic]]</nowiki>
| 13th Mar 2023
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:arbian]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[ast|Asturianu]]</nowiki>
| 12th Mar 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ivarela]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[ca|Català]]</nowiki>
| 28th Feb 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dpm]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[cs|Čeština]]</nowiki>
| 29th Mar 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:vojtech.trefny]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[de|Deutsch]]</nowiki>
| 28th Feb 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:hennekn]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:thecondordb]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[es|Español]]</nowiki>
| 6th Mar 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:Fitoschido]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[fi|suomi]]</nowiki>
| 8th Apr 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:timo-jyrinki]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[fr|Français]]</nowiki>
| 28th Feb 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:winniemiel05]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[gl|Galego]]</nowiki>
| 28th Feb 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mbouzada]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[el|Greek]]</nowiki>
| 7th May 2014
| <nowiki>[[NikTh]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[hr|Hrvatski]]</nowiki>
| 19th Sep 2014
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mariosplivalo]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[id|Indonesian]]</nowiki>
| 1st Mar 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:andika]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[it|Italiano]]</nowiki>
| 26th Apr 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claudio.arseni]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[ms|Malay]]</nowiki>
| 11th Feb 2012
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:maklan]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[nl|Nederlands]]</nowiki>
| 2th Mar 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:janc]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[he|Hebrew]]</nowiki>
| 5th Mar 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:serfus]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[pt-br|Português do Brasil]]</nowiki>
| 8th Apr 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:brennoemanuel]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[sl|Slovenian]]</nowiki>
| 9th April 2011
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:andrej.znidarsic]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[hi|Hindi-Hinglish]]</nowiki>
| 5th April 2020
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rs2009]]</nowiki>
|}
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryIRC]]</nowiki>
