{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

When an IRC channel's name must be changed, there are procedures that can ease the transition and automatically redirect users to the new channel.

These instructions assume that #oldchannel needs to be closed, and moved to #newchannel.

If you have any questions, please join the channel #ubuntu-irc for further assistance.

== Register the new channel ==
If you haven't already, you'll need to register the new channel first:
<pre>
/JOIN #newchannel
/MSG ChanServ REGISTER #newchannel
</pre>
and optionally
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ SET #newchannel GUARD ON
</pre>
to let Chan``Serv always sit in the channel.

Please keep the <nowiki>[[IRC-ChannelNaming| Channel name policies]]</nowiki> in mind when creating new Ubuntu channels.

== Requirements ==
To forward the old channel, you must be opped and have the +s chanserv flag in '''both''' channels.
 i.e. if you type <code>/msg nickserv listchans</code> you should see:

<pre>
11:28:16 -NickServ(NickServ@services.)- Access flag(s) +...os... in #oldchannel
11:28:16 -NickServ(NickServ@services.)- Access flag(s) +...os... in #newchannel
</pre>

== Forwarding ==
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ op #oldchannel
/MSG ChanServ op #newchannel
/TOPIC #oldchannel We have moved to #newchannel, please type /join #newchannel to get to us
/MSG ChanServ SET #oldchannel GUARD ON
/MSG ChanServ SET #oldchannel MLOCK +tnsmif #newchannel
/MSG ChanServ SET #oldchannel TOPICLOCK ON
/MSG ChanServ SET #oldchannel PRIVATE ON
</pre>

== Access Lists ==
The access list (the list of operators) must be re-created on #newchannel.

The access list of #oldchannel can be viewed with
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ ACCESS #oldchannel LIST
</pre>

Operators can then be added to #newchannel with
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ FLAGS #newchannel <Account/Mask> <Flags>
</pre>
where ''<Account/Mask>'' and ''<Flags>'' are the ones shown in the list.

It is highly recommended that libera staff are added to the access list:
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ FLAGS #newchannel *!*@libera/staff/* +votiA
</pre>

It is also recommended that the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> are added to the access list:
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ FLAGS #newchannel UbuntuIRCCouncil +votiA
</pre>

== Bots ==

If any bots were present in #oldchannel, you '''should''' contact the bot owners to notify them of the channel name change.

As a temporary stop-gap measure, however, you can try to kick the bots using the command
<pre>
/KICK #oldchannel <BotNickName>
</pre>
'''after''' the previous steps have been completely. It is then possible, though not guaranteed, that the bot will join the new channel.

Remember that ''you should still contact the bot owner in any case''!
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryIRC]]</nowiki>
