{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


You can use this page to nominate items for discussion by the Ubuntu IRC Council and operator team. 

Meetings take place on the 3rd Wednesday of every month.

The next meeting will be on 
== Regular Agenda Items ==
* '''Review #ubuntu-ops-team''' (Quarterly)

== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==
<pre> comment

* If you add items to the agenda, please follow the example above
* The #topic at the start makes it directly pasteable into the meeting and using your IRC nick means you will be highlighted when the agenda item comes up, feel free to use multiple nicks here.
* If you put an item on the agenda you will have to show up, otherwise the item may be deleted from the agenda.
* Please add your name to items you add and invite any interested people to the meeting. No need to date them, the wiki knows when they were added.
* Please don't add items to the list on the day before a meeting.
* There are a few standing items, the review of open items on the tracker and bugs on launchpad and actions from the previous meeting
* If a topic requires input from other teams we might put it at the start of the meeting so that they know when to turn up and don't have to sit through the rest of the meeting. Conversely we might put it at the end if that works out best for timezone related issues.
 
</pre>
* #topic '''Review last meetings action items'''
* #topic Open items in the IRCC tracker
* #topic '''Review <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc-council|Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council]]</nowiki>'''
* #topic Pending applications for ops
* #topic Membership applications
* #topic Any Other Business

Please put any background or extra information for consideration on the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcCouncil-IRCteamproposal|IRCteamproposal]]</nowiki> page, so the IRCC can read beforehand and we save time in the meeting.

== Ubuntu Membership Applications ==
Before applying for membership, please read the <nowiki>[[IRC-Membership|membership page]]</nowiki>. If it is clear that you did not read it, your name might be deleted because otherwise the meetings will take too much time.

Please make sure that you have listed:

* Your launchpad page
* A signed Code of Conduct
* A good wiki page about you, and the work that you've done, with some testimonials.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''IRC Nick'''
| '''Wiki Page'''
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| '''Date Added'''
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}
== Fixed Action Items ==

* '''Review and process ops applications'''
* '''Keep <nowiki>[[IRCCouncil-TeamReports]]</nowiki> updated.'''
* '''Update <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcCouncil/NEXTMEETING?action=edit&editor=text|Next meeting time]]</nowiki> on the wiki'''
* '''Reference meeting log at <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-IRCC]]</nowiki>'''
* '''Send meeting minutes to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-irc|ubuntu-irc mailing list]]</nowiki>'''

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryIRC]]</nowiki>
