{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== DRAFT!!! TO BE APPROVED BY THE COMMUNITY COUNCIL ==

=== Team Councils ===

For active teams and sub-projects within Ubuntu, the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/council|Ubuntu Community Council]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil-Delegation|delegates]]</nowiki> many of its responsibilities to "Team Councils". These councils act as proxies for the Community Council over a particular team or scope of activity within the Ubuntu community. These governance councils are ultimately responsible for managing the actions and activity within their team or scope. In addition to this, the councils resolve disputes and manage policies and procedures internal to their team, and frequently appoint Ubuntu members on behalf of the CC.

The <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc-council|Ubuntu IRC Council (''IRCC'')]]</nowiki> is the team governance council for the the Ubuntu IRC channels on the freenode network. These include any channels for projects that have been approved and are governed by the Ubuntu Community Council.

Although the IRC Council governs the aforementioned channels, it generally chooses to allow the operators of these channels to manage them. Management of these channels might include removing disruptive users, appointing or removing operators for the channel, modifying the channel /topic, as well as other minor tasks necessary in order to keep the channel running smoothly.

=== IRC Community Governance Codification ===

The <nowiki>[[IRC|Ubuntu IRC channels]]</nowiki> are how many people first encounter the Ubuntu community, are a core resource for support and social interactions, and have become one of the most important sub-projects within Ubuntu. The Ubuntu community is the largest community on <nowiki>[[http://www.freenode.net|freenode]]</nowiki> and one of the largest IRC communities in the world.

This document aims to:

* Provide a clear delegation and codifications of the existing leadership on IRC and plan for handling these decisions in the future.
* Describe a clear and fair process for the appointment of Ubuntu operators.
* Remove several "single points of failure".
* Describe methods for both preventing and resolving any future conflicts among members of the Ubuntu IRC community, Ubuntu operators, and members of the IRC Council.
* Provide a straightforward process for IRC contributors to be recognized as <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/newmember|Ubuntu Members]]</nowiki>.
* Provide for a reporting process so that news, ideas and work done in the project by IRC users will be communicated to the broader community and appropriately recognized.

=== IRC Council Charter ===

The IRC Council is the group that is ultimately responsible for the governing the IRC channels and interfacing between IRC and the rest of the Ubuntu community and the Community Council.

* The Council will consist of five (5) members. Membership should be <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc-council/+members|public]]</nowiki>.
* Decisions requiring a vote will be passed when more than half, and at least three, of the total members of the IRC Council are in agreement.
* IRC Council members should be accessible by and responsive to the IRC community in a dedicated IRC channel and through a dedicated mailing list.
* The Council is appointed by the Ubuntu Community Council. Requirements for membership of the Council are as follows:
** Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/newmember|membership]]</nowiki> (Essential)
** Be able to demonstrate a competent technical knowledge of IRC.
** Be able to demonstrate a passion and desire for IRC and maintaining effective governance of our IRC community.
** Be familiar of the expectations listed in this charter and commit to executing them as part of the IRC Council
* Members serve terms of two (2) years. IRC Council members can serve multiple or repeated terms. Weight will be given to proven contributors and re-election of consistently active members should be both easy and common.
* The IRC Council will have a chairman with a casting vote, appointed by the Community Council. In the case of a deadlock during a vote (where an equal number of people vote +1 and -1), the chairman will be able to break the tie and make a decision.

Other provisions:

* IRC Council members should be fair and unbiased while performing their duties. If they are simultaneously serving as an operator in an Ubuntu IRC channel, it is important that they keep these roles separate and not allow their actions as an operator to influence their decisions as a member of the IRC Council; this might require abstaining from participating in certain IRC Council discussions due to having a conflict of interest. IRC Council members who do not feel capable of doing this have the option of temporarily stepping down as an operator.
* In order to avoid a potential conflict of interest, IRC Council members who also serve as freenode staff should refrain from carrying out Group Contact (GC) <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/group_registration.shtml#groupcontacts|duties]]</nowiki>.
* IRC Council members are expected to uphold the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> as well as the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/leadership-conduct|Ubuntu Leadership Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.
* The Community Council will have a member sit on the IRC Council until June 2010. This will be a temporary seat. This member will offer advice, mentor and report back to the Community Council. This member shall not have a casting vote. 
* The Community Council will review the state of the IRC Council in June 2010 and act upon its review if it feels it is necessary.

The IRC Council will have a number of rights and responsibilities, and be ultimately responsible for the smooth operation of the IRC channels. These include:

* Appointing and recalling IRC operators as well as determining the criteria by which they are appointed.
* Resolving disputes among IRC operators
* Maintaining the IRC Guidelines and associated infrastructure with advice, feedback, and help from the IRC operators.
* Community Bug Reporting - the IRC Council should encourage the community to file issues using the Community Bug Process at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReportingCommunityProblems - this provides a good snapshot of where people feel there are problems in the community. 
* Regular IRC Meetings - at least one public real-time IRC meeting per month with a public request for agenda items. There should be an Agenda wiki page where the community can add agenda items to be discussed and decided upon.
* Reporting - meeting notes and outcomes should be published using a <nowiki>[[TeamReports|Team Report]]</nowiki>. Important announcements should also be emailed to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-irc|ubuntu-irc mailing list]]</nowiki>.

=== Appointment Process ===

Elections of new IRC Council members will be held in the following way:

* An open call for nominations should be announced in the IRC Community, and people can nominate themselves for a seat on the council. All Ubuntu Members are welcome to apply.
* To apply for a seat the candidate creates a wiki page outlining his or her work in the community, and inviting people whom they have worked with to add testimonials.
* When the application deadline has passed, the IRC Council will review the applications and provide feedback on the candidates for the Community Council to review. 
* The Community Council will identify a shortlist of candidates and circulate the list publically for feedback from the community. The Community Council will then finalize the appointment of new Council members.
** In the future, the shortlist identified by the Community Council will be voted upon by team members as described at <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil-Delegation]]</nowiki>. Part of the IRC Council's role over the Lucid release cycle will be to identify a team of contributors to IRC which is appropriate to carry out this vote.

=== Ubuntu Membership Through IRC Contributions ===

IRC operators will be appointed by the IRC Council. IRC operators are expected to uphold and set an example that is consistent with the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. IRC operators can have their operator status removed by the IRC Council if they do not set such an example or do not follow the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-OperatorGuidelines| operator guidelines]]</nowiki>.

IRC operators and participants have the ability to become Ubuntu Members if they make significant and sustained contributions to the IRC community. This will be achieved by a membership process that will be set up by the IRC Council in conjunction with the Community Council. 

=== Dispute Resolution ===

The IRC Council will be responsible for maintaining <nowiki>[[IrcGuidelines|IRC guidelines]]</nowiki> and systems for internal <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-AppealProcess|conflict resolution]]</nowiki>.

Additionally, they should provide a documented method whereby any disagreements or conflicts ''between'' operators can be brought to the Council's attention for review and discussion.

In extreme situations, users and operators who feel that they have not been given a fair hearing by the IRC Council can appeal a decision to the Community Council.

Any deadlock within the IRC Council can be referred to the Community Council for resolution.

=== Interaction between Ubuntu and freenode ===

The IRC Council is the primary point of contact between the Ubuntu community and the freenode staff. This means that the council can approve cloaks, take action to fix channel ownership/access issues, request channel limit exceptions and other administrative items. They should also try to maintain a good relationship with freenode staff.
