{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===

The Ubuntu IRC <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core channels]]</nowiki> are governed by the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[IRC-Guidelines|Ubuntu IRC guidelines]]</nowiki>. When using the Ubuntu IRC channels users agree to behave in compliance with the defined polices. The same is also true of the network and host providers that allow users to use their hosts and network to connect to the Ubuntu IRC resources. Any host or network provider that has no Terms of Use policy, has a policy that is incompatible with the Ubuntu IRC guidelines, or shows it is open for persistent abuse may be denied access to the Ubuntu IRC <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core channels]]</nowiki>. Additional Ubuntu IRC channels may choose to deny access from the same shell and network providers as the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core channels]]</nowiki> do.

=== Requirements for host/network providers ===

* A documented and effective usage policy that forbids abuse
* A known, valid, and active point of contact (email/web form/IRC presence) for abuse reports
* An active administration team

If a host or network provider is being used by users causing a problem within the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|IRC Core]]</nowiki> channels and these requirements are not present or active, a blanket ban may be placed across the Ubuntu IRC <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core channels]]</nowiki>.

=== What to do if your host or network is banned ===

If you are using a host or network provider that is banned from the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|IRC Core channels]]</nowiki> it is possible to have this ban removed. The following information may help.

If you are aware of your host or network provider not meeting the requirements needed to gain access to the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core IRC channels]]</nowiki>, contact your host or network provider and make them aware of the problem and request they implement a change to meet the requirements.

If you are using a host or network provider that is banned from the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core IRC channels]]</nowiki> but you are not sure why, join the channel <nowiki>[[https://web.libera.chat/#ubuntu-ops|#ubuntu-ops]]</nowiki> on the <nowiki>[[http://libera.chat/|Libera Chat network]]</nowiki>, and one of the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core channel]]</nowiki> operators will be able to help explain why your host or network provider is banned.

If you are using a host or network provider that is banned from the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core IRC channels]]</nowiki> and you cannot get them to comply or meet the needed requirements to have the ban removed you will need to change host or network provider.

If you are a host or network provider administrator and your host or network is banned, please join <nowiki>[[http://web.libera.chat/#ubuntu-ops|#ubuntu-ops]]</nowiki> or contact the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcCouncil|Ubuntu IRC Council]]</nowiki> in order to resolve the issue and ensure compliance.

=== Note to Ubuntu IRC operators ===

If you set a ban on a shell or network provider, a detailed note in the bantracker must be placed against the ban explaining the requirements that are not met. In addition, inform the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> about your action immediately.

==== Currently Banned Hosts/Networks ====

<nowiki>[[http://www.bshellz.net|Bshellz]]</nowiki>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryIRC]]</nowiki>
