{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcCouncil|IRC Council]]</nowiki> would like to ensure that even those channels which are not directly managed by it meet some basic requirements in order to

* not stray from Ubuntu and Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code Of Conduct]]</nowiki> focus

* enable cooperation among all the Ubuntu IRC entities

* allow providing effective end-user support on dedicated channels

To achieve these goals, the IRC Council asks the operators of all the publicly accessible Ubuntu channels to

* encourage everyone on the channel to act according to the CoC, ensuring that the CoC remains the core reference point for the channel as a whole

* try to allow unprejudiced open access to anyone, and only deny it to specific individuals on specific grounds. This does not mean that you can not set modes such as +i, +m, +k, or ban/quiet a large range of users when necessary, but please take a few minutes to consider whether you really need to have these restrictive modes enabled.

* guarantee channel accessibility by not introducing restrictions that would hinder or impede access from a standard Ubuntu installation

* ensure that any policies and rules enforced by the operators on the channel be transparently explained to users, and that the channel operators themselves be identifiable using standard IRC network protocols

The IRC Council also strongly encourages channels to list Libera Chat staff (*!*@libera/staff/*) as operators, who can act in emergencies, and also suggests that the UbuntuIrcCouncil nickname is listed as an operator.  E.g.:

<pre>
/msg chanserv FLAGS #ubuntu-foo *!*@libera/staff/* +votiA
/msg chanserv FLAGS #ubuntu-foo UbuntuIRCCouncil +votiA
</pre>

(Where #ubuntu-foo is your IRC channel.)

Some specific IRC channels '''must''' be available for providing public end-user support. These include LoCoTeam channels (named according to the <nowiki>[[IRC-ChannelNaming| channel naming]]</nowiki> conventions), '''unless''' there are arrangements in place between such a channel and another designated support channel speaking the same language. End-user support will co-exist with other uses of the channel, although LoCo operators can elect to use secondary channels for other matters than support.

Finally, the IRC Council would like to invite channel contacts (as well as operators) to partecipate in building a closer communication and knowledge exchange network. Language barrier, and simply group/team/channel barriers in geneal, can negatively affect the IRC medium, limiting its communicative power.

We wish to respect boundaries, but break barriers.

We encourage channel operators, including and especially those who are not part of the Ubuntu IRC Team, to '''get in contact''' with each other and the IRC Council, and to that purpose we propose to use the channel '''#ubuntu-irc''', which is open to non-English speakers as well.

While using English is preferred whenever it can be used, as it generally makes communication possible among larger groups of people, we want to create a bridge that those who don't speak English can cross. Bilingual members from the IRC Team are volunteering to help with this, and what follows is a list of people you can try contacting (about this document and everything that its contents touch) if English is not an option:

* Shqip (Albanian) : #ubuntu-al IRC-Team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~albania|Albania LoCo Team]]</nowiki>  <nowiki>[[ErmalLlanaj]]</nowiki> (albuntu)

* العربية (Arabic) <nowiki>[[Rafik]]</nowiki> (Rafik)

* Dansk (Danish): LasseHavelund (MenZa)

* Suomi (Finnish): JussiKekkonen (Tm_T), MiiaRanta (Myrtti)

* Francais (French): Nafallo Bjälevik (Nafallo, basic), Martin Meredith (Mez, intermediate)

* Deutsch (German): Ubuntu-DE IRC-Team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-de-irc-op]]</nowiki>, LasseHavelund (MenZa)

* Ελληνικά (Greek): AlkisGeorgopoulos (alkisg)

* Italiano (Italian): <nowiki>[[LorenzoJLucchini]]</nowiki> (LjL)

* Norsk (Norweigan): Nafallo Bjälevik (Nafallo, basic), LasseHavelund (MenZa, intermediate)

* Português (Portuguese): JasonRibeiro (jrib)

* Español (Spanish): <nowiki>[[EfrainValles]]</nowiki> (effie_jayx), AlejandroRiveira (erUSUL), Hector Reyes (elcharly01), <nowiki>[[jose|José Antonio Rey]]</nowiki> (jose)

* Русский (Russian): <nowiki>[[Aim]]</nowiki> (aim1159)

* Svenska (Swedish): Nafallo Bjälevik (Nafallo), <nowiki>[[LorenzoJLucchini]]</nowiki> (LjL, basic knowledge), JussiKekkonen (Tm_T, basic knowledge), MiiaRanta (Myrtti), LasseHavelund (MenZa, intermediate)

If you are a bilingual channel operators and would like to help, please add your name and language to the above list. Thanks!

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryIRC]]</nowiki>
