{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Mentoring for IRC Operators ==

=== What is Mentoring for IRC Operators ===
A mentor is someone responsible for teaching a new operator the nuances of being an Ubuntu operator, explain exactly what is expected of them; both in technical management and in general behaviour (both on and off IRC). The mentor should be the first port of call when a new operator is uncertain how to act/react during IRC issues, explain the procedures we have for dealing with channel disruption and abuse. They will guide an operator until they both feel confident in the new operator's abilities and judgement.

=== Appointment as a Mentor ===
* All core operators are expected to be available for mentoring new operators
* The <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcCouncil|IRCC]]</nowiki> will match new operators with core operators according to timezone availability where possible.

=== Mentor Duties ===

* Give help, instruction and critique to the mentoree where needed.
* Advice on our policies, <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-OperatorRequirements|requirements]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-OperatorGuidelines|guidelines]]</nowiki>
* Answer the mentoree's questions where possible.
* Report to the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcCouncil|IRCC]]</nowiki> on the progress of the mentoree, where appropriate.
* Advice the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcCouncil|IRCC]]</nowiki> on the final approval of the mentoree at the end of the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-OperatorIntroduction|introductory period]]</nowiki>.

=== Mentorees ===
* Mentorees will remain with their mentors until their <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-OperatorIntroduction|introductory period]]</nowiki> is over.
* Mentorees are expected to seek advice from their mentors when in doubt, or from other members of the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam|IrcTeam]]</nowiki>.

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryIRC]]</nowiki>
