{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe IRCaLobbyDiscussion here.

Hi all,

I have not worked this out fully however, I would like to start the ball  rolling on the lobby / foyer concept. 

My motivation is two fold, firstly the conversation in #ubuntu-devel on Sunday, the second is that that I dropped into #ubuntu and I thought it was too fast last night, for even a few seconds. 

I have enough years on IRC to know that is a passing trend, I also read that people are falling into #ubuntu-bugs to get advice, and into -devel.

In very simple terms this appears to me as if #ubuntu is not fulfilling its function.

So what is the lobby or foyer concept, well it is like going to a hotel and getting to the hotel concierge and getting simple advice from where the dining area and some from the layout of the hotel to other places in ubuntuland. ;-)

You may run into an issue with regard to the amount of channels you want to get into.

So for layout I have a simple question how many different types of channels need to be set up.

A beginners?
A wireless?
A xorg not -effects?
Could we, nay, should we ask -effects to take on all xorg queries?
What other channels are suitable.

House rules:
If it is not in a factoid we direct people to other channels?

What would this do, well one of the paybacks is that trollish behaviour would have less of an audience, it is hard to troll in an area where specific questions are being asked and fielded.

We got to the point previously where we needed factoids. We build quite a lot of factoids.

We have the international aspect -es -it etc.
BTW on this front I noted that -es was marked private surely this needs to be stopped.

This brings me to LjL's -meta which may become the hangout for people who want to help. Not a bad thing, but could the bot live with the load.

There seems to be some point in the calls the bots make part of python that needs to be dug into and cleaned up. 

Would this be better done on the wiki?

It is an attempt to do some knowledge capture.
For this reason, please ping the list if you add something to:

------
I would like to add my two-cents about localized irc support channels.  The USTeams project has setup #ubuntu-state for many if not most of the states in the US.  As it continues to grow please forward people from other overcrowded support channels to their appropriate state.  See USTeams for more details.
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
