{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Irc Council Meeting, 10 April 2010'''

* Election of a chairman for the IRCC as per the approved charrter
** jussi01 to serve as IRCC chairman per the requirement in the IRCC Charter
* Request: Make the kubuntu-council team ops for all kubuntu channels
** Agree to add the Kubuntu Council team as an admin of all the kubuntu channel op teams on LP. Note which members of the council  already have OP access and in which channels. Add all Kubuntu Council members as OPs in the channels (+votiArf). Transition to using the script to manage this once it is done.
** jussi01 will make the necessary changes on LP and on IRC

'''IRC Council meeting, 25 April 2010'''

* New Topic:  #ubuntu-release-party access list
** IDEA received from Ikonia: I would suggest adding the core channel operators to the list and removing the membership cloak access 

** VOTE: Add the core channel operators to the list (#ubuntu-ops +V list) and removing the membership cloak access.
** Final result is 3 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 3

* New Topic:  Consider deactivating/re-purposing the ~ubuntu-irc team on launchpad
** IDEA received from Nhandler:  As for ~ubuntu-irc, I haven't seen any good ideas on how to re-purpose it right now, so I would propose removing all members, making it restricted, and adjusting the description to "disable" it for now 

** VOTE:  Change the description of ~ubuntu-irc to reflect its current state of disuse, think about the future use of it..
** Final result is 3 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 3

* New Topic:  Create policy on external logging of channels (ircanswers.com)
** VOTE: Public log bots be allowed with a set of conditions and list of bots documented on a wiki page.
*** Final result is 3 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 3
