{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting held on July 31st, 2011 in #ubuntu-meeting. ===

Attendance: nhandler, topyli
Guests: k1l

Due to the lack of quorum and short agenda, this was a more informal
meeting than usual.

The main topic of the meeting was k1l's membership application.
nhandler and topyli questioned him, but were unable to vote due to
lack of quorum. The other IRCC members will be contacted, and the
results of the membership application will be sent out shortly.

It was also announced that the eir-ubottu integration testing has been
going well. The plugin will be enabled in #ubuntu soon (announcement
will precede this action).

Full Log: http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/07/31/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t18:01

The Ubuntu IRC Council is pleased to welcome Achim Behrens as the
newest Ubuntu IRC Member.

Achim Behrens
https://launchpad.net/~k1l | https://wiki.ubuntu.com/k1l

Achim has been doing some great work in the German support and
offtopic IRC channels. He has advanced from giving support to serving
as an operator to being asked to serve as a superop. We hope to see
him continue with this great work, as he plays an essential role in
keeping the channels running smoothly.

A <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/07/31/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t18:01|transcript]]</nowiki> of the meeting where Achim was questioned is available, but the vote was done privately following the meeting (due to
lack of quorum).

=== Other actions ===
* Testing of ubottu's eir integration plugin
* 1 private issue dealt with
* Added founder access for Zach Gibbens (cyberanger) to #ubuntu-us-tn
* Request ticket to make irclogs.ubuntu.com time stamps UTC (LP: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/803970|#803970]]</nowiki>) (RT: #17401) - Done
* Add logging bot to #ubuntu-brainstorm (LP: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/804307|#804307]]</nowiki>) (RT: #17409) - Cancelled
* Fixed Founder/Made sure channel was setup in #ubuntu-eo
* Closure of #ubuntu-app-devel
