{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The IRC Council staff changed to Alan''''''Bell, Pici, Topyli, funkyHat

* A meeting was held on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/IRCC/20120114|14th January]]</nowiki>
** Alan''''''Bell will chair the council
** A call for ops was issued for the #lubuntu channel
** bugs were reviewed
** The Floodbot code has been put on Launchpad as part of a managed process to make it more open
* A meeting was held on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/IRCC/20120129|29th January]]</nowiki>
** The new operators for #lubuntu were welcomed
** A request from the ubuntuusers.de to register their namespace with Freenode was considered and agreed
