{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''IRC Council Meeting''' June 11, 2011

Attendance: elky, jussi, topyli

FIXED ITEMS
* Bug review: we only have <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-community/+bug/788503|#788503]]</nowiki>, which is pretty well in progress.
* Last meeting's actions: all done.

TOPIC: Review #ubuntu-ops-team
* Reviewing as agreed previously.
* The channel works, serves the purpose well.
* AGREED: Change review of #ubuntu-ops-team to quarterly.
* ACTION: jussi to fix calendar.
TOPIC: Add eir to #ubuntu

* Deferred to next meeting, due to both nhandler and tsimpson being absent.
MEMBERSHIP

* One application, applicant absent. Deferred to next meeting.

<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/06/11/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t12:05|Full log]]</nowiki>

'''IRC Council Meeting''' 2011-06-26
** Meeting abandoned due to lack of quorum.

'''Other Items'''
** Short and informal meeting with <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jussi01]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tsimpson]]</nowiki> considering membership of Kaulbach (L``P:<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mystic-scientist]]</nowiki>, W``iki:<nowiki>[[Kaulbach]]</nowiki>) <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/06/26/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t20:27|Log]]</nowiki>
** Vote taken to council members via ticket system
** Membership of Kaulbach (L``P:<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mystic-scientist]]</nowiki>, W``iki:<nowiki>[[Kaulbach]]</nowiki>) approved
