{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Meeting minutes, 2011-12-10'''

Present: jussi, topyli (chair), czajkowski (stepping in for membership
applications as an RMB member)

* Membership applications
** Matt Wheeler (funkyHat) - accepted

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc-council|Bugs]]</nowiki>
** ACTION: topyli to mail council about operator application process for discussion
** ACTION: topyli to advertise guidelines draft again

* Review last meeting's action items
** Lubuntu ops call deferred to new council

* eir's default behavior
** ACTION: topyli to ask if eir could be tweaked to ignore floodbots

* Next meeting
** Scheduled for 25th. Will cancel or reschedule, and inform team.

<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/12/10/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t11:13|Log]]</nowiki>
