{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''IRC Council meeting 2011-03-12''' (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/03/12/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t19:03|Full log]]</nowiki>)

Attendance: nhandler, topyli, tsimpson
* Review last meetings action items
** ubottu is not too chatty when referencing bugs, leaving the feature enabled
** [ACTION] jussi to document thoughts on namespace limits
** 2 bugs resolved
* Add eir to #ubuntu
** Still need to study arguments against channel notices in -ops. [ACTION] Ops need to provide these.
** some technical issues remain
* Review #ubuntu-ops-team
** Agreed to keep -ops-team, seems to be working so far
** Agreed to review -ops-team monthly, for an unspecified while until we are confindent it works as intended
* [ACTION] topyli to do post-meeting tasks

'''IRC Council meeting 2011-03-27''' (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/03/27/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t20:59|Full log]]</nowiki>)

Attendance: tsimpson, topyli, jussi
* No new bugs
* Review last meetings action items:
** Review "jussi to document thoughts on namespace limits" at next meeting
** Add eir to #ubuntu:
** Agreed: eir to be added to #ubuntu once ubottu interoperates with it
** Agreed: eir should send notices to #ubuntu-ops-team
** Action: progress review for ubottu-eir interoperability at the next meeting
* No new agenda items
* Other business:
** Ideas for UDS
** Action: tsimpson to set up a wiki page to collect ideas and post to ubuntu-irc@ requesting ideas
** #ubuntu-helpteam unused
** Action: jussi to get staff to drop #ubuntu-helpteam
** Dropping unused and off-topic channels
** Action: IRCC to drop unused and off-topic channels, and contact other channels with freenode-staff as founder
