{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''IRC Council Meeting 2011-05-29 (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/29/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt|Full Log]]</nowiki>)''

* Previous meeting actions
** remove idoru from #ubuntu for a 2 week trial and see if heaven falls/bad things (tm) happen (nhandler)
*** Vote: have ubottu nag -ops-team about floodbot bans/quiets.
*** only if nags are about "old" bans/quiets, not as they happen
*** Final result is 3 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 3
** Take "Define ubuntu namespace limits" to the mailing list. (topyli) (review)
** Done, not much activity on the mailing list though
** Add eir to #ubuntu (review)
** Live testing taking place over the next couple of days, if all goes well it can be put into ubottu
** New bugs
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-community/+bug/788503
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-irc/2011-April/001289.html|Policy on extra-namespace trolling]]</nowiki>
** Noted that this would be best placed in freenode policy
** Vote: Amend the guidelines in reference to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-irc/2011-April/001289.html|the above]]</nowiki>
** Final result is 3 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 3
** Action: topyli to update the IRC Guidelines (until freenode policy includes it)
* More ops in #ubuntu-ops
** The application process for operators in #ubuntu-ops is a little odd, as applicants must already be operators in one or more <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-Scope|Core channels]]</nowiki> already.
** Operators should have "automatic" approval to gain +o in #ubuntu-ops after 12 months, if they are active and have no other issues.
** Vote:  Allow "automatic" approval of +o in #ubuntu-ops after 12 months.
** Final result is 3 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 3
** Agreed: "automatic" approval of +o in #ubuntu-ops after 12 months
** Action: tsimpson to edit the <nowiki>[[IRC-IrcTeam-OperatorRequirements|operator requirements wiki page]]</nowiki> regarding auto +o in #ubuntu-ops
* Action: tsimpson to do post-meetings tasks

''Other items''

* New operators for #ubuntu
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:popey|popey]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:alex-harkema|oCean]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kb1jwq|Corey]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ljl|LjL]]</nowiki>
* New operators for #ubuntu-offtopic
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:popey|popey]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kb1jwq|Corey]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ldunn|ldunn]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ljl|ljl]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tsimpson|tsimpson]]</nowiki>
