{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Ubuntu IRC Council meeting, May 8th 2010'''

** No items on agenda, no formal meeting

** Discussed meeting frequency, decided to move discussion to IRC Team mailing list

** Action: topyli to send mail

* '''Ubuntu IRC Council Meeting 2010-05-30'''

** Attendance: nhandler, jussi, tsimpson, topyli, czajkowski, itnet7

** Discussed with members of the LoCo Council requring the Logging bot in all LoCo IRC channels.

** The LoCo Council brought up this topic as a possible way to resolve problems with the Code of Conduct not being followed in LoCo channels.

** czajkowski and itnet7 agreed to send out an initial email to the loco-contacts mailing list to get some feedback from the LoCos.

** tsimpson suggested creating a Launchpad poll once some initial discussion has taken place on the mailing list in order to get a better feel for how many people are for/against this change.

** nhandler and itnet7 will work on preparing a pros/cons wiki page to help the councils reach a decision at a later meeting.

** This issue will be discussed again once feedback from the LoCos is received.

** Reviewed the Guadalinex issue: https://bugs.launchpad.net/guadalinex/+bug/513915

** The Guadalinex Edu task is Fix Released, but the Guadalinex task is still open.

** tsimpson volunteered to comment on the bug to get a status update about what needs to be done for the Guadalinex task.

** Discussed the idea of an #ubuntu-lts channel

** topyli agreed to send an email about the -lts channel to the mailing list to summarize the IRC Council's views on the issue.

** The IRC Council will discuss this issue again at a future meeting after more discussion has taken place on the mailing list.

** Logs for this meeting are available at: http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/05/30/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t19:00
