{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Team Report
** New ops appointed for #ubuntu, #ubuntu-offtopic and #ubuntu-ops, mentors assigned
** IRCC nominees list sent to CC
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ShellPolicy|Shell Policy draft]]</nowiki> done (yet unapproved)
** Liased with freenode about ways to improve the network (continuing work)
 
* Meeting minutes
** December 11, 2010 (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/12/11/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t20:01|Full log]]</nowiki>)
** Volunteering for duties and time management within the IRCC
** Brief discussion on delegation
** Ubuntu IRC Council not responsible for all core channels
** ACTION: jussi and Pici to draft proposal for inter-council co-operation to maintain project channels
** Give ubottu editing privileges to all who are operators in a core channel
** Decided by vote to give all ops in core channels editing rights, with the exception of those on probation
** Add information on the recent increase of spam and that it should be ignored by users, to the #ubuntu topic
** Decided by vote to add "ignore spam" info to #ubuntu topic
** ACTION: Pici to add
