{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Team Report
** Locobots replaced with Ubuntulog (in conjunction with LC and canonical sysadmins)
** Finalised Member approval process and sent to CC for approval
** Call for new ops for #ubuntu, #ubuntu-offtopic and #ubuntu-ops
** Call for IRCC nominations
** Removal of bans without comments 
** Reviewed and worked on shell host ban draft document (not yet completed)
** Liased with freenode about ways to improve the network (continuing work)
** Bantracker access added for #ubuntu-women ops
** 2 Escalated items
* Meeting Minutes
** Meeting, 13th November 2010
** Meeting cancelled because of lack of quorum.
** Meeting, 28th November 2010
** Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.log.20101128_1204.html
** TOPIC:  -offtopic 'support' discussion policy
*** ACTION:  Pici to write a proposal for offtopic support and mail to the list for comments
** TOPIC:  Ubuntu IRC name space over crowded and managed to different standards beyond that of the Ubuntu IRC principles.
*** ACTION received:  ikonia to draft a set of basic guidelines for channel creation
** TOPIC:  Ubuntu operator recruitment process a waste of time, impractical and not required (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcTeam/OperatorRequirements)
*** VOTE:  clarify the process for op applications and remove the wiki page requirement.
*** RESULT: 4 for, 0 against, 0 abstained. Total: 4
** TOPIC: Â Creation of a #ubuntu-ops-backstage channel.
*** AGREED received:  Take this proposal to the ubuntu-irc list
