{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/08/14/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t21:01|IRC Council meeting, 14 August 2010]]</nowiki>
** Attendance: nhandler, Pici, topyli, jussi (for ~4 minutes)
** [TOPIC] Support channel bug parsing
** No technical reason to have bug info fetching disabled in #ubuntu, #kubuntu, and #xubuntu
** Some concern about the added noise that the bug info will create and about the possibility of the bug info leading to off-topic discussion in the support channels.
** [AGREED] Enable bug info retrieval in #xubuntu and #kubuntu for a trial period and re-evaluate the issue at our next meeting. If sucessful, expand trial to #ubuntu. If not, disable feature in #k and #x.
** [ACTION] topyli to grep the logs of #k and #x before the next meeting to try and analyze the effect of having the bug info enabled
** [ACTION] Pici to get bug info enabled in #kubuntu and #xubuntu
** [TOPIC] Enabling Bot Features without discussion
** Pici felt that the change to ubottu to send a ntoice to #ubuntu-ops asking OPs to review bans set by FloodBots should have been discussed on the mailing list and possibly at an IRC Council meeting
** There was general agreement among the council that more communication about changes being made to the bots would be nice
** [ACTION] topyli to contact the bot devel team about better communication
** [TOPIC] bshellz
** Briefly discussed the topic of bshellz blanket bans to deal with troublesome users since the bshellz admins are not keen on "policing" their users
** [ACTION] nhandler to poke ikonia about sending an email to the ML about the bshellz issue
** [ACTION] nhandler to do post-meeting tasks

* <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/08/29/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t19:04|IRC Council meeting, 29 August 2010]]</nowiki>
** Attendance: jussi, Pici, topyli
** [TOPIC] Legitimacy of discussing policies and op actions by people not directly affected
** LjL presented, citing a recent even where he was asked to leave -ops after disagreeing with the ban placed on another user.
** Present parties agreed that it was unhelpful for third parties to be allowed to act as another's attorney. 
** We discussed the current appeals process and how that could be modified. We would explicitly mention this particular use-case in the wiki page. 
** [AGREED] We shall slightly revise the appeals wiki entry to clarify that users may dispute operator actions even when they were not the user affected by such actions.
** [ACTION] nhandler to revise wiki page
