{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Irc Council Meeting, 13 March 2010'''

* We don't have a definition of a 'core channel' and on what basis we decide whether or not to make a new channel core.
** topyli to start discussion on the mailing list
* We need a technical guide for operators
** nhandler to create a wiki page for the guide
* Connectability of LoCo operators. A key contact should be listed in the wiki, and at least one operator should idle in #ubuntu-irc
** jussi01 to contact LoCos and the LoCo council to remind about updating wiki pages and request a contact to idle in #ubuntu-irc
* Policy for long term problem users
** In very rare cases, a user keeps disrupting Ubuntu channels continuously. We need to be able to deal with them
** According to current policy, pre-emptive or blanket bans are not allowed, but this is not documented. The policy will not change. The policy will be documented in the operator guidelines.
** The IRCC reserves the right to make exceptions in exceptional cases. This will be documented as well.
** Pici to lead operator guidelines update.

'''Irc Council Meeting, 28 March 2010'''

* Discuss what the floodbots are and are not for, why operators should not become reliant on them.
** the operator guidelines should be updated with information regarding the floodbots
** tsimpson to send an email to the mailing list with information on the floodbots
* Define what our core channels are and what makes a channel 'core'.
** topyli to add the definition of a "core channel" to the /IRC/IrcTeam/Scope wiki document
