{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Meeting 2011-02-13 (<nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.log.20110213_0559.html|Full log]]</nowiki>)
** Last meetings action items
** LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRCCouncil/TeamReports/11/January
*** All items completed
** Other Agenda Items
** TOPIC: Ubottu bug parsing in #ubuntu
** VOTE: Put ubottu bug parsing on in #ubuntu for trial until our next meeting..
*** Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
** ACTION: tsimpson to enable bug parsing in ubottu for #ubuntu
** ACTION: topyli to do stats for the trial ubottu period
** ACTION: elky to send mail to the -irc list to inform ops about the change.
** TOPIC: Ubuntu Namespace scope
** ACTION:  jussi to put down some thoughts on namespace limits.
** TOPIC: Dual cloaks
** VOTE: Allow dual cloaks, with the possibility of */ubuntu.member.
*** Final result is 4 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 4
** ACTION: tsimpson to change wiki
** ACTION: tsimpson tosend the mail regarding the cloaking change.
** ACTION: tsimpson to query staff about the cloak details and reservations
* Meeting 2011-02-27 (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/02/27/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t18:03|Full log]]</nowiki>)
** [TOPIC] Add eir to #ubuntu
** Agree that we want eir, but we need to look into integration with ubottu and the notices before adding it.
** [TOPIC] Standing Items
** No new bugs, and most actions from last meeting were completed
** Outstanding Actions: 
*** [ACTION] jussi to document thoughts on namespace limits
*** [ACTION] topyli to do stats for trial ubottu period (re: bug parsing in #ubuntu)
** [ACTION] nhandler to do post-meeting tasks
** [TOPIC] Change Ubuntu IRC Members to restricted
** Agree to make team restricted to help ensure that people follow the membership procedure
** [ACTION] nhandler to change Ubuntu IRC Members Team to restricted, reject pending members, and update wiki and factoids
** [TOPIC] Document expected behavior of people wearing ubuntu/member/* cloaks
** rww was concerned about some behavior from Ubuntu Members taking place outside of the Ubuntu namespace.
** We agreed that Ubuntu Members represent Ubuntu and agree to follow the Code of Conduct, and that a note about this on the wiki might be helpful.
** [ACTION] topyli to update wiki page
** [TOPIC] #ubuntu-ops-team creation
** Agree to create #ubuntu-ops-team and review it after 2 weeks
** [ACTION] jussi to get channel sorted out and send out necessary announcements
** [ACTION] tsimpson to sort out the channel logging
