{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Please Put any background information for your Agenda issue here. 

=== The official policy on #ubuntuforums ===
''Scheduled for the meeting of October 11th, 2009 at 10:00 UTC (#ubuntu-meeting @ irc.freenode.net) -- added by LasseHavelund (IRC: MenZa)''

It's recently come to my attention that #ubuntuforums is, technically, owned by the IrcCouncil, and hence an integral part of the Ubuntu IRC namespace. However, I've seen violations of the Code of Conduct time and time again by users (which haven't even been given a thought), and other times I've seen ops not adhering to the Code of Conduct outright, which creates extremely bad vibrations in this channel.

As I see the issue, staffers of ubuntuforums.org want an IRC channel, but don't wish to manage it. At the same time, they don't want someone else to manage it for them, which leaves the channel in a state of limbo/anarchy, and the ops are only somewhat paying attention to the CoC and various other guidelines put forth by the rest of the community. Most of this is merely based on the general impression I've gotten from the channel, despite never participating in the discussions that take place. I'll occassionally pop in to check on it.

If the scenario I described is the case, I'm curious to know why no action has been taken, as ubuntuforums.org is an official entity belonging to Canonical, Ltd. (see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=about|here]]</nowiki>), and thus has full control over it, which means it shouldn't be a problem for Canonical and the CommunityCouncil in union to ''fix'' this little mishap.

I've been ill on and off a lot lately, so I hope I'll make it to the meeting. Please don't hurt me if I don't, though.

/ LasseHavelund (MenZa)

=== Extend ubuntu cloaks to include more information ===
To make channel management easier, we could add an extra field to ubuntu member cloaks in the following way: @ubuntu/member/$item/$nick, so for example @ubuntu/member/core-op/tsimpson or @ubuntu/member/ircc/jussi01. this would enable us to add only a hostmask to the access list instead of 20 names. In addition, this would make it much easier to maintain.

There would need to be a standard set of items, so we don't get a load of random stuff there. Also, this is similar to what freenode staff already does. It would also solve the issue of the UbuntuIrcCouncil account needing to be manually added to channels by staff.

=== Set up a IRC operator mentor system for new operators ===
When a new IRC operator is chosen, they should be set up with an IRC "mentor", similar to how the MOTU mentor system works.
* The mentor will be responsible for teaching the new operator the nuances of being an Ubuntu operator
* Explain exactly what is expected of them; both in technical management and in general behaviour (both on and off IRC).
* The mentor should be the first port of call when a new operator is uncertain how to act/react during IRC issues, explain the procedures we have for dealing with channel disruption and abuse.
* Generally guide an operator until they both feel confident in the new operators abilities/judgement.

=== Create a probation period and decide how long it should be and criteria for completion ===
new operators should go through a set probation period, after which their progress and any issues should be discussed during an IRC Council meeting.
* This will give the new operator a chance to acclimatize to the new role and gain invaluable feedback.
* Allow for an official way to remove IRC Operator status from an operator who the IRC Council feels should not be an operator.
* Give new operators a milestone to aim for and a sense of accomplishment.

=== Create a basic IRC operator technical guide, how to get +o, how to use /remove, using the bantracker, etc ===
We, as operators, tend to use scripts to help in administering the channels we operate in, these scripts are useful and we encourage them. However an IRC operator should know how to preform every action manually. Too often it seems we rely on scripts or bots to do these things for us, this is fine until they break or malfunction. A good grounding in IRC commands is essential and something I don't think we have amongst all of our operators. This includes:
* Asking ChanServ to give you +o
* Setting a relevant ban (not to wide or to narrow)
* How to find bans for a specific nick
* How to remove bans properly
* How to quiet/mute a user
* How to use /remove
* Using the bantracker effectively.
* How to communicate concerns/reasons behind a ban or kick/remove via comments.
* Always comment on bans/kicks/removes/marks, having to read through a log is not quickest way to find out why the action was taken.
* Update comments as the issue progresses.
* Catalysing should always be the first method used to resolve issues.
* When to use a quiet/mute (to provide an opportunity to talk to the user) instead of just removing.
* How to react to /msg abuse, what actions can be taken.
* How and when to use forwards, rather than bans. 

=== Discuss what the floodbots are and are not for, why operators should not become reliant on them ===
The floodbots are there to assist in the day-to-day management of the channels they monitor, they are not designed to replace ops and they do make mistakes, eg: sometimes they set +r or +R when it's not needed. It is up to the human operators to monitor the bots, if they make a mistake operators should fix it. If a user is repeatedly flooding, an operator should look into if the user is being abusive or just needs speaking to (by a human).

=== Discuss what our "official procedure" for ban removal is, should ops remove other ops bans etc ===
We need a clear procedure for dealing with issues in #ubuntu-ops like users asking to be unbanned. Right now there is only an "unwritten" procedure, where by bans should generally only be discussed with, and lifted by, the operator who set them. The procedure should include things such as:
* When/if a ban should only be remove by the operator who set it, or by any operator.
* Clearing or checking your bans regularly.
* What to do if you know you'll be away for an extended period, eg: drop an email to ubuntu-irc@
* What happens when an operator leaves or is away for an extended period, eg: who takes "ownership" of the bans
* What should happen if a user is uncomfortable discussing the issue with the operator who banned/removed.
* How and when to report issues to network staff.

=== Discuss general attitude for -ops, how we are expected to behave ===
We should address some issues around the perceived attitude of operators in #ubuntu-ops, sometimes we can seem quite dismissive when a user tries to bring an issue to our attention. We are supposed to be there to help after all.
