{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 == Welcome to the topic page == 

 === function ===
This page tries to add some understanding to the topic.

As we move forward with 6.06 the release formerly known as dapper drake, this page should point you to the resources you need.
The topic in #ubuntu is getting very busy and there is too much in it for someone to take on board so here are the headlines with some more detail.

Please respect the community you are entering, we are very diverse, we have rules some of them are obvious some of them are not.
Please be courteous, if your question is not answered straight away please be aware that the answer may not be known.

The people in this channel are volunteers. Please be patient. Your attitude may determine their willingness to help you.

Do register your nick.
Do remember the person your talking to may not have the same language skills as you to.
Do remember to ask full questions, on one line if at all possible, 

Do address the channel with your questions. 700 people may know the answer and if you address a single person with a question, they may not know the answer. They may research the answer, but that can take time. 

For example 
help me 
or 
My machine is broken 
are not useful, it is a very busy channel, say what is broken and what you want to achieve.

I can't download X is useful, I can't download is not. 
(where X is a program)

If you ask a question the answer may be given by the channel robot.
Many questions are asked over and over again so the answers are given to the bot. They usually have the form of a url. This is usually the best practice for problems.
We do our best if something does not work or needs more detail don't say nothing, let us know that way the knowledge base increases.

The spoken language is English, if you speak another language well you might find that it is also available to you, in the form of #ubuntu-CountryCode such as -de for Germany, or -fr for France, or -es for Spanish, -br for Brazil

How to get support, of a commerical and other nature.
Support options: http://www.ubuntu.com/support 

How to find out lots more about this IRC channel, IRC in general, and the Guidelines for this channel
IRC info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRCResourcePage 

IF YOU HAVE A LOT OF DATA DO NOT PUT IT IN THE CHANNEL -- it is spam it causes the screen to scroll and is not fair on other users.
Instead use this:
Pastes to Pastebin: http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/ 

Please be aware that #ubuntu is a support channel and as such if you want to chat please take it to #ubuntu-offtopic.
Join #ubuntu-offtopic for general chatter 

Major league help, two excellent sites for help.
Help pages: wiki.ubuntu.com help.ubuntu.com
