{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


When an IRC channel's name must be changed, there are procedures that can ease the transition and automatically redirect users to the new channel.

These instructions assume that #oldchannel needs to be closed, and moved to #newchannel.

If you have any questions, please join the channel #ubuntu-irc for further assistance.

To achieve this, the channel contact, or another operator with a sufficiently high access level, can use the following commands:
<pre>
/TOPIC #oldchannel We have moved to #newchannel, please type /join #newchannel to get to us
/MSG ChanServ SET #Oldchannel GUARD ON
/MSG ChanServ SET #Oldchannel MLOCK +tnmif #Newchannel
/MSG ChanServ SET #Oldchannel TOPICLOCK ON
/MSG ChanServ SET #Oldchannel PRIVATE ON
</pre>

This should be done after registering #newchannel, which can be achieved in the following way:
<pre>
/JOIN #newchannel
/MSG ChanServ REGISTER #newchannel
</pre>
and optionally
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ SET #newchannel GUARD ON
</pre>
to let Chan``S``erv always sit in the channel.

Please keep the <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-ChannelNaming| Channel name policies]]</nowiki> in mind when creating new Ubuntu channels.

Then, the access list (the list of operators) must be re-created on #newchannel.

The access list of #oldchannel can be viewed with
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ FLAGS #oldchannel LIST
</pre>

Operators can then be added to #newchannel with
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ FLAGS #newchannel <Nickname/Mask> <Flags>
</pre>
where ''<Identifier>'' and ''<Flags>'' are the ones shown in the list.

It is highly recommended that freenode staff is added to the access list:
<pre>
/MSG ChanServ FLAGS #newchannel *!*@freenode/staff/* +votiA
</pre>

=== Bots ===

If any bots were present in #oldchannel, you '''should''' contact the bot owners to notify them of the channel name change.

As a temporary stop-gap measure, however, you can try to kick the bots using the command
<pre>
/KICK #oldchannel <BotNickName>
</pre>
'''after''' the previous steps have been completely. It is then possible, though not guaranteed, that the bot will join the new channel.

Remember that ''you should still contact the bot owner in any case''!
