{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Currently, the IRC Team covers the following channels:

* #ubuntu
* #ubuntu+1
* #ubuntu-offtopic
* #kubuntu
* #kubuntu-offtopic
* #edubuntu
* #ubuntu-mythtv
* #xubuntu
* #xubuntu-offtopic
* #ubuntu-meeting
* #ubuntu-bots
* #ubuntu-ops
* #ubuntustudio
* #ubuntu-server

The operators of the above channels are welcome and voiced in #ubuntu-ops - If you are an op in one of these channels and not voiced on join, then please make sure you are identified, and if that still does not help, please ping one of the IRC Council to add you to the list. 

If the contact persons of other channels (such as locoteam channels or team channels) would like the assistance of the IRC team, they can contact us in #ubuntu-ops)

The IRC council is reponsible for approving operators for the main channels. Usually a person who is approved by the council, is approved because of a good contribution to a particular channel or a limited set of channels. 

If an approved operator wants to help in another channel, the contact of that channel can then more easily decide whether or not to give this person access. Thus turning the ops team in a ready-to-use pool of good people for operator access.

Channel contacts of large IRC-team-covered channels are encouraged to only add council-approved people but are free to add others as well. 
