{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* If you are involved in something that means the person needs to be kicked, then get another op to review and Kick if neccesary, never do it yourself, this covers us from people shouting "Power Abuse"
* If possible, warn people first. Tell them what they are doing wrong, point them to the relative reading material, and let them know what's going on.
* If someone is trolling, mute them, and take them to PM and explain what the issue is. Then unmute them. Kickbanning them doesn't help. Whereas mute + private discussion might (and you can always kick them afterwards)
* If someone comes to -ops and asks to be unbanned, then unless you feel that they need to be unbanned, let another op make the decision, in consultation with you. Grudges aren't good, a fresh, outside perspective can help
* Consult with/inform other ops when removing their bans.
* Don't undermine other ops. We are a team.
* Let one op at a time deal with case reviews. Too many people shouting causes issues.
* Always allow someone to take a case review to /msg - it doesn't always need to be in -ops, and you can always consult other ops if you can't deal with it yourself. Or, if a few people need it, and it may take a while, take it to another channel.
