{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


You can use this page to nominate items for discussion by the Ubuntu IRC Council. 

Meetings take place on the second Saturday of each month at 20:00 UTC and on the last Sunday of each month at 18:00 UTC

The next meeting will be on <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=1&day=31&year=2010&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Sunday 31 January 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Pricey/Daviey
| Revisit #ubuntu-ops policies including 'no idling' & +v
|-
| LasseHavelund
| The official policy on #ubuntuforums
|-
| JussiSchultink
| Closure of the #ubuntu-helpteam channel
|-
| JussiSchultink & DanielHolbach
| Decide on a plan of action for rejuvenation our wiki pages
|-
| BenjaminRubin
| Getting UbuntuIrcCouncil access in core channels
|-
| JussiSchultink
| Idea: At least 1 op from each loco channel to idle in #ubuntu-irc and be documented on the wiki for easy contactability
|-
| JussiSchultink
| Extend ubuntu cloaks to include more information
|-
| TerenceSimpson
| Set up a IRC operator mentor system for new operators
|-
| TerenceSimpson
| Create a probation period and decide how long it should be and criteria for completion
|-
| TerenceSimpson
| Create a basic IRC operator technical guide, how to get +o, how to use /remove, using the bantracker, etc
|-
| TerenceSimpson
| Discuss what the floodbots are and are not for, why operators should not become reliant on them
|-
| TerenceSimpson
| Discuss what our "official procedure" for ban removal is, should ops remove other ops bans etc
|-
| TerenceSimpson
| Discuss general attitude for -ops, how we are expected to behave
|-
| NathanHandler
| Discuss the IRC Council Charter
|-
| NathanHandler
| Discuss process for becoming an operator
|-
| NathanHandler
| Should the IRCC members b direct members of ~ubuntu-core-ircops
|}

Fixed Agenda Items:

* '''Review <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc-council|Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council]]</nowiki>'''
* '''Keep <nowiki>[[IRCCouncil-TeamReport]]</nowiki> updated.'''
* '''Update Next meeting time on the wiki'''
* '''Reference meeting log at <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-IRCC]]</nowiki>'''

Please put any background info or extra info for consideration on the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrcTeam/IrcCouncil/IRCteamproposal page so the IRCC can read beforehand and we save time in the meeting. 
