{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Ireland IRC meeting will be held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 19th January 2011, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode. Everyone is welcome to attend and to add topics to the agenda (below)

=== Attendance ===
People Present:

  . ebel
  . czajkowski
  . fudgez
  . infoturtle
  . airurando
  . garrydonnelly
  . imgarysmith
  . terran
  . tdr112
  . imgarysmith2

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Review of previous action items
| Standing agenda item
|-
| Ubuntu Hours & (ILUG) PoTD
| ebel
|-
| Ubuntu Ireland Podcast
| ebel
|-
| Work on Ubuntu-ie.org
| andru183
|-
| Our LoCo Banner
| ebel
|-
| Irish LoCo Reapproval
| airurando
|-
| Upcoming event: Bowling
| ebel
|-
| Engineer's Week
| ebel
|-
| Ubuntu Ireland member(s) speaking at FOSDEM
| ebel
|}

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
Meeting started by ebel at 14:14
14:14:51 	LINK 	ebel 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-01-19
14:16:22 	Topic: Review of previous action items
14:19:04 	Topic: Ubuntu Hours & (ILUG) PoTD
14:40:11 	AGREED 	ebel 	keep the ubuntu hour name
14:40:40 	AGREED 	ebel 	try to get people to do talks for ubuntu hour
14:49:48 	ACTION 	ebel 	airurando will make an etherpad with workshop wishlishs/offers for potential UH topics
14:50:19 	Topic: Ubuntu Ireland Podcast
14:55:57 	Topic: Work on Ubuntu-ie.org from ... (is that you infoturtle ?)
15:02:57 	Topic: Our LoCo Banner
15:03:42 	LINK 	ebel 	http://www.flickr.com/photos/rorymccann/5333737140/
15:15:31 	Topic: Irish LoCo Reapproval
15:18:10 	LINK 	ebel 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication
15:25:46 	Topic: Upcoming event: Bowling
15:25:59 	LINK 	ebel 	http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/579/detail/
15:34:22 	Topic: Engineer's Week
15:43:00 	Topic: Ubuntu Ireland member(s) speaking at FOSDEM
15:47:35 	Topic: any other business?
15:48:19 	Topic: UH next week
15:52:06 	Topic: ossbarcamp
15:55:42 	Topic: any other business?
Meeting ended at 15:56. 
</pre>

=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| UH next week
| infoturtle
|-
| ossbarcamp
| czajkowski
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-ie
[14:14:42] <ebel> so this is the irc meeting
[14:14:48] <ebel> wiki page with agenda is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-01-19
[14:14:51] <ebel> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-01-19
[14:14:53] <czajkowski> o/
[14:14:58] * fudgez makes some coffee
[14:15:04] <ebel> Please say PRESENT if you are here and paying attentiob
[14:15:06] <ebel> PRESENT
[14:15:10] <fudgez> present
[14:15:11] <czajkowski> PRESENT
[14:15:12] <infoturtle> PRESENT
[14:15:24] <airurando> PRESENT
[14:15:29] <garrydonnelly> Percent
[14:15:43] <imgarysmith> present
[14:15:44] <garrydonnelly> Lol. Silly swype. present
[14:15:47] <fudgez> go auto correct
[14:16:12] <ebel> right, the first item on the agenda is:
[14:16:22] <ebel> [topic] Review of previous action items
[14:16:29] <ebel> Anyone got anything to say on this?
[14:16:51] <infoturtle> nope
[14:16:55] <airurando> don't think there are any really.
[14:17:04] <infoturtle> last meeting was quite
[14:17:05] <terran> Present for once
[14:17:11] <airurando> website is an agenda item proper
[14:18:50] <ebel> yes
[14:19:04] <ebel> [topic] Ubuntu Hours & (ILUG) PoTD
[14:19:07] <ebel> added by me
[14:19:22] <ebel> I was wondering about the (ILUG) PoTD in dublin
[14:19:34] <ebel> there was more people there than have been at the last few ubuntu hours
[14:19:55] <ebel> (note this all applies to the dublin meet ups, other cities are different)
[14:20:11] <czajkowski> nods
[14:20:16] <ebel> i was wondering about merging ubuntu hour back into the ilug potd thing?
[14:20:27] <ebel> In fact I don't think there's been an ilug potd in ages anyway.
[14:21:10] <ebel> perhaps by inviting people on ilug mailing list along, more might come, and calling it non-ubuntu hours might open it up
[14:21:27] <ebel> course we (we=ubuntu community) /could/ still do both aswell....
[14:21:35] <ebel> what do people think?
[14:21:44] <ebel> good idea? bad idea? don't care?
[14:22:05] <fudgez> good idea
[14:22:12] <fudgez> Everyone loves mailing lists
[14:22:15] <infoturtle> Can't comment on this, limerick bound
[14:22:25] <ebel> (NB: I don't think I (or anyone) can direct anyone to do anything, so y'all can ignore me and never go to a potd and nothing wrong with that) :)
[14:22:27] * fudgez transcends counties
[14:22:42] <airurando> I do agree that the attendance at UH Dublin has dropped off
[14:23:24] <airurando> I'd just be concerned about dropping the UH name
[14:24:18] <airurando> but Iultimately I do agree that it is a good idea to merge ubuntu hour back into the ilug potd
[14:24:22] <fudgez> Should still be called UH definately but what you can do is have a seperate mailing list but invite people in the ILUG POTD list to join?
[14:24:45] <ebel> well ubuntu-ie has a mailing list. ilug has a mailing list.
[14:25:20] <ebel> doubt there's much benefit to another mailing list.
[14:26:10] <ebel> i suppose i'd like to see more linuxy people at the monthly meet ups.
[14:26:17] <tdr112> i think the best way to look at it is to ask why th uh are not working and try and fix them
[14:27:10] <ebel> yeah, any suggestions?
[14:27:43] <czajkowski> my only comment on it would be this
[14:27:45] <tdr112> i think the iusse is , its the same few people at uh , dont get me worng they are great people but you end up with notting to talk about as you just keep talking about the smae things in the end you lose intrest in going back
[14:28:07] <czajkowski> I realy dont want to see the name UH lost, as when it comes to showing the work Ubuntu ie does one could then argue it's not an UH but an ILUG event
[14:28:12] <czajkowski> making you not a loco
[14:28:13] <ebel> or, alternatively, is there a problem? should we do something? or not? are we fine the way we are?
[14:28:26] <czajkowski> maybe have it every 2nd month ?
[14:28:52] <czajkowski> doesnt have to be monthly
[14:29:00] <airurando> how can we improve communication / advertising?
[14:29:13] <airurando> how can it be made more interesting?
[14:29:48] <airurando> In terms of the ubuntu channels of communication I think we have it covered.
[14:30:02] <airurando> but that's not enough.
[14:30:45] <airurando> I suggested a while back that we should have a topic for discussion at each UH
[14:30:54] <ebel> another idea: think about what we want to have.
[14:31:03] <ebel> currently it's a meet in a pub and chat
[14:31:17] <ebel> other user groups do other things, e.g. python ireland do regular talks.
[14:31:35] <ebel> that could be a rejuvenation attempt?
[14:31:38] <airurando> ebel: yep
[14:31:45] <czajkowski> nods
[14:31:46] <tdr112> i think we all can see that meeting every month just for a chat is not working
[14:31:51] <czajkowski> aye
[14:31:56] <czajkowski> may need to change it about
[14:31:56] <airurando> yip
[14:32:19] <tdr112> maybe a chat every 2 months and some sort of atcivy for the other one
[14:32:47] <czajkowski> aye ounds good
[14:32:57] <czajkowski> all about variety and making it work for ye
[14:33:08] <tdr112> how about we let the next one run as normaly have a chat then to do some thing different for the one after
[14:33:11] <czajkowski> not really my place to make a comment really as not here any more :(
[14:33:55] <airurando> czajkowski: your opinion is still highly valued
[14:35:08] <ebel> so anyone want to do something?
[14:35:11] <airurando> ebel: you said there have been no ilug potds recently?
[14:35:18] <ebel> airurando: AFAIK
[14:35:35] <airurando> showing my ignorance
[14:35:45] <airurando> what does AFAIK mean?
[14:35:54] <airurando> got it
[14:35:57] <airurando> sorry
[14:36:14] <infoturtle> as far as i know
[14:36:50] <garrydonnelly> Actually can someone translate ilug, uh and potds for me please?
[14:36:55] <ebel> well the consensus seems to be to keep the ubuntu-hour thing
[14:36:57] <airurando> would it be an idea to combine a UH/Ilug grouping in an event?
[14:37:06] <ebel> garrydonnelly: ILUG = irish linux user group,
[14:37:08] <infoturtle> irish linux users group
[14:37:10] <infoturtle> pint of the day
[14:37:15] <ebel> potd = pint of the day
[14:37:24] <infoturtle> uh is ubuntu hour too
[14:37:28] <infoturtle> in case
[14:38:00] <airurando> We need to get a critical mass going.
[14:38:49] <fudgez> is that when a priest gives out about art?
[14:38:52] <czajkowski> maybe go down the road of a talk once a month
[14:38:59] <czajkowski> and just meet up and talk another month
[14:38:59] <airurando> I definately like tdr112s idea of talk one month and activity the next?
[14:39:09] <ebel> who wants to give a talk?
[14:39:29] <czajkowski> why not put that to the list
[14:39:37] <ebel> a talk sounds like a good idea
[14:39:42] <czajkowski> and explain the reason why yer moving this way to get people more involved
[14:39:51] <ebel> yeah, ask the list.
[14:39:53] <czajkowski> at the end of the day if people don't want to be involved cant force them either
[14:39:59] <ebel> yep
[14:40:11] <ebel> [agreed] keep the ubuntu hour name
[14:40:19] <czajkowski> it would be nice if they were of course :) I am slightly biased
[14:40:20] <garrydonnelly> Thanks :-)
[14:40:36] <airurando> don't go too nerdy on the talks
[14:40:40] <ebel> [agreed] try to get people to do talks for ubuntu hour
[14:40:54] <czajkowski> mayeb invite a differnt group to come along
[14:40:55] <airurando> Remember Ubuntu is for Human Beings
[14:40:58] <czajkowski> and do a joint talk
[14:41:06] <czajkowski> lie one from say python and 1 ubuntu
[14:41:09] <czajkowski> mix and match
[14:41:16] <ebel> (I assume i interpreted our consensus on this, please correct me)
[14:41:27] <garrydonnelly> How about workshops like they do in apple stores? :-/
[14:41:54] <imgarysmith2> workshops++
[14:42:10] <infoturtle> thats an idea, or projcts to work on
[14:42:23] <czajkowski> nice idea
[14:42:32] <tdr112> garrydonnelly: its getting people to give them , we are all busy
[14:42:51] <ebel> yeah, who wants to give a workshop?
[14:43:20] <infoturtle> might be best to ask the mailing list on that one
[14:43:20] <airurando> should the topic for the next UH be
[14:43:24] <infoturtle> more people for ideas
[14:43:25] <imgarysmith2> I don't mind if its a topic I know enough about
[14:43:36] <airurando> How to get this UH rocking?
[14:45:20] <garrydonnelly> Well. I guess it needs to be sold as an opportunity to CV boost for those not currently too busy :-)
[14:45:35] <ebel> yeah
[14:45:47] <ebel> well we'll see if anyone emerges out of the woodwork?
[14:46:08] <airurando> etherpad page for wish list and offers?
[14:46:23] <airurando> mail the list about the page?
[14:46:44] <airurando> I know I'd add to the wish list.
[14:46:52] <ebel> sure, you wanna set that up?
[14:47:27] <airurando> If people agree that it is a good idea i'll definately set up the etherpad page and mail the list about it.
[14:47:56] <imgarysmith2> is it a wishlist for workshops?
[14:48:00] <infoturtle> I think it's a great idea, might even pop up for some
[14:48:18] <ebel> yeah, gotta get people to do it
[14:48:27] <ebel> airurando: looks like there's interest :P
[14:48:31] <airurando> imgarysmith2 for anything really, (legal that is)
[14:48:45] <imgarysmith2> okay cool
[14:48:54] * ebel tries to get the meeting moving along
[14:49:01] <airurando> venues may be an issue down the line
[14:49:10] <airurando> ebel action me
[14:49:15] <ebel> [action
[14:49:16] <ebel> [action
[14:49:17] * fudgez seconds abel's motion
[14:49:48] <ebel> [action] airurando will make an etherpad with workshop wishlishs/offers for potential UH topics
[14:49:52] <ebel> next topic?
[14:50:19] <ebel> [topic] Ubuntu Ireland Podcast
[14:50:31] <ebel> i added this, but infoturtle knows more about it.
[14:50:40] <ebel> infoturtle: would you mind telling us more about it?
[14:50:44] <infoturtle> Sure
[14:51:08] <infoturtle> for the first one its myslef, imgarysmith2 and fudgez for the first cast
[14:51:45] <infoturtle> its going to be monthly as a means of promoting Ubuntu-ie events and projects for people who would rather have the info read to them than read it
[14:51:52] <infoturtle> and for news and fun too
[14:52:26] * airurando is looking forward to listening
[14:52:28] <infoturtle> always happy to get people to come on the show too to talk for a segment or for a whole show
[14:52:47] <infoturtle> anything else?
[14:52:52] <ebel> yes sounds cool. I can't wait to hear it.
[14:52:57] <ebel> Good luck infoturtle!
[14:52:58] <infoturtle> thanks
[14:53:05] <fudgez> First one is recording tonight.... terrifying
[14:53:08] <airurando> where will we be able to get it?
[14:53:13] <infoturtle> its always recorded after the IRC too
[14:53:17] <infoturtle> so it'l be done tonight
[14:53:24] <infoturtle> friday
[14:53:34] <ebel> Good luck infoturtle & imgarysmith2 & fudgez
[14:53:49] <imgarysmith2> thanks ebel
[14:53:51] <infoturtle> havent got a site yet but I can host it on my and give a link on ubuntu-ie.org if ye would like?
[14:53:59] <airurando> yeah Good luck infoturtle & imgarysmith2 & fudgez
[14:54:13] <fudgez> will we be posting it to itunes for ease of subscription?
[14:54:15] <ebel> (that might lead on to our next one)
[14:54:18] <airurando> infoturtle: so long as I can get it.
[14:54:34] <infoturtle> so it'll be on my server but a link can be there for people who visit the ubuntu-ie.org site if you think thats a good idea?
[14:54:50] <airurando> fudgez please have an alternative to itunes as well
[14:55:12] <ebel> RSS feed should suffice for all podcast software, no?
[14:55:13] <infoturtle> .mp3 and .ogg inks
[14:55:25] <fudgez> Aye twill do
[14:55:42] <ebel> so, next topic... ?
[14:55:48] <fudgez> onwards
[14:55:50] <infoturtle> indeed
[14:55:57] <ebel> [topic] Work on Ubuntu-ie.org from ... (is that you infoturtle ?)
[14:56:03] <infoturtle> sure is
[14:56:11] * ebel gives the chair to infoturtle
[14:56:33] <infoturtle> just wondering as I was more egear than sure when I said I'd do work on the site what it is I am to do with it
[14:56:55] <infoturtle> update the news or re-do the site in its whole?
[14:57:20] <ebel> well i think i speak for all of us (?) when i say it's up to you?
[14:57:32] <ebel> you could host the podcast one the server from blacknight?
[14:58:04] <ebel> For the record, blacknight sposored us a year of web hosting
[14:58:15] <ebel> so we can move off the canonical old drupal install and do what we want.
[14:58:21] <infoturtle> could do, I only suggest my server so space usage wasn't an issue
[14:58:36] <infoturtle> ya that would be great
[14:59:14] <infoturtle> I have a kinda template of an idea to do with it but with my pc i haven't been able to clean the edges of it so I don't want to show it yet
[14:59:32] <infoturtle> *with my pc breaking
[14:59:46] <ebel> i mean, you don't *have* to do it. We all help in different ways, and we are getting along ok now....
[15:00:24] <czajkowski> infoturtle: that's cool the only reason I'd suggest use BK server as it's in impartial server
[15:00:44] <czajkowski> and I've seen teams have issues when someoen used their server it just gets a bit messy, though your offer is great
[15:01:12] <infoturtle> czajkowski, sure, like i said I don't mind
[15:01:18] <czajkowski> nods
[15:01:23] <ebel> yeah]
[15:01:27] <infoturtle> it was an idea so there would be no problems
[15:01:44] <ebel> well it's free hosting, so we can use it. no point you getting out of pocket.
[15:01:44] <infoturtle> cool all done so
[15:02:48] <infoturtle> next topic?
[15:02:57] <ebel> [topic] Our LoCo Banner
[15:03:07] <ebel> canonical gave us a 'conference pack'
[15:03:18] <ebel> it's a big professionally printed ubuntu banner
[15:03:21] <ebel> and table cloth
[15:03:28] <ebel> that we can use at events and conferences
[15:03:39] <ebel> here's a photo http://www.flickr.com/photos/rorymccann/5333737140/
[15:03:42] <ebel> [link] http://www.flickr.com/photos/rorymccann/5333737140/
[15:03:43] <czajkowski> :D
[15:04:09] <infoturtle> I heading to U.L. and L.I.T. to handout out cd's and promote the Limerick UH, would be cool to use that
[15:04:26] <infoturtle> but alas it would be a job getting it back to ye
[15:04:44] <terran> They don't use .'s in their names I don't think
[15:04:53] <terran> I've always seen it UL and LIT
[15:05:29] <czajkowski> aye minus the . tis all good
[15:05:35] <czajkowski> infoturtle: sounds like a great idea
[15:05:40] <fudgez> ^excellent info terran :P
[15:05:52] <terran> I have to contribute somehow
[15:06:04] <infoturtle> it is but I'll just go with out the banners
[15:06:06] <ebel> yeah
[15:06:22] <infoturtle> 150miles travel for banners would kill me
[15:06:39] <ebel> the banner's in my house at the moment, but it's available to everyone in ubuntu-ie all over ireland
[15:06:50] <ebel> hmmm, when you going to ul/lit?
[15:07:08] <infoturtle> feb 15 or 20th
[15:07:24] <infoturtle> 2 weeks before the feb UH
[15:07:32] <ebel> the banner/table cloth is big. about the size of a blanket :)
[15:07:51] <ebel> i wonder is anyone going that way? could be one for a mailing list
[15:08:03] <airurando> what is the UL/LIT event?
[15:08:34] <infoturtle> nothing, just promote Ubuntu and the UH, it's only ever me and Mike at them
[15:08:43] <czajkowski> poke the skynet folks...
[15:08:47] <airurando> it just so happens that I have a 9 year old birthday party in the house in early february
[15:09:00] <airurando> Limerick folk will be at it
[15:09:03] <ebel> there might be someone going up/down
[15:09:20] <infoturtle> ooo, now thats just handy!
[15:09:40] <airurando> my brother works in BOI 125 O'Connell street (no slagging please he is a real nice guy)
[15:09:59] <infoturtle> well you let me know if they would mind bringing it home with them and I'll go meet them airurando
[15:10:19] <airurando> could pick up banner at bowling and get to brother
[15:10:27] <airurando> I'm sure he won't mind
[15:10:31] <infoturtle> oh yea!!
[15:10:37] <infoturtle> forgot about that!
[15:10:43] <airurando> could you collect if in town some lunchtine?
[15:10:43] <garrydonnelly> As a matter if interest, what kind of funding work with? (if that's noy a sensitive question)
[15:11:04] <garrydonnelly> *does the group work with
[15:11:07] <ebel> airurando: ooooh that'd be very helpful!
[15:11:11] <infoturtle> funding?
[15:12:16] <ebel> garrydonnelly: this group? we don't really have any funding
[15:12:35] <garrydonnelly> Was just wondering if dhl was out of the question.
[15:12:49] <garrydonnelly> Ahh, ok.
[15:12:52] <airurando> infoturtle: could you get into limerick centre some lunchtime?
[15:13:00] <garrydonnelly> Good to know :-)
[15:13:01] <ebel> airurando: so i'll give you the banner&cloth at the bowling?
[15:13:13] <infoturtle> sure can
[15:13:18] <ebel> garrydonnelly: it's all volunteer at the mo.
[15:13:19] <infoturtle> just across the road fromme
[15:13:36] <airurando> ebel: yip, if infoturtle isn't comming up.
[15:13:59] <airurando> infoturtle : brill.
[15:14:01] <infoturtle> ebel, I heading up to it
[15:14:27] <ebel> infoturtle: ah we can give you it then?
[15:14:48] <infoturtle> yep, I forgot about the bowling event
[15:14:56] <airurando> cut out middle man
[15:15:06] <airurando> excellent.
[15:15:09] <ebel> coo
[15:15:12] <ebel> cool
[15:15:16] <infoturtle> hooray for all!!
[15:15:28] <ebel> so, next topic
[15:15:31] <ebel> [topic] Irish LoCo Reapproval
[15:15:37] <ebel> from airurando , take it away!
[15:16:15] <airurando> thanks ebel
[15:16:25] <airurando> Just trying to raise awareness if folks are not already aware that our LoCo will be up for reapproval from 22 Jun 11.
[15:16:33] <czajkowski> could be sooner....
[15:16:40] <airurando> I had a brief chat with czajkowski a little whie back and she said that the LoCo Council are on track.
[15:16:40] <airurando> So it is reasonable to expect that the Irish LoCo will be up for reapproval at a LoCo council meeting sometime after 22 Jun 11.
[15:16:42] <czajkowski> depends on how we get through our list this cycle
[15:16:49] <airurando> Oh czajkowski
[15:16:57] <airurando> how soon
[15:17:09] <czajkowski> we've a small amount this cycle so may invite teams from next cycle
[15:17:12] <czajkowski> it depends on workload
[15:17:17] <airurando> The Irish Loco reapproval wiki page was set up by czajkowski some time ago and can be found at:
[15:17:22] <imgarysmith2> what do we have to do to get reapproved
[15:17:25] <airurando> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication
[15:17:31] <ebel> for those that don't know, ubuntu ie is an approved Loco. Which means the ubuntu council interviewed us, and approved us, they give us free stuff (like the banner)
[15:17:48] <ebel> czajkowski is on the loco council.
[15:17:52] <czajkowski> :)
[15:18:00] <airurando> ebel could you flag the last link please?
[15:18:10] <ebel> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication
[15:19:01] <ebel> 'approved team' just means they believe you're doing things
[15:19:12] <czajkowski> aye so active
[15:19:16] <czajkowski> promoting Ubuntu
[15:19:17] <ebel> canonical can't afford to give stuff away to teams who don't do stuff
[15:19:19] <czajkowski> not just a LUG
[15:19:25] <czajkowski> you get the cd packs
[15:19:30] <czajkowski> conference packs when needed
[15:19:32] <ebel> we do stuff, so it /shouldn't/ been too hard....
[15:19:38] <czajkowski> ebel: indeed
[15:19:52] <czajkowski> which is also the reason we do team reports and take photos
[15:19:57] <czajkowski> makes it easy to remember what we do
[15:20:02] <ebel> the main thing to do is keep records/photos of what we do
[15:20:07] <ebel> to prove we've done them.
[15:20:29] <airurando> I think we should use the next 5 months (give or take) to be ready when the call comes.
[15:20:43] <airurando> The reapproval process follows the same system as the approval process:
[15:20:57] <airurando> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
[15:21:22] <airurando> We do need to et the reapproval wiki page in order
[15:21:49] <airurando> thoughts?
[15:21:54] <airurando> plan of action?
[15:22:21] <ebel> well, we need to record things on that wiki page.
[15:22:27] <czajkowski> I can review the page when needed folks
[15:22:28] <czajkowski> :)
[15:22:45] <ebel> i might have a look at it and spruce it up, but maybe not soon
[15:23:09] <ebel> prob don't have the time to do much
[15:23:34] <airurando> I'll make a stab at it with the details of the IRC meetings and social events that I have knowledge off
[15:24:08] <airurando> but I need people to critically review it because I haven't got a clue
[15:24:14] <ebel> could we all chip in?
[15:24:27] <ebel> just to add details here and there?
[15:24:32] <airurando> that would be great.
[15:24:46] <ebel> thanks for reminding us airurando
[15:24:52] <airurando> It should be mostly links I would hope
[15:24:55] <czajkowski> airurando: I will review it.... as I won't be voting on the day
[15:25:19] <ebel> next topic?
[15:25:22] <airurando> czajkowski: that would be great
[15:25:39] <czajkowski> np
[15:25:46] <ebel> [topic] Upcoming event: Bowling
[15:25:47] <airurando> ebel yip
[15:25:59] <ebel> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/579/detail/
[15:26:02] <ebel> we going bowling.
[15:26:09] <ebel> in stillorgan
[15:26:14] <ebel> (in dublin)
[15:26:14] <czajkowski> w00t
[15:26:16] <czajkowski> :)
[15:26:21] <infoturtle> fun fun fun!
[15:26:31] <ebel> it's common to try to do non-pub events every so often
[15:26:39] <ebel> to keep the communtiy open to non-drinkers
[15:26:41] <ebel> and to spice it up
[15:26:49] <infoturtle> but pub afterwards right
[15:26:51] <infoturtle> ??
[15:26:52] <ebel> sat. 29th jan (see that link)
[15:27:02] <ebel> i presume so.....
[15:27:06] <infoturtle> ha ha
[15:27:06] <ebel> ;)
[15:27:25] <airurando> only six signed up so far.
[15:27:32] <airurando> ebel you going
[15:27:43] <ebel> yeah i'll be going.
[15:27:45] <infoturtle> I'm bring my girlfirend too
[15:27:53] <airurando> tdr112: want to go as a plus 1?
[15:27:54] <infoturtle> *bringing
[15:28:17] <airurando> ebel please sign up.
[15:28:24] <ebel> airurando: ah yeah
[15:28:31] <airurando> or get slashtom to +1
[15:28:46] <garrydonnelly> Lol. Was going to say some bowling alleys do serve alcohol. ^.^
[15:29:03] <ebel> don't think this one does
[15:29:28] <infoturtle> could do like the beer barron and smuggle the hooch in the balls
[15:29:51] <ebel> so, hope y'all are there
[15:29:58] <ebel> everyone is welcome, and welcome to bring guests.
[15:30:07] <ebel> we'll have to pimp it on mailing lists etc.
[15:30:11] <airurando> please folks, if you are coming along do sign up on the loco directory listing.
[15:30:38] <ebel> slashtom will sent an email around at the weekend
[15:30:42] <ebel> and make a bookign on monday
[15:30:52] <ebel> so yes, please sign up on the loco directory
[15:30:58] <ebel> we need accurate numbers please.
[15:31:05] <infoturtle> added for the pods too
[15:31:33] <ebel> pods?
[15:31:44] <infoturtle> pod cast to remind people to sign up for it
[15:32:10] <ebel> cool
[15:34:17] <ebel> right, next
[15:34:22] <ebel> [topic] Engineer's Week
[15:34:44] <ebel> this is a (dublin) event with lots of different techy groups doing things
[15:34:58] <ebel> e.g. TOG, the dublin hacker space are doing a soldering event
[15:35:21] <ebel> i've sent some emails to the list with what i've been saying to frank, the organiser
[15:35:35] <ebel> they want someone to do a 'day in the life of a sysadmin' for them
[15:36:17] <ebel> it's called "it community day"
[15:36:27] <ebel> they are changing things around a bit
[15:36:49] <czajkowski> cool
[15:36:51] <ebel> but last word i heard was taht would be on saturday 16th april
[15:36:58] <ebel> i assume it's open to all.
[15:37:03] <czajkowski> frank is the current chair of ILUG isnt he ?
[15:37:17] <ebel> does anyone want to talk at it for ubuntu ireland?
[15:37:37] <ebel> i've worked as a sysadmin w/ loinux so i can do it if we're stuck
[15:38:13] <airurando> do it ebel
[15:38:19] <infoturtle> go ebel
[15:38:24] <ebel> also, there's a meeting on 8th feb in their office in ballbridge with people who are going to talk (it was supposed to be tomorrow)
[15:38:39] <ebel> i'll go along, anyone else want to come? (I assume we can bring a few if wanted)
[15:38:56] <ebel> this is more of an organisers meeting (I *think*)
[15:41:19] <ebel> i'll keep y'all informed of any other details.
[15:41:26] <ebel> looks like no-one else wants to volunteer. :P
[15:41:29] <ebel> ok i'll do it :)
[15:41:50] <infoturtle> man ebel, I wouldn't knw nuff to do it
[15:42:48] <ebel> well, you're all welcome to come to the day (I think)
[15:42:51] <ebel> right, next topic
[15:43:00] <ebel> [topic] Ubuntu Ireland member(s) speaking at FOSDEM
[15:43:10] <ebel> FOSDEM = free open source develoeprs european meet up
[15:43:24] <ebel> big FLOSS weekend conference in brussels in a few weeks
[15:43:36] <ebel> czajkowski, our member in absentia, is doing a lightening talk
[15:43:40] <ebel> Fair play!
[15:43:43] <czajkowski> Are you UK Government backing Free Software ?
[15:43:45] <infoturtle> well done indeed!
[15:43:46] <czajkowski> is my talk
[15:44:02] <ebel> er, grammer?
[15:44:05] <czajkowski> Thanks ebel
[15:44:15] <czajkowski> Are the UK Government backing Free Software ?
[15:44:23] <airurando> go czajkowski
[15:44:44] <czajkowski> yeah I really need to write that talk
[15:44:50] <imgarysmith> well done laura, good luck with it
[15:45:06] <czajkowski> Thanks folks
[15:45:11] <czajkowski> It's a lightning talk
[15:45:15] <czajkowski> so 15 mins of fame
[15:46:26] <ebel> er grammer? "is..." not "are..."
[15:46:43] <ebel> There is only one UK Government, so it's singular.
[15:46:59] <czajkowski> not sure what the title says tbh
[15:47:09] <czajkowski> :s
[15:47:11] <ebel> slashtom correctly points out there are several governments in the UK. Scottish government for example. anyway pedantry
[15:47:19] <ebel> and you get off cause you're sick.
[15:47:24] <ebel> anyway, good luck
[15:47:27] <ebel> right that's that
[15:47:35] <ebel> [topic] any other business?
[15:47:40] <infoturtle> one more
[15:47:45] <czajkowski> yes
[15:47:46] <infoturtle> UH for next week?
[15:47:50] <infoturtle> are they on?
[15:47:55] <czajkowski> does anyone have an interest in running a OSSBarcamp ?
[15:48:09] <czajkowski> UL may get to host it, but would need people to actually run it
[15:48:11] <imgarysmith> is free software bring backed by the UK government
[15:48:19] <imgarysmith> problem solved
[15:48:19] <ebel> [topic] UH next week
[15:49:01] <infoturtle> the usal thing is the 3rd Wenesday and Thursday of the month which would be next week right?
[15:49:03] <ebel> well, i forgot, i could pop along?
[15:49:11] <imgarysmith> that should say being, stupid autocomplete
[15:49:20] <garrydonnelly> What is ossbarcamp?
[15:49:51] <ebel> UH is usually last wed of the month
[15:49:53] <czajkowski> ossbarcamp.com
[15:49:57] <czajkowski> garrydonnelly: an open souce barcamp
[15:49:59] <ebel> garrydonnelly: just a sec, we'll get to that
[15:50:08] <ebel> which is next wed (in dub)
[15:50:16] <infoturtle> that would next week, sorry got my weeks wrong
[15:50:24] <infoturtle> and Thursday here
[15:50:32] <garrydonnelly> Okies
[15:50:54] <ebel> well me & slashtom'll be there
[15:50:59] <ebel> so UH dub is on.
[15:51:11] <ebel> from 7pm this time, like last tiem
[15:51:13] <infoturtle> I'll be at the Limerick one anyway
[15:51:20] <infoturtle> 6-8pm
[15:51:23] <airurando> I'll set up for Dub aND lIM SO.
[15:51:24] <ebel> cool, so they are on. :)
[15:51:32] <infoturtle> edd salad
[15:51:37] <infoturtle> *egg
[15:51:59] <ebel> coo
[15:52:06] <ebel> [topic] ossbarcamp
[15:52:11] <ebel> czajkowski?
[15:52:14] <czajkowski> would anyone like to help run on
[15:52:22] <infoturtle> Wheres it on?
[15:52:23] <czajkowski> I've a vneue in May in UL most likely
[15:52:34] <infoturtle> I could give a hand
[15:53:07] <ebel> me and slashtom are in .au for half of may
[15:53:16] <czajkowski> just wondered if there was interest
[15:53:22] <czajkowski> wondering should I skip this cycle
[15:53:26] <czajkowski> and plan one for september ..
[15:53:31] <ebel> ossbarcamp uk ?
[15:53:44] <czajkowski> oggcamp :)
[15:53:45] <czajkowski> July
[15:53:49] <ebel> compromise! isle of man!
[15:53:52] <ebel> ossbarcamp.im
[15:53:58] <czajkowski> :)
[15:55:27] <ebel> anything else?
[15:55:31] <czajkowski> nope
[15:55:35] <infoturtle> all done
[15:55:42] <ebel> [topic] any other business?
[15:56:14] <ebel> nope?
[15:56:16] <ebel> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
