{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ie February 2013 Team Reboot IRC Meeting ==

This Ubuntu Ireland Team Reboot IRC meeting was held at 20:30 Irish time on Wednesday the 6^th^ of February 2013, in the #ubuntu-ie channel on FreeNode.

 Note: The LoCo Team Portal listing for this meeting can be found <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-meetings-ubuntu-ie-532-detail- | here ]]</nowiki>

Meeting started by ebel at 20:34:21 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ie/2013/ubuntu-ie.2013-02-06-20.34.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://ubuntu-ie.org/aggregator no longer works for me  (ryano, 21:00:31)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoPortalFeeds   (czajkowski, 21:02:44)

Meeting ended at 21:39:17 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* czajkowski (117)
* ebel (47)
* andru183_ (41)
* barry_ (20)
* Victor9098 (19)
* ryano (10)
* JamesSweeney (5)
* tdr112 (4)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 20:34:21 <ebel> #startmeeting

 20:34:21 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Feb  6 20:34:21 2013 UTC.  The chair is ebel. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:34:21 <meetingology> 

 20:34:21 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:34:27 <ebel> Since it's 8:30

 20:34:45 <czajkowski> \o/

 20:35:22 <ebel> right please say PRESENT if you're here

 20:35:24 <ebel> PRESENT

 20:35:29 <andru183_> PRESENT

 20:35:30 <Victor9098> PRESENT

 20:35:36 <ryano> PRESENT

 20:35:38 <barry_> PRESENT

 20:36:01 <czajkowski> PRESENT

 20:36:19 <ebel> technically the web page for this meeting is here: http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/532/detail/

 20:37:08 <ebel> right, but in more general, this meeting was called to talk about rebooting the ubuntu ie loco.

 20:37:16 <czajkowski> nods

 20:37:23 <czajkowski> cheers to everyone for coming along

 20:37:52 <ebel> so, any ideas? thoughts?

 20:38:08 <czajkowski> well I think it's great to see people for starts

 20:38:08 <andru183_> I'd be glad to see a reboot bring life back

 20:38:12 <andru183_> and intrest gathered

 20:38:13 <ebel> I presume we should have a little bit of a brain storm, so talk away....

 20:38:16 <czajkowski> sp clealry there is an interst in the loco

 20:38:26 <czajkowski> I think what we should decide is what we want from the loco

 20:38:37 <czajkowski> do we just want it to chat and bounce ubuntu ideas off one another

 20:38:41 <czajkowski> a social side of things

 20:38:43 <czajkowski> or what

 20:38:46 <andru183_> compsoc are psuhing to get more involved with the loco and jams and releases so it would be nice to have a body here

 20:38:50 <czajkowski> nods

 20:38:56 <czajkowski> andru183_: and that is great to hear

 20:39:13 <czajkowski> ryano: barry_ Victor9098 when you hear the word loco and ireland what do you think ?

 20:39:19 <andru183_> indeed, been pushing linux inside for a while now and people are really taking to it

 20:39:21 <czajkowski> just trying to understand what folks are looking for

 20:39:38 <Victor9098> crazy paddies

 20:40:12 <czajkowski> heh

 20:40:32 <andru183_> for me it would be the online presence and face to face events in a few places. I'd like to see that kept up

 20:40:43 <czajkowski> ok hats good to hear

 20:40:46 <czajkowski> *thats

 20:40:55 <barry_> well , i say about just generalalised ubuntu news for ireland. ie, notifations of linux / ubuntu talks ,  as well as a way to spread linux /ubuntu / open source in ireland

 20:41:13 <czajkowski> nods

 20:41:15 <czajkowski> good

 20:41:21 <czajkowski> as I think it helps spread news

 20:41:25 <czajkowski> and keep people up to date

 20:41:38 <czajkowski> so like I've been forwarding on some stuff as on silly amount of lists to the .ie list

 20:41:40 <andru183_> yep

 20:41:42 <czajkowski> but not sure if thats good or bad

 20:41:51 <czajkowski> maybe people use U1 and the notice was useful

 20:41:54 <czajkowski> that kinda thing barry

 20:41:57 <andru183_> I like the stuff sent on

 20:41:58 <czajkowski> or ona larger scale

 20:42:06 <andru183_> any bit of notice really

 20:42:17 <Victor9098> Yes, I think 'quiet' between meetings has let things drift

 20:42:34 <barry_> yea, things like that , however i dont use the notes , was a good post.

 20:42:41 <czajkowski> barry_: nods

 20:42:44 <andru183_> maybe we could all pass things Ubuntu/Linux related to the mailing lists

 20:42:54 <czajkowski> so maybe as a start

 20:43:01 <czajkowski> I could post stuff that is happening in Ubuntu land

 20:43:01 <andru183_> never know what people are intrested in

 20:43:06 <czajkowski> that maybe folks in .ie havent heard about

 20:43:09 <andru183_> that's a place???

 20:43:14 <czajkowski> like say Ubutnu users days this weekend ?

 20:43:23 <czajkowski> so people can either watch live

 20:43:26 <czajkowski> or read the logs afterwards?

 20:43:36 <czajkowski> which maybe helps to start up a conversation

 20:43:41 <andru183_> great!

 20:43:41 <czajkowski> but not helping the face to face bits

 20:44:00 <andru183_> events will come, like the release parties and jams

 20:44:15 <barry_> the only thing i would say about the mailing list is that some people might be 'reserved about giving out there email - i would say a more facebook/ twitter post would be a good  idea about vaious pieces

 20:44:18 <andru183_> UH's down here died

 20:44:22 <czajkowski> I dont want to interfer too much given I dont live in .ie anymore either

 20:44:40 <czajkowski> barry_: good call ok we shall update those places also

 20:44:41 <ryano> Being Ireland I think any membership is going to be pretty spread out across and I personally find it impossible to attend any events, on the other hand I've been stalking irc and the mailing for a long time and havnt found a way that I can contribute myself yet

 20:44:54 <czajkowski> ryano: ok so let me ask you this

 20:45:00 <czajkowski> what way would you like to contribute ?

 20:45:42 <czajkowski> tdr112: ebel zmoylan thoughts ?

 20:46:19 <ebel> sounds good.

 20:46:34 <ryano> I would help out any way in which I could but my linux skills arnt that advance really

 20:46:34 <ebel> I mean there is no rules and I hope no-one feels and barriers.

 20:46:35 <tdr112> its all well and good talking about these things but you need people to do them

 20:46:46 <czajkowski> tdr112: aye which is what it comes down to really

 20:46:47 <tdr112> I am not going to put in the time to pass on ubuntu news etc

 20:46:55 <ebel> People should feel free to do what they thinks needs doing.

 20:47:10 <ebel> and totally agree with tdr112. Talk is low value. Who's going to do something?

 20:47:13 <tdr112> i do like meeting up every month or two

 20:47:37 <ryano> there definitely isnt a barrier as such, bar myself is what I mean

 20:47:54 <czajkowski> ryano: nods

 20:48:19 <czajkowski> yeah having people on the ground for face to face events is where it is hard as it's not fair on the same people doing it as it leads to burn out imo

 20:48:39 <andru183_> I'd be happy to kick start them again but I'm the Limerick side of things

 20:48:45 <andru183_> I used to love the UH's

 20:48:52 <andru183_> need people to go tho

 20:49:10 <czajkowski> andru183_: so maybe change it from the absolute to somwhere different

 20:49:11 <ebel> yep.

 20:49:52 <ebel> OK, if you'd like a UH, call one, and go. then the next month or whatever, call one and go.

 20:49:54 <andru183_> I've no prob where it goes on TBH, and can look into a netural place like where we had the dinner for skycon

 20:50:10 <andru183_> ebel: I'll give it another shot sure

 20:51:05 <czajkowski> so why don't we perhaps start there

 20:51:11 <czajkowski> andru183_: start off with UH in limerick

 20:51:18 <czajkowski> maybe post a short summary after it

 20:51:22 <czajkowski> and say how you did it

 20:51:31 <czajkowski> so others can do it if there is interest

 20:51:33 <andru183_> will do

 20:51:43 <tdr112> how much notice do you think we should be giving

 20:52:02 <andru183_> stick to the old last thursday of the month or ask the list for input?

 20:52:14 <ebel> andru183_: don't ask the list. Just do it.

 20:52:19 <ebel> Just do it.

 20:52:23 <andru183_> ebel cool

 20:52:23 <ebel> Be bold. :)

 20:52:26 <andru183_> ha ha

 20:52:38 <andru183_> ok you have me now :D

 20:52:58 <czajkowski> aye

 20:53:12 <Victor9098> Depends on the target audience, if you have a specific group of people you are thinking about just go for it. Routine can come later

 20:53:19 <ebel> One could advertise a week or two before then a reminder email the day before

 20:53:29 <czajkowski> yeha too much notice and people forget

 20:53:45 <ebel> yes, "lots of people want to go, but at different times" is *not* a problem at the moment.,

 20:54:51 <andru183_> anywhere else?

 20:55:07 <czajkowski> andru183_: start in limerick

 20:55:11 <czajkowski> and lets go from there :)

 20:55:13 <andru183_> ok

 20:55:15 <czajkowski> at least for now

 20:55:49 <barry_> do you's mean an UH or dinner type thing - The UH were ussualy on irc as well , no?

 20:55:59 <andru183_> ubuntu hours

 20:56:12 <andru183_> where we meet face to face and talk about ubuntu/geek stuff

 20:56:22 <Victor9098> UH usually just a casual face to face

 20:56:45 <czajkowski> call it what ever, just a monthly or what ever frequence of face to face chat

 20:56:47 <czajkowski> can be over a pint

 20:56:54 <czajkowski> cuppa tea

 20:56:59 <czajkowski> supermacs

 20:57:00 <czajkowski> :)

 20:57:09 <Victor9098> But nothing stopping you from broadcasting it at the same time over the web :D

 20:57:13 <czajkowski> it's just face to face tme to talk about Ubuntu open source, or what ever

 20:57:52 <andru183_> great craic!

 20:58:04 <barry_> just talking over a place with your laptop from what ive heard from jono bacon blogs ect

 20:58:14 <ebel> it's the offline equivalent of chatting on IRC

 20:58:54 <czajkowski> barry_: yup

 20:58:57 <czajkowski> pretty much

 21:00:26 <ryano> something I was wondering was is there a replacement link for Planet Ubuntu-ie?

 21:00:31 <ryano> http://ubuntu-ie.org/aggregator no longer works for me

 21:01:16 <czajkowski> not many people were blogging as far as I could tell

 21:01:39 <ryano> ah ok :)

 21:01:58 <andru183_> ryano would you like to add to it?

 21:02:01 <andru183_> I know I would

 21:02:02 <czajkowski> we can add more blogs to the loco team portsal though

 21:02:05 <czajkowski> thats not an issue

 21:02:44 <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoPortalFeeds

 21:02:47 <czajkowski> add blog feed there

 21:02:50 <czajkowski> and I can review it

 21:02:56 <czajkowski> well me or the other council folks

 21:03:08 <andru183_> cool

 21:03:35 <ryano> thank you czajkowski

 21:04:04 <ryano> I may consider starting an ubuntu blog in the near future

 21:05:04 <ebel> ok

 21:05:16 <ebel> if you start blogging don't forget to promote it. :)

 21:05:22 <ebel> anyone going to do anything else?

 21:05:27 <ryano> Will do

 21:08:02 <czajkowski> maybe we can just talk more on the mailing list

 21:08:07 <czajkowski> and encourag eothers to talk

 21:08:12 <czajkowski> there are a lot on there you know

 21:08:18 <JamesSweeney> Hi all, I was wondering if anyone here uses Ubuntu desktop and/or Ubuntu server in their work?

 21:08:22 <barry_> what about some type of open blog type thing like a thread on http://www.boards.ie/ and others - just post various intresting things - anyway ubuntu related , linux/ and news pieces. - Can be used to promote UH as well- thoughts ?

 21:08:42 <czajkowski> JamesSweeney: I do, but not sure I count - I work for canonical :p

 21:08:52 <czajkowski> barry_: good idea

 21:08:56 <JamesSweeney> sure :)

 21:09:04 <czajkowski> barry_: so why not post them there if andru183_ creates the limerick one

 21:09:12 <czajkowski> so just help out and help one antoher rather than it fall to tohers

 21:09:16 <czajkowski> if you see it's not too much work

 21:09:19 <czajkowski> others may get interested

 21:10:17 <ebel> JamesSweeney: yes to both. I've used ubuntu in work for years,.

 21:10:30 <ebel> barry_: sure, go for it

 21:11:49 <JamesSweeney> apologies if i am hijacking the thread but adopting Ubuntu/linux/open source at work is a great way to promote it

 21:12:21 <czajkowski> JamesSweeney: no worries

 21:12:26 <czajkowski> I just found thishttps://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/SysAdminSupport

 21:12:34 <JamesSweeney> ebel cool. it would be great to chat and compare experiences

 21:12:35 <czajkowski> forgot I started that a while back

 21:13:33 <barry_> yea , i have no problem with it, anybopdy with a standard account can post as well to make it easy - so for example there was something about richard from GNU coming to do some talk in dublin , things like that somebody can pop in and post as well as people who already are on boards.ie. One thing i saw was Mark Shuttleworth visted trinity and done some speach , However i only saw this after the event. Ill start a post and ask one of

 21:13:43 <barry_> the top in the unix section

 21:14:06 <ebel> right, so andru183_'s gonna try to do more UH in limerick, right?

 21:14:09 <ebel> anything else?

 21:14:29 <czajkowski> I'l post more stuff to the -ie list about global ubuntu stuff happening

 21:14:37 <andru183_> ebel: yep

 21:14:41 <czajkowski> JamesSweeney: care to take your topic to the list and see if we can get more people talking on there?

 21:14:53 <czajkowski> JamesSweeney: the idea being we might get more people who lurk on the list to talk

 21:14:59 <czajkowski> and maybe want to talk face to face after a few emails

 21:15:30 <ebel> JamesSweeney: sure, poke me sometime

 21:16:03 <JamesSweeney> will do. cheers.

 21:16:05 <ebel> Right, any other actions or shall we move on to the other topic on the agenda?

 21:16:30 <ebel> or and maybe barry_ will post on boards.ie (did I read you right?)

 21:16:42 <czajkowski> I'm all good

 21:17:14 <barry_> yea, ill do it later on

 21:17:32 <ebel> so that's it for reboot actions?

 21:17:42 <andru183_> seems so

 21:18:15 <czajkowski> oh

 21:18:18 <czajkowski> the naming bit

 21:18:23 <czajkowski> barry_: was that your idea?

 21:18:24 <andru183_> ............

 21:18:27 <andru183_> oh ya.........

 21:18:29 <ebel> czajkowski: yeah that's the second topic I was gonna move on to now

 21:18:30 <czajkowski> the S series?

 21:18:33 <czajkowski> ah sory

 21:18:35 <czajkowski> dont mind me

 21:18:54 <ebel> ok, we'll move onto that now. Name! Go!

 21:19:15 <andru183_> do we want it Irish tied??

 21:19:17 <czajkowski> barry_: firstly well done great idea!

 21:19:34 <barry_> yea,  the letter is s - last year it was named on the 23rd of april , so arounnd if we want to put in something , we got to decide really

 21:19:35 <czajkowski> secondly mind if I nick your original email and add it to my blog - crediting you of course

 21:19:44 <czajkowski> and see if we can get some more suggestsions?

 21:20:08 <barry_> yea, no problem at all ,

 21:21:03 <czajkowski> cheers

 21:21:16 <Victor9098> I was expecting a break in tradition... maybe a 'Super Shuttleworth' ;)

 21:21:30 <czajkowski> lol

 21:22:09 <barry_> there is 3 proposed suggestions -  Tommy said  -Supreme Sionnach (shun-ach.) and sublime sionnach. Sionnach being Irish for fox, and sublime:" Of such excellence, grandeur, or beauty as to inspire great admiration or awe."

 21:22:24 <barry_> mark suggested sublime songbird.

 21:23:13 <Victor9098> The Irish themed S is a superb idea, he likes to bring attention to endangered species at the same time. So if we do make a case for Sionnach we could link it to charities etc

 21:23:25 <andru183_> cool

 21:23:32 <czajkowski> Victor9098: oh nice idea

 21:24:32 <barry_> i'm no expert on irish wild life so , any thing else. The old irish lengeds idea by tommy seem a good idea -imo

 21:25:13 <Victor9098> Though we run the risk of casual observers making it seem like a overt nod to Mozilla, but I think the Sionnach / Irish connection should overcome that

 21:25:44 <czajkowski> barry_: see pm

 21:26:36 <Victor9098> Before we decide on the descriptor we should see what Mark/dev have been hinting for 13.10 too, that way we could be try to get a good fit for what they want to achieve

 21:27:08 <Victor9098> If we ONLY had somebody on the inside of Canonical...

 21:27:17 <czajkowski> lol

 21:27:18 <andru183_> darn the luck!

 21:27:21 <czajkowski> nout to do with us

 21:27:22 <barry_> well , its the last trail run before the big , really big 14.04 lts

 21:28:11 <czajkowski> nods

 21:29:27 <ebel> OK

 21:29:46 <Victor9098> sinuous sionnach

 21:30:48 <barry_> marks wants to change the whole idea of a hoobyist or server linux idea - he wants to bring it to the masses 14.04 will be his prize to show why. 13.10 he will want stability so he can run into 14.04 stable

 21:31:18 <ebel> so we have >1 suggestion, right? So does only one have to be suggested? Or more than one? If >1 can be suggested, why not suggest them all>

 21:31:20 <ebel> ?

 21:31:49 <czajkowski> we can have as many as we like tbh

 21:32:17 <Victor9098> He likes to surprise people with the name in his blog... us talking about it publicly might automatically rule our ideas out?

 21:32:53 <czajkowski> we probably wont get picked

 21:33:00 <czajkowski> but it at least shows we're active and discssing new things

 21:33:05 <barry_> he might mix the Sionnach idea with something others have suggested

 21:33:08 <Victor9098> Yes, agreed

 21:34:01 <Victor9098> Blog post promoting the name and a few good reasons pointing to causes will only bring the right attention to the Ubuntu-ie loco

 21:34:16 <ebel> ok

 21:34:35 <czajkowski> cool

 21:34:36 <ebel> who wants to (a) make a suggestion and (b) promote the fact that people in ireland are making suggestions?

 21:35:02 <czajkowski> me

 21:35:07 <czajkowski> will add it to my blog

 21:35:12 <czajkowski> then we can add it to the twitter ac

 21:35:23 <ebel> kewl. go go czajkowski!

 21:35:24 <Victor9098> Sounds good

 21:35:42 <Victor9098> Expect a retweet ;-)

 21:36:52 <ebel> kewl

 21:37:02 <ebel> so is there anything else to discuss at this meeting?

 21:37:03 <barry_> i would say he would appericate a community effort

 21:37:07 <ebel> or shall we wrap it up?

 21:37:24 <czajkowski> wrap up I think

 21:37:33 <czajkowski> and maybe aim to have another meeting in a month

 21:37:39 <czajkowski> evne if just to hang out

 21:37:43 <czajkowski> we could do a G+ hangout

 21:37:51 <czajkowski> if there is only  >10

 21:38:09 <Victor9098> Hangouts are a laugh, I'll go for that

 21:38:51 <ebel> ok

 21:39:00 <Victor9098> New meaning to UH (Ubuntu Hangout)

 21:39:05 <ebel> heh

 21:39:05 <barry_> when they do ubuntu on air , do they use the irc or the youtube comments or what to get questions?

 21:39:06 <czajkowski> thanks ebel for chairing

 21:39:13 <czajkowski> barry_: irc

 21:39:13 <ebel> someone promote it in a while

 21:39:15 <ebel> :)

 21:39:16 <andru183_> if anyone knows people down the Limerick side of things they might pass this on to promote the UH if that's cool http://skynet.ie/~andru183/how-ive-found-being-a-member-of-ubuntu-ireland/

 21:39:17 <czajkowski> wilko

 21:39:17 <ebel> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
