{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This Ubuntu Ireland Team IRC meeting will be held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 16th February 2011, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode. Everyone is welcome to attend and to add topics to the agenda (below)

 Note: The LoCo Directory Meeting listing can be found <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-meetings-team-16-detail | here ]]</nowiki>

=== Attendance ===
 . infoturtle_
 . imgarysmith
 . ebel
 . lau1
 . Gnatrick
 . tdr112
 . airurando
 . airurando_

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Review of previous action items
| Standing agenda item
|-
| More community input for podcast
| imgarysmith
|-
| Natty CDs (Possible to get more discs from Canonical?, start planning for distribution of 11.04 CDs)
| imgarysmith, airurando and ebel
|-
| Engineer's Ireland 'IT Community Day'
| ebel
|-
| social events
| airurando
|-
| Ubuntu Global Jam (née Bug Jam)
| ebel
|-
| Possibly OSSBArcamp May/September
| czajkowski
|}

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
Meeting started by ebel at 14:05
14:05:56 	LINK 	ebel 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-02-16
14:07:10 	Topic: Review of previous action items
14:14:28 	Topic: More community input for podcast
14:14:28 	LINK 	imgarysmith 	http://pad.ubuntu-ie.org/UbuntuHourDublin
14:20:57 	Topic: natty cds
14:24:31 	ACTION 	ebel 	ebel will chance up with canonical/ubuntu loco with how/if to change address
14:35:59 	ACTION 	ebel 	ebel will give airurando the list of 10.10 recieptients, airurando will email them to solicit feedback
14:41:46 	ACTION 	ebel 	airurando will take the CDs
14:46:05 	Topic: Engineer's Ireland 'IT Community Day'
14:52:35 	Topic: social events from airurando
14:56:34 	AGREED 	ebel 	geeknics in june and ausgust weekends, pref. not bank holidays
14:57:16 	Topic: Ubuntu Global Jam (née Bug Jam) (from me)
14:58:05 	LINK 	ebel 	http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/567/detail/
15:07:40 	ACTION 	ebel 	look for venues for jam
15:07:48 	Topic: Possibly OSSBArcamp May/September
15:11:18 	LINK 	infoturtle_ 	http://pad.ubuntu-ie.org/UbuntuHourDublin
15:13:31 	Topic: Any Other Business ?
15:14:14 	Topic: 11.04 release aprtyy
15:21:55 	AGREED 	ebel 	consult about ossbarcamp before deciding on release party
15:22:59 	Topic: AOB?
15:23:47 	Topic: meeting section of LD
15:26:47 	Topic: AOB?
Meeting ended at 15:27. 
</pre>

=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| 11.04 release party
| infoturtle_
|-
| meeting section of LD
| airurando
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-ie
[14:05:18] <infoturtle_> Gnatrick: I have a running version that I'm using to repair it, it's just banjaxed too
[14:05:23] <infoturtle_> imgarysmith: atm yes
[14:05:43] <imgarysmith> sorry for ya
[14:05:51] <ebel> Welcome to the Feb 2011 Ubuntu Ireland IRC meeting
[14:05:55] <ebel> agenda is here:
[14:05:56] <ebel> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-02-16
[14:06:08] <infoturtle_> it's cool, just gotta find out how to repair a super block and all should be good
[14:06:09] <ebel> Please say PRESENT if you're here and taking part
[14:06:10] <ebel> PRESENT
[14:06:12] <infoturtle_> now onto the meeting
[14:06:15] <infoturtle_> PRESENT
[14:06:17] <lau1> present
[14:06:21] <Gnatrick> present
[14:06:30] <imgarysmith> present
[14:06:33] <tdr112> present
[14:06:37] <airurando> present
[14:06:52] <ebel> cool :)
[14:07:06] <ebel> first topic
[14:07:10] <ebel> [topic] Review of previous action items
[14:07:32] <ebel> which i'm not sure who proposed. anyone got anything to say on this?
[14:07:53] <airurando> just one action item recorded from last month
[14:08:58] <airurando> airurando will make an etherpad with workshop wishlishs/offers for potential UH topics
[14:10:26] <ebel> ok, and is there anything to report?
[14:10:58] <tdr112> do we have a link
[14:11:20] <ebel> tdr112: previous IRC meeting: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-01-19
[14:12:56] <infoturtle_> did anyone suggest anything for the wishlist?
[14:13:53] <ebel> looks like airurando is experiencing network difficulties :)
[14:14:01] <infoturtle_> think that answers that question
[14:14:14] <infoturtle_> will we come back to it when he's back on?
[14:14:20] <ebel> we'll leave it till he gets back?
[14:14:24] <ebel> next topic
[14:14:27] <imgarysmith> here is the link to the pad
[14:14:28] <ebel> [topic] More community input for podcast
[14:14:28] <imgarysmith> http://pad.ubuntu-ie.org/UbuntuHourDublin
[14:15:08] <infoturtle_> imgarysmith: you proposed this topic didn't you?
[14:15:12] <imgarysmith> i did
[14:15:24] <tdr112> what are you looking for imgarysmith
[14:15:30] <infoturtle_> then the floor is yours
[14:15:36] <ebel> over to imgarysmith
[14:15:44] <imgarysmith> i want to get feedback from people on the podcast, ideas or suggestions for what we can cover or anything else
[14:16:06] <imgarysmith> do people what more news, reviews, tutorials?
[14:16:37] <Gnatrick> tutorials i think
[14:17:09] <imgarysmith> tutorials for beginners or more advanced users?
[14:17:32] <Gnatrick> Both mayhaps? Depending on the topic of the week
[14:17:47] <Gnatrick> the great linux switch section is kinda like a newbie guide anwyay
[14:18:10] <infoturtle_> imgarysmith was saying to do one on dual booting but it raises the question, Should we cover topics for users fimilar with the system already of getting people into the ways of linux
[14:18:20] <imgarysmith> true but im not sure when paul will next be a host, do you know andru?
[14:18:41] <infoturtle_> duno, he's in canada now so It may be trixy
[14:19:22] <Gnatrick> well i think we should try to cover both bases, have a section for both?
[14:19:46] <infoturtle_> point taken, we'll discuss this later will we?
[14:20:05] <Gnatrick> coolio
[14:20:17] <imgarysmith> gnatrick, good idea. we can look into that
[14:20:28] <infoturtle_> ebel shall we move on?
[14:20:40] <ebel> OK so!
[14:20:48] <infoturtle_> cool
[14:20:50] <ebel> (I'm sorry to admit that i haven't listened to the podcast yet! :( )
[14:20:57] <ebel> [topic] natty cds
[14:20:57] <infoturtle_> its cool
[14:21:07] <infoturtle_> it's full of mistakes so I'm kinda shy about it
[14:21:13] <ebel> i joined a few related topics into this one
[14:21:18] <ebel> there are a few things
[14:21:27] <ebel> Most importantly
[14:21:45] <ebel> I am the Point of Contact, so canonical sends me CDs (& other stuff)
[14:21:58] <ebel> Howeever I'm out of the country when natty / 11.04 is released
[14:22:19] <ebel> last time the CDs were sent abotu 1 week after release
[14:22:27] <ebel> (but other times it's taken a few weeks)
[14:22:55] <tdr112> is it hard to get them sent to someone else
[14:22:57] <tdr112> ?
[14:23:07] <ebel> if the CDs are sent in a similar short time, they'll be in my mailbox for yonks
[14:23:15] <ebel> tdr112: Dunno, i'll have to look into it
[14:23:26] <ebel> Anyone want to volunteer to do the CD distribution
[14:23:28] <ebel> ?
[14:23:49] <imgarysmith> i can do it if nobody else wants to volunteer
[14:23:55] <airurando> I'd be happy to
[14:23:59] <ebel> I wonder if we change the PoC to someone else, then they /should/ send them to them.
[14:24:02] <infoturtle_> I would but, being >100 miles away causes problems
[14:24:18] <airurando> apologies for dropping out earlier.
[14:24:31] <ebel> [action] ebel will chance up with canonical/ubuntu loco with how/if to change address
[14:24:46] <ebel> Last time the CDs were sent all over the country
[14:24:57] <tdr112> we still have some 10.10 cds in tog
[14:25:17] <ebel> *ahem* I would suggest that this time we get SAEs from people who want CDs this time. Saves on postage :P
[14:25:43] <airurando> I just have a few Q's comments and suggestions about prepping for distribution of the 11.04 CDs
[14:25:44] <infoturtle_> whats an sae?
[14:25:47] <tdr112> thats true on unfair on ebel pocket
[14:25:49] <imgarysmith> ebel, i second that. i noticed it cost ?3 to send them to me
[14:26:44] <Gnatrick> self addressed envelope info
[14:27:05] <infoturtle_> ah
[14:27:15] <airurando> I think it would be worth while to e-mail the comp socs and others that received a bundle of CDs just to ask if they were happy with them and managed to distribute them.
[14:27:20] <Gnatrick> you were expecting a more complex TLA ;)
[14:27:37] <airurando> Also we could ask whether or not they would like a similar amount in May. I question this because May is a busy College month and also the end of the academic year. Are comp soc members to busy at this time of year? Are colleges the right avenue for distribution of the X.04 iterations of Ubuntu?
[14:27:58] <imgarysmith> airurando, they went down a bomb in my college. but we could have used more
[14:28:19] <ebel> Previously I used normal stamps and put them in the post box, last time I went into the post office and your one insisted they weren't envelops, so i needed to pay more.
[14:28:19] <ebel> :P
[14:28:27] <tdr112> i gave them to dcu & tcd
[14:28:28] <infoturtle_> UL want 200 quid from me to passs out the 10.10 cd's next week, you may want to look into if they charge first
[14:29:02] <tdr112> infoturtle_: wow
[14:29:22] <airurando> infoturtle if the college comp soc takes them there will be no charge
[14:29:31] <imgarysmith> infotutle_ i can pass them onto my brother to give to the UL comp soc
[14:29:54] <ebel> airurando: good point re: time of year & unis
[14:29:56] <Gnatrick> If needs be i can get some to the UCC comp soc/netsoc/whatever
[14:30:08] <ebel> infoturtle_: wow, they want to change you? nuts
[14:30:13] <airurando> I think it would also be very worthwhile to compile a list of the contact details for these comp socs. Generic contact details are best as people come and go. the question should always be asked if they are interesed in receiving CDs following each release.
[14:30:47] <imgarysmith> and amount of cds they need, my college would have taken more
[14:30:58] <airurando> I'd hate top see CDs go to waste when other places want more.
[14:31:05] <ebel> imgarysmith: what college is that again?
[14:31:18] <airurando> indeed imgarysmith
[14:31:19] <imgarysmith> tallaght
[14:31:19] <infoturtle_> ya, they sent an email in reply to me asking if they could give me a table a chair and a power socket and the students union sent me back a list of costs and it e75 per hour and 200 for a day
[14:31:41] <ebel> imgarysmith: good to know
[14:31:55] <tdr112> imgarysmith: you are welcome to drop into tog and pick up some more
[14:32:30] <airurando> infoturtle I reckon you need to go through skynet I think (UL Comp Soc).
[14:32:36] <imgarysmith> thanks tdr122, it will be added to my agenda
[14:32:47] <ebel> so suggestion is to ask people who got CDs last time how they did?
[14:32:49] <infoturtle_> ill look into that airurando
[14:33:06] <ebel> I like that suggestion.
[14:33:17] <ebel> e.g. TOG probably got too many :P
[14:33:24] <imgarysmith> infoturtle_, ill get you the contact details of someone in it if you want
[14:33:28] <airurando> ebe;l yes
[14:34:08] <tdr112> ebel: yep as i got 100 more for the con
[14:34:13] <ebel> infoturtle_: i second the idea of going through a college soc. usually they get things like that for free
[14:34:19] <infoturtle_> so will I sugest some being sent down this end of will I pay for postages and handling when they get here?
[14:34:25] <Gnatrick> thirded
[14:34:31] <airurando> I sent an email to NUIG and got a very positive response.
[14:35:09] <airurando> if we compile a list of the 10:10 receivers I'll e-mail them
[14:35:17] <infoturtle_> I'll get onto them first thing tomorrow so
[14:35:24] <ebel> airurando: I can give you a list of email addresses/
[14:35:38] <airurando> thanks ebel.
[14:35:55] <airurando> once I get the list I'll send the e-mails out
[14:35:59] <ebel> [action] ebel will give airurando the list of 10.10 recieptients, airurando will email them to solicit feedback
[14:36:37] <ebel> who wants to be the PoC for the CDs then? :) I belive airurando, imgarysmith and infoturtle_ volunteered :)
[14:37:07] <ebel> infoturtle_: don't worry about being >100 mi away. they have post offices in co. clare, right? ;)
[14:37:15] <airurando> I have a house in Kildare with someone at home most of the time.
[14:37:17] <infoturtle_> they might
[14:37:20] <infoturtle_> I'm in limerick
[14:37:21] <infoturtle_> lol
[14:37:25] <ebel> :)
[14:37:27] <infoturtle_> ya I'll take em sure
[14:37:31] <Gnatrick> hehe forget it so ;)
[14:37:40] <airurando> delivery to me shouldn't be a prob.
[14:37:49] <imgarysmith> i dont mind, i can take them, there is nearly someone here all the time
[14:37:50] <airurando> but I'm happy either way
[14:37:50] <ebel> Remember it's a big (heavy) box.
[14:38:16] <ebel> So if you have to walk back from the collection office, you might get a bit grumpy.
[14:38:22] <infoturtle_> if only we could draw straws
[14:38:30] <Gnatrick> i'm the only one here and me collection office is miles away :/
[14:38:33] <ebel> Twas easy for me, since my concierge took it :P
[14:38:45] <infoturtle_> I'm right beside the GPO in limerick so it's not too big a deal for me
[14:38:52] <airurando> I can drive back from the collection centre if necessary
[14:38:59] <infoturtle_> ha ha
[14:39:02] <infoturtle_> this is gas
[14:39:11] <airurando> me
[14:39:13] <airurando> no m e
[14:39:25] <infoturtle_> go for it airurando
[14:39:34] <imgarysmith> haha fight fight fight
[14:39:39] <infoturtle_> this will never find someone if we keep it up like this
[14:39:42] <airurando> ha ha
[14:39:53] <airurando> great that so many are offering
[14:40:04] <ebel> Right, i'm thinking of an integer between 1 and 10 (incl both ends).
[14:40:04] <Gnatrick> :)
[14:40:20] <Gnatrick> 0! erk...
[14:40:31] <ebel> airurando, imgarysmith, infoturtle_ if you're still volunteering, say a number
[14:40:36] <imgarysmith> 4
[14:40:37] <airurando> 7
[14:40:39] <infoturtle_> for (i=0;1<10;i++);
[14:40:39] <infoturtle_> I win!!
[14:40:50] <infoturtle_> 3
[14:40:57] <ebel> twas 7. airurando 'wins'
[14:41:00] <ebel> you ok with that?
[14:41:06] <airurando> ha ha
[14:41:17] <airurando> I'm happy
[14:41:20] <ebel> cool
[14:41:22] <ebel> [action
[14:41:24] <ebel> [action
[14:41:26] <ebel> [action
[14:41:32] <ebel> ah! stubby fingers!
[14:41:34] <infoturtle_> how did my loop not get it??
[14:41:40] <infoturtle_> ha ha
[14:41:46] <ebel> [action] airurando will take the CDs
[14:41:55] <infoturtle_> Don't think I've ever laughed like this in IRC
[14:41:57] <ebel> infoturtle_: you didn't print out the number, merely iterated over it :P
[14:42:02] <imgarysmith> infoturtle_, you forgot the brackets, duh"
[14:42:07] <infoturtle_> oh!!!
[14:42:10] <Gnatrick> :) you never got output andru
[14:42:12] <Gnatrick> lol snap
[14:42:21] <infoturtle_>
[14:42:56] <infoturtle_> and are we having a release party for this one?
[14:42:56] <ebel> the other topic for natty cds was from imgarysmith about getting more CDs, what did you want to say imgarysmith
[14:43:22] <ebel> infoturtle_: (oh release party, we'll AOB that, ok?)
[14:43:34] <infoturtle_> cool
[14:44:45] <airurando> imgarysmith: as far as I am aware free extra CDs can only be obtained if an "approved" conference is being attended.
[14:44:47] <imgarysmith> just to get more cds from canonical, but from talking about the 1104 release, there are more lying around.
[14:45:18] <ebel> bummer.
[14:45:25] <ebel> imgarysmith: feel free to ask aroung
[14:45:34] <imgarysmith> airurando, right, lets start a conference
[14:45:36] <ebel> #ubuntu-locoteams is a good resource for asking things like that
[14:45:37] <imgarysmith> haha
[14:45:49] <imgarysmith> ebel, ill call into TOG and get some
[14:45:58] <ebel> ok
[14:46:00] <ebel> next topic
[14:46:05] <ebel> [topic] Engineer's Ireland 'IT Community Day'
[14:46:22] <ebel> me and tdr112 and slashtom (and some others like ompaul, and robfitz)
[14:46:27] <ebel> were at engineers ireland recently
[14:46:52] <ebel> someone there is trying to organise an it professional community day thing
[14:47:01] <ebel> on a saturday in dublin. twill be free in.
[14:47:12] <infoturtle_> this saturday?
[14:47:19] <ebel> no
[14:47:23] <infoturtle_> oh
[14:47:25] <ebel> april IIRC
[14:47:27] <infoturtle_> a saturday
[14:47:46] <Gnatrick> I'd nearly be up for travelling, if i'm not working!
[14:47:52] <ebel> it's a collection of "a day in the life of X" short talks
[14:48:08] <ebel> they'd like a linux sysadmin to do some talk.
[14:49:00] <infoturtle_> anyone here a sysadmin?
[14:49:00] <Gnatrick> I'm far from sysadmin :p
[14:49:13] * ebel /has/ worked as a linux sysadmin
[14:49:43] <ebel> the audience is other it professionals (I think)
[14:49:48] <tdr112> i will be giving a talk on tog
[14:49:59] <infoturtle_> m just a glorfied blogger and lay about
[14:50:07] <infoturtle_> think you can do it ebel?
[14:50:30] <ebel> yeah I was thinking of volunteers
[14:50:38] <Gnatrick> is this connected to the engineering week?
[14:50:42] <ebel> so I wanted to tell people about it and see if anyone wanted to talk
[14:50:43] <Gnatrick> same folks or something?
[14:50:48] <ebel> Gnatrick: same folks
[14:51:25] <airurando> sorry, I dropped out again where are we?
[14:51:38] <ebel> engineers ireland it community talks
[14:52:03] <airurando> thanks
[14:52:07] <Gnatrick> wish i could have made it, would love to have seen the intro to arduino. I'm up for attending, but as far as talking i'd avoid!
[14:52:29] <ebel> So, next topic?
[14:52:35] <ebel> [topic] social events from airurando
[14:52:56] <airurando> thanks ebel
[14:52:58] <tdr112> Gnatrick: nope its not
[14:53:14] <airurando> At the bowling event at the end of January we discussed what could be organised for future social events.
[14:53:38] <airurando> Timing is everything with these and clashes with other events is inevitable.
[14:53:50] <airurando> Geeknics are great but based on the weather for recent ones perhaps May is a bit early and September a bit late. brrrrrr...
[14:54:06] <airurando> I'd like to suggest June and August Geeknics.
[14:54:17] <airurando> Preferably not bank holoday weekends.
[14:54:18] <infoturtle_> airurando topidea!
[14:54:32] <airurando> other events for other months and perhaps other locations.
[14:54:48] <airurando> thanks infoturtle_
[14:54:51] <ebel> geeknics ++ :)
[14:54:59] <airurando> nothing new in it though
[14:55:29] <Gnatrick> indoor geeknics? ;)
[14:55:34] <airurando> everyone ok with switching from may to June
[14:55:39] <infoturtle_> road trip!!
[14:55:49] <infoturtle_> I'm good for that airurando
[14:56:00] <airurando> Gnatrick top idea
[14:56:16] <ebel> airurando: yeah geeknics sound cool
[14:56:26] <Gnatrick> Yeah that's cool, my birthday that month ;)
[14:56:34] <ebel> [agreed] geeknics in june and ausgust weekends, pref. not bank holidays
[14:57:02] <airurando> cool
[14:57:11] <ebel> next topic
[14:57:16] <ebel> [topic] Ubuntu Global Jam (née Bug Jam) (from me)
[14:57:26] <ebel> the ubuntu global jam (aka bug jam) is on soon
[14:57:43] <tdr112> what date is it
[14:57:45] <ebel> what shall we do? have a global jam event?
[14:58:01] <ebel> april 1st ? 4th
[14:58:05] <ebel> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/567/detail/
[14:58:40] <infoturtle_> Sounds great, how much programming knolage do we need?
[14:58:52] <ebel> little
[14:58:59] <airurando> none
[14:59:13] <airurando> I'm proof of that
[14:59:15] <infoturtle_> I thought it was bug fixing?
[14:59:17] <infoturtle_> spelling knowledge would be great
[14:59:22] <ebel> nah, not bug fixing
[14:59:35] <ebel> though you can do that if you want (and some have)
[14:59:49] <ebel> the original point is a concentrated effort at house keeping
[14:59:56] <ebel> and an introduction of how ubuntu development works
[15:00:05] <ebel> how you can get help and improve ubuntu
[15:00:18] <ebel> how to file bugs, how the system works (packages, apt etc)
[15:00:34] <infoturtle_> sounds fancy
[15:00:35] <Gnatrick> cool
[15:00:46] <airurando> great fun last time
[15:01:07] <ebel> yeah
[15:01:12] * tdr112 has to head
[15:01:19] <infoturtle_> have we a place for it?
[15:01:19] <ebel> so to do it we need a venue foremost
[15:01:20] <Gnatrick> i could prob make a day or two of it!
[15:01:26] <ebel> and people to be there on the day and take part
[15:01:26] <infoturtle_> lol
[15:01:51] <airurando> perpetual issue.. venue
[15:01:56] <infoturtle_> where could we have it?
[15:02:23] <airurando> infoturtle_ multi site?
[15:02:47] <airurando> venue in Limerick?
[15:02:57] <airurando> and Dublin
[15:03:08] <infoturtle_> that could work
[15:03:10] <imgarysmith> i think multivenue is a good idea
[15:03:25] <infoturtle_> if we have someone it limerick that has done it before to take charge
[15:03:26] <ebel> have some online video streaming. :P
[15:03:37] <infoturtle_> better again
[15:03:44] <airurando> it weas
[15:03:57] <airurando> it was great in TOG last time
[15:04:11] <ebel> yeah.
[15:04:12] <imgarysmith> ebel, podcast can cover the "best bits"
[15:04:13] <airurando> they were kind to host us
[15:04:17] <infoturtle_> we could use the new MILK venue
[15:04:33] <infoturtle_> down this end
[15:04:46] <airurando> infoturtle_ now you're thinkin'
[15:04:53] <infoturtle_> :D
[15:05:04] <ebel> airurando: we could ask 'em again?
[15:05:18] <Gnatrick> K
[15:05:21] <airurando> ebel: that would be great
[15:05:41] <Gnatrick> I can get to Limk, stay at the gf's folks house or something!
[15:06:07] <ebel> so i suppose if we have a venue, then we should be OK in DUB?
[15:06:15] <infoturtle_> I'll talk to Milk next meeting
[15:07:29] <infoturtle_> so action to ask to host the jam in the hacker spaces
[15:07:36] <infoturtle_> ??
[15:07:40] <ebel> [action] look for venues for jam
[15:07:48] <ebel> [topic] Possibly OSSBArcamp May/September
[15:07:50] <ebel> from czajkowski
[15:07:58] <infoturtle_> she with us?
[15:08:06] <ebel> i don't think so....
[15:08:46] <ebel> so we'll have to wait till some other time
[15:08:58] <infoturtle_> ok so
[15:09:01] <ebel> airurando: would you like to talk about the etherpad UH suggestion?
[15:09:34] <airurando_> yip
[15:09:38] <airurando_> airurando will make an etherpad with workshop wishlishs/offers for potential UH topics
[15:10:36] <airurando_> I generated the pad and mailed the list
[15:10:51] <airurando_> lkink provided earlier I believe
[15:11:04] <airurando_> not much added yet
[15:11:18] <infoturtle_> http://pad.ubuntu-ie.org/UbuntuHourDublin
[15:11:25] <airurando_> all on the wishlist side this far
[15:11:35] <ebel> :(
[15:11:40] <airurando_> think this one is a slow burner
[15:11:52] <airurando_> can develop over time
[15:12:09] <airurando_> should be discussed at upcomming UHs
[15:12:23] <airurando_> thats it
[15:12:29] <ebel> OK
[15:12:31] <infoturtle_> more promotion might help interest
[15:13:31] <ebel> [topic] Any Other Business ?
[15:13:47] <airurando_> one small thing
[15:13:48] <infoturtle_> 10.04 release party
[15:13:56] <infoturtle_> *11.04
[15:14:02] <airurando_> bit late for that
[15:14:07] <airurando_> aye
[15:14:14] <ebel> [topic] 11.04 release aprtyy
[15:14:46] <infoturtle_> whats a aprtyy??
[15:14:48] <infoturtle_> lol
[15:15:05] <ebel> :P
[15:15:12] <ebel> Suggestions for the release party ?
[15:15:12] <infoturtle_> so is there one going ahead for this release?
[15:15:38] <infoturtle_> Just a meet up to download the os I supose
[15:16:09] <airurando_> I've been dropping in and out tonight so I don't have a full record of the meeting
[15:16:10] <ebel> yeah
[15:16:49] <infoturtle_> will it be on the day of release or a small few days after, also where could it be help?
[15:16:56] <infoturtle_> *hrld
[15:17:00] <infoturtle_> *held
[15:17:05] <infoturtle_> omfg.....
[15:17:07] <ebel> historically we've had it a few days after the release
[15:17:10] <ebel> usually on a saturday
[15:17:13] <airurando_> isn't there the possibility of an OSSbarcamp at end of april
[15:17:25] <ebel> as I said, i'll be out of the country, so I've no opinion on it.
[15:17:56] <infoturtle_> ok
[15:18:04] <infoturtle_> so someone else to plan it
[15:18:22] <infoturtle_> airurando_ you want to tie it in with OSSbarcamp?
[15:18:30] <airurando_> if OSSbarcamp proceeds it will have a huge influence on this
[15:18:37] <ebel> yeah
[15:18:45] <infoturtle_> in a good or bad way?
[15:18:56] <airurando_> infoturtle_ only if OSSbarcamp proceeds
[15:19:20] <infoturtle_> ok
[15:19:41] <airurando_> In a good way but the location will depend on Ossbarcamp
[15:19:44] <infoturtle_> so we may need to wait for info from czajkowski on this so
[15:19:53] <infoturtle_> assuming she is taking charge of OSSbarcamp
[15:20:18] <airurando_> czajkowski is looking for support
[15:21:19] <airurando_> but we should look for confirmation on OSSbarcamp before deciding on anything
[15:21:28] <infoturtle_> agreed
[15:21:35] <ebel> ok
[15:21:55] <ebel> [agreed] consult about ossbarcamp before deciding on release party
[15:22:55] <infoturtle_> have we anything else?
[15:22:57] <ebel> ok so that should be it right?
[15:22:59] <ebel> [topic] AOB?
[15:23:12] <airurando> yeah
[15:23:15] <airurando> small
[15:23:28] <airurando> Meeting section on LoCo directory
[15:23:47] <ebel> [topic] meeting section of LD
[15:24:28] <airurando> I don't understand the functionality of this yet and I am happy with the wiki control of our IRC meetings
[15:24:34] <ebel> ditto
[15:25:04] <infoturtle_> I've yet to see this
[15:25:16] <airurando> just wondering is everyone is happy with us continuing to use the wiki and I'll back populate the LD
[15:25:26] <Gnatrick> brb lads, gotta get to shop before it closes
[15:25:49] <airurando> Gnatrick bye
[15:26:08] <ebel> Gnatrick: night
[15:26:09] <infoturtle_> sure, if your up for it ebel
[15:26:15] <ebel> airurando: i'm happy to keep using the wiki
[15:26:21] <ebel> current system works AFAIK
[15:26:24] <ebel> *AFAIC
[15:26:32] <airurando> grand
[15:26:39] <airurando> I'm done
[15:26:42] <ebel> cool
[15:26:47] <ebel> [topic] AOB?
[15:27:07] <airurando> no
[15:27:12] <infoturtle_> new topic: infoturtle is cool
[15:27:21] <ebel> cool :P
[15:27:25] <ebel> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
