{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Ireland SummerTeam Meeting 01 Aug 13 ==

This Ubuntu Ireland Team meeting was held at 20:30 Irish time on Thursday the 1^st^ of August 2013, in the #ubuntu-ie channel on FreeNode.

 Note: The LoCo Team Portal listing for this meeting can be found <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-meetings-ubuntu-ie-630-detail- | here ]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-ie: Summer Team Meeting, 01 Aug at 19:32 &mdash; 20:50 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ie/2013/ubuntu-ie.2013-08-01-19.32.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/630/detail/ 
==== Summary of successful 2013 reapproval ====
The discussion about "Summary of successful 2013 reapproval" started at 19:34.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Minutes/20130716 

==== Team meetings ====
The discussion about "Team meetings" started at 19:42.

** ''LINK:'' http://pix.ie/ubuntuie/3319678/size/992 
** ''LINK:'' http://code.google.com/p/irctotwit/ 
** ''LINK:'' http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#ubuntu-ie&randomnick=1 
** ''Vote:'' We will hold quarterly meetings initially in say Feb, May, Aug and Nov each year? (Carried)

==== Release Parties ====
The discussion about "Release Parties" started at 20:03.

==== Global Jams ====
The discussion about "Global Jams" started at 20:14.

==== Virtual Ubuntu Developer Summits ====
The discussion about "Virtual Ubuntu Developer Summits" started at 20:30.

==== Ubuntu Hours and/or Other Social Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Hours and/or Other Social Events" started at 20:32.

==== Team Administration ====
The discussion about "Team Administration" started at 20:38.

==== Any Other Business ====
The discussion about "Any Other Business" started at 20:42.

==== czajkowski: is running a mug in dublin (Dublin MongoDB User Group ) ====
The discussion about "czajkowski: is running a mug in dublin (Dublin MongoDB User Group )" started at 20:46.

==== Ubuntu User days ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu User days" started at 20:46.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays 

==== Open Week ====
The discussion about "Open Week" started at 20:47.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek 

==== Any Other Business ====
The discussion about "Any Other Business" started at 20:48.

=== Vote results ===

* We will hold quarterly meetings initially in say Feb, May, Aug and Nov each year?
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 7/1/0)

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* airurando (180)
* tdr112 (40)
* mokmeister (33)
* Belgarath (29)
* zmoylan (28)
* ebel (19)
* meetingology (16)
* darrenbatesdub_ (14)
* vic9098 (14)
* Bpb101 (11)
* darrenbatesdub (9)
* vic9098__ (2)

=== Full Log ===

 19:32 <airurando> #startmeeting Summer Team Meeting

 19:32 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Aug  1 19:32:12 2013 UTC.  The chair is airurando. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 19:32 <meetingology> 

 19:32 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 19:32 <airurando> Welcome everyone!

 19:32 <airurando> The agenda for this meeting can be found at:

 19:33 <airurando> http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/630/detail/

 19:33 <airurando> If you are in this channel specifically for this meeting (and I hope you are) please confirm your presence by typing PRESENT and hitting enter.

 19:33 <airurando> PRESENT

 19:33 <ebel> PRESENT

 19:33 <vic9098> PRESENT

 19:33 <zmoylan> PRESENT

 19:33 <Bpb101> PRESENT

 19:33 <mokmeister> PRESENT

 19:34 <tdr112> PRESENT

 19:34 <airurando> Great stuff!  Now on to the agenda items in order.

 19:34 <airurando> #topic Summary of successful 2013 reapproval

 19:34 <tdr112> big thanks to airurando on this

 19:35 <ebel> Yeah, fair play airurando

 19:35 <airurando> :-)

 19:35 <airurando> thanks

 19:35 <mokmeister> Yes indeed, great stuff, thanks

 19:35 <tdr112> he did a great job leanding us forward

 19:35 <airurando> Our Teams approval status expired at the end of June (at the moment, approved status lasts only 2 years and needs to be reapplied for at the time of expiry)

 19:35 <zmoylan> and creating all the wiki pages for it, thanks airurando

 19:35 <airurando> We applied for reapproval at the LoCo Council meeting on 16 Jul 13

 19:36 <airurando> Minutes and Logs of the meeting can be found at:

 19:36 <airurando> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Minutes/20130716

 19:37 <airurando> We were the third and last team up for reapproval.  Two very impressive teams preceeded us (The Japanese Team and the Tunisian Team).

 19:37 <zmoylan> yeah, it was like 5am for the japanese team

 19:37 <airurando> Thanks to vic9098 who provided some valuable input during the preparation of the application

 19:38 <vic9098> lies i tell ya

 19:38 <airurando> tdr112, zmoylan and of course czajkowski gave great support to my luke warm efforts to promote the Irish LoCo.

 19:38 <Bpb101> Sorry I missed that folk , Got mixed up on the days :P

 19:38 <tdr112> np

 19:38 <ebel> yeah, sorry i missed it too. I was at riverdance with some visiting relatives

 19:38 <airurando> We gave a frank account of our diminished activity over the last two years.

 19:38 <airurando> no problem vic9098 or ebel

 19:39 <zmoylan> special mention to tdr112 who did it on the bus with dying battery :-)

 19:39 <tdr112> :P

 19:39 <airurando> indeed :-)

 19:39 <airurando> We did state that some activity still existed and reboot efforts were ongoing.

 19:39 <airurando> The LoCo council recognised this lull in activity as a fairly common occurrence.

 19:40 <airurando> A short discussion developed focussed on getting new enthusiastic members to join LoCos.

 19:40 <airurando> It was clear that there is no easy way

 19:40 <airurando> The council approved our reapproval application. So we are now good to go until July 2015!

 19:41 <airurando> I am very thankful to the LoCo council for keeping faith in our LoCo.

 19:41 <tdr112> so I think we now have this chance to turn the loco around

 19:41 <airurando> indeed tdr112

 19:41 <airurando> Now following on from this and, more importantly, following on from the good will expressed during or team reboot efforts both on the mailing list and during recent team meetings, I strongly feel the time is right to firmly put our LoCo on a low level sustainable footing that is not too onerous to maintain at lease until interest and activity grows.

 19:42 <airurando> moving on!

 19:42 <airurando> #topic Team meetings

 19:42 <airurando> Frequency? Timing?

 19:43 <tdr112> > every month

 19:43 <mokmeister> tdr112: I think so too.

 19:43 <tdr112> 2 or 3 months

 19:43 <airurando> to frequent in my mind guys

 19:43 <vic9098> no longer then two months, but we probs would not have enough uptake for monthly

 19:43 <airurando> at the start at least

 19:44 <Bpb101> I would say Every Month on a Certin Date . Eg the first Thursday Of every Month at 8.30 /9 pm time

 19:44 <airurando> Mulling this over I came up with:

 19:44 <zmoylan> that way works best in my experience

 19:44 <airurando> http://pix.ie/ubuntuie/3319678/size/992

 19:44 <mokmeister> I dunno, I think there's something to be said for giving people a reason to come to here just to chat about ubuntu stuff.

 19:44 <airurando> I prefer the idea of quarterly meetings to start

 19:45 <airurando> FEB, MAY, AUG and NOV

 19:45 <Belgarath> well, sorry for cutting in but irc is dead to new users

 19:46 <airurando> looking at the chart there will be ubuntu related stuff to discuss each quarter

 19:46 <vic9098> maybe base them around april/oct to coincide with releases

 19:46 <airurando> good point Belgarath

 19:46 <airurando> but we need to keep it open

 19:46 <mokmeister> good points indeed

 19:46 <Belgarath> airurando: website with embeded irc client is known to have good results

 19:47 <airurando> Belgarth we have that

 19:47 <ebel> yeah web irc client makes irc a fesiable option for many

 19:47 <darrenbatesdub> Bonjour everyone sorry im late!

 19:47 <zmoylan> but it also is an open door to trolls from the other channels i hang out in

 19:47 <ebel> freenode has that

 19:48 <vic9098> using irc chat on android right now

 19:48 <ebel> zmoylan: #ubuntu-ie has a open policy. but also has a code of conduct, if people are troublesome, we can and will kick them

 19:48 <darrenbatesdub> Like vic, I'm using AndroIRC

 19:48 <ebel> I am an op here and can and will kick out trolls.

 19:49 <tdr112> ebel: has the power

 19:49 <ebel> just let me (or other ops) know if there's a problem

 19:49 <Belgarath> what if they behave, the trolls are mean ...that is racist behavior and troll discrimination :P

 19:49 <Bpb101> I know i dont get to many of these meeting, but has there been much trolls on here with the irc option?

 19:49 <zmoylan> tickety boo

 19:49 <ebel> discrimination against trolls is fine

 19:49 <ebel> Bpb101: no, none really that I remember

 19:49 <airurando> focus people we have a lot to get through

 19:50 <zmoylan> sorry for diverting conversation

 19:50 <ebel> back to the topic!

 19:50 <airurando> monthly meetings were partly the cause of things fizzling out

 19:50 <mokmeister> How do we get new users to use web IRC in the first place?

 19:51 <ebel> mokmeister: send them a link.

 19:51 <Belgarath> make it look liek a web chat :)

 19:51 <mokmeister> ahhh! Thanks Ebel

 19:51 <Belgarath> if you tell them  "this is a link to our irc client" nobody will use it

 19:51 <airurando> ebel can you find the link, I don't have it to hand

 19:51 <Belgarath> if you have "click here to talk to us" some might

 19:51 <zmoylan> so add a link to tweets of meetings?

 19:52 <airurando> it is not necessary for all new members and users to attend the team meetings

 19:52 <airurando> small steps initially

 19:52 <Belgarath> http://code.google.com/p/irctotwit/

 19:52 <mokmeister> airurando: I think encouraging participation is an important thing though

 19:53 <airurando> we need to find our feet again.

 19:53 <ebel> http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#ubuntu-ie&randomnick=1

 19:53 <Belgarath> actaully bridging it to tweeter might ba a good idea

 19:54 <airurando> we were close to dead and the constant meetings, Ubuntu Hours, and other events where only the usual few were turning up caused the demise

 19:54 <airurando> start small and build again

 19:54 <Bpb101> Maybe use the link the ebel said ,and link it do facebook and twitter 5 minutes or so before the meating

 19:55 <vic9098> I like the idea of telling people were the meeting is taking place, but maybe let them decide the medium

 19:55 <airurando> I strongly feel we should start with quarterly meetings

 19:55 <ebel> +1 non-monthly meetings

 19:55 <ebel> we did monthly meetings. now here we are

 19:55 <vic9098> +1 q meetings

 19:55 <mokmeister> airurando: I'll go along with that

 19:56 <Bpb101> +1

 19:56 <darrenbatesdub> +1 quarterly meetings

 19:56 <airurando> mokmeister we can always ramp up if its needed

 19:56 <vic9098> call a vote

 19:56 <mokmeister> yep

 19:56 <tdr112> 1 quarterly meetings

 19:56 <darrenbatesdub> Unanimous

 19:57 <airurando> #vote We will hold quarterly meetings initially in say Feb, May, Aug and Nov each year?

 19:57 <meetingology> Please vote on: We will hold quarterly meetings initially in say Feb, May, Aug and Nov each year?

 19:57 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 19:57 <airurando> +1

 19:57 <meetingology> +1 received from airurando

 19:57 <zmoylan> +1

 19:57 <meetingology> +1 received from zmoylan

 19:57 <mokmeister> +1

 19:57 <meetingology> +1 received from mokmeister

 19:57 <Belgarath> -1

 19:57 <meetingology> -1 received from Belgarath

 19:57 <Bpb101> +1

 19:57 <meetingology> +1 received from Bpb101

 19:57 <vic9098> +1

 19:57 <meetingology> +1 received from vic9098

 19:57 <darrenbatesdub> +1

 19:57 <meetingology> +1 received from darrenbatesdub

 19:57 <ebel> +1

 19:57 <meetingology> +1 received from ebel

 19:58 <airurando> all done?

 19:58 <airurando> #endvote

 19:58 <meetingology> Voting ended on: We will hold quarterly meetings initially in say Feb, May, Aug and Nov each year?

 19:58 <meetingology> Votes for:7 Votes against:1 Abstentions:0

 19:58 <meetingology> Motion carried

 19:58 <airurando> #agreed We will hold quarterly meetings initially in say Feb, May, Aug and Nov each year

 19:59 <airurando> Belgarath would you like to voice your concerns?

 19:59 <airurando> no?

 20:00 <Belgarath> sure

 20:00 <Belgarath> my poitn is lack of continuity with such a timwe lapse

 20:00 <Belgarath> but again I 'm new here

 20:00 <Belgarath> it takes digging stuff out to remember 3 months down the line what you were doing on the last one

 20:01 <vic9098> the irc tends to have the usual suspects online. The mailing list fills the void I find

 20:01 <airurando> valid concerns but really monthly scuppered us last time. If interest grows and the need arises we will switch to more frequent meetings.

 20:01 <airurando> vic 9098 indeed

 20:02 <Belgarath> fair enough

 20:02 <airurando> no silver bullet solution.

 20:02 <zmoylan> no reason those that want to meet up monthly can't?  just that the 'official' meetups are 4 times a year

 20:02 <Belgarath> and sorry to be the one person to disrupt it :)

 20:02 <airurando> not at all Belgarath

 20:02 <mokmeister> no need to apologize Belgarath , your opinion is as valid as any

 20:03 <airurando> indeed zmoylan adhoc meetings could be called by anyone at anytime

 20:03 <airurando> mokmeister +1

 20:03 <airurando> we'll plough on

 20:03 <airurando> #topic Release Parties

 20:04 <airurando> Should we continue holding them and if so at what frequency?

 20:04 <airurando> Personally I feel we should hold release parties for all releases as an absolute social event minimum

 20:04 <darrenbatesdub> Never been to one, so we should hold one for 13.10

 20:04 <darrenbatesdub> ;-)

 20:04 <tdr112> how many are there

 20:05 <airurando> Do folks agree?

 20:05 <tdr112> did they move from 2 a year

 20:05 <vic9098> suacy party next time... should have a showing of rocky horror to coincide :-)

 20:05 <airurando> 2 per year tdr112

 20:05 <zmoylan> 2 a year, least we can do is a meetup twice a year?

 20:05 <airurando> you know that :-)

 20:05 <mokmeister> vic9098: hahaha! I like it!

 20:05 <vic9098> Its oct too

 20:06 <airurando> vic9098 that's an interesting idea

 20:06 <airurando> The initial planning for these could be discussed at the proposed Feb and Aug meetings.

 20:07 <airurando> adhoc meetings could be called if necessary

 20:07 <zmoylan> push any discussion to the mailing list and that would keep that active?

 20:07 <darrenbatesdub> Good idea airurando

 20:07 <airurando> indeed zmoylan

 20:07 <mokmeister> better start some initial planning then!

 20:07 <tdr112> sounds good

 20:07 <mokmeister> :)

 20:07 <airurando> mokmeister will you take care of the midwest?

 20:08 <mokmeister> Yeah, I could try.

 20:08 <tdr112> while we have people here

 20:08 <tdr112> who would go to one in Dublin

 20:08 <zmoylan> i should be able to attend in dublin

 20:08 <airurando> I think we can initially plan to have a party or parties for saucy

 20:08 <vic9098> me...back to DCU from Sept

 20:08 <airurando> me also tdr112

 20:08 <vic9098> saucy parties....I like it

 20:09 <Belgarath> possibly me

 20:09 <darrenbatesdub> I'm for Dublin tdr112

 20:09 <tdr112> ok, so no reason why we cant have one in Dublin and hold hope for people to go to mokmeister

 20:10 <airurando> aye

 20:10 <airurando> general concensus no need to vote eh?

 20:10 <zmoylan> or do one definitely in dublin and the other outside dublin?

 20:10 <mokmeister> I suppose I could contact the comp socs in UL and LIT and see if I could drum up interest in a release party.

 20:11 <airurando> nice mokmeister

 20:11 <airurando> Andru Quinn is active in the LoCo.  He has organised stuff in Limerick in the past.

 20:11 <airurando> thought he would be here tonight

 20:11 <mokmeister> yes, I was at one or two event in UL that he helped organise

 20:12 <airurando> Definitely Dublin release parties... Yes?

 20:12 <darrenbatesdub_> Yes

 20:12 <zmoylan> yeah

 20:12 <airurando> possibly other release parties outside the Pale

 20:12 <airurando> ebel you still there

 20:13 <airurando> lots of time gone i think we should move on

 20:13 <tdr112> ok

 20:13 <mokmeister> Will we get disks for the release party, or is that a thing of the past?

 20:13 <Bpb101> if i can go , Dublin would be the best

 20:13 <airurando> mokmeister: discs only for LTS releases

 20:14 <mokmeister> ok

 20:14 <vic9098__> Dvds now

 20:14 <zmoylan> who uses disks to install anymore?  optical drives are getting rarer and rarer in mobile hardware

 20:14 <airurando> and we never get them before release parties

 20:14 <airurando> good stuff

 20:14 <Belgarath> zmoylan: we can possible get the usb drives:)

 20:14 <airurando> #topic Global Jams

 20:14 <Bpb101> Could they not just mass produce Ubuntu flash drives and send them out, Couldnt be that expensive

 20:15 <darrenbatesdub_> Define a Global Jam for me

 20:15 <tdr112> these have never worked well

 20:15 <vic9098__> What they charge for a phone, dread to see a usb price

 20:15 <Belgarath> Bpb101: we could do it ourselves

 20:15 <airurando> Bpb101 a topic for a different day

 20:15 <airurando> tdr112 indeed

 20:16 <tdr112> darrenbatesdub_: its a weekend where people work on ubuntu together

 20:16 <tdr112> dev, bug reports

 20:16 <tdr112> testing

 20:16 <mokmeister> darrenbatesdub_: the idea is to get together, squah bugs, contribute etc.

 20:16 <tdr112> website updating

 20:17 <airurando> I think UGJs are both socially and technically valuable for both Ubuntu and our LoCo. For those (if any) not familiar with UGJs:

 20:17 <airurando> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam

 20:17 <mokmeister> 1st bug I'm gonna SQUASH is my own type ;)

 20:17 <darrenbatesdub_> Sounds good - but I'm no dev but would still love to get involved

 20:17 <airurando> but we need interested techies

 20:17 <mokmeister> *typo! jeez! :D

 20:18 <ebel> oops yes here

 20:18 <airurando> Anyone interested in learning about and leading UGJs?  We need to be productive during these if we are to participate.

 20:18 <airurando> no point in just showing up

 20:18 <Belgarath> I have no idea wht they are about so ...

 20:19 <airurando> but as an absolute minimum I strongly feel we should hold UGJs for the LTS releases.

 20:19 <airurando> Belgarath: check out the wiki and google Ubuntu Global Jam

 20:19 <airurando> Belgarath: they could be great

 20:19 * Belgarath googling in background

 20:20 <airurando> but we need leadership

 20:20 <airurando> As an absolute minimum I strongly feel we should hold UGJs for the LTS releases.

 20:20 <airurando> but I'd prefer if we held them for each iteration

 20:21 <Belgarath> actually 3 month before we can do a testing one

 20:21 <Belgarath> and upgrade to the new rc :)

 20:21 <airurando> Again, the planning for these could be discussed at the proposed Feb and Aug meeting as appropriate.

 20:21 <darrenbatesdub_> I can offer leadership, but I'm not a 'techie' and chances are I'll be out of here by the time the new LTS comes out

 20:22 <zmoylan> i think we need a pre ugj for the ugj so that everyone is up to speed for the day

 20:23 <airurando> zmoylan: can you lead this?

 20:23 <airurando> I think that is a good idea

 20:23 <zmoylan> at the mo, i can't even make it 100% to meetups unfortunately :-/

 20:23 <airurando> darrenbatesdub_: why out of here by the time the new LTS comes out?

 20:24 <airurando> tdr112: could you lead these?

 20:24 <airurando> ebel could you?

 20:24 <tdr112> airurando: i could i am trying to find the dates at the moment

 20:24 <tdr112> for the life of me i cant find them

 20:24 <airurando> Belgarath: what about you?

 20:25 <darrenbatesdub_> Isn't the new LTS 14.10? I'm hoping to be in the USA then

 20:25 <mokmeister> 14.04

 20:25 <darrenbatesdub_> September of 2014

 20:25 <Belgarath> airurando: lets move that discusson to next quaterly meeting

 20:25 <Belgarath> I need to read a bit in between

 20:26 <airurando> tdr112 sep 13/14/15

 20:26 <airurando> Belgarath: fair point but the saucy jam is in Sept

 20:26 <tdr112> thats fine

 20:26 <airurando> cool

 20:26 <Belgarath> airurando: I ment my participaion

 20:27 <Belgarath> not the fact it should go on

 20:27 <tdr112> ok i can run something on the sat or sun

 20:27 <airurando> Belgarath: sorry

 20:27 <tdr112> a one day thing

 20:27 <airurando> tdr112 great

 20:27 <tdr112> leave it withme

 20:27 <airurando> even is we can use the day to figure out how we will do it next time!

 20:28 <tdr112> i will use the mailing list to hash out the details

 20:28 <airurando> great

 20:28 <airurando> we'll move on

 20:28 <tdr112> others welcome to help

 20:28 <mokmeister> Productive meetings shouldn't last more than an hour... ;)

 20:28 <airurando> I'll try

 20:28 <Belgarath> mokmeister: not true

 20:29 <airurando> mokmeister I was just aboutt o say that

 20:29 <tdr112> airurando: whats next

 20:29 <darrenbatesdub_> I'll gladly help tdr112

 20:29 <Belgarath> mokmeister: depends on a subject

 20:29 <mokmeister> ah sure only messin

 20:29 <Belgarath> :)

 20:29 <airurando> the rest of the stuff is FYO

 20:29 <airurando> so ill quickly go through it

 20:30 <airurando> #topic Virtual Ubuntu Developer Summits

 20:30 <airurando> Do people participate in these?

 20:30 <airurando> The next one will be held between the 27th and the 29th of August and at present they are scheduled to occur every 3 months.

 20:30 <tdr112> i have never

 20:30 <mokmeister> nope

 20:31 <airurando> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1308/

 20:31 <airurando> If you can find the time I'd encourage you all to attend.

 20:31 <Bpb101> I havent, but i might consider the next one. They are a good idea though

 20:31 <airurando> currently the plan is to hold them every three months

 20:31 <mokmeister> Twould be interesting just to see what's going on alright

 20:31 <airurando> do if you can

 20:32 <airurando> do sign up for it if you can

 20:32 <airurando> movin on

 20:32 <airurando> #topic Ubuntu Hours and/or Other Social Events

 20:32 <airurando> Adhoc? If so will people actually call any?

 20:33 <airurando> Personally, I am happy to leave this as adhoc.

 20:33 <airurando> thoughts?

 20:33 <tdr112> me too

 20:33 <darrenbatesdub_> Same

 20:33 <ebel> yep

 20:33 <airurando> grand

 20:33 <mokmeister> agreed. Will they happen if left to adhoc though?

 20:34 <mokmeister> And how will people know that they are happening? Through IRC / mailiing list?

 20:34 <airurando> mokmeister: indeed

 20:34 <airurando> mailing list

 20:34 <tdr112> they have been posted on the mailing list and twitter in the past

 20:34 <airurando> it will be up to people to call them

 20:34 <airurando> if they don't well they don't

 20:35 <zmoylan> we need to facebook, g+ AND tweet them

 20:35 <zmoylan> anyone on facebook or g+?  i don't use them

 20:35 <tdr112> I dont use them

 20:35 <mokmeister> is there an ubuntu-ie on g+?

 20:35 <airurando> zmoylan I do the facebook stuff

 20:35 <darrenbatesdub_> Very active on G+. Facebook for family.

 20:35 <airurando> andru quinn does the G+

 20:36 <darrenbatesdub_> We could do so much on G+

 20:36 <zmoylan> put out the notices on social media but all links back to the wiki?

 20:36 <zmoylan> very few folk on g+

 20:37 <zmoylan> any social media you pick will have x percentage that won't use if for y reason

 20:37 <airurando> zmoylan: not the wiki. The LoCo team portal

 20:37 <zmoylan> airurando: you are correct, the portal not the wiki

 20:37 <airurando> so we'll leave it at call them when you want

 20:38 <Bpb101> i ussally post the outings on boards.ie as well , when there one up. Dont know how many people read them though

 20:38 <airurando> thanks for doing that Bpb101

 20:38 <airurando> #topic Team Administration

 20:39 <airurando> Meeting Minutes/Logs , Team Reports, LoCo Team Portal and our Social Streams

 20:39 <airurando> anyone interested in getting involved with this?

 20:39 <zmoylan> what does it involve?

 20:40 <airurando> team reports have stopped

 20:40 <darrenbatesdub_> Very interested

 20:40 <airurando> we need someone to take them on

 20:40 <airurando> or we can continue not doing them

 20:40 <airurando> darrenbatesdub_:

 20:40 <darrenbatesdub_> I'll take them.

 20:40 <airurando> great

 20:41 <airurando> I'll chat to you offline darrenbatesdub_ about this

 20:41 <airurando> not a biggy

 20:41 <darrenbatesdub_> Sound.

 20:41 <airurando> I'll continue to take care of the other stuff at present

 20:42 <airurando> #topic Any Other Business

 20:42 <tdr112> i have one

 20:42 <airurando> shoot

 20:42 <tdr112> czajkowski: is running a mug in dublin (Dublin MongoDB User Group )

 20:42 <zmoylan> oh yes.

 20:42 <tdr112> details here http://www.meetup.com/DublinMUG/events/131173222/

 20:43 <tdr112> it has been some time since she has been back to visit our loco so some of us will be along to chat

 20:43 <airurando> yes indeed

 20:43 <tdr112> I will be along

 20:43 <airurando> I'd encourage everyone to get to know czajkowski

 20:43 <zmoylan> ireland has been a lot quieter since she went to uk

 20:43 <ebel> oh yeah

 20:44 <airurando> a powerful force in the Irish LoCo, the greated Ubuntu ecosphere and now MongoDB community manager for the EMEA region

 20:44 <airurando> a passionate open source advocate.

 20:45 <darrenbatesdub_> We need more of her in the world!

 20:45 <airurando> I've just to more quick links for our new people

 20:46 <airurando> first though for the minutes

 20:46 <airurando> #topic czajkowski: is running a mug in dublin (Dublin MongoDB User Group )

 20:46 <airurando> now

 20:46 <airurando> #topic Ubuntu User days

 20:47 <airurando> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays

 20:47 <airurando> folks should check those out

 20:47 <airurando> and

 20:47 <airurando> #topic Open Week

 20:47 <airurando> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek

 20:48 <airurando> folks should check those out also

 20:48 <airurando> coming to the end

 20:48 <mokmeister> airurando: that user days link brings up a timetable for last Feb

 20:48 <airurando> #topic Any Other Business

 20:49 <airurando> mokmeister: when the hold the next one it should refresh I think

 20:49 <mokmeister> ok

 20:49 <airurando> all done?

 20:50 <airurando> Thanks everyone for attending and participating.  Lets hope this can put the Ubuntu Ireland Team on a sustainable, fun and productive footing.

 20:50 <airurando> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
