{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Ireland IRC meeting was held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 17th February 2010, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode. 

MootBot was used to keep minutes and logs. <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-ie.20100217_1405.html|Minutes]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-ie.log.20100217_1405.html|Logs]]</nowiki>.

=== Attendance ===

1. ebel
2. lau1
3. airurando
4. slashtom
5. czajkowski

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| FOSDEM
| ebel
|-
| Dublin people going to Limerick event?
| ebel
|-
| Free Jam
| czajkowski
|-
| Banner
| czajkowski
|-
| ''please add''
| ''please add''
|}

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
14:06:23 	LINK 	ebel 	
14:06:27 	LINK 	ebel 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-02-17
14:07:19 	Topic: FOSDEM
14:09:21 	LINK 	czajkowski 	http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/02/06/ubuntu-at-fosdem/
14:09:31 	LINK 	czajkowski 	http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/02/08/my-weekend-at-fosdem/
14:09:52 	LINK 	ebel 	http://fosdem.org/2010/
14:12:52 	Topic: Dublin people going to Limerick event?
14:20:39 	LINK 	ebel 	http://maps.cloudmade.com/?lat=52.668185&lng=-8.582854&zoom=15&directions=52.67265451804871,-8.570977449417114,52.66422892435329,-8.58607292175293&travel=foot&styleId=1&opened_tab=1
14:22:46 	LINK 	ebel 	http://maps.cloudmade.com/?lat=52.667821&lng=-8.58294&zoom=15&directions=52.67265451804871,-8.570977449417114,52.667654660938666,-8.576379418373108,52.66422892435329,-8.58607292175293&travel=foot&styleId=1&opened_tab=1
14:24:42 	AGREED 	ebel 	Travellodge is 'offical' hotel for the skynet talks
14:25:00 	Topic: Free Jam from czajkowski
14:30:49 	LINK 	lau1 	http://desinterets.wordpress.com/talk-globaljam/
14:32:21 	LINK 	airurando 	http://etherpad.com/4hV6CeXWyK
14:41:00 	Topic: Banner
14:43:23 	LINK 	ebel 	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ie-loco-roadmap/+spec/loco-banner
14:44:38 	LINK 	ebel 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/Roadmaps/Lucid?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=ubuntu-ie-banner.svg
14:55:24 	ACTION 	ebel 	someone should email declan on the mailing list about this
14:55:49 	ACTION 	ebel 	ebel will email declan on mailing list about banner suggestions
14:59:06 	Topic: Any other business?
14:59:33 	Topic: OSSBarCamp
15:00:15 	LINK 	ebel 	
15:00:19 	LINK 	ebel 	http://www.facebook.com/ossbarcamp
15:00:24 	LINK 	ebel 	http://twitter.com/ossbarcamp
15:07:50 	Topic: Any other business?
15:13:30 	Topic: communication methods
15:13:55 	ACTION 	ebel 	ebel will make a list of different means of communication (wiki, fora, etc.)
15:16:30 	Topic: Any other business?
</pre>

=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-ie
[14:06:03] <ebel> Please say PRESENT if you are here and attending the meeting?
[14:06:04] <ebel> PRESENT
[14:06:09] <lau1> PRESENT
[14:06:14] <airurando> PRESENT
[14:06:19] <ebel> The Agenda for this meeting is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-02-17
[14:06:23] <ebel> [link]
[14:06:27] <ebel> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-02-17
[14:06:45] <slashtom> PRESENT
[14:06:59] * ebel assumes czajkowski is having connectivity problems. :P
[14:07:19] <ebel> [TOPIC] FOSDEM
[14:07:27] <ebel> I submitted this topic
[14:07:45] <ebel> I was just wondering how the people who went got on.
[14:08:01] <czajkowski> PRESENT
[14:08:08] <czajkowski> sorry net is woeful
[14:08:12] <ebel> (For those that don't know FOSDEM is an annual FLOSS event in Brussels, it was on 6th/7th Feb)
[14:08:34] <ebel> so czajkowski, how was FOSDEM? ANyone else go?
[14:08:51] <czajkowski> yup it was great
[14:08:55] <czajkowski> there were 6 of us there
[14:09:05] <czajkowski> myself declan, julie, jamie, patrick
[14:09:08] <czajkowski> and alan
[14:09:21] <czajkowski> http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/02/06/ubuntu-at-fosdem/
[14:09:31] <czajkowski> http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/02/08/my-weekend-at-fosdem/
[14:09:52] <ebel> http://fosdem.org/2010/
[14:09:54] <czajkowski> it's a great weekend and we went for dinner with ubutnu LoCos from all over the palce
[14:09:57] <czajkowski> *place
[14:10:10] <ebel> cool
[14:11:12] <ebel> I went in 2009, it's was great fun.
[14:12:27] <czajkowski> i'd recommend folks go if they can next year
[14:12:27] <ebel> Anyways, next topic
[14:12:52] <ebel> [topic] Dublin people going to Limerick event?
[14:12:54] <ebel> from me
[14:13:01] * slashtom is going
[14:13:12] <slashtom> what's the name for it?
[14:13:18] <ebel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/Events/February-2010-Talks
[14:13:33] <czajkowski> slashtom: ubuntu ireland and skynet
[14:13:39] <slashtom> grand
[14:13:56] <ebel> there will be a series of talks in UL (Universirty of Limerick) on FLOSS stuff on Saturday 27th February
[14:14:24] <ebel> czajkowski, davem, terran_ know more than me about it (did I miss anyone?)
[14:14:34] <slashtom> there is no time on that page
[14:14:34] <czajkowski> MootBot:
[14:14:38] <czajkowski> moonpie:
[14:14:39] <czajkowski> :)
[14:14:55] <ebel> tdr112 (who's not here now) and robfitz are getting a lift down with me.
[14:14:59] <airurando> slashtom: I thought the time was listed at the bottom
[14:15:26] <slashtom> no, that's the accommodation
[14:15:27] <ebel> I'm just wondering if people are staying over on Saturday night, or what? Anything planned for after the event?
[14:15:29] <airurando> right after the map
[14:15:39] <ebel> Anyone going? Anyone willing to give lifts?
[14:15:50] <czajkowski> moonpie: ping
[14:16:01] <czajkowski> ther is some drinks and food on aftweard
[14:16:04] <czajkowski> *afterwards
[14:16:09] <slashtom> ah yes airurando, it's formatting issues
[14:16:12] <czajkowski> students are coming from redbrick - dcu and galway
[14:16:18] <slashtom> appears to the right side of the map
[14:16:21] <ebel> tdr112 says you can get a twin room in the local Travellodge for ?44 IIRC But you have to book before 7 days in advance
[14:16:29] * airurando is going but Ill be leaving from kildare
[14:18:33] <ebel> right, well I think me and slashtom will be staying over. tdr112 and robfitz aswell.
[14:18:43] <ebel> we'll go for the travellodge
[14:19:15] <ebel> so if other people are staying over, we could make that the 'conference hotel'
[14:19:58] <ebel> as far as I know, it's quite close to UL.
[14:20:39] <ebel> http://maps.cloudmade.com/?lat=52.668185&lng=-8.582854&zoom=15&directions=52.67265451804871,-8.570977449417114,52.66422892435329,-8.58607292175293&travel=foot&styleId=1&opened_tab=1
[14:20:46] <ebel> how to get from UL to the hotel
[14:21:26] <ebel> Sound like a good idea? thoughts? ideas? comments? questions? approvals? criticisms?
[14:21:58] <slashtom> is there a coffee shop nearby?
[14:22:25] <czajkowski> where;s mean-machine
[14:22:41] <airurando> Sounds like a good idea to me. Suggest getting the idea out to the skynet organisers and mailing list.
[14:22:43] <ebel> slashtom: yes there is http://maps.cloudmade.com/?lat=52.667821&lng=-8.58294&zoom=15&directions=52.67265451804871,-8.570977449417114,52.667654660938666,-8.576379418373108,52.66422892435329,-8.58607292175293&travel=foot&styleId=1&opened_tab=1
[14:22:45] <czajkowski> slashtom: pub on campus searves coffee
[14:22:46] <ebel> [link] http://maps.cloudmade.com/?lat=52.667821&lng=-8.58294&zoom=15&directions=52.67265451804871,-8.570977449417114,52.667654660938666,-8.576379418373108,52.66422892435329,-8.58607292175293&travel=foot&styleId=1&opened_tab=1
[14:22:55] <czajkowski> near hotels petrol stations
[14:24:42] <ebel> [agreed] Travellodge is 'offical' hotel for the skynet talks
[14:25:00] <ebel> [topic] Free Jam from czajkowski
[14:25:35] <czajkowski> ah yes
[14:25:42] <czajkowski> well firstly - Name change OPEN JAM
[14:25:47] <czajkowski> march 27 and 28th
[14:25:56] <czajkowski> in conjunection with global jam I want to invite
[14:26:12] <czajkowski> php python, halo labs, ruby ireland, al.net
[14:26:26] <czajkowski> all groups who want to do stuff to work on their projects collectively
[14:26:30] <czajkowski> and we can have some demos
[14:26:36] <czajkowski> and lighnetning talk at the same time
[14:26:48] <czajkowski> at the same time as this is going onn we can work on ubuntu stuff also
[14:27:07] <czajkowski> I'm working on a venue right now, but what I will need is everyone spreading the work and come up with ways to get folks on board
[14:27:12] <czajkowski> Questions?
[14:27:30] <lau1> yes
[14:28:02] <ebel> sounds good
[14:28:07] <lau1> But as venue is not decided mine can wait
[14:28:31] <ebel> what sort of format? Talks? misc hacking? what's the layout?
[14:28:41] <ebel> Or is there no plan yet? :)
[14:30:16] <lau1> I hav e plan for translation talk hoping for feedback
[14:30:22] <lau1> plan is at
[14:30:49] <lau1> [link] http://desinterets.wordpress.com/talk-globaljam/
[14:30:51] <czajkowski> ebel: have it somewhat laod out
[14:30:54] <czajkowski> *laid
[14:30:58] <czajkowski> structuered
[14:31:09] <czajkowski> I had an etherpad link but my connection is rather flakey
[14:31:21] <czajkowski> bascically 10-10:30 explain how to log into lp, create ssh keys
[14:31:24] <czajkowski> work on areas
[14:31:34] <czajkowski> break the day down into things we can workon
[14:31:40] <czajkowski> work in areas in groups
[14:31:50] <czajkowski> at times we can run lightning sessions
[14:32:03] <czajkowski> where people can stand up and possibly talk on soething for 3-5 mins
[14:32:11] <czajkowski> and it'd be great to get the other teams invovled
[14:32:19] <ebel> ok
[14:32:21] <airurando> http://etherpad.com/4hV6CeXWyK
[14:32:24] <czajkowski> I'm working with 2 people from ruby ireland on this
[14:33:13] <ebel> cool
[14:34:38] <ebel> sounds good
[14:35:14] <czajkowski> any ideas?
[14:35:51] <ebel> not at the moment....
[14:36:16] <airurando> I liked the idea of the buddy system.
[14:36:26] <czajkowski> cool
[14:36:30] <airurando> Want to be useful at the event
[14:36:39] <ebel> buddy system?
[14:36:54] <airurando> I think the open jam should be promoted in limerick
[14:37:14] <czajkowski> ebel: breaking folks into groups to work on ares
[14:37:24] <czajkowski> airurando: I hope to have something up shortly on it
[14:38:21] <ebel> cool
[14:38:33] <ebel> yeah breaking into groups is a good idea.
[14:39:45] <czajkowski> cool
[14:39:53] <czajkowski> any other ideas just poke me re it
[14:40:09] <ebel> :)
[14:41:00] <ebel> [topic] Banner
[14:41:03] <ebel> from czajkowski
[14:41:31] <czajkowski> aye
[14:41:37] <czajkowski> so veronica has done up a banner
[14:41:48] <czajkowski> its been added to the roadmap wiki page
[14:41:54] <czajkowski> we just need content/words
[14:41:56] <czajkowski> any ideas
[14:43:09] <airurando> Keep it simple. Ubuntu Ireland LoCo Team
[14:43:13] <ebel> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ie-loco-roadmap/+spec/loco-banner
[14:43:23] <ebel> [link] https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ie-loco-roadmap/+spec/loco-banner
[14:44:38] <ebel> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/Roadmaps/Lucid?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=ubuntu-ie-banner.svg
[14:44:41] <ebel> this must be in
[14:44:43] <ebel> *it
[14:44:56] <ebel> but it's in a SVG format, so might not work if you open it in your browser
[14:45:03] * ebel hasn't looked at it.
[14:46:05] <airurando> possibly add a short snappy definition of ubuntu linux
[14:46:31] * airurando wasn't able to look at it even after downloading.
[14:46:59] <lau1> inkscape is fine
[14:50:25] <airurando> lau1: Thanks, I can see it now.
[14:50:53] <lau1> no worries I had trouble with default viewer
[14:52:40] <airurando> it's very nice. Not sure if this was previously discussed but was decision taken not to include Kubuntu and Xubuntu icons?
[14:53:22] <airurando> What do people think of adding say website, wiki address, mailing list details etc...
[14:53:59] <ebel> we should add something
[14:54:06] * ebel managed to open it in inkscape
[14:54:15] <ebel> we should add something for contact details
[14:54:19] <czajkowski> how about www.ubuntu-ie.org ??
[14:54:26] <lau1> I would say only website to have it as simple as possible (the others can be picked from there )
[14:54:30] <ebel> yeah, website, sounds good
[14:54:43] <airurando> yeah I agree keeps it simple
[14:54:49] <czajkowski> oke
[14:54:53] <ebel> yeah
[14:55:08] <czajkowski> can soemone action someone to mail declan back on the mailing list with this info
[14:55:21] <czajkowski> have to log off before I kill my pc for lack of net
[14:55:24] <ebel> [action] someone should email declan on the mailing list about this
[14:55:34] <ebel> ah i'll do it
[14:55:49] <ebel> [action] ebel will email declan on mailing list about banner suggestions
[14:57:15] <ebel> anything else on the banner?
[14:57:20] <ebel> or are we done with the banner?
[14:58:07] <airurando> I've nothing to add
[14:58:08] <lau1> i am
[14:59:06] <ebel> [topic] Any other business?
[14:59:16] <ebel> Anyone got anything else they'd like to talk about?
[14:59:24] <czajkowski> ossbarcamp april 17th
[14:59:33] <ebel> [topic] OSSBarCamp
[14:59:49] <czajkowski> just to confirm we are running one in april
[14:59:52] <czajkowski> lpi exams again
[15:00:10] <czajkowski> I'l be looking for ideas and voluneers
[15:00:15] <ebel> [link]
[15:00:17] <czajkowski> drop info@ossbarcamp.com
[15:00:19] <ebel> [link] http://www.facebook.com/ossbarcamp
[15:00:24] <ebel> [link] http://twitter.com/ossbarcamp
[15:00:28] <czajkowski> or join #ossbarcamp on freenode
[15:00:39] <czajkowski> any thoughts/suggestions
[15:01:08] <slashtom> when we have a team assembled, can we arrange a site visit?
[15:01:28] <airurando> again promote in Limerick and at Open Jam
[15:01:35] <slashtom> yes
[15:01:53] <ebel> yep, promote and mention at limerick and openjam
[15:02:55] <czajkowski> aye
[15:03:04] <czajkowski> slashtom: you on the team :D
[15:03:18] <slashtom> certainly!
[15:03:21] <czajkowski> yat
[15:03:27] <czajkowski> I shall arrange site visit so
[15:03:55] <slashtom> thanks
[15:05:09] <ebel> Anything else on ossbarcamp?
[15:05:11] <airurando> should we have specific IRC planning meetings for open jam and ossbarcamp
[15:05:17] <czajkowski> airurando: good idea
[15:05:42] <ebel> we could dedicate a meeting to it....
[15:05:49] <ebel> have lots of agenda items on it
[15:05:54] <czajkowski> aye
[15:06:01] <czajkowski> start with open jam
[15:06:11] <ebel> keeping the same meeting time is good, keeps attendance high...
[15:06:13] <czajkowski> airurando: facy coming up with some items we could discuss
[15:06:17] <czajkowski> aye
[15:06:29] <airurando> perhaps discuss further at ubuntu hour
[15:06:37] <czajkowski> see ye there
[15:06:52] <airurando> will certainly have a think about it czajkowski
[15:07:00] <ebel> yeah
[15:07:50] <ebel> [topic] Any other business?
[15:08:12] <airurando> one very small thing
[15:08:39] <ebel> oh?
[15:08:41] <airurando> regarding listing events on website wiki twitter mailing list etc
[15:08:59] <airurando> discusssed extensively at last months meeting
[15:09:14] <ebel> *ahem* yes :)
[15:09:57] <airurando> my point is that I am very happy to oversee all this but I don't know what I'm doing yet
[15:10:25] <airurando> only last week discovered I could add event to website
[15:10:37] * ebel didn't make the list of things from last time like i said i would...
[15:10:48] <ebel> airurando: i've been meaning to make you an admin on the website....
[15:11:42] <airurando> ebel: thanks very much and I'd love to but I wouldn't know what to do at present
[15:11:59] <ebel> well website admin just means you can do things when you want.
[15:12:06] <ebel> you don't *have* to do anything....
[15:12:26] <ebel> as for communication.... *shrug*
[15:13:02] <airurando> I ask is that the full list of places to hit is decided upon and the order for hitting them given and then you teach me what to do
[15:13:24] <ebel> Alright :)
[15:13:30] <ebel> [topic] communication methods
[15:13:34] <ebel> (so it goes in the minutes)
[15:13:55] <ebel> [action] ebel will make a list of different means of communication (wiki, fora, etc.)
[15:14:11] <airurando> ebel: oh I know I don't have to do anything but I do want to help out as much as i can.
[15:14:50] <ebel> airurando: cool :)
[15:14:58] <ebel> thanks :)
[15:16:30] <ebel> [topic] Any other business?
[15:19:14] <ebel> ok... i think that's it
[15:19:18] <ebel> thanks for the meeting guys
[15:19:20] <ebel> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
