{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu-ie March 2012 Team IRC Meeting ==

This Ubuntu Ireland Team IRC meeting was held at 9pm Irish time on Wednesday the 21^st^ of March 2012, in the #ubuntu-ie channel on FreeNode.

 Note: The LoCo Team Portal listing for this meeting can be found <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-meetings-team-351-detail | here ]]</nowiki>

Meeting started by ebel at 21:04:10 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ie/2012/ubuntu-ie.2012-03-21-21.04.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' the minutes for this meeting: http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/351/detail/  (ebel, 21:04:36)
''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/351/detail/   (ebel, 21:04:41)
''HELP:''   (ebel, 21:04:51)
* Review of previous action items.
''ACTION:'' ebel to look into CDs for loco for next release  (ebel, 21:10:33)

* 12.04 LTS Release Party from victor9098 (right?)

* AOB?

Meeting ended at 21:34:26 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* ebel to look into CDs for loco for next release

=== Action items, by person ===

* ebel
* * ebel to look into CDs for loco for next release

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ebel (30)
* victor9098 (24)
* czajkowski (21)
* slashtommy (17)
* infoturtle (17)
* meetingology (5)
* Barry_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

 21:04:10 <ebel> #startmeeting

 21:04:10 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Mar 21 21:04:10 2012 UTC.  The chair is ebel. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 21:04:10 <meetingology> 

 21:04:10 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 21:04:25 <ebel> please say "PRESENT" if you're here and taking part in this meeting

 21:04:36 <ebel> #link the minutes for this meeting: http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/351/detail/

 21:04:41 <ebel> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/351/detail/

 21:04:51 <ebel> #halp

 21:05:14 <victor9098> PRESENT

 21:05:20 <infoturtle> PRESENT

 21:05:24 <Barry_> PRESENT

 21:05:31 <czajkowski> PRESENT

 21:07:05 <ebel> *ahem*

 21:07:07 <ebel> PRESENT

 21:07:10 <infoturtle> ha ha

 21:07:26 <victor9098> performance issues

 21:07:44 <ebel> so the agenda is here http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/351/detail/

 21:07:54 <ebel> as always anyone can add anything at any time

 21:08:01 <ebel> #topic Review of previous action items.

 21:08:02 <czajkowski> nods

 21:08:32 <ebel> the agenda for that meeting was here http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/338/detail/

 21:08:57 <ebel> We had an ubuntu hour in science gallery in dublin

 21:09:02 <ebel> me, slashtommy and tdr112 turned up.

 21:09:04 <ebel> twas alright

 21:09:12 <infoturtle> sounds cool

 21:09:21 <czajkowski> cool

 21:09:27 <czajkowski> wish I had more o them over here

 21:09:57 <victor9098> @czajkowski be the change :D

 21:09:57 <meetingology> victor9098: Error: "czajkowski" is not a valid command.

 21:10:09 <ebel> previous logs http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ie/2012/ubuntu-ie.2012-02-15-21.00.html

 21:10:16 <ebel> ah i didn't look into CDs

 21:10:33 <victor9098> It has been confirmed they are staying at 700mb

 21:10:33 <ebel> #action ebel to look into CDs for loco for next release

 21:10:33 * meetingology ebel to look into CDs for loco for next release

 21:10:39 * infoturtle is upset by this news

 21:10:52 <czajkowski> CDs haven't been announced yet

 21:10:55 <ebel> infoturtle: did you look at website?

 21:10:56 <czajkowski> should be coming shortly

 21:11:01 <infoturtle> yes I did

 21:11:14 <infoturtle> I'm making an offline site to just copy over

 21:11:34 <infoturtle> have the drupal 7 layout picked and working on the css and images

 21:11:41 <ebel> how's it going? need any help?

 21:12:10 <infoturtle> I'm good for now, may need some help actually putting it onto the server and DNS pointing and stuff

 21:12:22 <infoturtle> that I'm not great with

 21:12:52 <infoturtle> that's all I have to offer on it for the moment

 21:12:53 <ebel> sure, well just give me a shout anytime. others in this channel could help and be knowledgeable aswell.

 21:13:00 <infoturtle> cheers ebel

 21:13:18 <ebel> that was all the agree'd and action'ed last meeting

 21:13:24 <czajkowski> cool

 21:13:38 <ebel> #topic 12.04 LTS Release Party from victor9098 (right?)

 21:13:48 <victor9098> I have counted the votes and it was close, but April 28th took it with one vote (April 28th got 4 votes versus 3 for May 5th)

 21:14:10 <infoturtle> I've to get my timetable before I can vote

 21:14:29 <victor9098> Now we just need some location and event ideas

 21:14:56 * ebel nods

 21:16:06 <victor9098> We have a four weeks to bring it all together

 21:16:30 <victor9098> But any suggestions are more then welcome

 21:16:54 <infoturtle> There was talks amoungst skynet of another release party but haven't heard of it in a while. Might ask again

 21:17:10 <infoturtle> for the Dublin I don't wana give input as I probally can't make it

 21:18:14 <victor9098> Of course you can infoturtle

 21:18:20 <slashtommy> is there any markets on that weekend, farmleigh, dun laoghaire?

 21:18:34 <victor9098> Good idea, I will look into it

 21:19:03 <slashtommy> advantage: choose what food you want or bring your own (makes it student friendly)

 21:19:16 <czajkowski> there is a market up in templebar also

 21:19:17 <czajkowski> or was

 21:20:10 <slashtommy> there is, but nowhere to picnic

 21:20:15 <victor9098> I will go fishing for anything with free food and hopefully wifi (though a few of us should have 3g dongles)

 21:21:08 <czajkowski> peoples park behind dublin city countil ?

 21:21:17 <czajkowski> just a thought

 21:21:46 <slashtommy> by christchurch?

 21:22:06 <victor9098> jotting it down, a indoor backup just in case weather is not great

 21:22:59 <czajkowski> slashtommy: aye

 21:23:17 <czajkowski> victor9098: swing round the corner and go to bull and castle?

 21:23:18 <slashtommy> Market Bar if wet?

 21:23:24 <czajkowski> again just firing out ideas

 21:23:27 <slashtommy> big tables, not too noisy etc

 21:23:37 <victor9098> Always pile into starbucks :D

 21:23:41 <slashtommy> oh, check the sport!

 21:23:50 <czajkowski> LOL

 21:24:04 <slashtommy> if the fall back option is a pub, beware the sports

 21:24:17 <victor9098> good point

 21:24:51 <victor9098> Does anyone want to meet on release day, maybe a Ubuntu hour ?

 21:25:16 <slashtommy> when is release day?

 21:25:23 <victor9098> April 26th

 21:25:29 <victor9098> (hopefully)

 21:25:33 <czajkowski> it will

 21:25:33 <slashtommy> a Thursday!

 21:25:34 <czajkowski> :)

 21:25:46 <czajkowski> always a thursday except 10.10.10 :)

 21:25:58 <czajkowski> folks sprint that week

 21:26:04 <czajkowski> and you get the weekend to recover

 21:26:12 <czajkowski> and then start the next release

 21:26:34 <slashtommy> sure, could meet for a beer somewhere

 21:26:44 <slashtommy> please choose somewhere with good beer

 21:27:32 <victor9098> ok, well will remind people closer to the time and see who can make it

 21:27:45 <victor9098> When will the next IRC be?

 21:27:47 <slashtommy> meh, just tell people

 21:27:56 <slashtommy> if it's 3 of us, that's fine

 21:28:05 <ebel> next irc will be in about a month

 21:28:10 <victor9098> Any excuse :D

 21:28:17 <ebel> almost certainly before next release

 21:28:25 <victor9098> cool

 21:28:54 <victor9098> I will have a look into events in/around Dublin and see if anything fits

 21:28:58 <slashtommy> good beer can be found at bull & castle, against the grain, messers maguires, black sheep, wj kavanagh and l mulligans

 21:29:13 <slashtommy> oh, and porter house

 21:29:46 <slashtommy> thats about it, one or two others like farringtons in templebar

 21:31:10 <victor9098> next topic?

 21:32:01 <ebel> #topic AOB?

 21:32:16 <ebel> #agreed victor9098 to look into venues for release party

 21:32:23 * ebel 's internet is being very dodgy now

 21:32:43 <infoturtle> don't think you're chair anymore ebel

 21:32:52 <infoturtle> that agreed did nothing

 21:33:07 <ebel> there's no other topic, so unless anyone has any other business (AOB) that's the end of the meeting

 21:34:18 <infoturtle> airurando!

 21:34:22 <victor9098> Thanks ebel

 21:34:26 <ebel> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
