{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu Ireland IRC Meeting, was due to be held at 9pm, 5th April 2009, but was postponed till 9pm Wednesday 15th April

== Attendance ==
 
* czajkowski
* ebel
* Mean-Machine
* tdr1121
* Shane_Fagan
* delcoyote
* theirishpenguin
* sherkin
* P2

== Agenda ==
Feel free to add an agenda item, and don't forget to put your name next to it.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Ubuntu Ireland Press Release Team
| RoryMcCann
|-
| Odd Jobs
| RoryMcCann
|-
| IRC Tolerance / Code of Conduct
| <nowiki>[[czajkowski]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu Women
| <nowiki>[[czajkowski]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/JauntyReleaseParty|Jaunty Release Party]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[mdanielski|Mean-Machine]]</nowiki>
|-
| Irish Translation of Ubuntu
| RoryMcCann
|-
| ''insert item here''
| ''insert your name''
|}

== Minutes ==

A few items were discussed at the belated IRC meeting
* Ubuntu Ireland press release team. Discussed some of the ideas from the mailing list when it was first raised. czajkowski suggested using the wiki to create a press release about oss events (ossbarcamp, jaunty release party). Shane_Fagan expressed an interest in doing that
* theirishpenguin is thinking of setting up a site listing companies that use ubuntu or floss software
* ebel mentioned the OddJob page, for little tasks that would benefit the ubuntu-ie website / community, including adding spam protection to the comments on ubuntu-ie.org. ebel has promised to buy a pint to the person who sets it up. Shane_Fagan had a look.
* czajkowski reminded people about the Ubuntu Code of Conduct, in order to be sure the IRC channel remains a friendly and welcoming place, and mentioned Ubuntu Women.
* Mean-Machine brought up the release party for the next version of ubuntu. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2009-04-05#preview more info. There are some tshirts available for prizes. An ubuntu releated pub quiz was suggested.
* czajkowski mentioned that some of the people running freenode are holding a geek picknic ("geeknic") in dublin in the summer. http://wiki.geeknic.org/index.php/Dublin_2009
* ebel metioned the Irish translation of ubuntu, and floated the idea of a translation jam, to do a practice session on ubuntu translation
* Mean-Machine suggested some wiki spring cleaning and pointed people to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/Toolbox/Wiki/Menu
* Another OSSBarCamp was suggested, and some tentative thoughts on software freedom day 2009

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
<tdr1121> we will give shane a few min to turn up
<Mean-Machine> ebel, are you still in charge or Shane?
<ebel> Oh, er, I dunno
<czajkowski> thought you were and it was only as you weren't around
* ebel is willing to chair the meeting
<Mean-Machine> ebel, cool
<ebel> Yeah that's why i needed someone else to chair it the other day.
<ebel> But, I'm here now! :)
<Mean-Machine> shall we?
* tdr1121 is here
<czajkowski> yup
<ebel> OKies, Ubuntu ireland meeting starting
<ebel> please say PRESENT if you're here..
<ebel> PRESENT
* Mean-Machine PRESENT
<tdr1121> PRESENT
<czajkowski> PRESENT
<ebel> No-one else?
<sherkin> Hi all, PRESENT
<Mean-Machine> sherkin, hiya
<ebel> hiya sherkin!
<tdr1121> yo
* ebel is a bit suprised shane's not here, I thought he said he was gonna come....
<ebel> Oh well.
<sherkin> it's a few days a wasn't around, but I don't forget you :)
<ebel> For the record the wiki page for this meeting is herehttps://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2009-04-05
<ebel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2009-04-05 more like
<Mean-Machine> theirishpenguin, yo!
<czajkowski> theirishpenguin: welcome
<czajkowski> my tweet worked :D
<ebel> Like all our meetings that's just a wikipage and everyone's welcome to just add stuff to it. there's a few items on the agenda
<theirishpenguin> Ha ha! Tweets are good!
<ebel> hiya theirishpenguin
<theirishpenguin> Hi ebel
<theirishpenguin> Lucky I just turned on tweetdeck!
<ebel> Hiya Shane_Fagan
<Shane_Fagan> Sorry guys belated present
<ebel> We were just starting the meeting
<Mean-Machine> Shane_Fagan, eveninkz
* ebel is chairing :P
<Shane_Fagan> Evening
* ebel is tempted to wait a moment or two to see if anyone else turns up, however I'm on battery
<czajkowski> lets go :)
<ebel> feck it. First item on agenda is ' Ubuntu Ireland Press Release Team '
<ebel> proposed my moi
<ebel> That was in relation to a post on the mailing list from Shane_Fagan about setting up a press release team for ubuntu-ie
<ebel> ( https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-ie/2009-March/000201.html )
<ebel> My opinion ( https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-ie/2009-March/000206.html ) is that I'm not sure we explicitly need a press release time
<ebel> *team
<ebel> HOWEVER, whatever you want to do, do.
<czajkowski> I don't think so either, maybe in time when the community is larger
<ebel> i.e. if you're interested, the go for it.
<ebel> By that's just my humble opinion
<Mean-Machine> correcto there was further discussion on the mailing list
<czajkowski> we can see by even these irc meeting we are small, even though at events more do turn up
<P2> PRESENT
<Shane_Fagan> I agree too when we get bigger it would be a good idea.
<P2> hi tdr1121
<czajkowski> Shane_Fagan: maybe in the mean time as you;ve expressed an interest
<czajkowski> an idea would be that if you see folks are organising events, approach them and maybe offer to do something up in the wiki/sites
<czajkowski> as a way of drumming up publicity
<Shane_Fagan> sure I would have no problem with that
<czajkowski> its not a team and others can help and edit
<ebel> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-ie/2009-March/000205.html Paul O'Malley has some giid advise here
<czajkowski> but that way it's a role for you and also helps Mean-Machine out as cant be leaving it all to him
<Mean-Machine> I think a good idea would be to work on a press release type thing on the wiki page, where everyone can contribute
<czajkowski> ompaul always has good advice
<ebel> Yeah, if it's something someone is interested in, then do it.
* ebel used to be reluctant to contribute to ubuntu / linux / floss, but realised that everyone's contribution is welcome,
<Shane_Fagan> So not so much a team as just having people who are interested to help Mean-Machine in the website and the wiki
<czajkowski> Shane_Fagan: maybe if folks offer .take in turns or work on an artcle for an event or post an event
<czajkowski> as a colaboration
<czajkowski> an example would be say post ossbarcamp or post jaunty release from the stance on ubuntu-ie
<ebel> Well depends what you mean by 'team'. ILUG has a committee and an AGM, Ubuntu-ie has none of that.
<Mean-Machine> have an idea? start doing it and let the others know
<ebel> even if it's just a bunch of people coaleascing around an idea and working on things, that can be a 'team'.
<czajkowski> nods
<czajkowski> anyone got anything else to say ?
<ebel> So basically Shane_Fagan ( or anyone ), if you want there to be a press team, then do it.
<ebel> No-one'll do it for you :P
<Shane_Fagan> Yep
<czajkowski> ebel: well I wouldnt say that I'd still prefer to not focus on a team as yet
<theirishpenguin> Possibly not quite falling under the category of press release but perhaps under publicity, I was thinking of setting up a site listing companies using FOSS...
<czajkowski> but if indivivuals want to help folks promote events then yes
<czajkowski> theirishpenguin: nice idea
<theirishpenguin> ... which would include companies using Ubuntu. Anyone heard of something similar in Ireland?
<ebel> czajkowski: well my point is that you can't order someone to do something. people will do what they are interested in. No-one interested in it...
<czajkowski> not heard of anything like that
<ebel> theirishpenguin: sounds like a good ida.
<Mean-Machine> theirishpenguin, someone asked me this question at ossbarcamp
<ebel> theirishpenguin: if you do it, let me know, I'll add what companies I know. :)
<czajkowski> ebel: oh I know, but using the word team on a community so small making it formalised might makes folks not want to step up as they may think they're "not goog enough"
<ebel> true
<sherkin> Maybe hands-on sessions for beginners could help much making ubuntu more popular
<sherkin> and press could come and see
<theirishpenguin> ebel: Sure. That would be great. I will prob try to knock something together in Ruby. Will drop a line when ready.
<czajkowski> sherkin: good idea, how would you suggest we do that, informaly or run tutorials ?
<czajkowski> theirishpenguin: score
<ebel> theirishpenguin: awesome. :)
* Shane_Fagan thinks tutorials would be good
<sherkin> physical meetings may be easier for beginners
<ebel> true. People on IRC are probably already converted ;) and real life has a more familiar classroom approach
<Mean-Machine> sherkin, + bug jams ;-]
<Shane_Fagan> Anyway next topic?
<Mean-Machine> a proper install fest
<sherkin> Install parties are periodically organised in Brittany, that why I suggest ..
<ebel> sherkin: yeah bug jams are good for that. Our last one was quite successful. :
<tdr1121> this is all good talking about it but will it get done , will people go ie normal people
<ebel> tdr1121: well there were some new faces at the bug jam.
<czajkowski> tdr1121: thats the bit that needs to be worked on imo
<tdr1121> we had a drop in place did many people go @ Mean-Machine
<sherkin> ebel: Sorry I couldn't be there, one next hopefully
<czajkowski> not many, a few
<tdr1121> if it is going to work you have to put more word out there
<Mean-Machine> tdr1121, myself ebel and czajkowski :P
<czajkowski> adn sean
<ebel> Yeah.
<ebel> :(
<Mean-Machine> yup
<czajkowski> tdr1121: finding a location is the issue
<ebel> Proper events are better IME
<czajkowski> also if you chose week days folks wont come and weekends ppl go away
<Mean-Machine> we learnt our lesson
<Shane_Fagan> I find it hard to get up to dublin
<Mean-Machine> czajkowski knows stuff about organizing events ;-]
<czajkowski> Mean-Machine: I have something up my sleeve
<czajkowski> I've to wait to aob
<czajkowski> ebel: next topic :p
<ebel> Yeah.
<ebel> OddJobs
<ebel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/OddJobs wiki page of random small jobs that might be helpfupo
<Mean-Machine> ebel, I really like this idea a lot!
<ianto> Mean-Machine: Got your T-shirts yet? :)
<czajkowski> yes the comments spam is a massive issue
<Mean-Machine> ianto, I did
<ebel> i.e. sometimes there is little things that people can do.
<ianto> Mean-Machine: Cool aren't they? :D
<czajkowski> I cleared out 10 pages of them yesterday and there are over 50 there
<ebel> small things that you might buy someone a pint for.
<czajkowski> meaning we cannot turnn on comments on events and wile WE use irc not everyone does
<czajkowski> so to make folks interact via site comments need soe form of moderation or spamassim
<Shane_Fagan> Is there a spam control module in drupal?
<ebel> And to start the ball rolling, I ( ebel ) will buy a pint to the person who sets up some sort of spam control for the ubuntu-ie website
<ebel> Shane_Fagan: There probably is, but I haven't looked into it.
* Mean-Machine neither
<Shane_Fagan> Ill give it a go tomorrow then I think I saw something in the admin area of the site to handle spam
<czajkowski> cool
<czajkowski> thanks
<theirishpenguin> Spam control in Drupal http://drupal.org/node/206787
<czajkowski> so Shane_Fagan will look into spam issue and comments on our wiki
<theirishpenguin> You can never have enough modules :-)
<ebel> Cool. :D
<Mean-Machine> yay!
<Shane_Fagan> Ah I found it
<ebel> in general people should add things to that wiki page
<ebel> for little odd jobs.
<ebel> so if you wanna do something small for ubuntu-ie, then have a look there.
<czajkowski> we can send that around the mailing list also
<ebel> Yeah.
<czajkowski> and maybe Shane_Fagan do a post on it on the wiki/site to drum up some publicity on it and get folks interesteted
<Mean-Machine> czajkowski, it was ebel's idea ;-]
<czajkowski> eiher or
* ebel shurgs
<czajkowski> it was just Shane_Fagan who emntioned doin press work so mabye BOTH work on it
<ebel> The person who's interested and willing ....
<czajkowski> thats the idea
<Mean-Machine> yeah
* Shane_Fagan was looking at ubuntu-ie. What happened ?
<ebel> it's working for me...
<ebel> Anyways, next topic
<czajkowski> ebel: hows the battery?
<ebel> "IRC Tolerance / Code of Conduct " by czajkowski
<czajkowski> right bascially added this here
* Shane_Fagan ducks
<czajkowski> as recently we're had some very heated and not very friendly conversations in here
* ebel *does* have a plug somewhere, just trying to use the battery excuse to force the meeting to not drag on for ages
<czajkowski> it also relates to the next agenda item -women
<czajkowski> you'll notice I'm now the only female in here
<czajkowski> due to peoples recent comments one female member has felt it not pleasent to be in here
<czajkowski> I would liek to remind folks about the !coc
<ebel> !coc
<ubot2> The Ubuntu Code of Conduct to which we ask all Ubuntu users to adhere can be found at http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct/
<czajkowski> and to respect that people will have different opnions
<czajkowski> disussion of course is healthy but please know when to draw the line
<delcoyote> a trip to the george will change that atitude
<czajkowski> right
<sherkin> czajkowski: I'm here too, supporting your "Ubuntu Women" subject
<czajkowski> sherkin: thanks
<czajkowski> ok
<czajkowski> now about ubuntu -women
<ebel> See that's the problem with IRC, you can never know who someone is.
<czajkowski> the great thing about ubuntu is the diversity of its groups
<czajkowski> there is one there for everyone and we welcome everyone
<czajkowski> the thing is
<ebel> You don't know if someone's male/female black/white settled/traveller.
<ebel> So you should be careful who's around when you say something
<czajkowski> if you dont respect or agree with a certain group, you do not chastise that person for participating in a group
<czajkowski> ebel: exactly this is pixel land
<czajkowski> and sometimes yes we know each other
<czajkowski> but not everyone has the opportunity to meet one another
<ebel> (of course that's also a great benefit of online communication, mixed blessing and all that)
<czajkowski> indeed
<czajkowski> :)
<Mean-Machine> it's all about respecting another human being / ubuntu user
<ebel> The other thing is that IRC is very very very low bandwidth.
<czajkowski> if you find folks are being rude you can poke a opn on channel
<czajkowski> also you cna use the /ignore command
<czajkowski> Mean-Machine: exactly
<czajkowski> I'm done
<ebel> In real life you can turn away from someone or frown or something to communicate that you disappove.
<delcoyote> I've been online for years chatting and there are loads of missunderstandings, or feelings hurted for - reasons many
<delcoyote> I mean =
<ebel> But you can't really do that on irc.
<delcoyote> shouldnt be bothered by someones comments
<czajkowski> delcoyote: well yes and know
<czajkowski> delcoyote: a comment is one thing, but disrespecting someone opinion or reasons is anothter thing
<czajkowski> and we need to realse that after events we get more new people in here and their first impressions of in here can make them stay or leave
<delcoyote> true czajkowski , but those comments shouldnt affect this people, or just dont "pay" the game they want you to play
<Shane_Fagan> czajkowski: I didnt mean to seem like a trouble maker. I was defending -women in the first place because i think it is good to talk with people you relate to.
<delcoyote> but I do understand some are more hearted than others
<czajkowski> Shane_Fagan: you may have been defending , bu you also trolled.
<Shane_Fagan> I dont get what you mean
<czajkowski> knowong a converaion had happned when I was away and bringing it up when the other speaker was around and was keeping quiet
* ebel is glad ubuntu-ie isn't plagued by the immature trolls you can find online
<Mean-Machine> mr. chairman ?
<czajkowski> anyways I've said my piece
<ebel> right.
<czajkowski> just want folks to remember CoC and being polite on irc and resecting
<Mean-Machine> czajkowski, thank you for this
<Shane_Fagan> Ok noted I didnt mean bad
<czajkowski> Shane_Fagan: I know.
<Mean-Machine> it's an important thing
<ebel> next topic is from czajkowski again
<ebel> about ubuntu-womens
<Shane_Fagan> I think we just covered that
<ebel> *women
<czajkowski> ebel: covered that also above
<sherkin> question , is this channel logged everyday ?
<Shane_Fagan> next
<ebel> sherkin: yes.
<czajkowski> sherkin: yes
<Mean-Machine> sherkin, yes
<Mean-Machine> :D
<tdr1121> http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/
<sherkin> thanks :)
<ebel> sherkin: http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2009/04/15/%23ubuntu-ie.html
<ebel> locobot_5 is logging us.
<ebel> czajkowski: really? I thought you'd like to expand more on -women,....
* ebel shrugs, Up to you
* Shane_Fagan has a party to get to, next please
<czajkowski> ebel: I just wanted it noteed about the groups and peple being in them
<ebel> OK so
<ebel> Mean-Machine: Jaunty Release Party
<Shane_Fagan> Yay
<delcoyote> i guess youall have it related jobs?
<delcoyote> IT*
<Mean-Machine> inf here> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/JauntyReleaseParty and here
<Mean-Machine> http://www.ubuntu-ie.org/node/25
<Mean-Machine> *info
<Mean-Machine> + we have professional ubuntu flyers from canonical
<Mean-Machine> 4 t-shirts
<Mean-Machine> very very cool tshirts akshuly
<Mean-Machine> and some ubuntu stickers
<ebel> oh?
<Shane_Fagan> Good im exited
<ebel> Raffle or prize maybe?
<Mean-Machine> ebel, I was thinking of a pub quiz
<Mean-Machine> ubuntu-related of course
<Mean-Machine> ;-]
<czajkowski> Mean-Machine: I added https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyReleaseParties here as jonno was talking abotu them today on the video cast
<Shane_Fagan> I dont know if I can stay up all day but ill try to appear for some part
<Shane_Fagan> I still need a sticker for my new computer
<Mean-Machine> czajkowski, cool.
<ebel> Mean-Machine: Good idea.
* tdr1121 wants some stickers
* Shane_Fagan wants stickers too
<Shane_Fagan> Next topic?
<ebel> Mean-Machine has the chair...
<Mean-Machine> anyone else wants to voluteer to burn jaunty cds on the day?
<delcoyote> which day?
<Mean-Machine> april 25th
<Mean-Machine> http://www.ubuntu-ie.org/node/25
<delcoyote> time? might be working till 4:30 pm
<Mean-Machine> delcoyote, we'll be in the pub from 3pm
<delcoyote> and czajkowski did DIT give you the space?
<czajkowski> delcoyote: space for??
<delcoyote> ahh ok Longstone, finally I will make it after 2 years
<czajkowski> delcoyote: not longstone, messers
<delcoyote> space for the chats?
<delcoyote> hub?
<czajkowski> delcoyote: bit lost sorry. what do you mean ?
<czajkowski> hub has nothing to do with me
* Mean-Machine finished
<czajkowski> I've one point AOB:
<czajkowski> so we're on irc
<delcoyote> i saw the video of the introduction and you named DIT
<czajkowski> and ubuntu-ie like many channels are on freenode
<czajkowski> freenode staffers are coming to visit and would love to have you all there at a Geeknic http://wiki.geeknic.org/index.php/Dublin_2009
<czajkowski> so I'm asking you all to come and to spread the word
<czajkowski> please
<czajkowski> final AOB: thanks to all those who came to OSSBARCAMP
* tdr1121 will be there
<czajkowski> I'm runnign a 2nd one
<czajkowski> :)
<Shane_Fagan> What about irish translations I though that topic was before aob?
<czajkowski> just finalising the date for it
<Shane_Fagan> *thought
<Mean-Machine> ebel, battery stil ok? :P
* ebel has plugged in.
<czajkowski> :)
<ebel> :0
<ebel> :)
<ebel> Right, next thing is the Irish translation of Ubunut
<ebel> Ubuntu is translatable into many many languages, irish being one
<ebel> However it's not fully done yet.
<delcoyote> mess maguire ok i like the beer
<ebel> At ossbarcam this was mentioned and people were interested.
<ebel> So I thought i'd spread the word that it is possible to translate ubuntu into irish.
<ebel> I wouldn't mind organising a 'translate day' or something
<ebel> try to get more differnt people involved.
<czajkowski> ebel: I'd be interested in learning how
* Shane_Fagan also cut across mean-machine to make my point about schools in ireland wanting to teach in irish
<czajkowski> ebel: if shown once I'd like to see if I could do it, my Irish isnt that great
<delcoyote> sorru czajkowski my question was what o were does DIT get involved?
<czajkowski> my goddaughter has offered to help me as she goes to school in Irish :)
<ebel> czajkowski: my irish is rubbish. :P
<czajkowski> delcoyote: dIT was the venue for ossbarcamp
<Mean-Machine> I could show how to use launchpad for translations, but no Irish
<delcoyote> I see ok
* ebel is also vaguely familar with launchpad transltaions
<Shane_Fagan> https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+lang/ga
<Shane_Fagan> Go here its fairly easy to do. I tried but my irish is crap too
<ebel> So would anyone be interested if we did a translation jam?
<czajkowski> ebel: yes
<Mean-Machine> ebel, I'd be there :D
<Shane_Fagan> ebel: I would be cool if we could get a school involved
<Shane_Fagan> *it not I
<ebel> Shane_Fagan: yeah it would.
<ebel> but i don't know any schools....
<ebel> maybe an email to various lists might get some organising going...
<Shane_Fagan> Id say pitch it to any school and see what they say
<czajkowski> I could ask the guy that comes to a lot of my events
<czajkowski> that works with secondary schools
<ebel> oh?
<czajkowski> and promotes FLOSS
<Shane_Fagan> I know the Principal's of 2 primary schools if that helps
<ebel> Shane_Fagan: yeah that does help.
<Shane_Fagan> In kildare though
<ebel> ah.
<ebel> Right well it looks like people would be interested.
* ebel takes note.
<ebel> Right. that's the end of the agenda
<Mean-Machine> one more AOB: I was saying that our wiki needs some refreshment so how about a new navigation? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/Toolbox/Wiki/Menu of course it's not finished but available to work on and to implement on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/
<ebel> czajkowski: has mentioned AOB and geeknic, so unless you want to expand on that...
<czajkowski> ebel: I copied in the link and spoke about it
<czajkowski> hoping folks sign up and come along
<Shane_Fagan> Nice
<czajkowski> and also there will be a 2nd Ossbarcamp
<czajkowski> late august early september
<czajkowski> I just need to firm date up
<Shane_Fagan> czajkowski: Ill speak about launchpad if you want
<tdr1121> will sfd be around the same time
<czajkowski> tdr1121: nope, sorry
<Mean-Machine> Software Freedom Day - Saturday 19 September 2009 do we want to run this event again?
<ebel> tdr1121: SFD is in septemper AFAIR
* Shane_Fagan hit 20000 in launchpad karma and then this morning they cut everyones and mine is back down to 7000
<ebel> Right any other items?
<Mean-Machine> Software Freedom Day can also be just an advocacy event. in town with baloons etc. :P
<theirishpenguin> Another OSSBarcamp sounds deadly. Ditto on the S/W Freedom day.
<ebel> Mean-Machine: do you mean we run it or czajkowski run it? :P
<czajkowski> Mean-Machine: it's up to you the talks were good.
<czajkowski> ebel: no I'd help but not run it
<czajkowski> same as I helped
<czajkowski> last year
<Mean-Machine> czajkowski, ossbarcamp would be too close
<Mean-Machine> IMHO
<czajkowski> I'm limited due to May UDS
<czajkowski> July GUADEC
<tdr1121> that's what I was thinking
<czajkowski> August really
<czajkowski> September SFD
<Shane_Fagan> Its not too bad if they are close
<czajkowski> October I know of another event and nov I'm busy
<czajkowski> so then January really
<Shane_Fagan> One event a month should be alright
<Mean-Machine> czajkowski, sounds very busy
<czajkowski> Shane_Fagan: not if you want a large audicen I had 150+ @ ossbarcamp and want to aim for the same
<czajkowski> Mean-Machine: tis
<Mean-Machine> we can discuss sfd at the release party ;-]
<czajkowski> nods
<Mean-Machine> ebel, wanna wrap it up or is there anything else?
<czajkowski> so who's gonna come to geeknic??
<Shane_Fagan> Cant
<ebel> yeah anything else?
<ebel> If not, that's the end of the meeting
<Shane_Fagan> seconded
<Mean-Machine> czajkowski, I hope I can. need to check
<theirishpenguin> czajkowski: will try to make the geeknic! Think I can.
<Mean-Machine> Ubuntu-ie IRC meeting finito
</pre>

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
