{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Ubuntu Ireland LoCo Team Wiki page. We will give you an idea of how we operate, make decisions, organise and contact information. Check http://www.ubuntu-ie.org from time to time for the latest news.

This group is for anyone in Ireland who is interested in or uses <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.edubuntu.org|Edubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.com|Kubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.xubuntu.com|Xubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/gobuntu/releases/|Gobuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntustudio.org|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/jeos/releases/|Ubuntu JeOS]]</nowiki> or any other derivatives that may happen in the future. It is open to all types of people whether you are a novice or an expert. We encourage everyone to help out in any way they can by spreading the word and helping others.

Ubuntu Ireland does not have a 'council' like other LoCo groups do in various countries. We prefer to have an admin team that is responsible for the daily routines/duties such as translations, artwork or creating flyers, website or wiki administration or just simply spreading the word. This can be done by anybody and if you've contributed a lot of your time and shown that you are here to help the Irish community you can become part of the core team.

We hope that people will contribute to such projects as <nowiki>[[http://www.camara.ie|Camara]]</nowiki> - building up old PC's with Edubuntu and shipping them over to Africa.

=== Our Initiatives ===

*** Install parties - helping procure CDs.
*** Web Presence - Setting up of a dedicated Website with Forums and How-To info
*** To raise awareness through advertising campaigns such as flyers, verbally and through the web.
*** To support Irish additions to Ubuntu code
*** Support and encourage translation into Gaeilge (Irish) : https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-ie
*** Get support from GNU/Linux sites such as Linux.ie 

=== Monthly Team Reports ===
These <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki> will give you a monthly overview of what we have been working on.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
