{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Ireland IRC meeting will be held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 15th September 2010, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode. Everyone is welcome to attend and to add topics to the agenda (below)

=== Attendance ===

1. tdr112
2. airurando
3. lau1
4. scivi
5. nryan
6. imgarysmith
7. andru183
8. dermot
9. czajkowski

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Review of previous action items
| Standing agenda item
|-
| Should we centralise the storage of our event photos?
| airurando
|-
| Tidy up details for the Maverick Meerkat Release Party
| airurando
|}

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
14:20:05 	Topic: Review of previous action items
14:26:01 	Topic: Should we centralise the storage of our event photos?
14:45:29 	ACTION 	airurando 	airurando to seek input from mailing list on ideas relating to a centralised online presence for LoCo event photos.
14:48:40 	Topic: Tidy up details for the Maverick Meerkat Release Party
15:11:33 	ACTION 	airurando 	tdr112 to email the ubuntu-ie mailing list re pub quiz prizes for the 10.10 release party.
15:14:30 	ACTION 	airurando 	tdr112 and airurando to come up with about 20 questions for the release party pub quiz
15:16:03 	Topic: ossbarcamp
15:29:24 	Topic: Date for next meeting
</pre>

=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| ossbarcamp
| tdr112
|-
| Date for next meeting
| airurando
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-ie
[14:17:22] <tdr112> good stuff airurando
[14:17:31] <airurando> If you are here for the monthly meeting please say 
PRESENT

[14:17:40] <lau1> present
[14:17:42] <airurando> PRESENT
[14:17:45] <tdr112> PRESENT
[14:17:46] <scivi> present
[14:17:46] <nryan> PRESENT
[14:18:12] <imgarysmith> present
[14:18:20] <airurando> The wiki page for this meeting is located here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-09-15
[14:18:31] <airurando> Welcome all
[14:19:46] <airurando> I think we've waited long enough so we'll kick off with the first agenda item
[14:20:05] <airurando> [TOPIC] Review of previous action items
[14:20:25] <airurando> During the August meeting there were two tasks actioned.
[14:20:58] <airurando> firstly, ebel was to give shauno access to blacknight account
[14:21:24] <airurando> and secondly, shauno was to update the website
[14:22:28] <airurando> I know both ebel and shauno couldn't be here tonight so I think we should carry both actions over to next months meeting.
[14:22:37] <airurando> any objections?
[14:23:07] <tdr112> shano has been working onthe website so he must have access
[14:23:43] <airurando> great stuff, didn't know that.
[14:24:32] <tdr112> let wait for an update from him at the next meeting
[14:24:51] <airurando> I know shauno is planning on sending out an e-mail update so perhaps we could leave it at that for the moment?
[14:25:02] <tdr112> yep
[14:25:31] <airurando> moving on so to the next topic
[14:26:01] <airurando> [TOPIC] Should we centralise the storage of our event photos?
[14:26:02] <lau1> ok
[14:26:22] <airurando> I raised this item myself.
[14:26:39] <airurando> During Global Jam while working on the wiki I noticed that write ups of events and associated photos were being maintained, not entirely, but almost exclusively by czajkowski.
[14:26:46] <tdr112> It would be nice to have them in one place
[14:27:13] <airurando> Of course, tdr112 also does an excellent job on the monthly team reports and others do write ups as well.
[14:27:15] <imgarysmith> I agree, its handy for everybody to know where to upload to and where to find them
[14:27:40] <tdr112> could we get this on the new site
[14:27:54] <tdr112> a gallery
[14:28:19] <airurando> tdr112: that woud be great if possible.
[14:28:51] <airurando> are there other options is case?
[14:28:52] <lau1> I guess we'd need the maintener to agree or not
[14:29:47] <airurando> maybe defer further discussion on this item until the next meeting.
[14:29:50] <tdr112> we could use pix.ie or some other 3rd party site ,
[14:29:53] <lau1> free picasa (there is a way to allow people to add to an album (not sure it is free enough)
[14:30:10] <tdr112> but i would like to keep them in house if we can
[14:30:36] <airurando> if pix.ie allow for group accounts that would be an option.
[14:30:40] <lau1> would be best solution
[14:30:43] <scivi> how about a torrnt if this is just for storage
[14:30:43] <airurando> or flickr?
[14:31:29] <airurando> scivi: could you explain further please?
[14:32:22] <scivi> just upload in a torrent and we all maintain a coppy
[14:32:47] <airurando> ultimately I'd hope we could get somewhere online that would be easy to upload to for all in the ubuntu ireland LoCo.
[14:33:17] <airurando> thoughts on scivis suggestion?
[14:33:35] <airurando> I have no knowledge about torrents.
[14:33:51] <airurando> would it be simple?
[14:34:28] <scivi> erm im looking at that now it would sorta be easy to upload and download needs a tracker on a server tho
[14:34:29] <lau1> not really usefull when you need to add to it however
[14:34:58] <airurando> OK its an idea though.
[14:35:00] <andru183> sorry I'm late guys, forgot about it, i see ye need help with a torrent, Ive done some before
[14:35:07] <scivi> meh transmission makes the torrent u just need to load the actual torrent file
[14:35:48] <lau1> problem is with different people taking pictures you need a central point to merge this first
[14:36:24] <lau1> and then not practical to link a photo onto a blog
[14:36:31] <lau1> for exemple
[14:37:01] <scivi> true cant just link pics
[14:37:07] <scivi> sorry bad idea
[14:37:11] <tdr112> can some one look at way we can do this and report back for next month
[14:37:33] <airurando> any takers?
[14:38:15] <airurando> Is there a general consensus that this is a good idea?
[14:38:22] <imgarysmith> would a service like flickr/picasa not be better than a torrent
[14:38:39] <lau1> it would if we cannot host it
[14:39:08] <airurando> I agree if our own website can facilitate this that would be best.
[14:39:48] <imgarysmith> ye i get understand
[14:39:56] <imgarysmith> * ye i understand
[14:40:23] <scivi> can the forums be used
[14:40:34] <airurando> will I hit the mailing list for input and action this item for next months meeting?
[14:40:42] <scivi> for atleast the important pics rather than entire libs
[14:41:11] <lau1> airurando yes might be another option
[14:41:14] <airurando> shauno could provide input then and we may have a more defined path.
[14:41:32] <lau1> yes
[14:41:38] <airurando> in fact, all could think on it.
[14:43:18] <airurando> scivi, imgarysmith, tdr112, lau1. would that be ok?
[14:43:32] <lau1> yes
[14:43:34] <tdr112> yes
[14:43:37] <imgarysmith> yeah
[14:43:52] <scivi> yes
[14:45:29] <airurando> [ACTION] airurando to seek input from mailing list on ideas relating to a centralised online presence for LoCo event photos.
[14:46:04] <airurando> interesting discussion and I'm glad people think the idea is a good one.
[14:46:49] <airurando> unless anyone has more we will move on to the next agenda item.
[14:47:49] <airurando> OK so, next agenda item.
[14:48:40] <airurando> [TOPIC] Tidy up details for the Maverick Meerkat Release Party
[14:49:13] <airurando> again, I set this agenda item.
[14:49:25] <tdr112> what aqre the details
[14:49:42] <scivi> afk 4 mins
[14:49:56] <airurando> wait for it....
[14:50:08] <airurando> The release party has been organised for 10-10-10. Starting with food at Jimmy Chungs
[14:50:08] <airurando> at 13:30.
[14:50:18] <airurando> We will then move to the Market Bar at 15:30 ish.
[14:50:28] <airurando> I've provisionally booked both venues for 20 people approx.
[14:50:42] <airurando> Manager in the Market Bar only got back to me yesterday evening and I had to take the call in the car. Tried to push the official set menu party offer on me. I made it clear we were just looking for a small area to gather and avail of WiFi and bar. She did confirm Wifi availability and said that a couple of tables could be set aside for the group. It is worth noting that the market bar does not open untl 15:00
[14:50:43] <airurando> on a Sunday. I need to ring both Jimmy Chungs and The Market Bar again a few days before the 10th to confirm and firm up details as much as possible.
[14:51:15] <airurando> we are to have a pub quiz in the market bar.
[14:51:36] <airurando> How will we organise this
[14:52:09] <airurando> I volunteer to be the quiz master :-)
[14:52:39] <dermot> quit
[14:52:48] <airurando> Geeky questions I presume?
[14:53:05] <airurando> team based or individual participation?
[14:53:33] <scivi> bac
[14:53:54] <tdr112> ah let leave it open until we see the numbers
[14:54:22] <airurando> tdr112; what about the q's though?
[14:54:41] <tdr112> let that needs to be done before
[14:54:44] <tdr112> yep
[14:55:49] <airurando> tdr11: any ideas?
[14:56:08] <tdr112> of questions
[14:56:26] <tdr112> how about myself and airurando come up with about 20 questions
[14:56:44] <tdr112> and see if anyone will donate prives
[14:56:54] <tdr112> prizes
[14:57:28] <scivi> what sort of prizes soldering irons or something less geeky
[14:58:14] <scivi> or maybe a knitted mark shuttleworth
[14:58:17] <tdr112> scivi: whatever people are will to give away
[14:58:20] <lau1> I have a bunch of capacitors ;)
[14:58:35] <imgarysmith> i think a mix of both if possible, its an event for geeks and their familys and friends (non-geeks)
[14:58:48] <nryan> has some ram I could give away
[14:59:47] <lau1> I could bring a decent bottle of red I am in france next week
[15:00:00] <tdr112> lau1: sounds good
[15:00:08] <scivi> well im away in england on the release so is there a burser stuff could be sent 2
[15:00:23] <lau1> I knew alcohol would be popular ;)
[15:00:35] <airurando> tdr112: I agree with you and me setting the questions.
[15:01:02] <imgarysmith> will the discs be available on the release date?
[15:01:10] <airurando> lau1 to you red I'll bring a bottle of white (australian)
[15:01:12] <airurando> :)
[15:01:24] <airurando> imgarysmith unfortunately not
[15:01:31] <tdr112> ok we will do up the questions , and do a call out on the mailing list for prizes
[15:01:47] <airurando> usually arrive a forthnight or so after release.
[15:01:54] <tdr112> imgarysmith: it takes a few weeks for them to post them out
[15:01:56] <imgarysmith> oh okay. i was going to suggest that they can be given as part of the prizes
[15:02:14] <scivi> how about we just burn cds ourselfs
[15:02:19] <tdr112> so who can bring a laptop to burn cds on the day
[15:02:33] <airurando> scivi depends on release time
[15:02:45] <scivi> true
[15:02:56] <lau1> yep if release is late we won't get the iso
[15:03:55] <airurando> tdr112: I can bring mine but there may be an issue with burning
[15:04:12] <tdr112> i dont have a cd drive on mine :)
[15:04:28] <airurando> had trouble burning 10.04 cds so always reverted to desktop.
[15:04:50] <tdr112> can anyone else bring theres
[15:04:51] <airurando> be nice to have a backup plan to my laptop
[15:04:54] <airurando> :)
[15:05:06] <imgarysmith> a burned disc isnt the same novelty as the branded disc. discs and space can be saved by copying the ISO to peoples thumb drives
[15:05:12] <lau1> sorry don't own one
[15:05:43] <tdr112> imgarysmith: for new ubuntu users on the day it would be nice to give them a cd
[15:06:12] <imgarysmith> tdr112 didnt think of that, good idea
[15:06:18] <lau1> better go with 10.04 if there are any left
[15:06:46] <airurando> lau1: that is another issue.
[15:07:03] <lau1> none left ?
[15:07:05] <scivi> actually you could stil;l work in some novelty by putting a "dont panic the ultimate awnser" label on the cds
[15:07:23] <airurando> i think we could get more 10.04 from ship it if we would like
[15:07:38] <airurando> ebel might also have some left
[15:08:19] <tdr112> airurando: no point getting another ship it we have a hand full of cd around
[15:08:39] <airurando> tdr112: agreed
[15:08:50] <airurando> chat to ebel first
[15:09:02] <czajkowski> aloha
[15:09:09] <airurando> he'd have to get them anyway I reckon
[15:09:10] <tdr112> evening
[15:09:21] <imgarysmith> i agree, a lucid disc would be nice to give to new users
[15:09:33] <airurando> evening czajkowski
[15:10:02] <czajkowski> howdy
[15:10:25] <airurando> tdr112: can I action you for the email to the list re pub quiz prizes?
[15:10:32] <tdr112> yes
[15:10:38] <airurando> great
[15:11:33] <airurando> [ACTION] tdr112 to email the ubuntu-ie mailing list re pub quiz prizes for the 10.10 release party.
[15:11:49] <tdr112> good stuff
[15:12:01] <tdr112> all done for this topic ?
[15:12:49] <airurando> think so
[15:12:49] <imgarysmith> what about questions for the quiz?
[15:13:08] <airurando> I'll hit ebel on his return re discs
[15:13:32] <airurando> imgarysmith: tdr112 and I will deal with that :)
[15:13:47] <imgarysmith> okay great
[15:14:30] <airurando> [ACTION] tdr112 and airurando to come up with about 20 questions for the release party pub quiz
[15:14:51] <airurando> shall we move on?
[15:14:55] <tdr112> yep
[15:14:58] <lau1> yes
[15:15:08] <tdr112> next
[15:15:30] <airurando> OK so do we have any other items to discuss (AOB)?
[15:15:38] <tdr112> ossbarcamp
[15:15:48] <tdr112> cztab can you tell us about it
[15:16:03] <airurando> [TOPIC] ossbarcamp
[15:16:09] <czajkowski> aloha
[15:16:18] <czajkowski> so it's a 2 day event taking place on the 25/26th september
[15:16:22] <czajkowski> check out ossbarcamp.com
[15:16:37] <czajkowski> there are 2 slots atm free and I know someone has their eye on one of them
[15:16:43] <czajkowski> it's a free event open to everyone
[15:16:57] <czajkowski> there will be a live podcast recording from the Ubuntu uk podcast folks on the Saturday
[15:17:10] <czajkowski> at 7pm heading intotown for some free beers and food
[15:17:48] <tdr112> so do we ubuntu ie want to do some thing for it
[15:17:58] <czajkowski> well I'll need help on the day
[15:18:08] <airurando> czajkowski: I'm really looking forward to it
[15:18:15] <czajkowski> need help poking people in the rooms to stop talking on time for the next speaker to set up
[15:18:21] <czajkowski> I need volunteers in both rooms
[15:18:26] <czajkowski> I've ompaul running the demo room
[15:18:40] <czajkowski> the talks are being videod also
[15:19:09] <czajkowski> I'll need a few people early on the saturday about 9:15 to guide people
[15:19:20] <czajkowski> and greet people as I'll be actually a bit late collecting speakers from airport
[15:19:42] <czajkowski> anyone have any thoughts or comments on it ?
[15:19:48] <tdr112> czajkowski: i can help the first day not sure about the 2nd one
[15:19:53] <lau1> sorry not there then
[15:19:54] <czajkowski> *nods*
[15:20:02] <czajkowski> the 2nd one starts at 11 so wwe should be fine
[15:20:03] <airurando> I'll try and be there czajkowski
[15:20:07] <czajkowski> and people will know the drill by then
[15:20:59] <airurando> need to know what to do first though as I've never been to UCD
[15:22:24] <czajkowski> well I went this week
[15:22:29] <czajkowski> we have the information on the wiki
[15:22:34] <czajkowski> I will update it woth more directions
[15:22:43] <czajkowski> but basically I'll have the tiemtable done up
[15:22:55] <czajkowski> and we'll just need to point people to the right rooms
[15:23:29] <airurando> I'll help with that
[15:24:34] <czajkowski> great
[15:24:36] <czajkowski> thats's really it tbh
[15:24:44] <czajkowski> and getting people to start and stop on time
[15:24:47] <czajkowski> thats; the key to the day tbh
[15:24:51] <czajkowski> so things run smmoothly
[15:25:07] <czajkowski> also there is twitter/identi.ca ac for ossbarcamp
[15:25:14] <czajkowski> as I end up running around like a headless chicken
[15:25:27] <czajkowski> it would be great if someone would take on the task of tweeting from that ac for the day ?
[15:25:31] <czajkowski> doesnt have to be sorted now
[15:25:34] <czajkowski> but just to know
[15:25:49] <scivi> just set a comp to play the mad hatter screaming change places at the correct time and sceduling will be sorted
[15:26:08] <czajkowski> hehe
[15:26:09] <czajkowski> nice idea
[15:27:35] <czajkowski> anything else?
[15:27:45] <czajkowski> the main thing is just to have fun on the day
[15:27:55] <airurando> *action* scivi to source and wear mad hatter outfit on 25/26 Sep
[15:27:58] <airurando> hehe
[15:28:17] <scivi> omg that was my first idea
[15:28:28] <airurando> great stuff
[15:28:30] <scivi> ill think about it
[15:28:35] <tdr112> this can be talked about outside the meeting
[15:28:38] <czajkowski> aye
[15:28:42] <tdr112> anything else
[15:28:47] <airurando> scivi only messing action not recorded
[15:29:04] <scivi> i know still...
[15:29:04] <airurando> just to confirm next meeting
[15:29:24] <airurando> [TOPIC] Date for next meeting
[15:29:35] <airurando> The third Wednesday in October will fall on 20th of the month.
[15:29:46] <airurando> Any objections to that being the date for the next meeting?
[15:29:57] <czajkowski> nope
[15:30:21] <imgarysmith> no, that sounds grand
[15:30:23] <scivi> no
[15:30:50] <lau1> fine
[15:31:00] <airurando> OK I'll make it so.
[15:31:15] <airurando> no need to action this
[15:31:27] <airurando> Is that it so?
[15:31:33] <airurando> anything else?
[15:31:55] <tdr112> nope
[15:32:38] <tdr112> have to head bye
[15:32:46] <airurando> thanks all for attending and participating.
[15:32:59] <airurando> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
