{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Ireland IRC meeting will be held at 9pm Irish time on Wednesday 12th August 2009, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode. Everyone is welcome to attend or add items to the agenda (below) for discussion by the ubuntu ireland community.
The MootBot logs are here http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-ie.log.20090812_1500.html and the minutes are http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-ie.20090812_1500.html

=== Attendance ===

* czajkowski
* Leftmost
* Slashtom
* Mean-Machine
* jpich
* daxroc 
* daithif
* tdr112 
* davisc

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Software Freedom Day
| czajkowski
|-
| Translations Upstream
| Leftmost/czajkowski
|-
| Updates from last meeting
| czajkowski
|-
| Pre Global Jam
| czajkowski
|-
| IrishTeam/ReportingPage
| czajkowski
|-
| Website update ideas
| daxroc
|}

=== Minutes ===

=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-ie
[15:00:23] <czajkowski> can all those present please say PRESENT
[15:00:26] <czajkowski> PRESENT
[15:00:33] <Leftmost> PRESENT
[15:00:33] <slashtom> PRESENT
[15:00:36] <Mean-Machine> PREASENT
[15:00:52] <jpich> PRESENT
[15:01:06] <Mean-Machine> PRESENT *
[15:01:09] <daxroc> PRESENT :P
[15:01:17] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2009-08-12
[15:01:26] <czajkowski> the above link is the agenda for this evenings meeting
[15:01:41] <daithif> PRESENT
[15:01:42] <tdr112> PRESENT
[15:01:55] <czajkowski> [topic] Software freedom Day
[15:02:01] <czajkowski> [link] http://softwarefreedomday.org/
[15:02:27] <czajkowski> right so last year we ran a fantastic day out in the digital hub and we had many different groups taking part
[15:02:39] <czajkowski> this year it's on ossbarcamp day and I had intended to celebrate it that day also
[15:02:50] <czajkowski> as many other LoCos are around the world doing the same
[15:03:00] <czajkowski> anyone any ideas or thoughts /
[15:03:37] <czajkowski> would folks like to do a seperate event/date for SFD ?
[15:03:45] <Mean-Machine> I slept on it and I think we should probably go for it, but I don't know how would it fit in
[15:03:54] <slashtom> raise a glass to freedom after ossbarcamp?
[15:03:59] <tdr112> i dont think another event on the same day will work
[15:04:10] <czajkowski> [idea] a lighting talk during ossbarcamp
[15:04:30] <czajkowski> [idea] hand out flyers and have the palce decorated for SFD like last year
[15:04:39] <czajkowski> [idea] raise a toast for sfd
[15:04:54] <czajkowski> what do folks think about that ?
[15:04:59] <tdr112> a talk is a good idea
[15:05:12] <tdr112> cztab would you do one ?
[15:05:14] <czajkowski> *nods*
[15:05:19] <czajkowski> tdr112: I am doing one :)
[15:05:22] <slashtom> a talk after ossbarcamp or at ossbarcamp?
[15:05:28] <czajkowski> I'm also gonna run around the palce liek a headless chicken
[15:05:35] <Mean-Machine> slashtom: at ossbarcamp
[15:05:38] <tdr112> after wont work
[15:05:42] <czajkowski> slashtom: during, I've 5 slots available for lighnting talks
[15:06:03] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: would you do it on sfd ?
[15:06:25] <Mean-Machine> errrm....
[15:06:28] <Mean-Machine> dunno
[15:06:28] <slashtom> ossbarcamp is itself surely enough for software freedom day
[15:07:02] <czajkowski> slashtom: I thought so also, but perhaps a short 10 min talk on sfd and the fact it's international etc all other groups doing the one thing on the one day, kinda cool
[15:07:07] <Mean-Machine> slashtom: yes, but it would be nice to tell ppl that there is such a thing as a software vreedom day
[15:07:51] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: is that a yes so..
[15:07:59] <Mean-Machine> get cheap champagne and raise a toast a 10 min long toast :P
[15:08:09] <slashtom> incorporate something into the opening talk?
[15:08:52] <Mean-Machine> czajkowski: I didn't confirm anything yet
[15:09:32] * Mean-Machine will be at the ubuntu-ie stand
[15:09:46] <czajkowski> [vote] a talk about sfd to talk place @ ossbarcamp, speaker to be decided upon
[15:10:22] <tdr112> +1
[15:10:29] <Mean-Machine> +1
[15:10:48] <daxroc> +1
[15:11:40] <czajkowski> #vote
[15:12:46] <czajkowski> not sure how to end the vote
[15:13:09] <czajkowski> next topic
[15:13:21] <czajkowski> [topic] Up stream translations
[15:13:30] <czajkowski> [link] https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+lang/ga
[15:13:36] <czajkowski> Leftmost: yer up
[15:13:44] <Leftmost> Hurrah.
[15:13:54] <Mean-Machine> [ENDVOTE]
[15:14:12] <czajkowski> tis fine
[15:14:13] <Leftmost> Well, to introduce myself, I'm the upstream coordinator for GNOME in Irish.
[15:14:24] <czajkowski> #endvote
[15:14:46] <Leftmost> I've been pushing to get GNOME 2.28 to a more usable state and, in doing so, looking at the state of the translation in Ubuntu.
[15:15:30] <Leftmost> It seems at least some work is taking place in Launchpad. Essentially what I'm looking to do is encourage people to start submitting this work upstream.
[15:16:09] <Leftmost> The process is slightly more complex but has a few advantages. First, new translations can undergo review to make sure they're correct.
[15:16:20] <Leftmost> Second, people using any distribution can benefit from the work.
[15:16:24] <czajkowski> Leftmost: ok, but launchpad is rather user friendly... which is why I assume it's happening there.
[15:17:00] <Leftmost> czajkowski, it is. There are good translation applications out there, though, meaning the process isn't all that much harder.
[15:17:11] <Mean-Machine> rosetta is great and easy for new ppl to get involved
[15:17:29] <czajkowski> Leftmost: ok, what would you liek the ubuntu-ie community to help with, or what can you suggest we do
[15:18:29] <Leftmost> Well, one way to continue using Launchpad is to do some work and, when you're finished, export it as a PO file. This can then be submitted upstream.
[15:19:01] <Leftmost> It requires filing a bug in Bugzilla, but I don't think it's a lot of additional work and would allow more people to benefit from the work.
[15:19:14] <czajkowski> *nods*
[15:19:26] <lau1> gnome team http://l10n.gnome.org/teams/ga is very thin indeed
[15:19:46] <czajkowski> [idea] continue using Launchpad is to do some work and, when you're finished, export it as a PO file. This can then be submitted upstream It requires filing a bug in Bugzilla, but I don't think it's a lot of additional work and would allow more people to benefit from the work
[15:19:50] <daithif> Leftmost: i believe its now possible to checkout the latest version of .po files from launchpad. couldn't we do something semi-automatic to push those upstream to gnome on a regular basis?
[15:20:40] <Leftmost> Quite possibly.
[15:21:11] <czajkowski> [idea] run a small irc workshop to show people how to do this, from basic to pushing upstream ?
[15:21:21] <czajkowski> Leftmost: what would you think of that
[15:21:39] <czajkowski> that way new people could leanr about translations and also what you have in mind for upstream
[15:21:56] <czajkowski> if people are shown once, or explained then others will try it also
[15:22:30] <Mean-Machine> Leftmost: possibly a session together with shane_fagan?
[15:22:32] <Leftmost> That's a good idea. What would be ideal to me is to slowly get people to work directly with upstream files. That way, they're working with more up-to-date strings and also avoiding some particular bugs/features of Launchpad.
[15:22:53] <lau1> czajkowski If you want I can talk a bit from the translation point of view can't help with gaelic
[15:23:04] <czajkowski> lau1: that would be helpful
[15:23:21] <czajkowski> [idea] Some evening/date for a mini workshop on translations
[15:23:33] <czajkowski> what would folks think about that
[15:24:04] <lau1> happy to help out as long as you dan't ask me to talk in gaelic ;)
[15:24:12] <Mean-Machine> I'd show up. Interesting stuff
[15:24:27] <Leftmost> I'd gladly describe some good practices and procedures.
[15:25:15] <Leftmost> There are also a couple other issues. One major thing is setting up a glossary so that we can work with standard terminology. I'm in contact with the Mozilla and KDE teams to try to keep terminology consistent between projects, but a lot of older GNOME translations and more recent Launchpad translations are using different terminology.
[15:25:28] <czajkowski> ok so what we'd need is Leftmost online and shane_fagan at the same time
[15:25:36] <czajkowski> but shane has intermittent web atm
[15:25:41] <czajkowski> Leftmost: when suits you
[15:25:43] <czajkowski> evenings?
[15:25:46] <czajkowski> weekends?
[15:25:58] <czajkowski> weekends mean all day option more hours
[15:26:14] <Leftmost> Evening times would probably be best. Those tend to be late morning/early afternoon for me.
[15:26:30] <czajkowski> so a 8pm slot would be good ?
[15:26:37] <Leftmost> Works for me.
[15:26:52] <czajkowski> would wednesday next week be good for folks ?
[15:27:01] <Mean-Machine> I know the sooner we start talking/working on translations the better, but more important is a well prepared session. so I'd say take time, talk to each other and let the rest kmow
[15:27:25] <Leftmost> I can email Shane and try to work with him to come up with something
[15:27:31] <Mean-Machine> the hosts have to be present :P
[15:27:36] <czajkowski> pencicl in say wed 26th
[15:28:13] <Leftmost> Okay. That'll give us about a month before the 2.28 release, during string freeze. Prime translating time.
[15:28:30] <czajkowski> [action] Leftmost to talk to shane and then pencil in a date for a workshop on translations
[15:29:05] <czajkowski> anything else before next topic on translations
[15:29:21] <Mean-Machine> dont forget lau1 who offered to help as well
[15:29:23] <lau1> czajkowski ping me there if you want laurentc at iol dot ie
[15:29:44] <czajkowski> lau1: excelletnt
[15:29:56] <czajkowski> Leftmost: can you add lau1 to that mail please also
[15:30:01] <Leftmost> Yep.
[15:30:07] <czajkowski> [topic] Updates from last meeting
[15:30:21] <czajkowski> [link]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2009-07-15
[15:30:37] <Mean-Machine> PVC banner 8ft x 2ft ?40.00 http://short.ie/3tcvoz :D
[15:30:44] <czajkowski> so on that we covered a lot, and one thing was the website which daxroc is gonna talk about, later on
[15:30:45] <Mean-Machine> best deal I could find
[15:30:47] <czajkowski> next is the banner
[15:31:12] <czajkowski> [link] http://short.ie/3tcvoz
[15:31:14] <lau1> note i am part off french gnome translation team ... and localisation engineer by trade... (not much of one i know ;) )
[15:31:34] <czajkowski> [link] http://www.flickr.com/photos/joshuachase/2516162368/
[15:31:46] <czajkowski> is the idea behind what we want our banner to look like
[15:31:55] <czajkowski> so Mean-Machine has found an excellent deal
[15:32:25] <czajkowski> fokls in favour of getting an Ubuntu-ie LoCo banner
[15:32:34] <Mean-Machine> personaly I like this kind of a look -> http://www.flickr.com/photos/joshuachase/2515338497/in/set-72157605211139275/
[15:32:36] <czajkowski> we can then brring it places so people can see us
[15:32:50] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: please use [link] so it gets recorded
[15:33:10] <Mean-Machine> [link] http://www.flickr.com/photos/joshuachase/2515338497/in/set-72157605211139275/
[15:33:58] <czajkowski> nice
[15:34:11] <Mean-Machine> geeknics, ossbarcamp, stand/booths at conferences etc.
[15:34:21] <daxroc> I have tweeked the irish-ubuntu logo a little still needs a little work.
[15:34:27] <daxroc> [link] http://dl.getdropbox.com/u/816719/logo-test.jpg
[15:34:43] <Mean-Machine> even the ILUG's POTD ;-]
[15:34:50] <czajkowski> oh I like the logo
[15:34:52] <czajkowski> very nice
[15:35:36] <czajkowski> I'm up for chipping in definately, designing I'm gonna be useless at
[15:36:10] <daxroc> I can do up a few mock up's if ye like ?
[15:36:23] <Mean-Machine> check out the whole artwork thread on ubuntu-ie forums
[15:36:28] <czajkowski> that would be helpful
[15:36:31] <Mean-Machine> [link] http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=480632
[15:36:51] <czajkowski> [action] daxroc to do up a few mocs for the Ubuntu-ie Banner
[15:37:13] * Mean-Machine will give it a go as well
[15:37:24] <Mean-Machine> needs to be .svg tho ;-]
[15:37:27] <czajkowski> [action] Mean-Machine will also do up some mocs
[15:37:50] <czajkowski> ok do we need a deadline for this in order to have it for ossbarcamp/sfd next geeknic :)
[15:37:54] <daxroc> No prob , inkscape is free :P
[15:38:10] <Mean-Machine> freedom for everyone!
[15:38:15] <czajkowski> heh
[15:38:17] <czajkowski> so true
[15:38:32] <czajkowski> ok anything else bar the website from last meeting folks want to talk about ?
[15:39:00] * Mean-Machine needs to dissapear soon, so will stay quiet
[15:39:07] <czajkowski> ok
[15:39:10] <czajkowski> nex topic so
[15:39:14] <czajkowski> [topic ] Pre Global Jam
[15:39:23] <czajkowski> [topic] Pre Global Jam
[15:39:41] <czajkowski> I had an idea the other night about us having online fortnightly mini jams
[15:39:50] <czajkowski> to get people bug triabging in one go
[15:40:05] <czajkowski> meeting up with net access seems to be rather difficulet so about about trying to do it online ?
[15:40:27] <Mean-Machine> oh, just one thing.... Next Ubuntu Hug Day! - Thursday 13 August 2009
[15:40:35] <Mean-Machine> [link] http://blog.qa.ubuntu.com/node/61
[15:40:54] <Mean-Machine> which is tomorrow :P
[15:41:00] <czajkowski> so what would folks think about meeting online for an hr some evening to work on bugs
[15:41:03] <czajkowski> as a group
[15:41:12] <Mean-Machine> +1
[15:41:50] <czajkowski> what are folks doing next tuesday evening @ 8 I know tog is monday/wednesday
[15:41:53] <czajkowski> tdr112: ?
[15:41:55] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: ?
[15:42:03] <daxroc> Might be able to make use of eyeos.info ( for colab features , im chat etc ?)
[15:42:30] <czajkowski> would be just to get folks working and if stuck on a bug we can copy in the link in here and work on it as a team effort
[15:42:38] * Mean-Machine is back from the festival on monday but will not function till thursday
[15:42:50] <czajkowski> heh
[15:43:04] <czajkowski> so when would suit folks ........
[15:44:47] <czajkowski> anyone..
[15:44:55] <czajkowski> maybe take it to the mailing list?
[15:45:01] <Mean-Machine> next thursday, tuesday week?
[15:45:20] <czajkowski> I'm good for either
[15:45:44] <Mean-Machine> mailing list is good. we need more traffic anyways ;-]
[15:45:52] <czajkowski> [action] Mean-Machine to mail list with the date of a practice jam online
[15:45:59] <czajkowski> next topic
[15:46:14] <czajkowski> [topic] IrishTeam/ReportingPage
[15:46:24] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/ReportingPage
[15:46:47] <czajkowski> so it seems our May one waht ever way it was done the last time is not showing and not sure a June was done
[15:46:55] <Mean-Machine> I used to do the reports manualy, then they changed the process. apparentli it's easier now ;-]
[15:46:56] <czajkowski> but we also need a July report
[15:47:37] <tdr112> sorry czajkowski Tuesday is good
[15:47:38] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TeamReports/May2009
[15:47:48] <czajkowski> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TeamReports/June2009
[15:47:53] <czajkowski> so we did one for June
[15:47:58] <czajkowski> July NEEDS to be done
[15:48:02] <czajkowski> who'd like to do one
[15:48:22] <Mean-Machine> someone should take ownership of the reports
[15:48:30] <Mean-Machine> it's only once a month
[15:48:32] <czajkowski> very true
[15:48:42] <czajkowski> or one person a month
[15:48:54] <czajkowski> either way needs to be done and doesnt take very long to do ....
[15:48:55] <Mean-Machine> could get messy
[15:49:04] * czajkowski looks at tdr112
[15:49:16] <Mean-Machine> is he still here?
[15:49:20] <Mean-Machine> roflol
[15:49:30] <Mean-Machine> lurking probably
[15:49:34] <tdr112> i am back and i could do it but it would be next week
[15:49:46] <tdr112> after tuesday
[15:49:55] <tdr112> if thats ok
[15:50:27] <Mean-Machine> tdr112: cool, would you like to take ownership of the monthly reports then?
[15:50:39] <tdr112> sure
[15:50:47] <Mean-Machine> there is deadlines
[15:50:54] <Mean-Machine> that's great
[15:51:16] <Mean-Machine> thanks tdr112
[15:52:07] <Mean-Machine> czajkowski: for the MootBot record?
[15:52:07] <czajkowski> [action] tdr112 to take ownership of monthly reports
[15:52:14] <czajkowski> sorry net went
[15:52:18] <Mean-Machine> lovely
[15:52:19] <czajkowski> last topic
[15:52:25] <czajkowski> [topic] Website
[15:52:41] <czajkowski> [lin]k ubuntu-ie.org
[15:52:44] <czajkowski> daxroc: you're up
[15:53:43] <daxroc> If ye have any ideas or features for the website say them now or email them to me.
[15:54:03] <czajkowski> gallery
[15:54:05] <czajkowski> irc
[15:54:06] <czajkowski> :)
[15:54:12] <czajkowski> make it pretty
[15:54:13] <Mean-Machine> I think a contact form might b handy
[15:54:17] <czajkowski> yes
[15:54:20] <czajkowski> great idea
[15:55:26] <czajkowski> daxroc: when can we expect to see some changes
[15:55:28] <davisc> An effective anti-spam I've used for forms is hide a form with CSS and then ignore the message if that field is changed
[15:55:39] <czajkowski> oh ahndy
[15:55:45] <czajkowski> as we get cripped with shagging spam on that site
[15:56:12] <davisc> I've used it on 2 sites with 100% sucess and 0 false positives
[15:56:25] <daxroc> I will make a dev server public and let ye know the address.
[15:56:30] <davisc> (Though I am Nazi-esque and blacklist the posting IP)
[15:56:30] <czajkowski> good to know
[15:56:59] <czajkowski> anything else anyone
[15:57:01] <czajkowski> re website
[15:57:04] <czajkowski> or meeting ?
[15:57:11] <daxroc> As for public changes , we will need to migrate to a server where we can manage our own software
[15:57:47] <czajkowski> daxroc: that's where the hosting kicks in right?
[15:57:48] <Mean-Machine> as for the website, maybe we should start thinking about irish theme
[15:58:03] <Mean-Machine> irish theme as in original loco website
[15:58:03] <daxroc> We have two options here , czajkowski offered to host it via skynet or we could ask heanet ( nicely )
[15:58:14] <Mean-Machine> so ppl know its irish community
[15:58:36] <czajkowski> are you suggesting green white and gold all over it mister :p
[15:58:50] <Mean-Machine> czajkowski: no, not that extreme
[15:59:01] <czajkowski> thank flip
[15:59:03] <Mean-Machine> cliffs of moher more like :P
[15:59:27] <tdr112> are we going to move things into one place
[15:59:37] <czajkowski> plain and simple wiht some colour is all that is needed to make that site more user firnedly and less painful on the eyes
[15:59:40] <czajkowski> tdr112: aye
[15:59:45] <tdr112> we have the main site then we have the wiki its all over the place
[15:59:52] <czajkowski> davisc: site in questions is our .org site
[15:59:57] <daxroc> tdr112: We should.
[16:00:12] <czajkowski> does the wiki not stay on ubuntu.com
[16:00:22] <czajkowski> as thats where all the other billions of wiki pages are
[16:00:24] <Mean-Machine> czajkowski: it should
[16:00:33] <czajkowski> aye thats what I thouyght
[16:00:33] <davisc> czajkowski: Fair enough
[16:00:36] <czajkowski> so just the .org
[16:00:40] <Mean-Machine> i dont see the point of moving the wiki
[16:00:46] <daxroc> yes I think it should.
[16:00:56] <czajkowski> right so wiki staying put
[16:01:00] <daxroc> (stay on cannoical servers)
[16:01:00] <czajkowski> and .org moving
[16:01:20] <Mean-Machine> czajkowski: we need to keep the web adress tho
[16:01:30] <czajkowski> *nods*
[16:01:33] <czajkowski> it will be
[16:01:45] <Mean-Machine> that means talking to technical board I think
[16:01:47] <davisc> Do ye need e-mail for the .org as well?
[16:02:02] <czajkowski> dont think so
[16:02:06] <czajkowski> we have our mail man ac
[16:02:09] <daxroc> One of the biggest reasons to move the .org domain is that cannoical don't seem to update drupal too often and quite a few other locos have moved their websites off them because of it.
[16:02:41] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: going to the tb over this... not sure
[16:02:45] <czajkowski> I'll ask in -locoteams
[16:02:47] <Mean-Machine> davisc: once we're hosting it ourselves we could use google free service for up to 500 accounts I think
[16:02:50] <czajkowski> and feck the tb met yesterday
[16:02:56] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: aye
[16:03:07] * czajkowski does like her @ubuntu.com address though :)
[16:03:19] <davisc> Well, we can do forwards easily. Mailboxes would be more tricky
[16:03:44] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: meet davisc he used to be the vp of skynet :) you know where I log in from
[16:04:15] * davisc waves
[16:04:20] <czajkowski> so what I'm propis g is I can host it on my skynet ac as there is no issue and we can update drupal et al whenever we need to do so
[16:04:30] <czajkowski> *propose
[16:04:32] * tdr112 has to head will read the log
[16:04:36] <czajkowski> man eating and drinking and typiung is not good
[16:04:39] <Mean-Machine> davisc: why all that work tho. let's leave the adresses. only for webmasters etc. otherwise we have a problem of making rules and approving who gets an account etc :P
[16:04:40] <czajkowski> tdr112: toodles
[16:04:56] <Mean-Machine> davisc: o/ hello
[16:04:57] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: true so for time being lets get the site up
[16:05:05] <davisc> Mean-Machine: No skin off my nose either way. Was just wondering if you wanted it
[16:05:17] <czajkowski> right
[16:05:21] <czajkowski> [topic] AOB
[16:05:24] <czajkowski> anyone?
[16:05:26] <czajkowski> btw
[16:05:34] <czajkowski> we have 64 ppl coming to ossbarcamp
[16:05:40] <czajkowski> and the folks from the ubuntu uk podcast :)
[16:05:45] <Mean-Machine> yay
[16:05:45] <czajkowski> so some recordings shall be done
[16:05:52] * Mean-Machine is off now
[16:06:07] <czajkowski> if anyone has anything else to say shout now
[16:06:08] <davisc> czajkowski: I'm surprised you invited podcast people over :-)
[16:06:17] <Mean-Machine> for the record.... czajkowski: you iz good at chairing meetingz
[16:06:22] <czajkowski> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
