{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Ireland IRC meeting was held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 16th June 2010, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode.

=== Attendance ===

People Present:
ebel
tdr112_
slashtom
delcoyote
eze
airurando
moylan
kobrien
lubotu3

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Ubuntu-ie Website
| ebel
|-
| ''please add''
| ''please add''
|}

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
Meeting started by ebel at 14:09
14:10:57	Topic: ubuntu-ie website
14:30:14	AGREED	ebel	 kobrien's looking after our new website
14:30:27	ACTION	ebel	 ebel needs to poke blackknight again about website account
14:39:22	Topic: any other buisness ?
Meeting ended at 14:39. 
</pre>
=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-ie
[14:09:38] <ebel> Please say "Anseo" if you're here.
[14:09:51] <tdr112_> Anseo
[14:09:51] <slashtom> Anseo
[14:09:52] <delcoyote> Anseo
[14:09:52] <eze> Anseo
[14:09:52] <airurando> Anseo
[14:09:57] <moylan> anseo
[14:10:11] <kobrien> Anseo
[14:10:42] <ebel> anseo
[14:10:49] <ebel> (Thought I'd Irish it up a bit) :)
[14:10:57] <ebel> [topic] ubuntu-ie website
[14:11:05] <ebel> I added this to the agenda.
[14:11:08] * tdr112_ does not know what it means 
[14:11:18] <ebel> As you know blacknight have offered us some hosting
[14:11:27] <ebel> I've set up an account with them for us
[14:11:52] <ebel> Our current website is hosted on canonical's servers, and we have pretty much no control over what to install
[14:12:06] <ebel> So we're going to do our own site
[14:12:17] <ebel> I believe kobrien offered to be webmaster, right?
[14:12:38] <ebel> someone else aswell... ?
[14:13:02] <kobrien> i was made a webmaster of sorts for this site at a meeting 2 months ago. I'm not sure if I can now as I was told that everything I devel is property of IBM corp while I'm in their employment
[14:13:17] <kobrien> I don't know if this applies to web sites...but it's iffy
[14:13:25] <ebel> :/
[14:13:32] <ebel> Even in your free time?
[14:13:34] <delcoyote> I could be your padawan kobrien
[14:14:21] <ebel> That applies to nearly all companies BTW. Everything you do while on the clock / in the office / on company time / using company hardware is copyrighted by the company
[14:14:46] <tdr112_> kobrien: i`m sure you would be fine
[14:14:47] <kobrien> ebel: unsure. I'll need to check, but I'm well sure there are some restrictions on my free time too.
[14:15:07] <ebel> It is, however, highly unlikely that they are claiming copyright on things you do in your free time.
[14:15:39] <ebel> If you are unsure, you could always ask your boss? Get the green light (in writing) from them and you're in the clear.,
[14:15:59] <kobrien> I think the freetime thing may just be that I can't code stuff that could rival our products...I'll check tomorrow
[14:16:32] <kobrien> ebel: yeah, in writing, ok.
[14:17:09] <ebel> yes, it common to be exposed to trade secrets, client lists, etc., which limits what you can do in your free time
[14:17:54] <ebel> Written is the best, it's almost a contract, however, some might be skittish about that, so verbal could also work aswell.
[14:17:57] <kobrien> so I had planned on using codeigniter if we wanted something simple php/mysql, but drupal or whatever is fine. suggestions?
[14:18:32] <ebel> But, as tdr112_ said, I'm pretty damn confident that you would be fine.
[14:19:18] <kobrien> yeah
[14:19:20] <delcoyote> I need to ask something kind offtopic
[14:19:24] <kobrien> kk
[14:19:27] <kobrien> woops
[14:19:34] <tdr112_> kobrien: would you send a mail to the mail when you start as there might be people there that want to help that are not here now
[14:19:43] <ebel> yeah
[14:19:45] <tdr112_> *list
[14:19:49] <kobrien> deal
[14:20:16] <delcoyote> I need help to create a website too... hosting on my own... also need help to set it up... and this is the beginning of an opensorce project for... college.. thesis.. and maybe something else, its all food related... and educational...
[14:20:26] <kobrien> I have to point out that I could only work on this on weekends as I've very little freetime. I thought i'd more
[14:20:44] <ebel> kobrien: I think you have a broad canvas to do what you think is best
[14:20:47] <tdr112_> kobrien: thats fine ,
[14:20:53] <kobrien> ok, cool
[14:21:10] <ebel> kobrien: we're all busy, that's totally understandable!
[14:21:51] <kobrien> :) we need to get students...they don't do anything and have plenty of time. (final years excluded)
[14:22:07] <delcoyote> sounds like me....
[14:22:53] <slashtom> lets hope the students are better than the graduates i have seen
[14:22:59] <slashtom> ;)
[14:23:08] <ebel> Right well kobrien we have an account with Blacknight.ie
[14:23:46] <ebel> I've sent you the blacknight login details.
[14:24:00] <ebel> That's you, me, tdr112 and czajkowski that have those details.
[14:24:19] <ebel> I think I need to give blackknight another shout to get them to actually set it up
[14:24:37] <ebel> since if you log in there you'll see no websites
[14:24:44] <kobrien> kk
[14:25:00] <ebel> I'd suggest settting thinggs up there. Use /etc/hosts to access it / share it with us
[14:25:03] <delcoyote> I have hosting , set up...
[14:25:06] <kobrien> I'll send a mail to the list when I start and get people on board and such
[14:25:22] <kobrien> ebel: cool
[14:25:25] <ebel> when you're ready we can get the canonical lads to change the DNS for ubuntu-ie.org
[14:25:34] <tdr112_> any more about the website ?
[14:25:43] <ebel> delcoyote: oh, sorry for ignoring you, what;'s this hosting?
[14:25:43] <kobrien> nah
[14:25:52] <delcoyote> it is
[14:26:44] <delcoyote> but as you can guess , I'm a chef, I never been into IT so you can imagine what a big mess I have, I need help to get the DNS stuff into my head and into the machine itself... need kind of help... no rush... been waiting for 1-2 years
[14:27:11] <ebel> delcoyote: sure, we're all here to help
[14:27:14] <delcoyote> its up and running , have some blogs, website.. mail and a few other stuff, using....
[14:27:24] <delcoyote> ispconfig
[14:28:16] <delcoyote> I need to get into one of the meetings and tell you what is, and has to be done... (or you's tell me what to do)
[14:28:31] <slashtom> come to an Ubuntu Hour
[14:28:54] <tdr112_> yep it sound like a face to face thing
[14:29:10] <tdr112_> turn ssh on and come along to the ubuntu hour
[14:29:21] <delcoyote> I might move house soon, and the server is in my window... so if September gives me a key for a new door... I will happily share for free the hosting, and explain you all my project
[14:29:28] <slashtom> there are Ubuntu Hours happening in Dublin, Limerick, Cork and maybe even Galway
[14:29:45] <delcoyote> I will try (have to)
[14:29:54] <eze> How can I get details of the Cork Ubuntu hour - did I miss it on the website?
[14:30:00] <delcoyote> but 2 repeats in September have me... hanging..
[14:30:14] <ebel> [agreed] kobrien's looking after our new website
[14:30:27] <ebel> [action] ebel needs to poke blackknight again about website account
[14:30:35] <slashtom> eze: there were postings to the mailing list a few weeks ago
[14:30:53] <slashtom> send an email to the mailing list, and poke people down there
[14:30:54] <eze> I'm new and not on any mailing list
[14:31:00] <ebel> delcoyote: well feel free to ask anything here, on any day, it doesn't have to be during an IRC meeting
[14:31:08] <slashtom> eze: please sign up to the mailing list ;)
[14:31:09] <ebel> eze: hello! welcome!
[14:31:17] <eze> OK.
[14:31:39] <delcoyote> sure ebel.. I just have been offline for a while, been poisoned with windows7 making a totally move now to Ubuntu and linux
[14:31:46] <ebel> eze: our mailing list is here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ie
[14:31:57] <eze> Thanks
[14:32:09] <ebel> You can sign up there, view old messages, etc. It's pretty low traffic, don't worry, you'r inbox isn't going to be swamped
[14:32:21] <slashtom> eze: once signed up, i suggest you send an email asking about the Cork Ubuntu Hour
[14:32:27] <eze> OK I'll do that. Could I ask a question?
[14:32:38] <ebel> eze: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-ie/2010-May/000586.html someone else in cork
[14:32:47] <ebel> eze: of course ask away!
[14:32:53] <ebel> !ask > eze :)
[14:32:53] <lubotu3> eze, please see my private message
[14:32:59] <ebel> !ask
[14:32:59] <lubotu3> Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
[14:34:45] <eze> I'm a Ubuntu newbie. I installed Lucid desktop. I want to install LAMP on top of that. But the sudo...lamp-server instruction gives you PHP5.3. I use Blacknight too and the last time I checked they use Php5.2.9. How can I downgrade to 5.2.9?
[14:35:33] <slashtom> php 5.3 and 5.2.9 aren't that different
[14:35:46] <slashtom> if you're a newbie you will not notice the difference at all
[14:35:52] <eze> You will find that Joomla, for example, breaks on 5.3
[14:35:55] <ebel> eze: it *is* possible to install a different version. However it's not straight forward. I'm 99.999999% sure that there is no real difference between the two
[14:36:21] <kobrien> ebel: Joomla is soooo crackable.
[14:36:28] <kobrien> eh, I meant eze
[14:36:36] <eze> I wanted to have as similar an environment on production and testing platforms
[14:36:47] <ebel> Ah. OK, so there is a valid reason not to have php5,3
[14:36:54] <kobrien> eze: joomla is not very secure
[14:37:30] <ebel> kobrien: are there any better choices?
[14:37:37] <eze> I'm planning to "hand" code stuff using Codeignitier (and hopefully Doctrine ORM too) but want my production and testing platforms to be as similar as possible
[14:38:03] <kobrien> eze: codeigniter is quite good. have a look at drupal too if you need something "bigger"
[14:38:16] <ebel> eze: you *can* aptitude uninstall php5 (or whatever the package name is), then try to find a .deb for the old version and "dpkg -i " it
[14:38:42] <ebel> then you'd have to "pin" the package to that version so that your computer won't try to upgrade php again later
[14:38:44] <eze> is "aptitude" an actual command?
[14:39:03] <kobrien> eh, is the meeting over?
[14:39:09] <kobrien> eze: yes it is
[14:39:14] <ebel> re: meeting...
[14:39:22] <ebel> [topic] any other buisness ?
[14:39:38] <ebel> no?
[14:39:41] <ebel> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
