{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This Ubuntu Ireland Team IRC meeting was held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 15th of June 2011, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode. Everyone was welcome to attend and to add topics to the agenda (below)

 Note: The LoCo Directory Meeting listing can be found <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-meetings-team-94-detail | here ]]</nowiki>

=== Attendance ===

People Present:

1. ebel
2. airurando
3. tdr112
4. infoturtle
5. slashtom
6. czajkowski
7. thethomaseffect

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Review of previous action items
| Standing agenda item
|-
| June Geeknic: Post-event review
| airurando
|-
| August Geeknic: Initial discussion
| airurando
|-
| LoCo Reapproval Application update
| airurando
|-
| ubuntu-ie.org hosting options
| airurando
|-
| Launchpad team are sprinting in Dublin
| tdr112
|}

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
Meeting started by ebel at 14:03
14:04:38 	LINK 	ebel 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-06-15
14:04:54 	Topic: Review of previous action items
14:10:42 	Topic: June Geeknic: Post-event review
14:23:38 	AGREED 	ebel 	poll for date of august geeknic
14:25:30 	Topic: LoCo Reapproval Application update
14:40:37 	VOTE 	Should we submit our re-approval for next tuesday?
14:47:54 	AGREED 	ebel 	re-approval on tues
14:53:52 	VOTE RESULT 	3 for, 1 against, 1 abstained. Total: 2
14:53:52 	Topic: ubuntu-ie.org hosting options
15:03:45 	AGREED 	ebel 	ask BK for more hosting
15:03:47 	ACTION 	ebel 	
15:03:54 	ACTION 	ebel 	czajkowski to ask BK
15:12:47 	Topic: Launchpad team are sprinting in Dublin (from tdr112)
Meeting ended at 15:27.
</pre>

=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-ie
[14:04:38] <ebel> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-06-15
[14:04:42] <ebel> our agenda
[14:04:54] <ebel> [topic] Review of previous action items
[14:04:59] <ebel> who wants to talk on that?
[14:05:26] <airurando> there was only one from may
[14:06:21] <airurando> ebel tog, dublin meetup 2pm saturday for hackathon to work on reapproval page
[14:06:54] <airurando> tdr112 and I did meet up at TOG with czajkowski online
[14:07:04] <airurando> progress was made.
[14:07:09] <tdr112> a lot of work done more to do
[14:07:13] <infoturtle> hooray for progress!
[14:07:24] <airurando> I know ebel did some fancy work also on the reapproval page
[14:07:36] * tdr112 still has to do the work he said he would
[14:07:44] <airurando> page is at:
[14:07:46] <airurando> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication
[14:07:48] <ebel> cool
[14:08:05] <ebel> (re-approval is later on agenda, we can talk then)
[14:08:15] <airurando> exactly
[14:08:21] <airurando> just about to say that.
[14:09:47] <airurando> that ends it for the reviow of previous action items.
[14:09:55] <airurando> *review
[14:10:29] <airurando> shall we move on ebel?
[14:10:42] <ebel> [topic] June Geeknic: Post-event review
[14:10:57] <airurando> very quick.
[14:11:27] <tdr112> a few new faces , which was good
[14:11:30] <tdr112> airurando: has photos
[14:11:33] <infoturtle> :D
[14:11:35] <airurando> Geeknic took place during the lunch hour of 3DCamp in Limerick on Sat 11 Jun 11.
[14:11:38] <infoturtle> good to hear it went well
[14:11:44] <airurando> photos here: http://pix.ie/ubuntuie/album/412636
[14:12:18] <airurando> 3DCamp was very enjoyable and while the geeknic was short and small it was good fun.
[14:13:09] <airurando> I recommend this kind of regional event whenever the opportunity arises.
[14:13:44] <airurando> tdr112 gave a presentation at this barcamp and he was excellent.
[14:14:11] <airurando> details of the event can be found at http://3dcamp.barcamp.ie/
[14:14:27] <airurando> that it for this one from me.
[14:14:52] * airurando finishes dinner
[14:15:26] <ebel> airurando: can you take over?
[14:15:28] * ebel phone call
[14:15:37] <airurando> ohis that possiblw?
[14:15:52] <airurando> we'll muddle through
[14:16:10] <airurando> new topic
[14:16:38] <tdr112> ebel: in the paper http://www.independent.ie/breaking-news/national-news/computer-solves-joyce-pubs-riddle-2676281.html
[14:16:49] <airurando> [TOPIC] August Geeknic: Initial discussion
[14:17:10] <airurando> thoughts on the August Geeknic anyone?
[14:17:26] <airurando> Dublin I suppose?
[14:18:09] <airurando> leaving out the bank holiday leaves:
[14:18:22] <airurando> 12,13,14th
[14:18:34] <airurando> 19,20,21st
[14:18:45] <airurando> 26,27,28th
[14:19:17] <infoturtle> just starting the ball here, I'm down for any of those and will make this one
[14:19:23] <slashtom> poll it?
[14:19:25] <infoturtle> not picky on the date
[14:19:34] <slashtom> doodle
[14:19:35] <infoturtle> poll might be best
[14:19:42] <airurando> yeah we can doodle.
[14:19:54] <slashtom> location?
[14:20:00] <airurando> do we agree to leave the bank holiday off the list?
[14:20:06] <slashtom> aye
[14:20:07] <infoturtle> sure
[14:20:19] <airurando> slashtom: location suggestion?
[14:20:46] <infoturtle> I've always been a fan of easter island, but it's a bit away
[14:21:10] <airurando> tdr112 any ideas?
[14:21:18] <slashtom> how about walk then geeknic?
[14:21:26] <slashtom> greystones to bray?
[14:21:41] <airurando> how far is that?
[14:21:59] <slashtom> iirc tdr112 has done that walk
[14:22:05] <ebel> 1 or 2 hr walk iirc
[14:22:11] * ebel off phone
[14:22:13] <airurando> and geeknic in Bray?
[14:22:19] <airurando> back to you ebel
[14:22:26] <slashtom> or greystones, both have dart stations
[14:22:35] <tdr112> gtg
[14:23:08] <airurando> I'm happy with whatever is decided
[14:23:10] <infoturtle> sounds like a class plan!
[14:23:38] <ebel> [agreed] poll for date of august geeknic
[14:23:46] * airurando only has small chance of making this one anyway)
[14:24:28] <airurando> I'll set up the poll (assuming it is easy) I'll chat to slashtom if I get stuck
[14:24:31] <ebel> location as a poll? people might add new ones?
[14:24:36] <ebel> doodle is very easy to use and set up
[14:25:05] <airurando> weather was ebel will you do it so please
[14:25:17] <ebel> i'll do the poll(s)
[14:25:21] <ebel> next topic?
[14:25:28] <airurando> yeah
[14:25:30] <ebel> [topic] LoCo Reapproval Application update
[14:25:49] <airurando> some discussion earlier.
[14:25:56] <airurando> now to the nitty gritty
[14:26:10] <airurando> I reckon the experience section is good as is.
[14:26:45] <airurando> I believe we need to fleash out the roadmap section as much as we are comfortable with.
[14:27:05] <airurando> I suggest keeping it very high level
[14:27:29] <airurando> tdr112 has this on his to do list but I think we should all chip in
[14:28:37] <czajkowski> aloha
[14:28:49] <airurando> czajkowski chatted to me on this recently
[14:28:49] <ebel> FYI I got an email from launchpad saying ubuntu-ie will expire from approved-team group in a few days
[14:29:22] <ebel> on 2011-06-22. i'm guessing that's 2 years after we approved
[14:29:30] <czajkowski> yes
[14:29:30] <airurando> I reckon we should complete the roadmap and submit shortly
[14:29:31] <ebel> i wouldn't worry about it too much
[14:29:41] <czajkowski> well ye will expire on the 22nd
[14:29:51] <infoturtle> oh no
[14:29:51] <czajkowski> but the meeting is the day before so we can go before re approval then
[14:29:53] <infoturtle> all of us?
[14:30:01] <czajkowski> or we can give ye a months grace
[14:30:04] <czajkowski> infoturtle: the team.....
[14:30:07] <airurando> should we try to get the submission in for next Tuesdays meeting?
[14:30:19] <czajkowski> tbh the wiki is in great shape and I say yes
[14:30:48] <airurando> great stuff.
[14:30:51] <airurando> ebel?
[14:30:56] <airurando> slashtom?
[14:31:01] <airurando> infoturtle?
[14:31:22] <airurando> I'd be +1 for the next meeting also.
[14:31:33] <infoturtle> meeting where?
[14:31:40] <czajkowski> infoturtle: on irc
[14:31:41] <ebel> re-approval meeting next tuesday? possibly.... what time? I don't have time to do much work on wiki page betwen now and then...
[14:31:46] <infoturtle> can do!
[14:32:07] <czajkowski> in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/Agenda
[14:32:13] <czajkowski> the wiki is in great shape folks
[14:32:17] <czajkowski> a little road map
[14:32:19] <czajkowski> and tis fine
[14:32:22] <czajkowski> TRUST ME
[14:32:22] <airurando> ebel: all that's needed is a bit of work on the roadmap
[14:32:42] <czajkowski> I do have one massive question for folks though so when we;re on AOB stab me please
[14:34:46] <airurando> ebel? slashtom?
[14:36:04] <ebel> well if i don't have to do anything....
[14:37:35] <czajkowski> nope
[14:37:40] <airurando> I'll hook up with tdr112 before the weekend
[14:37:42] <czajkowski> the wiki is a really good aplication
[14:38:05] <airurando> ebel if you could review and submit on Monday
[14:38:07] <ebel> though if we can wait, we might get more people at the IRC meeting....
[14:38:20] <ebel> more to time to organise people to get them there
[14:38:30] <czajkowski> as long as it's in the hour before the meeting tis fine
[14:39:19] <airurando> we can start plugging it tonight
[14:39:25] <airurando> 6 days left
[14:39:26] <czajkowski> aye
[14:39:38] <airurando> surely thats enough time no?
[14:39:40] * ebel is 50/50 so will go with consenseue
[14:39:41] <czajkowski> I'll also be there and not voting as council
[14:40:08] <ebel> vote?
[14:40:24] <airurando> yeah
[14:40:37] <ebel> [vote] Should we submit our re-approval for next tuesday?
[14:40:45] <czajkowski> +1
[14:40:46] <ebel> 0
[14:40:52] <ebel> +0
[14:40:53] <tdr112> -1
[14:40:56] <airurando> +1
[14:41:13] <airurando> infoturtle?
[14:41:25] <infoturtle> +1
[14:42:02] <czajkowski> tdr112: what's your reasonsing do you think it's not ready ? or you won't be there
[14:42:06] <ebel> czajkowski: we can re-apply the month after right? or what?
[14:42:21] <czajkowski> well we have 2 options.
[14:42:24] <tdr112> i think we need more time
[14:42:29] <czajkowski> 1) add the wiki application to the bug
[14:42:41] <czajkowski> 2) we extend the time by a month or so
[14:43:08] <czajkowski> so up to ye really
[14:43:12] <czajkowski> honestly
[14:43:15] <airurando> tdr112: what do you think is lacking
[14:43:24] <czajkowski> given I look at these the whole time, the wiki page is in fantastic shape
[14:43:25] <czajkowski> tis clear
[14:43:30] <czajkowski> details all th work
[14:44:40] <ebel> majority seems to be in favour...
[14:44:43] <airurando> tdr112: more time for what?
[14:44:58] <tdr112> i wont hold it up
[14:45:00] <tdr112> go for it
[14:45:17] <czajkowski> oki dokie
[14:46:21] <airurando> is it agreed so?
[14:46:37] <czajkowski> count is 2 so yeah seems so
[14:46:45] <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IrishTeamReApprovalApplication
[14:46:46] <airurando> tdr112, if something is niggling at you speak now.
[14:47:00] <czajkowski> only issue as far as I can see is the flicker images missing which I dont know why they are
[14:47:03] <tdr112> nope i will fix it over the next few days
[14:47:06] <czajkowski> okie
[14:47:14] <czajkowski> tdr112: I'm doing nothing all weekend hollar
[14:47:32] <airurando> does ebel have to submit it?
[14:47:46] <airurando> say on Monday?
[14:47:52] <czajkowski> tuesday is fine
[14:47:54] <ebel> [agreed] re-approval on tues
[14:47:57] <czajkowski> just add it to the wiki the hr before
[14:48:17] <airurando> right oh
[14:48:28] <airurando> fingers and toes crossed.
[14:50:08] <czajkowski> stop over thinking
[14:50:32] <ebel> cool
[14:50:48] <ebel> so who is doing the nitty gritty submission stuff?
[14:51:21] <czajkowski> whatcha mean
[14:51:25] <czajkowski> nitty gritty ?
[14:51:30] <airurando> ebel: czajkowski said we just need to add it to the wiki
[14:51:33] <ebel> who's submitting it
[14:51:55] <czajkowski> anyone can add it to the wiki
[14:52:01] <ebel> ok
[14:52:02] <czajkowski> so if yer finsihed over the weekend just add it
[14:52:20] <ebel> ok, who ever is the last to finish on the wiki adds it to the agenda for the loco council
[14:52:28] <ebel> ?
[14:52:47] <czajkowski> yeah
[14:53:35] <ebel> cool
[14:53:40] <ebel> next topic?
[14:53:50] <airurando> ok
[14:53:52] <ebel> [topic] ubuntu-ie.org hosting options
[14:54:19] <airurando> I put this up after ebel's mail
[14:54:27] <czajkowski> well I can ask BK to do it again if we like
[14:54:43] <ebel> we can
[14:54:45] <czajkowski> I know thethomaseffect asked about domains names to be pointed but we needed to confirm the hosting
[14:54:55] <ebel> cause our BK sponsored hosting is due to expire soon
[14:54:59] <czajkowski> and then a mail to be sent to RT@ubuntu.com which I'll sort
[14:55:04] <infoturtle> I was working on that too and then got stuck with it
[14:55:04] <ebel> a few people (on the mailing list) have offered hosting
[14:55:17] <czajkowski> nods
[14:55:19] <airurando> yeah
[14:55:26] <airurando> appreciated for sure
[14:55:33] <ebel> However we need a webmaster/webmistriss not a host....
[14:55:51] <czajkowski> well we have 2 people working on a site
[14:55:52] <thethomaseffect> Apologies, I'm here
[14:55:52] <czajkowski> :s
[14:55:56] <czajkowski> ah ha
[14:55:57] <czajkowski> :)
[14:55:59] <czajkowski> thethomaseffect: aloha
[14:56:02] <ebel> i have forgotten what was going on with the web hosting...
[14:56:05] <thethomaseffect> Hallo :)
[14:56:42] <czajkowski> I need someone to tell me what dns to point to where so I can resolve that issue
[14:56:56] <ebel> what's the problem with DNS?
[14:57:21] <czajkowski> ebel: I dont know it was mentoned in here by thethomaseffect
[14:57:26] <czajkowski> I assumed to point to new hosting
[14:58:12] <ebel> thethomaseffect: can you give an update on the new hosting?
[14:58:26] <thethomaseffect> The address needed is somewhere in the blacknight CP I'm quite positive, but since I've no experience in repointing domains I wouldn't be entirely certain
[14:58:37] <thethomaseffect> ebel: Sure, any parts in particular?
[14:59:50] <airurando> All well above my head.
[14:59:54] <ebel> well, i dunno... eh is it ready to go live? what have you done with it? how does it compare to the old hosting?
[15:00:30] <czajkowski> thethomaseffect: have you seen http://launchpad.net/ubuntu-community-webthemes
[15:00:45] <ebel> should we contact BK and ask if they can renew the hosting? or what?
[15:00:53] <thethomaseffect> I seen mention yesterday that ubuntu uk use wordpress instead of drupal. Wordpress is a lot easier to maintain and would fit the site better, since it's mostly used for news. I think since it's not an issue to archive the old site at archive.ubuntu-ie.org it would be a good move to use it.
[15:01:19] <thethomaseffect> czajkowski: Had a quick look, though design isn't an issue as soon as domain is repointed
[15:01:52] <czajkowski> the only reason I would chose BK is well we have some of them on here and on the ML
[15:01:53] <ebel> you don't *need* to change DNS / repoint domains to test. You can edit /etc/hosts (if that's what's blocking you)
[15:01:58] <czajkowski> and it's nice to support irish
[15:02:06] <thethomaseffect> ebel: I've done a theme, I'm cautious of installing any CMS unless it's on the domain that'll be the one used in the live version
[15:02:28] <ebel> once we have it ready, we can repoint the DNS to the new server
[15:02:52] <ebel> do/did you have access to the blacknight hosting to set things up?
[15:02:57] <thethomaseffect> couldn't I just put up an under consturuction page and link back to old site?
[15:03:07] <airurando> czajkowski: will you ask BK as you offered?
[15:03:12] <czajkowski> yup
[15:03:14] <czajkowski> can do
[15:03:23] <airurando> great stuff.
[15:03:34] <airurando> ebel action for czajkowski
[15:03:45] <ebel> [agreed] ask BK for more hosting
[15:03:47] <ebel> [action]
[15:03:54] <ebel> [action] czajkowski to ask BK
[15:04:34] <ebel> thethomaseffect: well we /could/, but that's not very user freindly, and you can install any CMS on the BK hosting and then we can send users over when it's ready?
[15:06:01] <thethomaseffect> ebel: In the installation, all the links will be pointing at the wrong address. It'll be the absolute one rather than the one that'll be used. It's not good from a security perspective. It's possible there'll be no issue but what can go wrong, will
[15:06:34] <thethomaseffect> once the domain is repointed, unless i have personal stuff, i'm confident i can have most stuff migrated in just 48 hours
[15:07:11] <czajkowski> ok so atm, don;t we have access to the hosting
[15:07:16] <czajkowski> so can we try it out
[15:07:48] <ebel> yeah
[15:07:57] <tdr112> Kill all Zombies
[15:08:03] <ebel> we ourselves can't change the DNS, we need canonical to do that.
[15:08:10] <thethomaseffect> myself and infoturtle ran into PHP issues while trying to set things up on the absolute url also. We could reach a index.htl but not a drupal/install.php
[15:08:33] <czajkowski> ebel: see that there is the info I need
[15:08:37] <czajkowski> if you tell me what you need changed
[15:08:45] <czajkowski> I'll do the mail and go talk to IS to get it done
[15:08:49] <ebel> thethomaseffect: you have access to the BK hosting, right? can you start looking at installing things?
[15:08:56] <thethomaseffect> once the somain is sorted out I'm sure it won't be an issue, my own hosting is blacknight and it was smooth sailing installing drupal and wordpress
[15:08:58] <czajkowski> but I am cluseless as to what you want DNS changed to
[15:09:08] <ebel> (I'm trying to make sure I'm not blocking anything)
[15:09:31] <thethomaseffect> ebel: like i said, i did, and can't until there's a domain
[15:09:59] * czajkowski is lost
[15:10:07] <ebel> right, so ubunut-ie.org and www.ubuntu-ie.org need to point to the new blacknight host then?
[15:10:13] <ebel> (any other domains)
[15:10:23] <thethomaseffect> aye
[15:10:31] <czajkowski> ok
[15:10:34] <thethomaseffect> and afaik no
[15:10:41] <ebel> I'll figure out the details fromk BK, then send them to czajkowski. who can pass that email onto canonical/whoever (since they know who)
[15:10:53] <ebel> then we'll tell ye and ye should be good to go?
[15:11:10] <czajkowski> ebel: thanks
[15:11:19] <czajkowski> if you tell me what I'll email it and then get it done ASAP
[15:11:26] <ebel> kewl
[15:12:23] <ebel> sorted
[15:12:27] <ebel> next topic?
[15:12:44] <airurando> yip
[15:12:47] <ebel> [topic] Launchpad team are sprinting in Dublin (from tdr112)
[15:12:54] <czajkowski> :D
[15:14:28] <ebel> tdr112 around?
[15:14:44] <czajkowski> as far as I know there is a pub picked
[15:14:48] <czajkowski> possible the barge
[15:14:58] <czajkowski> close to the hotel where they are staying lower leason st
[15:16:53] <ebel> ok. what dates is this? we could have an ubuntu hour? or similar?
[15:17:06] <czajkowski> cant find the emails :s
[15:17:09] <czajkowski> early july
[15:17:14] <czajkowski> as far as I can tell
[15:18:09] <ebel> ok
[15:18:12] <ebel> so while away...
[15:18:24] <ebel> unless tdr112 had anything special to say.... (or anyone else)?
[15:19:06] <czajkowski> it;s a laucpad
[15:19:09] <czajkowski> *launchpad
[15:19:19] <czajkowski> Canonical platform team and linaro over here
[15:19:23] <czajkowski> over 300 of them
[15:20:31] <ebel> lots
[15:20:43] <czajkowski> yup
[15:20:49] <czajkowski> pretty much as big as a UDS
[15:21:11] <ebel> cool
[15:21:52] <airurando> when is this happening?
[15:22:03] <czajkowski> begining of July
[15:22:13] <ebel> we should try to meet up?
[15:22:24] <czajkowski> aye tdr112 has contacted mat revell
[15:22:27] <czajkowski> from the laucnhpad team
[15:22:28] <tdr112> i will send the details about the meet up when i know
[15:22:32] <ebel> cool
[15:22:33] <czajkowski> and the arangement is for a night in a pub
[15:22:39] <czajkowski> ah there he is
[15:24:04] <ebel> cool
[15:24:11] <ebel> so tdr112 you'll keep us informed?
[15:24:34] <tdr112> yep
[15:25:03] <ebel> next topic? (AOB?)
[15:26:13] <ebel> czajkowski: you wanted to say something?
[15:26:58] <czajkowski> nope covered above
[15:27:06] <ebel> cool
[15:27:08] <ebel> AOB?
[15:27:43] <ebel> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
