{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This Ubuntu Ireland Team IRC meeting will be held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 16th March 2011, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode. Everyone is welcome to attend and to add topics to the agenda (below)

 Note: The LoCo Directory Meeting listing can be found <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-meetings-team-23-detail | here ]]</nowiki>

=== Attendance ===

People Present:

1. airurando
2. czajkowski
3. moylan
4. imgarysmith

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Review of previous action items
| Standing agenda item
|-
| Ubuntu Global Jam
| airurando
|-
| 11.04 Release Party?
| airurando
|-
| LoCo Directory for meetings
| czajkowski
|}

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
Meeting started by airurando at 15:11
15:13:01 	LINK 	airurando 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-03-16
15:13:35 	Topic: Review of previous action items
15:19:00 	ACTION 	airurando 	airurando will report back next month on any feedback received from the natty distribution e-mail
15:27:19 	ACTION 	airurando 	airurando to create UGJ events for the Irish LoCo when they are confirmed.
15:28:34 	Topic: Ubuntu Global Jam
15:29:49 	Topic: 11.04 Release Party?
15:50:03 	ACTION 	airurando 	airurando to mail list re release party. blogs to be used to ask for feedback.
15:51:52 	Topic: LoCo Directory for meetings
15:52:39 	LINK 	czajkowski 	https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2011-February/005226.html
15:53:18 	LINK 	czajkowski 	http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/
15:55:54 	Topic: AOB
Meeting ended at 16:01.
</pre>

=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Call for temporary Ubuntu-ie podcast cohost
| imgarysmith
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-ie
[15:11:41] <airurando> Welcome all to this months team meeting.
[15:11:45] <airurando> If you are here for the monthly meeting please say 
PRESENT

[15:11:53] <airurando> PRESENT
[15:11:58] <czajkowski> PRESENT
[15:12:06] <moylan> PRESENT
[15:12:21] <airurando> The wiki page for this meeting is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-03-16
[15:12:52] <imgarysmith> present
[15:13:01] <airurando> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-03-16
[15:13:23] <airurando> OK. The first topic is
[15:13:35] <airurando> [TOPIC] Review of previous action items
[15:14:17] <airurando> There were a few actions handed out during the February IRC meeting.
[15:14:43] <airurando> first
[15:14:46] <airurando> ebel will chance up with canonical/ubuntu loco with how/if to change address
[15:15:11] <airurando> I know ebel has looked into this.
[15:15:22] <airurando> Not sure if he has completed the process
[15:15:42] <airurando> second action
[15:15:45] <airurando> ebel will give airurando the list of 10.10 recieptients, airurando will email them to solicit feedback
[15:15:55] <airurando> this one is completed
[15:16:07] <czajkowski> cool
[15:16:12] <airurando> We are awaiting feedback.
[15:16:37] <airurando> Went to many comp socs and hackerspaces
[15:17:01] <airurando> will report back on this again next month
[15:17:02] <imgarysmith> 11.04 is a bad time for comp socs
[15:17:40] <airurando> imgarysmith: that was one of the points raised in the e-mail
[15:18:31] <czajkowski> tis the end of April
[15:19:00] <airurando> [ACTION] airurando will report back next month on any feedback received from the natty distribution e-mail
[15:19:02] <imgarysmith> airurando, as i said earlier i havent had a chance to read over the email, sorry for repeating the content
[15:19:29] <airurando> imgarysmith no bother at all.
[15:20:09] <airurando> czajkowski: the concern was receiving CDs mid May might not be the best time for Colleges.
[15:20:19] <czajkowski> nods
[15:20:36] <czajkowski> well end of april in theory they should be out the first week in may
[15:22:13] <airurando> Yeah indeed, but we are looking for the views of the comp socs. Totally up to them.
[15:22:41] <airurando> next action to be reviewed
[15:22:44] <czajkowski> nods
[15:23:04] <airurando> airurando will take the CDs
[15:23:14] <airurando> no further comment necessary
[15:23:40] <airurando> next one
[15:23:44] <airurando> look for venues for jam
[15:24:07] <airurando> need others here to report on progress.
[15:24:27] <airurando> possibility exists for a Dub and Limerick Jam
[15:25:15] <airurando> infoturtle is leading the charge in Limerick and tdr112 has submitted a request to TOG for use of their space
[15:25:34] <airurando> hopefully things will become clear soon
[15:25:58] <czajkowski> great stuff
[15:26:11] <airurando> I'll generate the events as soon as they are confirmed (fingers crossed)
[15:27:19] <airurando> [ACTION] airurando to create UGJ events for the Irish LoCo when they are confirmed.
[15:28:08] <airurando> now on to the main agenda items.
[15:28:34] <airurando> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Global Jam
[15:28:52] <airurando> same again here.
[15:29:10] <airurando> waiting for venue and event confirmation.
[15:29:27] <airurando> will move on.
[15:29:49] <airurando> [TOPIC] 11.04 Release Party?
[15:30:00] <czajkowski> oh where are ye off to this year
[15:30:08] <czajkowski> nothing natty related in bars is there
[15:30:14] <czajkowski> or a trip to the zoo :)
[15:30:18] <airurando> I just wanted to start the discussion on this
[15:30:32] <moylan> corkscrew looks like a narwhal horn? :-)
[15:30:48] <airurando> czajkowski you are spot on.
[15:31:05] <airurando> I was thinking something nautical
[15:31:35] <airurando> moylan, have you somewhere in mind?
[15:31:46] <czajkowski> have a picni
[15:31:58] <moylan> geeknic?
[15:32:03] <czajkowski> or there is the cafe which is meerkat cafe but still a chance for family and a bit of fun
[15:32:09] <czajkowski> aye could make it a geeknic
[15:32:31] <moylan> that is weather dependent but if chosen carefully we could find a park with shelter if there is rain.
[15:32:35] <airurando> must pop away for just a minute
[15:32:38] <airurando> back soon
[15:32:59] <czajkowski> is that a bank holiday weekend ?
[15:33:10] <moylan> geeknics are fun. nerds in not their natural habitat. away from wifi and power sources.
[15:33:21] <czajkowski> aye
[15:33:29] <czajkowski> but also means more people may be inclined to come
[15:33:34] <czajkowski> also to note, if the weekend doesnt suit
[15:33:40] <czajkowski> you're not limited to that weekend......
[15:35:16] <moylan> apr 30, may 1st followed by bank holiday.
[15:36:01] <airurando> aye geeknic is an idea
[15:36:30] <airurando> we had planned geeknics for June and Aug this year
[15:36:32] <czajkowski> not a great weekend if people are having a holiday or want to head away
[15:36:57] <airurando> I think it is the easter break for achools also
[15:37:05] <airurando> *schools
[15:37:07] <czajkowski> nods
[15:37:08] <czajkowski> yup
[15:37:30] <czajkowski> well it be nice to know if ye put it out a weekend more people would turn up
[15:37:40] <czajkowski> not sure it makes a massive difference
[15:37:56] <airurando> need some Dublinites to help out on this one
[15:37:58] <moylan> but if you use a week night you can get people who are already in the city.
[15:38:37] * airurando likes the idea of the zoo
[15:38:39] <moylan> about how many people turned out for the last launch parties. it might help as a frame of reference.
[15:38:57] <czajkowski> moylan: see the pics we've gone for dinner/drinks combo
[15:38:59] <czajkowski> woeked out well
[15:39:09] <czajkowski> we;ve gotten 14-24 people it depends really
[15:40:08] <airurando> yeah Saturday worked out well last time
[15:40:41] <airurando> not enough folks here to decide anything tonight I fear.
[15:41:01] <airurando> I'll e-mail the list looking for input
[15:41:05] <moylan> would more people come to an event on sunday. for many saturday is a day to get things done while shops are open.
[15:41:34] <moylan> or sport events
[15:42:29] <czajkowski> lack of feedback on the ML is annoying at times
[15:42:32] <czajkowski> :(
[15:42:38] <airurando> yeah
[15:42:45] <airurando> but must keep trying
[15:42:49] <czajkowski> aye
[15:42:57] <imgarysmith> to be honest i think the ML is a bad way of doing it
[15:43:02] <czajkowski> wonder would a joint mail to python and ILUG saying we're doing an event
[15:43:05] <czajkowski> want to come along ?
[15:43:12] <czajkowski> imgarysmith: how do we contact the loco people so ?
[15:43:28] <czajkowski> imgarysmith: the Ubutu ie loco has a ML and many dont use irc
[15:44:12] <imgarysmith> a blog i think would be better, i know people have to go to the blog but feedback would be visually easier
[15:44:36] <airurando> imgarysmith: could you do a section on the release party during the next podcast?
[15:44:42] <czajkowski> imgarysmith: ok a blog is good, but how do you get them to read the blog post?
[15:44:47] <czajkowski> we do blog and put to the ML also
[15:45:01] <airurando> doesn't the website incorporate a blog?
[15:45:21] <czajkowski> yup
[15:45:32] <imgarysmith> airurando, ye sure, im not sure what is happening with the podcast this month since quinne (infoturtle) has no internet connection
[15:46:00] <airurando> if duplicating an e-mail on a blog to facilitate feedback is considered a good idea I'm all for it.
[15:46:17] <imgarysmith> laura, i just feel reading replies in the ML is difficult. reading blog comments would be much easier
[15:46:19] <czajkowski> nods
[15:46:31] <airurando> czajkowski what do you think?
[15:46:46] <czajkowski> imgarysmith: it's 50/50 tbh but the more places to get feedback the better
[15:47:15] <airurando> imgarysmith: I'd love that problem. Unfirtunately we don't get much feedback on the mailing list
[15:47:42] <imgarysmith> true but i think we might get more feedback in blog posts
[15:47:45] <czajkowski> so lets blog and ML and explain we do need feedback
[15:47:59] <imgarysmith> ye sounds good
[15:48:14] <airurando> might try this for the release party posting on the Ubuntu-ie.org blog
[15:48:27] <airurando> great stuff
[15:49:41] <imgarysmith> airurando, ill mention it in the podcast for people to go to the blog, and explain its a test to see if we want to replace the ML or use both side by side
[15:49:56] <czajkowski> #i'd never say replace the ML
[15:50:01] <czajkowski> another tool perhaps
[15:50:03] <airurando> [ACTION] airurando to mail list re release party. blogs to be used to ask for feedback.
[15:50:40] <imgarysmith> not fully replace it, use it for info only, no feedback on it
[15:51:21] <czajkowski> airurando: next up ?
[15:51:30] <airurando> aye.
[15:51:52] <airurando> [TOPIC] LoCo Directory for meetings
[15:52:02] <airurando> over to you czajkowski
[15:52:06] <czajkowski> Cheers
[15:52:10] <czajkowski> so we have the LD
[15:52:13] <czajkowski> loco.ubuntu.com
[15:52:17] <czajkowski> and we use it for events
[15:52:26] <czajkowski> some teams want to have more information on there like meetings
[15:52:33] <czajkowski> so the developers have developed that feature
[15:52:39] <czajkowski> [link] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2011-February/005226.html
[15:53:01] <czajkowski> just wondering would the team consider using it and if they like it contrinue and if not, perhaps give some feedback
[15:53:18] <czajkowski> [link] http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/
[15:53:26] <czajkowski> you can see all the teams using the feature now
[15:53:43] <airurando> czajkowski, I've used it for the last two meetings
[15:53:53] <czajkowski> excellent
[15:54:03] <czajkowski> that's all really
[15:54:08] <czajkowski> just wanted to highlight it
[15:54:14] <airurando> I like it but have some feature requests
[15:54:16] <czajkowski> and if folks had any issues thoughts to bring it up to the DEV
[15:54:20] <imgarysmith> seems good
[15:54:26] <czajkowski> airurando: sure you can talk in #ubuntu-locoteams
[15:54:32] <czajkowski> and talk to the developers
[15:54:34] <czajkowski> or file bugs
[15:54:40] <czajkowski> bugs may or may not get developed on
[15:54:44] <airurando> tried once but they must have all been sleeping
[15:54:58] <czajkowski> well after this if you want I'll go in and intriduce you
[15:55:07] <airurando> will try the #ubuntu-locoteams channel again
[15:55:21] <czajkowski> okie dokie
[15:55:23] <czajkowski> thats me done
[15:55:35] <airurando> no need you introducced me before
[15:55:41] <airurando> right oh
[15:55:54] <airurando> [TOPIC] AOB
[15:56:20] <airurando> anyone?
[15:56:24] <czajkowski> nope all good
[15:56:28] <imgarysmith> ye i have something
[15:56:50] <airurando> shoot imgarysmith
[15:57:15] <imgarysmith> since im the only representitive of the podcast here, im not sure if the other hosts can do the show
[15:57:33] <imgarysmith> would either of you like to step in as a cohost?
[15:57:49] <czajkowski> I'm over in the UK so cant
[15:57:51] <czajkowski> but thans
[15:57:53] <czajkowski> thanks
[15:57:59] <imgarysmith> no prob
[15:58:14] <imgarysmith> laura, its on skype anyway
[15:58:23] <airurando> I wouldn't have the guts.
[15:58:40] <airurando> not yet anyway ;)
[15:58:52] <imgarysmith> i might be on my tod then
[15:59:26] <airurando> that sound awful
[15:59:30] <airurando> :(
[15:59:40] <airurando> We'll see
[16:00:04] <airurando> Is that everything
[16:00:14] <czajkowski> aye
[16:00:18] <imgarysmith> thats all folks
[16:00:20] <moylan> try the mailing list to see if anybody has a topic they want to discuss on a podcast.
[16:00:42] <airurando> next meeting 20 Apr 11
[16:00:57] <airurando> thanks all for participating
[16:01:04] <airurando> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
