{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This Ubuntu Ireland Team IRC meeting will be held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 20th of July 2011, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode. Everyone is welcome to attend and to add topics to the agenda (below)

 Note: The LoCo Directory Meeting listing can be found <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-meetings-team-114-detail | here ]]</nowiki>

=== Attendance ===

People Present:

1. airurando
2. infoturtle
3. moylan
4. ebel
5. tdr112
6. czajkowski
7. Carles-091labs

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Review of previous action items
| Standing agenda item
|-
| Oneiric Ocelot Ubuntu Global Jam
| airurando
|-
| August Geeknic
| airurando
|}

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
Meeting started at 14:07. The chair is airurando.
LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-07-20
New Topic:  Review of previous action items
New Topic:  Oneiric Ocelot Ubuntu Global Jam
LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
ACTION received:  infoturtle will organise UGJ Limerick
ACTION received:  tdr112 will ask TOG to once again host UGJ Dublin
New Topic:  August Geeknic
LINK received:  http://doodle.com/wz7rby5ev2wr2ep8
LINK received:  http://geeknic.org/
ACTION received:  moylan to generate a doodle poll to decide on the location for the August geeknic
New Topic:  Any other business
New Topic:  The successful reapproval effort of our loCo Team
New Topic:  Date for next meeting
AGREED received:  The monthly teamIRC meeting for August will take place on 17 Aug 11.
Meeting finished at 15:16.
</pre>

=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| The successful reapproval effort of our loCo Team
| airurando
|-
| Date for next meeting
| airurando
|}
=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
<airurando> #startmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting started at 14:07. The chair is airurando.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
<airurando> Good evening everyone and thanks for attending
<airurando> If you are here for the monthly meeting please indicate so by typing “PRESENT”
<airurando> PRESENT
<infoturtle> PRESENT
<moylan> PRESENT
<ebel> PRESENT
<airurando> The wiki page for this meeting is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-07-20
<tdr112> PRESENT
<airurando> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-07-20
<MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2011-07-20
<airurando> on to the agenda items
<airurando> [TOPIC] Review of previous action items
<MootBot> New Topic: Review of previous action items
<airurando> During the June meeting there was one task actioned.
<airurando> czajkowski to ask BK
<airurando> more specifically
<airurando> czajkowski to ask Blacknight to extend their sponsored hosting offer for our website
* ebel must apologise
<airurando> as far as I am aware this was done and we got a positive response from BK
<ebel> i haven't looked into the BK and told czajkowski what she needs
<ebel> BK have sponsored another year of hosting for us
<tdr112> good stuff
<airurando> yes indeed thanks to BK
<airurando> ebel: what needs to be done?
<ebel> i need to tell czajkowski who wil tell canonical sysadmins the ip address of the bk hosting
<ebel> so they can change www.ubuntu-ie.org to point to thr bk hosting
<airurando> is everything set up on the BK side?
<ebel> the people redoing our hosting (can't remember names) said it's easier if the real domains pointed over
<ebel> as of last meeting, bk hosting wasn't configured yet
<airurando> I don't understand the detail
<airurando> id we point from one to the next and the next isn't ready won't we have downtime?
<ebel> yes there would be downtimes
<airurando> hmm
<airurando> what to do?
<ebel> the people volunteering said it would be ~ weekend
<ebel> it only occured to me afterwards about downtime
<ebel> (after irc meeting)
<czajkowski> ebel: yes just mail me and I'll file the RT
<airurando> is it to hard to get the whole thing set up on BK and then get canonical to do the forwarding thing?
<czajkowski> I dont know the bk side of things
<ebel> yes, you could put the ip address in your /etc/hosts
<czajkowski> the Canonical side is an email and can take a few days or hours depending on how busy they are
<ebel> which lets you 'pretend' that www.ubuntu-ie.org is at BK for just your machine, everyone else sees the old one
<airurando> ebel: can you define the steps to be taken from this point to effect a smooth transition.
* ebel can't remember if he mentioned this at the last irc meeting
* airurando can't either
<ebel> someone check logs for who offered to do the hosting
<ebel> tis a bit silly talking about it without them
* airurando doesn't understand anyway
<airurando> infoturtle wern't you and thethomaseffect involved?
<infoturtle> I was ages ago but there has been work since without me and I'm unsure where things are at
<airurando> at a high level (keep it simple for me please...)
<airurando> should the webmasters not get thinks fully set up on BK hosting first?
<airurando> *things
<ebel> cost benefit trade offs
<airurando> oh crikey I don't even understand that....
<ebel> also abilities. things that make things easier for one party can make things harder for others
<airurando> how can we move this forward?
<ebel> who's doing the web hosting?
<airurando> blacknight
<airurando> isn't that right?
<ebel> and no matter what i do need to tell czajkowski details for our hosting
<ebel> yes, BK are doing hosting. i meant who in ubuntu-ie is our web maintainer? who's setting it up?P
<airurando> thethomaseffect?
<infoturtle> it was me and thethomaseffect but I think he's done more on it since I last helped, which was months ago
<airurando> shall we shelve it?
<airurando> seems a bit like rock and hard place to me.
<ebel> no point in you & me deciding what someone else will do, that person needs to be here to talk about it
<airurando> cool
<airurando> shelved
* ebel suggests waiting till we can talk to web hoster
* ebel should refresh his memory from minutes]
<airurando> moving on
* ebel is very unprepared
<airurando> [TOPIC] Oneiric Ocelot Ubuntu Global Jam
<MootBot> New Topic: Oneiric Ocelot Ubuntu Global Jam
<airurando> I raised this item.
<tdr112> when is it
<airurando> Ubuntu Global Jam for Oneiric Ocelot takes place from 2nd to 4th of September.
<airurando> I just thought we should start planning for it now.
<airurando> Details of this Global event can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
<airurando> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
<MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
<airurando> It would be great to keep both Dublin and Limerick up and running and if possible even add to them.
<airurando> I believe the more we participate in these Jams the more productive we will become during them.
<airurando> Thoughts anyone?
<infoturtle> agreed
<infoturtle> I love them despite not helping much
<infoturtle> more that come the better
<airurando> infoturtle will you lead Limerick again?
<ebel> ++
<Carles-091labs> Sorry new... I'll ask around 091labs for any interest
<Carles-091labs> I mean I'm new here
<airurando> Carles-091labs welcome!
<infoturtle> sure, I can see who I can talk to, UL is out till sept 5th AFAIK so I duno how I can do this
<airurando> It would be great if something was set up for Galway
* airurando loves Galway
<airurando> went to College there in the 80s and 90s
<ebel> Carles-091labs: welcome! no apology needed. anything we can do to help, jsut ask
<Carles-091labs> lots of our members use Ubuntu as our main OS. Hopefully will get some interest
<airurando> Carles-091labs that is great
<moylan> what are the numbers at the current 2 locations at the last jam. by having more locations are we not lessening the numbers that turn up at those locations?
<airurando> have a look at the wiki page detailed above
<tdr112> i will ask if tog will host the dublin one again or we can try some where new
<airurando> and as ebel said let us know if we can be of any help
<Carles-091labs> having a look at the wiki as we speak
<infoturtle> moylan: there were 5 at the limerick one, none of us would have made it to Dublin for it
<airurando> tdr112 tog would be great
<czajkowski> infoturtle: 5 is better than none
<airurando> moylan limerick of Galway folk are less likely to attend Dublin anyway
<czajkowski> and its nice to have an alternative venue
<ebel> 5 is a decent umber
<ebel> think we had 3 or 4 in dub :P
<moylan> no arguements there but i worry that if there is a galway one there will be less than 5 at limerick
<infoturtle> czajkowski of course, thus why multi location is a good idea
<airurando> I think it would be great to get better communication streams up between locations
<Carles-091labs> what would be the best way to communicate
<infoturtle> moylan: all the ones at the limerick one were from Limerick
<infoturtle> Don't think they'll go to Galway for one
<moylan> fair enough! i sit corrected :-)
<airurando> Carles-091labs at the mo all we have is IRC
<airurando> we toyed with the idea of ebel on Ustream last time
<infoturtle> I don't mean to belittle, I just can't track to Dublin for them and like the set up
<Carles-091labs> would be nice to have some video streaming on the day... ustream stream perhaps?
<czajkowski> it worked well the last day 1 day face to face
<czajkowski> and if we want to do more
<czajkowski> we can all do stuff via irc
<czajkowski> at the end of the day we're all on irc to help one another over the day
<airurando> and as always
<airurando> we can build on things global Jam to global Jam
<tdr112> i can set up a ustream for the day or skype
<infoturtle> that would be great
<airurando> I think it would be brilliant to get the three location up and running :)
<tdr112> so are thinking one day in person and one day one irc again
<airurando> Carles-091labs can I action you to investigate the possibility of hosting one in Galway
<airurando> no pressure
<Carles-091labs> hosting what exacly?
<tdr112> a bug jam
<airurando> Carles-091labs aye a Ubuntu Global Jam
<airurando> hosting/holding/having one.
<Carles-091labs> I'm going to try to get people interestd
<tdr112> a one day event , one go from about 10 am until about 5 or 6 pm
<airurando> Carles-091labs cool
<Carles-091labs> but it may be just myself :P
<airurando> could you report back at next months meeting?
<Carles-091labs> ok
<tdr112> Carles-091labs: no worrys
<airurando> thanks
<airurando> infoturtle: can I action you with leading limerick?
<airurando> tdr112: can I action you with asking TOG?
<Carles-091labs> Going need a bit on the day... never actually tackle any bug fixing before...
<tdr112> yes
<infoturtle> yep
<infoturtle> I'll see who I can talk to in the colleage about it
<airurando> Carles-091labs It really doesn't matter what's achieved
<airurando> have fun and learn
<ebel> great way to meet people face to face
<Carles-091labs> cool... perhaps a tiny bug fixing for starters
<tdr112> infoturtle: or milklabs
<airurando> [ACTION] infoturtle will organise UGJ Limerick.
<MootBot> ACTION received: infoturtle will organise UGJ Limerick.
<infoturtle> tdr112: true, I'll ask around
<airurando> [ACTION] tdr112 will ask TOG to once again host UGJ Dublin
<MootBot> ACTION received: tdr112 will ask TOG to once again host UGJ Dublin
<Carles-091labs> in the wiki says from the 2 to the 4... Do we have a more exact date for this?
<airurando> what ever day suits
<infoturtle> Sat the 3rd?
<infoturtle> ???
<airurando> usually we hold Jams on a Sat
<Carles-091labs> Sat it is then
<airurando> infoturtle I agree
<tdr112> we find a in person is better for the sat
<tdr112> and online on sat
<airurando> face to face on Sat
<tdr112> *sun
<airurando> online Sunday?
<airurando> cool.
<infoturtle> ok, so the 4th for Limerick
<infoturtle> just to make sure
<airurando> infoturtle 3rd
<tdr112> 3rd
<infoturtle> ah
<infoturtle> so all of em on the 3rd
<airurando> not obligatory but it might be best
<tdr112> 3rd in person
<tdr112> and online on the 4th
<infoturtle> cool
<airurando> cool
<airurando> anything else on this
<Carles-091labs> sounds good to me
<airurando> cool
<airurando> moving on so
<airurando> [TOPIC] August Geeknic
<MootBot> New Topic: August Geeknic
<airurando> The poll has been closed and the results are in.
<airurando> The poll can be viewed at http://doodle.com/wz7rby5ev2wr2ep8
<airurando> [LINK] http://doodle.com/wz7rby5ev2wr2ep8
<MootBot> LINK received: http://doodle.com/wz7rby5ev2wr2ep8
<airurando> Sunday the 14th of August had the most votes at 4.
<Carles-091labs> can anybody care to explain what is Geeknic, please
<airurando> a picnic for geeks
<Carles-091labs> lol brilliant
<airurando> there is a website somewhere
<airurando> http://geeknic.org/
<MootBot> LINK received: http://geeknic.org/
<Carles-091labs> thanks
<airurando> It would be great to have one of these in Galway also sometime :)
<airurando> Can the Dublin centric guys pick a location for this?
<Carles-091labs> we had a bbq the other day... would love a geeknic too
<airurando> Carles-091labs these are not ubuntu specific
<tdr112> airurando: i am not sure if i can make this one so i better not pick it
<moylan70> a poll for location perhaps?
<airurando> moylan will you do it?
<infoturtle> I can't make it either
<airurando> I don't know enough about Dublin.
<airurando> tdr112 no bother
<airurando> infoturtle no bother
<airurando> we should have a location picked by the start of the month.
<airurando> ebel any views?
<ebel> Carles-091labs: geeknics are also attempted to get non-pub meet ups
<airurando> moylan70 will you put up the poll?
<ebel> location... dunno, somewhere outside, greesnspaces
<ebel> loads of parks in dublin.... suppose...
<airurando> what markets run on Sunday?
<ebel> oh yeah
<airurando> we do need a location
<airurando> anyone?
<moylan> i'll try and put up a poll. i'll throw the link out in the email list
<Carles-091labs> leaving soon... How do you comunicate on a regular basis ??? mainling list ?
<airurando> thanks moylan
<airurando> Carles-091labs mailing list and here on IRC
<airurando> are you on the mailing list?
<infoturtle> Carles-091labs
<Carles-091labs> ok. I send a request to join the mailing list earlier
<infoturtle> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ie
<ebel> Carles-091labs: mailing lsit or this channel
<infoturtle> lol, link fail
<Carles-091labs> ok.. I'll be in touch
<airurando> cool
<infoturtle> nice to meet you Carles-091labs
<airurando> moylan we can only give the pool till the first of the month
<airurando> *poll
<moylan> airurando: understood
<airurando> great and thanks
<airurando> [ACTION] moylan to generate a doodle poll to decide on the location for the August geeknic
<MootBot> ACTION received: moylan to generate a doodle poll to decide on the location for the August geeknic
<airurando> anything else on this
<infoturtle> nope
<airurando> moylan locations where food can be purchased would be good
<airurando> ok
<airurando> moving on
<airurando> [TOPIC] Any other business
<MootBot> New Topic: Any other business
<moylan> i was going to list the last few places were geeknics were held, stephens green, peoples park, phoenix park. etc and hopefully someone will email other suggestions.
<tdr112> nope
<infoturtle> I've one bit that not realy important
<airurando> shoot infoturtle
<airurando> moylan sounds good
<infoturtle> I've 3/4 of the stack of CD's airurando gave me, of 11.04 live CD's, if anyone needs any I'll be happy to post them if yer short
<infoturtle> I missed the geeknic cause of a death so never got to pass em out
* airurando also has 30 or so CDs
<airurando> infoturtle I brought some along
<airurando> ok
<airurando> just want to acknowledge our reapproval
<airurando> [TOPIC] The successful reapproval effort of our loCo Team
<MootBot> New Topic: The successful reapproval effort of our loCo Team
<airurando> It was great to see that our efforts in terms of hosting events and other matters were well received by the LoCo Council.
<airurando> Onwards and Upwards
<airurando> :)
<airurando> still smiling....
<airurando> [TOPIC] Date for next meeting
<MootBot> New Topic: Date for next meeting
<airurando> The third Wednesday in August will fall on the 17th of the month.
<airurando> Any objections to that being the date for the next meeting?
<infoturtle> nope, I'm down with that
<moylan> works for me
<airurando> [AGREED] The monthly teamIRC meeting for August will take place on 17 Aug 11.
<MootBot> AGREED received: The monthly teamIRC meeting for August will take place on 17 Aug 11.
<airurando> does anyone have anything else?
<airurando> going once
<airurando> going twice
<infoturtle> a buck!
<airurando> ha ha
<airurando> gone
<infoturtle> woo hoo, I win!
<airurando> thanks all for attending and participating.
<airurando> endmeeting
<airurando> whoops
<airurando> #endmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting finished at 15:16.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
