{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

  
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~barrysmythdublin | Barry Smyth]]</nowiki> has kicked off a project for the Irish Team. The profile of the day is an initiative to encourage members of the Irish team to get to know each other more. For more details see <nowiki>[[ http:--www.lczajkowski.com-2010-07-18-profile-of-the-day-  | here]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/ProfileOfTheDay |and over here]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/czajkowski | Laura Czajkowski ]]</nowiki>, a member of our loco headed off to Leeds to give a great talk on Ubuntu Women. Write up <nowiki>[[ http:--www.lczajkowski.com-2010-07-14-national-clc-conference-leeds- | here ]]</nowiki>.

* We held a Geeknic on the Sunday 18th of July in the <nowiki>[[ http:--www.openstreetmap.org-?mlat=53.29015&mlon=-6.12834&zoom=15&layers=B000FTF | Peoples Park, Dun Laoghaire ]]</nowiki>. It was a great day , the rain stayed off for a few hours. A nice write up can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/07/22/dun-laoghaire-july-geeknic/ | here ]]</nowiki> with some <nowiki>[[http://pix.ie/czajkowski/album/383074 | photos]]</nowiki>.
  
* Regular <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-07-21|Monthly IRC Meeting]]</nowiki> was held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 21st July 2010.
 
* We had a great <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour| Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> on the 28th of July at 6pm  at the <nowiki>[[http://www.trinitycapitalhotel.com/ | Trinity Capital Hotel bar]]</nowiki>. 

* We had our first <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour| Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> in Limerick  on the 29th July at 6pm  at the Absolute Hotel.<nowiki>[[http://www.lczajkowski.com/2010/07/30/limerick-ubuntu-hour-a-success/ | Write up]]</nowiki>

* Planing is under way for a Bug Jam we will be holding next month as part of Globe Jam.
 
