{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-ie April 2012 Team IRC Meeting ==

This Ubuntu Ireland Team IRC meeting was held at 9pm Irish time on Wednesday the 18^th^ of April 2012, in the #ubuntu-ie channel on FreeNode.

 Note: The LoCo Team Portal listing for this meeting can be found <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-meetings-team-382-detail | here ]]</nowiki>

Meeting started by ebel at 20:06:35 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-ie/2012/ubuntu-ie.2012-04-18-20.06.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/382/detail/   (ebel, 20:08:41)
* CDs for new release
''ACTION:'' ebel to order cds this evening  (ebel, 20:11:24)

* 12.04 release party

* CD distribution

* Any Other Business?

* site update
''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ie/1684/detail/   (airurando, 20:51:24)
''LINK:'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ie/1684/detail/   (airurando, 20:51:30)
''LINK:'' http://oggcamp.org/   (tdr112, 20:55:20)

Meeting ended at 21:00:55 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* bull and castle for release party
   For: 1 Against: 0 Abstained: 3

=== Action items ===

* ebel to order cds this evening

=== Action items, by person ===

* ebel
* * ebel to order cds this evening

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ebel (85)
* airurando (44)
* mokmeister (26)
* tdr112 (22)
* slashtommy (19)
* andru183 (18)
* zmoylan (13)
* meetingology (12)
* Victor9098 (10)
* imgarysmith (7)
* czajkowski (6)

=== Full Log ===

 20:06:35 <ebel> #startmeeting

 20:06:35 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Apr 18 20:06:35 2012 UTC.  The chair is ebel. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:06:35 <meetingology> 

 20:06:35 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:06:46 <ebel> we'll wait a few mins in case others turn up

 20:06:59 <ebel> please say PRESENT if you're here and paying attention

 20:07:00 <ebel> PRESENT

 20:07:01 <tdr112> ok

 20:07:11 <mokmeister> PRESENT

 20:07:20 <airurando> PRESENT

 20:07:21 <imgarysmith> present

 20:07:36 <Victor9098> Present

 20:07:40 <zmoylan> present

 20:08:04 <ebel> :)

 20:08:09 <tdr112> prsemt

 20:08:28 <ebel> the agenda for this meeting is here http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/382/detail/

 20:08:41 <ebel> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-ie/382/detail/

 20:09:03 <ebel> there isn't really much on agenda, bar new release stuff

 20:09:13 <ebel> so first topic is "review"

 20:09:55 <ebel> which is just about release party, i'll move that around

 20:09:58 <ebel> and move to

 20:10:09 <ebel> #topic CDs for new release

 20:10:20 <ebel> I just remembered about that now.

 20:10:26 <ebel> I haven't ordered them yet for our loco

 20:10:38 <ebel> I'll do that this evening (after meeting)

 20:11:04 <ebel> then we'll get ~250 professionally pressed CDs of the new release from canonical

 20:11:08 <airurando> action yourself ;)

 20:11:10 <mokmeister> What's the story there? I thought the ISO was 750MB or so? DVD rather CD methinks

 20:11:24 <ebel> #action ebel to order cds this evening

 20:11:24 * meetingology ebel to order cds this evening

 20:11:43 <Victor9098> I saw that the store has them for individual purchase to (5 for Â£5) Its a CD sized iso

 20:11:51 <mokmeister> ok

 20:11:56 <ebel> mokmeister: not sure. but I do recall there being an order page for this release, so presume there is *some* discs

 20:12:14 <ebel> (when i say CD I mean 'optical disk' which might include DVD :) )

 20:12:23 <Victor9098> ;)

 20:12:30 <mokmeister> :)

 20:13:00 <ebel> any Questionss on CDs?

 20:13:33 <tdr112> nope

 20:13:49 <mokmeister> not any more! ;)

 20:13:49 <airurando> no

 20:14:04 <imgarysmith> I was supposed to get cds on the last round and never did

 20:14:06 <zmoylan> no, don't even have an optical drive at the mo

 20:14:14 <imgarysmith> for my college

 20:14:37 <ebel> related to that we need to talk about distribution, but I wanna get onto the release party since we have more concrete ideas

 20:14:48 <ebel> imgarysmith: ah yes, you never got back to me after XMas

 20:15:30 <airurando> imgarysmith: you need to keep prodding ebel to get results

 20:15:45 <ebel> Sorry for any mix-up

 20:15:48 <imgarysmith> i emailed a few times

 20:16:11 <imgarysmith> are there any more laying around, networking lecturer needs a few

 20:16:37 <ebel> I sent lots of emails to lots of people about CDs and didn't get replies from lots of people, the interest seemed much lower this round

 20:16:55 <ebel> No more CDs leftâ€¦ (threw the last few in the bin ~2 weeks ago)

 20:17:24 <ebel> hmmm.... I don't have any emails after 20th December 2011 from you imgarysmith...

 20:17:30 <airurando> I think 12.04 will be alot more appealing

 20:18:11 <andru183> hey guys, did I miss the meeting?

 20:18:17 <ebel> andru183: no, still going on

 20:18:28 <imgarysmith> oh okay, ill just wait a few weeks

 20:18:34 <imgarysmith> hey andru

 20:18:35 <ebel> imgarysmith: sorry for any mix up, i'll be sure to set some aside for you this time.

 20:18:35 <mokmeister> lts is always more appealing really

 20:18:36 <andru183> huzzar, then hello all

 20:18:50 <mokmeister> hi andru183

 20:18:53 <ebel> so, release party

 20:18:59 <ebel> #topic 12.04 release party

 20:19:09 <airurando> hi andru183

 20:19:19 <andru183> hi airurando, didn't know this was on

 20:19:40 <airurando> not many suggestions from the mailing list

 20:19:47 <ebel> there's been a few emails on the mailing list w.r.t. release party.

 20:20:39 <mokmeister> My son's communion is on the 28th, so I'll be doing a joint celebration! :)

 20:21:02 <Victor9098> There are too many suggestions ;)

 20:21:02 <Victor9098> The April 29th option of meeting on the Sunday, would that net the most people?

 20:21:46 <tdr112> i think if its an evening meetup it has to be onnthe sat

 20:21:54 <ebel> tdr112: agreed

 20:22:11 <ebel> w/end of apr 28/29 was prefered date.

 20:22:17 <airurando> I have a pref for the Sat evening also

 20:22:20 <slashtommy> i like airurando's idea of a pub meet in town

 20:22:32 <ebel> location is either (a) pub (no food), (b) geeknic in dun laoghaire

 20:22:35 <zmoylan> sat the pubs would be more busy?

 20:23:11 <tdr112> save the geeknic for the summer

 20:23:15 <slashtommy> not all, avoid places with a DJ or lots of tourists

 20:23:25 <ebel> How about we go for the idea of pub meet on Sat. 28th April?

 20:23:31 <Victor9098> tdr112: +1

 20:23:31 <slashtommy> aye

 20:23:40 <ebel> which is Saturday Week

 20:23:43 <airurando> yip

 20:23:55 <ebel> right, pub suggestions?

 20:24:09 <airurando> lots of pub suggestions at last meeting

 20:24:18 <slashtommy> brewdock?

 20:24:30 <mokmeister> Costellos ;)

 20:24:39 <slashtommy> or black sheep

 20:24:40 <tdr112> bull and castle

 20:24:44 <slashtommy> on capel street

 20:24:53 * ebel really should look at minutes/logs before a meeting

 20:24:54 <slashtommy> bull and castle have a DJ at weekends

 20:25:08 <slashtommy> where is costellos?

 20:25:26 <mokmeister> Limerick. ;)

 20:25:45 <tdr112> how about put all of these in a poll and end the poll on friday night

 20:25:47 <slashtommy> the black sheep on capel street, has craft beer, no DJ, no loud music

 20:25:58 <ebel> ok, we'll do dublin release party first, then limerick

 20:25:59 <zmoylan> sounds optimal

 20:26:07 <ebel> tdr112: ok

 20:26:20 <ebel> i'll set that up and email list with results

 20:26:33 <airurando> I say skip the poll and decide now

 20:26:43 <airurando> just 2 weeks to got

 20:26:44 <slashtommy> yes

 20:26:46 <zmoylan> saves time

 20:26:48 <airurando> time is short

 20:26:50 <ebel> #vote

 20:26:50 <meetingology> Please vote on:

 20:26:50 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:26:51 * slashtommy agrees

 20:27:03 <ebel> er

 20:27:08 * slashtommy proposes Black Sheep, Capel street

 20:27:17 <andru183> +0

 20:27:21 <zmoylan> +1

 20:27:26 <airurando> +1

 20:27:37 <ebel> +1

 20:28:00 <ebel> #vote bull and castle for release party

 20:28:00 <meetingology> Please vote on: bull and castle for release party

 20:28:00 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:28:06 <ebel> +1

 20:28:06 <meetingology> +1 received from ebel

 20:28:15 <zmoylan> +0

 20:28:15 <meetingology> +0 received from zmoylan

 20:28:15 <ebel> (i don't mind either)

 20:28:25 <tdr112> +0

 20:28:25 <meetingology> +0 received from tdr112

 20:28:46 <andru183> +0 I wont be going so I shouldn't say

 20:28:46 <meetingology> +0 I wont be going so I shouldn't say received from andru183

 20:29:04 <slashtommy> 8pm?

 20:29:11 <ebel> black sheep seems to win

 20:29:19 <ebel> any objections to me calling it?

 20:29:31 <zmoylan> nope

 20:29:32 <tdr112> go for it

 20:29:36 <airurando> no

 20:30:09 <ebel> grand 8pm black sheep capel street.

 20:30:20 <ebel> (tis on the north end of capel st.)

 20:30:27 <airurando> yay!

 20:30:37 <slashtommy> next to republican sinn fein

 20:30:38 <ebel> mokmeister: so there'll be a limerick release party?

 20:30:58 <andru183> I was going to pass the idea around skynet but forgot

 20:31:08 <airurando> mokmeister andru183 do tell!

 20:31:09 <mokmeister> I don't know really

 20:31:29 <andru183> airurando I didn't say it to em, I forgot to

 20:31:38 <mokmeister> Like I said, the young fella's communion is on that ,so I'll be pretty tied up.

 20:31:47 <mokmeister> *day*

 20:31:59 <andru183> I can't do that weekend for a release party, have a wedding and the design jam

 20:32:05 <mokmeister> might be available in the evening, we'll see.

 20:32:06 <airurando> aye mokmeister

 20:32:27 <airurando> mokmeister if I was you I'd stay put

 20:33:14 <mokmeister> My son will end up in Counselling in years to come if I abandon him on his communion.... ;)

 20:33:22 <airurando> :)

 20:33:45 <ebel> feel free to send emails around, tweets etc. if you wanna let people know

 20:33:48 <zmoylan> whereas the traditional method is to completely embarrass them :-)

 20:33:50 <ebel> (If you're doing anything)]

 20:34:07 <mokmeister> lol

 20:34:23 <Victor9098> As soon as the event details page is up we can share it around

 20:34:23 <airurando> ebel I'll set it up on the LTP

 20:34:39 <ebel> airurando: cool

 20:34:57 <ebel> #agreed 8pm black sheep, capel st. Dublin Ubuntu 12.04 release party

 20:35:08 <airurando> cool

 20:35:19 <ebel> #agreed maaaaaybe limerick release party

 20:35:24 <zmoylan> on sa tapr 28

 20:35:28 <zmoylan> *sat

 20:35:34 <airurando> what kind of place is it?

 20:35:39 <ebel> airurando: craft beer pub

 20:35:49 <mokmeister> yum

 20:35:57 <zmoylan> tweeting now...

 20:35:59 <ebel> releated to that

 20:36:00 <slashtommy> with no dj or loud music

 20:36:04 <ebel> #topic CD distribution

 20:36:12 <ebel> When we get CDs we should give them around

 20:36:19 <ebel> we've had mixed succeass

 20:36:21 <slashtommy> and no TV's

 20:36:33 <airurando> slashtommy sounds great

 20:36:34 * slashtommy will not need the TV-B-Gone

 20:36:54 <ebel> I'll send an email around to the mailing list to see who 'comes out of the woodwork' and wants CDs

 20:37:01 <airurando> I consider the next lot of

 20:37:08 <airurando> CDs special

 20:37:25 <tdr112> lts

 20:37:27 <ebel> previously I've posted them out.

 20:37:49 <airurando> these LTS releases are what we should be promoting to the general populus

 20:37:51 <ebel> uptake was low last time (and I was delayed getting back to people)

 20:38:00 <tdr112> costs ebel too much

 20:38:08 <ebel> so: Ideas for CD distributionâ€¦. go!

 20:38:26 <mokmeister> I agree with airurando, lts' are where it's at really

 20:38:35 <airurando> I don't think we have to distribute them all in 6 months

 20:38:42 <mokmeister> especially with this one, support for 5 years and all

 20:38:45 <czajkowski> how about people mail you a self addressed envelope

 20:38:50 <czajkowski> and you can then post it to them

 20:38:50 <slashtommy> ubuntu hour after we receive them

 20:38:55 <czajkowski> that works for lots of teams

 20:38:58 <airurando> these should be promoted as stable LTS

 20:39:01 <slashtommy> many people will be able to collect

 20:39:02 <ebel> czajkowski: good idea

 20:40:06 <ebel> think I requested SAEs from people last time and didn't hear anything in some cases â˜¹

 20:40:07 <airurando> highlight the 'stable' 'LTS' attributes in the mails

 20:40:11 <ebel> but I'll try it again

 20:40:15 <andru183> postings works for me too and I'm not up in Dublin often

 20:41:27 <mokmeister> I'm up in Dublin the last Wednesday of every month (mostly) so I could always collect them and bring them down to Limerick?

 20:41:35 <Victor9098> What about just passing out a few to those who come along to the Ubuntu Hour's and then let them pass on to those they know/think are interested. Can always 'hit-up' for more in the future?

 20:41:39 <ebel> So we can take our time with how to decide how and when to send out CDs

 20:41:52 <ebel> Victor9098: yep that's what we sometimes do

 20:41:58 <ebel> mokmeister: cool!

 20:42:02 <airurando> ebel I think so

 20:42:06 <andru183> mokmeister that could work too

 20:42:38 <mokmeister> cool

 20:43:19 <ebel> So I'll send emails to mailing list to see what people say, who wants CDs etc.

 20:43:48 <tdr112> cool

 20:43:51 <Victor9098> Either way I know I am going to be gettign texts for about a dozen family and friends on the 26th about a big 'upgrade' notice on their screens :D

 20:43:56 <mokmeister> sounds good

 20:44:31 <ebel> cool

 20:45:45 <mokmeister> would you get the upgrade notice if you were on 10.04? I think you would

 20:46:01 <Victor9098> You should since its an LTS

 20:46:08 <mokmeister> indeed

 20:47:36 <ebel> #topic Any Other Business?

 20:47:59 <andru183> just an update on the new site

 20:48:03 <airurando> limerick happy hour?

 20:48:18 <andru183> happy hour?

 20:48:34 <airurando> give the update first

 20:49:01 <ebel> #topic site update

 20:49:28 <andru183> ok, just wanted to say I haven't done more more with the site but have been doing some CSS with it and should have it done the week after exams

 20:49:38 <andru183> so about 3 or 4 weeks it should be up

 20:50:10 <airurando> thanks for keeping it going andru183

 20:50:14 <ebel> okie doke, thanks for doing it

 20:50:20 <andru183> no prob

 20:51:12 <andru183> now, about this happy hour??

 20:51:24 <airurando> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ie/1684/detail/

 20:51:30 <airurando> #link http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-ie/1684/detail/

 20:51:44 <airurando> czajkowski set it up

 20:52:06 <mokmeister> lol!

 20:52:10 <andru183> ah, cool, didn't see it

 20:52:13 <airurando> tomorrow night for those in the south west

 20:52:30 <andru183> I'll try make it and will let people know about it

 20:52:32 <ebel> cool

 20:52:41 <mokmeister> I saw it on the mailing list, I'm in Cork tomorrow, if I'm back early enough I'll head along

 20:52:42 <airurando> should be a good night

 20:52:42 <ebel> saw mentions on mailing list

 20:52:58 <ebel> have fun ye lot

 20:53:00 <ebel> take photos etc.

 20:53:12 <airurando> yes photos please

 20:53:36 <tdr112> ebel: we know cztab will

 20:53:45 <ebel> :) true

 20:53:48 <ebel> # AOB?

 20:54:20 <tdr112> anyone gping to oggcamp

 20:54:24 <airurando> all done here

 20:54:38 <tdr112> in the uk

 20:55:16 <airurando> lucky you tdr112

 20:55:20 <tdr112> http://oggcamp.org/

 20:55:35 <tdr112> during the summer

 20:55:46 <zmoylan> shanem i think is going

 20:56:19 <tdr112> i have booked flights

 20:56:33 <airurando> czajkowski is one of the organisers

 20:56:36 <czajkowski> yup

 20:56:39 <tdr112> so if anyone is going let me know

 20:56:42 <czajkowski> and also there is another event on in october

 20:56:48 <czajkowski> 6/7 in limerick

 20:57:00 <tdr112> i have a spare bes free in my room

 20:57:21 <tdr112> * bed

 21:00:21 <airurando> ebel ?

 21:00:43 <tdr112> ok thats all from me

 21:00:49 <ebel> oh yeah

 21:00:55 <ebel> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
