{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The monthly Ubuntu Ireland IRC meeting was held at 8pm Irish time on Wednesday 21st July 2010, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode.

=== Attendance ===
People Present:

   1. czajkowski
   2. tdr112
   3. airurando
   4. felimwhiteley
   5. scivi

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Global Jam
| ebel
|-
| Scheduling the Monthly IRC meetings
| airurando
|-
| Ideas for Ubuntu Hour
| airurando
|-
| Adding events to the LD
| czajkowski
|}

=== Minutes ===
<pre>
Meeting started by tdr112 at 14:12
14:14:02 	LINK 	tdr112 	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-07-21
14:15:17 	Topic: Adding events to the LD
14:16:50 	LINK 	czajkowski 	http://loco.ubuntu.com/
14:17:41 	LINK 	czajkowski 	http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ie
14:21:00 	LINK 	czajkowski 	http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/202/detail/
14:22:43 	ACTION 	tdr112 	airurando update the LD with all events that are created for the irish team
14:25:24 	AGREED 	tdr112 	link to ld , in any event emails, blog posts ,
14:26:50 	ACTION 	tdr112 	czajkowski to email list about linking to ld
14:27:11 	ACTION 	tdr112 	airurando to email list about linking to ld
14:27:54 	Topic: Ideas for Ubuntu Hour
14:38:56 	ACTION 	tdr112 	tdr to email the list about talk at the next ubunut hour
14:39:38 	Topic: Scheduling the Monthly IRC meetings
14:48:03 	AGREED 	tdr112 	irc meeting to take place on the 3rd Saturday
14:49:25 	AGREED 	tdr112 	irc meeting to take place on the 3rd Wednesday
14:50:55 	ACTION 	tdr112 	tdr will show airurando how to make wiki page for an irc meeting
14:56:02 	ACTION 	tdr112 	airurando email list about next meeting
14:56:25 	ACTION 	tdr112 	airurando to email list about next meeting
14:57:44 	Topic: Global Jam
14:58:14 	LINK 	czajkowski 	http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/195/detail/
15:11:29 	LINK 	tdr112 	http://www.tog.ie/location/
15:21:05 	ACTION 	tdr112 	tdr to find out if TOG can be used for bug jam
15:22:44 	Topic: AOB
15:23:41 	Topic: MEMBERSHIP
Meeting ended at 15:26.

</pre>
=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| MEMBERSHIP
| czajkowski
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
<pre>
14:12:12] <czajkowski> \0/
[14:12:51] <tdr112> Link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-07-21
[14:13:03] <tdr112> #Link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-07-21
[14:13:12] <czajkowski> [ ink]
[14:13:20] <czajkowski> well spelt correctly
[14:14:02] <tdr112> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-07-21
[14:14:33] <tdr112> there is Agenda
[14:14:44] <czajkowski> lovely thanks tdr112
[14:15:00] <czajkowski> how about we work from the bottom up till ebel arrives
[14:15:17] <tdr112> [TOPIC] Adding events to the LD
[14:15:18] <airurando> fine by me
[14:15:29] <tdr112> go ahead czajkowski
[14:15:36] <airurando> should we call for Present?
[14:15:41] <czajkowski> ok I've added this as well all of our events should be lised on the LD - namely for two reasons
[14:16:00] <czajkowski> 1 have them all in once place which will make our lives a lot easier for re approvel next year and for who ever is doing it
[14:16:15] <czajkowski> 2 just to have them all in one place like the other teams
[14:16:50] <czajkowski> [link] http://loco.ubuntu.com/
[14:16:52] <tdr112> to be fair i have not done this , I should have done it when I sent the email to the mailing list
[14:17:09] <czajkowski> the above link si the ld for those who are not sure about it
[14:17:41] <czajkowski> [link]http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ie
[14:17:52] <czajkowski> this is the irish team page where we can list all of our event s
[14:18:01] <airurando> I agree we should use the LoCo directory as the central resource for listing events.
[14:18:20] <czajkowski> it;s also a gret way to get ppl to register as it'll help us when planning events so we know how many are coming and who to look out for
[14:18:52] <czajkowski> ok so can we [action] all events to be added to the Ld in future and explain to team members to signed up when attending ?
[14:19:32] <czajkowski> thoughts?
[14:19:35] <airurando> yes I'll take that actiom
[14:19:37] <czajkowski> paultag: aloha!
[14:19:50] <paultag> howdy
[14:19:57] <tdr112> so in future , when we post stuff on the web we should link to the LD
[14:20:07] <tdr112> web site
[14:20:25] <airurando> to date we have only a few people signing up for events on the loco dir
[14:20:29] <czajkowski> tdr112: yup so if you like one person do web and [action] airurando to update the ld with events
[14:20:29] <tdr112> can you link to events on the ld
[14:20:43] <czajkowski> tdr112: what do you mean
[14:21:00] <czajkowski> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/202/detail/
[14:21:02] <czajkowski> ther is an event
[14:21:34] <tdr112> czajkowski: thats fine , i was wonder if it was a direct link
[14:21:46] <czajkowski> gotcha
[14:22:05] <czajkowski> [action] airurando update the LD with all events that are created for the irish team
[14:22:20] <czajkowski> bah tdr112 can yu copy the above line
[14:22:43] <tdr112> [ACTION] airurando update the LD with all events that are created for the irish team
[14:22:58] <airurando> will do
[14:23:07] <tdr112> any other comments ?
[14:23:16] <tdr112> on this topic
[14:23:28] <czajkowski> nope not from me
[14:23:33] <airurando> how do we get better uptake for loco dir sign ins
[14:23:58] <czajkowski> airurando: I guess when we start to mail folks wth our events and link to it, explaining they need to log in and sign up
[14:24:05] <czajkowski> by saying yes no maybe attending
[14:24:05] <tdr112> I think i link in any emails , blog post , web site , stuff to the LD woulod help
[14:24:08] <czajkowski> and if they are brining folks
[14:24:22] <tdr112> for events
[14:24:35] <airurando> ok, sounds good
[14:25:24] <tdr112> [AGREED] link to ld , in any event emails, blog posts ,
[14:26:23] <airurando> I'll send a mail to the list about this.
[14:26:50] <tdr112> [ACTION] czajkowski to email list about linking to ld
[14:27:11] <tdr112> [ACTION] airurando to email list about linking to ld
[14:27:19] <czajkowski> grand job
[14:27:37] <czajkowski> felimwhiteley: welcome
[14:27:54] <tdr112> [TOPIC] Ideas for Ubuntu Hour
[14:28:08] * tdr112 hands mic over to airurando
[14:28:18] <felimwhiteley> czajkowski: I'm afriad with current server fail occuring at clients hosting site I'm only vaguely looking in :'(
[14:28:27] <airurando> Thanks
[14:28:57] <airurando> I thought the talk that czajkowski gave about the loco directory at the end of May (I think) was real informative and promoted a vibrant discussion. I really enjoy attending the Ubuntu Hours and thoroughly enjoy the diverse discussions that take place.
[14:29:08] <airurando> Would it be worth while for us to decide on a topic of the day for each hour?
[14:29:16] <czajkowski> oh nice idea
[14:29:21] <airurando> Not to replace the current format just to add a specific topic for discussion at some point during the 3 hours where people could give some thought to the topic before attending.
[14:29:26] <czajkowski> keep it informal but it'd be nice to generate a discssion
[14:29:34] <airurando> This 'hot topic' or 'topic of the day' or whatever, could also be used to promote Ubuntu Hour as some folks may come along if that topic is of interest to them.
[14:29:40] <tdr112> airurando: so mini talks or more informal chats ?
[14:29:45] <airurando> The format could be round table discussion or a talk followed by discussion.
[14:30:11] <airurando> tdr112 format is open for discussion.
[14:30:20] <airurando> Thoughts anyone?
[14:30:47] <tdr112> a mini talk / demo followed by discussion would be nice
[14:30:57] <airurando> yip
[14:31:09] <scivi> talk followed by discussion nice for me as im new here id like 2 be able to know wtf is going on
[14:31:23] <scivi> ?is wtf allowed btw
[14:31:47] <czajkowski> scivi: yup
[14:32:04] <tdr112> scivi: read the !coc
[14:33:05] <tdr112> scivi: we try and keep it family friendly
[14:33:37] <tdr112> airurando: how would you pick the toipic and get people to talk
[14:33:37] <scivi> ill be good :)
[14:33:59] <czajkowski> well topics such as well Ubuntu Membership
[14:34:06] <czajkowski> or how to get involved would be nice
[14:34:11] <czajkowski> and they also generate discussion
[14:34:44] <airurando> tdr112: I'd suggest either it becomes an agenda item for the monthly irc meeting or is picked at each ubuntu hour for the next one.
[14:34:54] <tdr112> what about emailing the list say a week before asking for someone to do it
[14:35:03] <czajkowski> aye as yu want someone there
[14:35:10] <czajkowski> who can kick it off as well
[14:35:20] <tdr112> airurando: the irc meeting might be a bit too far away from the ubuntu hour
[14:36:13] <airurando> tdr112 possibly but if it is to be used to promote ubuntu hour significant advance notice will be necessary
[14:36:13] <tdr112> airurando: what do you think put it in an email or at the irc meeting ?
[14:36:27] <tdr112> airurando: that is true
[14:36:55] <airurando> maybe it is something that could be decided at each ubuntu hour.
[14:37:19] <airurando> If someone had an idea for the next they can suggest it.
[14:37:53] <tdr112> how about i email the list and ask if anyone would like to give a mini talk next ubuntu hour
[14:37:58] <czajkowski> sure
[14:38:01] <czajkowski> sounds good
[14:38:37] <airurando> goo idea and future plans can be discussed further at the next UH.
[14:38:49] <airurando> *good
[14:38:56] <tdr112> [ACTION] tdr to email the list about talk at the next ubunut hour
[14:39:12] <tdr112> any other comments
[14:39:28] <airurando> not here
[14:39:30] <czajkowski> nope
[14:39:38] <tdr112> [TOPIC] Scheduling the Monthly IRC meetings
[14:39:52] <airurando> Thanks
[14:39:56] <tdr112> airurando: again
[14:40:07] <airurando> The current system where people ask ebel during the first half of each month when the next meeting will be seems inefficient and puts some pressure on ebel.
[14:40:22] <airurando> I was wondering whether or not we could schedule the next IRC meeting as a standing agenda item at each meeting.
[14:40:30] <airurando> If this was done then the IRC topic could be changed at the end of each meeting to show when the next one will be thus giving as much advance notice as possible.
[14:40:38] <airurando> Of course circumstances may force a change of date occasionally but these could be handled on a case by case basis. More often than not I suspect the agreed date would stand.
[14:40:50] <tdr112> that is a great idea
[14:40:56] <airurando> thoughts?
[14:40:56] <czajkowski> I always assumed it was the 3rd week of the month
[14:41:16] <czajkowski> just it was left to ebel to create the wiki page and poke someone to update the irc
[14:41:33] <czajkowski> it's usually the 3rd Wednesday of the month
[14:41:40] <czajkowski> we used to have it on a Sunday and found it wasn't working
[14:41:51] <airurando> czajkowski I didn't know that and thought it was second or third wednesday
[14:42:17] <czajkowski> just looking back... it looks like that as well
[14:42:20] <airurando> if it is clearly defined as the 3rd that would be fine.
[14:42:24] <czajkowski> but maybe we should write it somewhere
[14:42:27] <czajkowski> so folks know ?
[14:42:31] <czajkowski> possibly on the meetings page
[14:42:54] <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings
[14:43:04] <airurando> need to get IRC topic updated sooner also
[14:43:09] <czajkowski> update there to say 3rd Wednesday of the month @ 8pm and the enter in the next meeting date
[14:44:11] <tdr112> i like the idea of setting the date for the next meeting at the current meeting
[14:44:11] <airurando> I'd like to hear ebels views on this before deciding
[14:44:25] <czajkowski> I can update the wiki now to that effect so
[14:44:59] <airurando> I agree czajkowski. hope it's ok with everyone.
[14:45:50] <tdr112> so what are we saying
[14:46:27] <scivi> we are saying Each month we have an IRC meeting taking place on the 3rd Wednesday of the month at 8pm
[14:46:53] <czajkowski> yes
[14:47:09] <airurando> yes
[14:48:03] <tdr112> [AGREED] irc meeting to take place on the 3rd Saturday
[14:48:15] <airurando> wednesday
[14:48:42] <tdr112> so what about making the wiki page for the next meeting on the night of the current meeting
[14:49:09] <airurando> tdr112: 3rd wednesday
[14:49:12] <czajkowski> all depends on the level of work the chair has on , or unless someone wants to take on that role
[14:49:14] <airurando> not saturday
[14:49:25] <tdr112> [AGREED] irc meeting to take place on the 3rd Wednesday
[14:49:36] <airurando> could be delegated on the night
[14:49:51] <tdr112> czajkowski: want to do it tonight ?
[14:50:24] <airurando> I'd like for someone to show me how to do it at Ubuntu Hour
[14:50:55] <tdr112> [ACTION] tdr will show airurando how to make wiki page for an irc meeting
[14:50:55] <czajkowski> tdr112: sure
[14:51:16] <airurando> thanks tdr112
[14:51:25] <tdr112> czajkowski: you can next month
[14:51:31] <scivi> can i ask. why not use the http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/202/detail/ page instead
[14:52:16] <czajkowski> tdr112: done https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2010-08-18
[14:52:22] <airurando> scivi: the wiki establishes the agenda and keeps a record of the minutes
[14:52:30] <scivi> ahh ok
[14:52:46] <airurando> :)
[14:53:25] <tdr112> scivi: we use the wiki for long term doc storage
[14:53:36] <tdr112> any of words
[14:53:36] <airurando> by keeps a record of the minutesI mean a record of the minutes is added for the record
[14:54:21] <czajkowski> and we copy in the logs and decisions from the meeting
[14:54:27] <czajkowski> so for people who cannot make it they can see
[14:55:06] <airurando> I'll send the mail to the list about the next meeting.
[14:55:30] <airurando> Reminder should go out a week or so before.
[14:55:34] <czajkowski> airurando: wiki page is created
[14:55:58] <airurando> czajkowski thanks I'll link yo it in the mail
[14:56:02] <tdr112> [ACTION] airurando email list about next meeting
[14:56:06] <airurando> *to
[14:56:25] <tdr112> [ACTION] airurando to email list about next meeting
[14:56:44] <airurando> will do
[14:56:50] <tdr112> any other comments on this topic
[14:57:03] <airurando> not here
[14:57:05] <czajkowski> nope all good
[14:57:44] <tdr112> [TOPIC] Global Jam
[14:57:57] <tdr112> any have a link for the event
[14:58:03] <tdr112> anyone
[14:58:14] <czajkowski> [link] http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/195/detail/
[14:59:18] <tdr112> czajkowski: could you give a little intro about it
[15:00:28] <czajkowski> yup
[15:00:37] <czajkowski> so gloabl jame is a global event
[15:00:48] <czajkowski> that take places all over one weekend for all teams
[15:00:57] <czajkowski> you can work on bugs, documetnation, translations
[15:01:00] <czajkowski> or triaging
[15:01:14] <czajkowski> you work on Ubuntu and help clean up some areas
[15:01:24] <czajkowski> the idea is your loco is helping ubuntu
[15:01:49] <czajkowski> any questions ?
[15:02:08] <scivi> a few
[15:02:12] <czajkowski> ok
[15:02:18] <czajkowski> I'll try to answer tem
[15:02:19] <czajkowski> *them
[15:02:55] <scivi> which types of actions do people here normaly do do you split into working groups or work solo and just get together on irc
[15:03:13] <czajkowski> we've met in person twce to this
[15:03:25] <czajkowski> the last time we broke into groups however we didn't get a lot done
[15:03:36] <czajkowski> the next day I worked with 2-3 people on irc tidying up our wiki pages
[15:03:58] <czajkowski> it depends on what you can do really, if you can join a face to face event great
[15:04:02] <czajkowski> if not we are still on IRC
[15:04:20] <scivi> ok great thanks
[15:04:40] <czajkowski> anything else from anyone ?
[15:05:01] <tdr112> So what do people want to do
[15:05:20] <czajkowski> wel I'd like to meet up again
[15:05:24] <czajkowski> have it structured
[15:05:27] <czajkowski> and this time stick to it
[15:05:35] <airurando> I would
[15:05:51] <scivi> meet up souds gd i ave 2 g t dubin tat weeend anyway
[15:06:04] <tdr112> do you think we could do two days
[15:06:16] <scivi> sorry for l88t txtspk
[15:06:23] <tdr112> or one day meet up and the next day irc
[15:06:44] <airurando> either sounds good to me
[15:06:45] <czajkowski> tdr112: I liek that option
[15:07:49] <tdr112> so a big push to get everyone together in person for the saturday , and then sunday helping out on irc
[15:08:02] <airurando> sounds good
[15:08:26] <airurando> any ideas on a venue?
[15:08:28] <tdr112> so location ?
[15:08:37] <czajkowski> Sounds good
[15:10:05] <tdr112> I guess we could use TOG , www.tog.ie ,
[15:10:10] <czajkowski> can we
[15:10:14] <czajkowski> that would be rather useful
[15:10:28] <tdr112> i would have to ask , takes 5 days to know for sure
[15:10:41] <czajkowski> *nods*
[15:10:53] <tdr112> i can put it in tomorrow and let people know
[15:11:29] <tdr112> [LINK] http://www.tog.ie/location/
[15:11:46] <czajkowski> that would be great
[15:11:46] <czajkowski> thank you
[15:11:46] <airurando> tdr112: sounds good. What is the functional capacity of TOG for an event like this?
[15:12:19] <airurando> absolutely brilliant if TOG agrees
[15:12:41] <airurando> tdr112: thanks
[15:13:10] <tdr112> hmm i would say 12 in the classroom , 15 in the common room , 6 in the other room , i would aim to use the classroom and the other 6 person room first and the common room as overflow
[15:13:27] <czajkowski> that'll be loads
[15:13:44] <airurando> sounds perfect
[15:13:56] <nipple3some> #endmeeting
[15:14:49] <airurando> czajkowski: how should the structure on the Jam be decided
[15:15:06] <czajkowski> similar to what I planned
[15:15:09] <czajkowski> logging into launchpad
[15:15:18] <czajkowski> looking at some low hanging bugs
[15:15:21] <czajkowski> so what we can triage
[15:15:27] <czajkowski> and break into groups of 2-3 people
[15:15:28] <tdr112> do you have that handy
[15:16:52] <czajkowski> 1) Explaining about other aspects of Global Jam  Documentation, Translations, Wiki clean up, bug triaging etc.
[15:17:08] <czajkowski> 2) How to log into Launchpad
[15:17:20] <czajkowski> 3) How to log bugs / Triage bugs , Translations
[15:17:27] <czajkowski> 4) how to sign the Code of Conduct
[15:18:36] <czajkowski> that;s it really
[15:19:10] <airurando> tdr112: When/if you get confirmation from TOG could you let me know so I can set event up in LD?
[15:19:30] <tdr112> airurando: yep
[15:19:56] <scivi> gl g2g
[15:21:05] <tdr112> [action] tdr to find out if TOG can be used for bug jam
[15:21:42] <tdr112> this meeting is getting a little long , anything else ? on this topic
[15:21:56] <czajkowski> don't think so nope
[15:21:59] <airurando> not from here anyway
[15:22:14] <czajkowski> once we have a venue I'll drop a mail to the list with schedule and some ideas
[15:22:31] <tdr112> ok
[15:22:39] <airurando> czajkowski: that would be great
[15:22:44] <tdr112> [TOPIC] AOB
[15:22:58] <airurando> not here
[15:23:03] <czajkowski> MEMBERSHIP
[15:23:15] <czajkowski> I'd like to see more folks go or at least look at becoming an ubuntu member
[15:23:25] <czajkowski> so tdr112 airurando if ye need a hand documenting your work
[15:23:30] <czajkowski> or wiki set up please let me know
[15:23:33] <czajkowski> done
[15:23:41] <tdr112> [TOPIC] MEMBERSHIP
[15:23:57] <czajkowski> It'd be nice to have more ubuntu ireland members
[15:24:01] <czajkowski> ther are afew of us
[15:24:06] <tdr112> czajkowski: i will make my page at the bug jam
[15:24:10] <czajkowski> and only some are active
[15:24:15] <czajkowski> tdr112: :D
[15:24:35] <airurando> czajkowski: I seriously don't believe I make the grade yet.
[15:24:49] <airurando> hope to someday
[15:24:51] <czajkowski> that;s just daft
[15:24:52] <czajkowski> you do
[15:24:57] <airurando> soon even :)
[15:25:00] <czajkowski> or at least you make a damn good effort to do so
[15:25:09] <czajkowski> but I'll help anyone
[15:25:34] <airurando> if you think so I'll also make my page at the bug jam
[15:25:41] <czajkowski> ok
[15:25:48] <czajkowski> I'm all done here
[15:25:59] <czajkowski> thanks tdr112 for chairing the meeting
[15:26:02] <tdr112> ok #endmeeting
[15:26:08] <tdr112> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
