{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu Ireland's Monthly IRC meeting was held at 9pm WET on Sunday 1st March 2009 on the IRC Channel #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode

== Attendance ==
There were 6 people at the IRC meeting

* czajkowski
* daxroc
* ebel
* Mean-Machine
* slashtom
* tdr1121

== Agenda ==
The agenda before the meeting was

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Report on Bug Jam Day
| ebel
|-
| TOG - hackerspace for Dublin
| ebel
|-
| Jaunty Jackalope release
| tdr
|-
| LoCo Members Tasks
| mdanielski aka Mean Machine
|}

== Minutes ==

1. We talked about the Global Bug Jam that Ubuntu Ireland ran. It was very successful and was very enjoyable.
  a. czajkowski will write a report for the ubuntu-ie website by Wednesday
  b. ebel will add his photos to the Stories page and write a blog post
2. Talked about the TOG project, which some members of Ubuntu Ireland might be interested in. It's a good resource Ubuntu Ireland could help
3. Talked about release party for Jaunty Jackalope. tdr1121 would like a big party. Mean-Machine suggested a demo session first.
   a. tdr commited to sending an email to the list about venue / idea for a jaunty party
4. There are many LoCo tasks that need to be delegated.
   a. Mean-Machine will send an email to the list about what needs to be done to find volunteers
5. czajkowski remined people about ossbarcamp
6. czajkowski suggested some more minibug jams, possibly on 14th of March.

== Any Other Business ==

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| More Bug Jams
| czajkowski
|-
| ossbarcamp
| czajkowski
|}

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
Mar 01 21:01:33 *	ebel rings the meeting bell to start the meeting
Mar 01 21:01:49 <ebel>	might give it a few mins for people to show up
Mar 01 21:02:03 <Mean-Machine>	sure, give it 5
Mar 01 21:02:14 <czajkowski>	present
Mar 01 21:02:26 <czajkowski>	saying it now in case conection dies
Mar 01 21:02:28 <ebel>	czajkowski: hold you horses there!
Mar 01 21:05:31 <czajkowski>	floppy connection
Mar 01 21:09:06 <Mean-Machine>	ebel, shall we start?
Mar 01 21:09:12 <ebel>	Yes, lets.
Mar 01 21:09:17 *	ebel re-rings the meeting bell
Mar 01 21:09:22 <czajkowski>	heh
Mar 01 21:09:27 *	ebel likes the meeting bell metaphor
Mar 01 21:09:31 <ebel>	Right.
Mar 01 21:09:42 <ebel>	Ubuntu Ireland Monthly IRC Meeting starting
Mar 01 21:09:52 <ebel>	Please type PRESENT so we know who's here
Mar 01 21:09:54 <ebel>	PRESENT
Mar 01 21:09:56 <Mean-Machine>	PRESENT
Mar 01 21:10:06 <ebel>	Just for the record the Wiki page for this meeting is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2009-03-01
Mar 01 21:10:14 <czajkowski>	PRESENT
Mar 01 21:11:10 <Mean-Machine>	the usual suspects :P
Mar 01 21:11:15 <ebel>	:0
Mar 01 21:11:16 <ebel>	:)
Mar 01 21:11:16 <czajkowski>	aye:)
Mar 01 21:11:47 <czajkowski>	so...
Mar 01 21:11:51 <ebel>	OK, so there are a few issue on the agenda
Mar 01 21:12:02 <ebel>	1. "Report of Bug Jam day"
Mar 01 21:12:24 <Mean-Machine>	an official one hasn't been written
Mar 01 21:12:44 <ebel>	Well I used wanted to tell people about what we did.
Mar 01 21:13:04 <ebel>	Basically, I thought it was quite successful.
Mar 01 21:13:17 <ebel>	We had about 10 - 15 people turn up.
Mar 01 21:13:28 <ebel>	DIT were massivly helpful and it was an awesome venue.
Mar 01 21:13:33 <czajkowski>	yes it was. i think we could do more in future. it was a learning experience
Mar 01 21:14:01 <Mean-Machine>	yes and I think the official report should go on www.ubuntu-ie.org
Mar 01 21:14:17 <czajkowski>	*nods*
Mar 01 21:14:21 <Mean-Machine>	Its something we should be proud of
Mar 01 21:14:22 <ebel>	There were a few new faces and a few old hands.
Mar 01 21:14:31 <czajkowski>	very much so
Mar 01 21:14:41 <ebel>	People of all technical abilities were there, and people did all sorts of things
Mar 01 21:14:43 *	daxroc (n=daxroc@86-42-135-118-dynamic.b-ras1.bbh.dublin.eircom.net) has joined #ubuntu-ie
Mar 01 21:14:54 <ebel>	Hiya daxroc, you here for the IRC meeting?
Mar 01 21:14:56 <czajkowski>	if you like i could write something tomorrow evening if that helps?
Mar 01 21:15:14 <Mean-Machine>	czajkowski, of course it helps
Mar 01 21:15:25 <czajkowski>	ok
Mar 01 21:15:28 <daxroc>	yeah,sorry i am late
Mar 01 21:15:34 <czajkowski>	welcome
Mar 01 21:15:40 <ebel>	daxroc: not much late
Mar 01 21:15:41 <Mean-Machine>	daxroc, hiya
Mar 01 21:15:48 <ebel>	daxroc: no worries.
Mar 01 21:15:58 <ebel>	daxroc: we were just talking about the bug jam day.
Mar 01 21:15:58 <daxroc>	What's up peeps :P
Mar 01 21:16:16 <tdr1121>	PRESENT
Mar 01 21:16:18 <tdr1121>	it was a great day
Mar 01 21:16:26 <ebel>	czajkowski: yeah that could be cool. 
Mar 01 21:17:03 <ebel>	I don't think we had any hiccups on the day of the bug jam. The lack of wifi was annoying but cheers to czajkowski for providing a wifi router.
Mar 01 21:17:18 <ebel>	And of course launchpad was down most of the morning, but that couldn't be helped.
Mar 01 21:17:21 *	slashtom configured the thing ;)
Mar 01 21:18:25 <czajkowski>	i shall pen something tomorrow and send to you
Mar 01 21:18:26 <Mean-Machine>	action: czajkowski to write a gbj report for ubuntu-ie.org website by wendesday ???
Mar 01 21:18:29 <ebel>	I think the 5-a-day thing was a bit buggy and didn't track our contributions
Mar 01 21:18:51 <ebel>	Perhaps if that gets sorted out we can have an idea.
Mar 01 21:19:13 <czajkowski>	meanimaction. ok.ebel i thought stats had been rectified
Mar 01 21:19:28 <czajkowski>	sorry for lag folks
Mar 01 21:19:43 <Mean-Machine>	czajkowski, yes, they have been rectified
Mar 01 21:19:58 <ebel>	czajkowski: wiki page or something could be good. (Or if you want you can email it to me and I'll put a wiki page up :) )
Mar 01 21:20:10 <czajkowski>	yup thats what i thought
Mar 01 21:20:43 <Mean-Machine>	how about here -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/GlobalBugJam-February2009
Mar 01 21:21:02 <Mean-Machine>	and then put it up on the website when ready
Mar 01 21:21:09 <ebel>	Mean-Machine: sounds good :)
Mar 01 21:21:29 <czajkowski>	ok
Mar 01 21:21:40 <Mean-Machine>	:-]
Mar 01 21:21:58 <ebel>	There are some photos up
Mar 01 21:22:14 <ebel>	http://www.flickr.com/photos/mean-machine/tags/globalbugjamfebruary09/
Mar 01 21:23:08 <czajkowski>	yup
Mar 01 21:23:21 <ebel>	http://flickr.com/photos/rorymccann/tags/globalbugjamfebruary09/
Mar 01 21:23:37 <czajkowski>	i've some up on twitpic
Mar 01 21:23:44 <czajkowski>	from twitter
Mar 01 21:24:07 <ebel>	oooh cool
Mar 01 21:24:19 <Mean-Machine>	they should all be here -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam/Stories
Mar 01 21:24:39 <Mean-Machine>	ebel, would you add yours?
Mar 01 21:24:45 <ebel>	Yeah, I figure we comine all this stuff together and submit something to this.
Mar 01 21:24:59 <czajkowski>	nods
Mar 01 21:25:24 *	ebel also needs to write a blog post about it aswell
Mar 01 21:26:15 <ebel>	So, we need to collect all that stuff together, photos, blog posts, write blog posts.
Mar 01 21:26:32 <czajkowski>	yes
Mar 01 21:26:53 <ebel>	Add it to the irishteam wiki page, and the ubuntu global stories page
Mar 01 21:27:00 <ebel>	and the ubuntu-ie website aswell
Mar 01 21:28:06 <Mean-Machine>	ubuntu-ie website should have an official report + links to pictures and the bugjam stories of all teams
Mar 01 21:28:17 <ebel>	Mean-Machine: yep
Mar 01 21:28:42 <Mean-Machine>	just wanted to clear that
Mar 01 21:29:44 <Mean-Machine>	anything else regarding bug jam report?
Mar 01 21:30:07 <czajkowski>	no?
Mar 01 21:30:08 <ebel>	Can't think of anything...
Mar 01 21:30:19 <ebel>	it would be cool if other people had any more photos...
Mar 01 21:30:42 <Mean-Machine>	bring your cameras next time ;-]
Mar 01 21:30:48 <ebel>	yeah. :)
Mar 01 21:30:55 <czajkowski>	dhall ask julie i think she have taken phot
Mar 01 21:31:26 <Mean-Machine>	whats next on the agenda?
Mar 01 21:31:43 <ebel>	2. TOG - a hackerspace for dublin
Mar 01 21:31:54 <Mean-Machine>	yay!
Mar 01 21:31:54 <ebel>	Basically I'd like to inform people here about tog
Mar 01 21:32:16 <daxroc>	ebel a l33t hackzor space eh
Mar 01 21:32:20 <ebel>	it's a separate project from ubuntu ireland, but i think people here might be interested
Mar 01 21:33:15 <ebel>	A hackerspace is basically a physical place, ie a workshop or room where people can do hacker things
Mar 01 21:33:43 <ebel>	So people there would be doing eletronics, robotics, programming, hacking, everything there
Mar 01 21:33:59 <Mean-Machine>	useful links -> http://hackerspaces.org/wiki/TOG | http://hackerspaces.org/ | http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hackerspace
Mar 01 21:34:08 <ebel>	A hackerspace or hackspace (from Hacker and Space) is a real (as opposed to virtual) place where people with common interests, usually in science, technology, or digital or electronic art can meet, socialise and collaborate.
Mar 01 21:34:58 <ebel>	So 'tog' is the planned one for dublin
Mar 01 21:35:21 <ebel>	Hopefully it could be used for ubuntu ireland socialising and events.
Mar 01 21:35:37 <Mean-Machine>	indeed
Mar 01 21:35:54 <ebel>	If you're interested more, you should join the mailing list, linked to http://hackerspaces.org/wiki/TOG
Mar 01 21:36:13 <ebel>	There is another meeting in 2 weeks time.
Mar 01 21:36:15 *	tdr1121 has quit (Read error: 60 (Operation timed out))
Mar 01 21:36:31 <daxroc>	ebel #tog too
Mar 01 21:36:49 <ebel>	daxroc: oh yeah, forgot about that. #tog on FreeNode
Mar 01 21:36:59 <Mean-Machine>	;-]
Mar 01 21:38:03 *	daxroc is back
Mar 01 21:38:03 <czajkowski>	anything else on tog?
Mar 01 21:38:51 <ebel>	no?
Mar 01 21:39:00 <czajkowski>	ok
Mar 01 21:39:23 <ebel>	Next is 'Jaunty Jackalope release' suggested by tdr1121....
Mar 01 21:39:27 <ebel>	who has just left...
Mar 01 21:39:32 <Mean-Machine>	lol
Mar 01 21:39:35 <czajkowski>	heh
Mar 01 21:39:45 <ebel>	Maybe we'll move onto the next item and revisit it later
Mar 01 21:39:45 <czajkowski>	i assume he means a release party
Mar 01 21:39:46 <czajkowski>	'
Mar 01 21:40:11 <ebel>	I'd be a shame for someone to suggest something and then we talk about in in their absense....
Mar 01 21:40:26 <ebel>	So, LoCo Members Tasks suggested by Mean-Machine.
Mar 01 21:40:26 <czajkowski>	aye
Mar 01 21:40:30 <Mean-Machine>	I'd like to suggest a bit different type of release party than the last one
Mar 01 21:40:50 *	tdr1121 (n=top@86-42-125-26-dynamic.b-ras1.blp.dublin.eircom.net) has joined #ubuntu-ie
Mar 01 21:40:59 <Mean-Machine>	there he is... :D
Mar 01 21:41:00 <czajkowski>	tdr1121 wb
Mar 01 21:41:08 <ebel>	tdr1121: Ahoy!
Mar 01 21:41:22 <tdr1121>	yep my ssh went down
Mar 01 21:41:27 <ebel>	tdr1121: we were going to talk about 'Jaunty Jackalope release' :)
Mar 01 21:41:42 *	ebel passes the meeting bell over to tdr1121  :)
Mar 01 21:41:48 <tdr1121>	big party
Mar 01 21:42:08 <czajkowski>	where?
Mar 01 21:42:14 <tdr1121>	what sort of event would people be into
Mar 01 21:43:08 <Mean-Machine>	tdr1121, I'd like to have a short presentation on new features + hanging out and showing off installations, then drink/party
Mar 01 21:43:15 <czajkowski>	i liked what happened the last time folks had the new version and showed it off in pub. but what are other suggestions
Mar 01 21:43:41 <czajkowski>	mean-machine nice. where would we do this?
Mar 01 21:44:04 <Mean-Machine>	czajkowski, DIT offered their facilities, didn't they?
Mar 01 21:44:29 <czajkowski>	forbarcamp and a follow up bug day. could ask.
Mar 01 21:44:46 <czajkowski>	their funding has been cut back
Mar 01 21:45:04 <czajkowski>	so opening venues on a saturday or evenings costs it seems
Mar 01 21:45:05 <Mean-Machine>	I would also like to know what other people would like, so maybe the best idea would be to ask on the mailing list?
Mar 01 21:45:16 <ebel>	Well although it was *really* nice how they brought drinks, they don't need to do taht..
Mar 01 21:45:21 <czajkowski>	yeah good idea
Mar 01 21:45:31 <czajkowski>	ebel it was so nice of them
Mar 01 21:45:39 <Mean-Machine>	too nice
Mar 01 21:45:51 <czajkowski>	*nods*
Mar 01 21:46:19 <Mean-Machine>	there might be someone on the mailing list who can also organize a venue, we won't know if we don't ask
Mar 01 21:46:30 <czajkowski>	aye of course.
Mar 01 21:46:46 <Mean-Machine>	let's give it a week to decide what type of event we'd like to run
Mar 01 21:46:51 <ebel>	yeah, worth putting it out there
Mar 01 21:47:04 <czajkowski>	ebel did shine have free wifi?
Mar 01 21:47:06 <ebel>	of course then we have the problem of who'll do a demo.. :)
Mar 01 21:47:14 <ebel>	czajkowski: yes 
Mar 01 21:47:18 <czajkowski>	hmmm
Mar 01 21:47:23 <czajkowski>	possible option
Mar 01 21:47:30 <czajkowski>	we could
Mar 01 21:47:52 <czajkowski>	say we could use their pub for these kinda events as it has wifi
Mar 01 21:48:13 <czajkowski>	and seeing its changed owenrship might be an idea
Mar 01 21:48:16 <czajkowski>	its quiet and could use upstairs
Mar 01 21:48:21 <ebel>	ooooh, true that.
Mar 01 21:48:33 <Mean-Machine>	ebel, anyone/everyone coul do a presentation on their favourite new feature ;-]
Mar 01 21:48:38 <czajkowski>	and show off and talk about syff up there without looking for alternative venue?
Mar 01 21:48:48 <czajkowski>	just a thought
Mar 01 21:49:02 <ebel>	czajkowski:  good idea, but what about projectors?
Mar 01 21:49:14 <ebel>	i.e. how would people demo stuff?
Mar 01 21:49:17 <czajkowski>	well it would be more this is my laptop
Mar 01 21:49:24 <czajkowski>	see what i'm doing
Mar 01 21:50:03 <czajkowski>	crowd is never going to be massively maassive
Mar 01 21:50:33 <czajkowski>	and 10 folks looking at 1 laptop and talking about is doable
Mar 01 21:50:40 <czajkowski>	just an idea
Mar 01 21:50:48 <Mean-Machine>	I think we should discuss all the ideas on the mailing list, give it a week and then we'll know what kind of venue we should be looking for
Mar 01 21:50:51 <ebel>	hmmm, possible yeah
Mar 01 21:50:59 <czajkowski>	okie dokie
Mar 01 21:51:05 <ebel>	course I don't know what's new in jaunty so I wouldn't know what to demo..
Mar 01 21:51:10 <ebel>	that could be a problem.
Mar 01 21:51:26 <ebel>	Unless you upgrade early, you're not going to notice things until you upgrade.
Mar 01 21:51:32 <czajkowski>	waiting on my mini to install and play with it
Mar 01 21:51:41 <Mean-Machine>	ebel, we probably have some alpha testers on the mailing list ;-]
Mar 01 21:51:42 *	tdr1122 (n=top@86-42-90-6-dynamic.b-ras1.blp.dublin.eircom.net) has joined #ubuntu-ie
Mar 01 21:51:48 <ebel>	like when I upgraded to intrepid, I noticed they'd fix the sound in flast ting
Mar 01 21:52:27 <Mean-Machine>	I usually update when it goes beta
Mar 01 21:52:36 <daxroc>	eh pulse is still broke here ! :P
Mar 01 21:52:44 <czajkowski>	oh joy
Mar 01 21:53:47 <czajkowski>	bah only at kildare
Mar 01 21:54:13 <ebel>	well, OK, so we need to send an email to the list about ideas for a jaunty party
Mar 01 21:54:33 <ebel>	and if people would be interested in a show and tell idea and if so, ideas on where to hold it
Mar 01 21:54:58 <Mean-Machine>	tdr1121, since you suggested this agenda item, would you mind sending the email?
Mar 01 21:55:14 <tdr1122>	yep I will send out the email
Mar 01 21:55:24 <Mean-Machine>	tdr1121, cool
Mar 01 21:56:22 <ebel>	when is jaunty out>
Mar 01 21:56:23 <ebel>	?
Mar 01 21:56:43 <daxroc>	locked in last thurs  no ?
Mar 01 21:56:51 <czajkowski>	april
Mar 01 21:57:05 <czajkowski>	may uds
Mar 01 21:57:09 <czajkowski>	oct koala
Mar 01 21:57:23 <Mean-Machine>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyReleaseParties
Mar 01 21:58:55 <Mean-Machine>	Thursday 23rd April 2009
Mar 01 21:59:02 <ebel>	kewl
Mar 01 21:59:21 <ebel>	So regardless, we'll be having another IRC meeting about a month before it's outy
Mar 01 21:59:34 <czajkowski>	aye
Mar 01 21:59:36 <ebel>	So we can put the feelers out there now and see what we see.
Mar 01 21:59:51 <Mean-Machine>	sounds good
Mar 01 22:00:00 *	tdr1121 has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
Mar 01 22:00:00 <tdr1122>	yep loads of time to get some thing together
Mar 01 22:00:44 <ebel>	OK, anything else on jaunty release party?
Mar 01 22:01:06 <czajkowski>	no
Mar 01 22:01:12 <tdr1122>	nope
Mar 01 22:02:02 <ebel>	OKies, next item. "LoCo Members Tasks " suggested by Mean-Machine 
Mar 01 22:02:14 *	ebel takes the meeting bell from tdr1122 and gives it to Mean-Machine :P
Mar 01 22:02:25 <Mean-Machine>	right, within every LoCo ther are specific tasks and responsibilities
Mar 01 22:03:06 <Mean-Machine>	here's just a few of them Monthly LoCo Reports, Chairing IRC Meetings, Mailing List Moderation, Wiki Maintenance etc.
Mar 01 22:04:03 <Mean-Machine>	In the near future I would like to see a number of these tasks delegated to either individuals or groups, so we can work as an efficient and well organized team
Mar 01 22:04:23 <ebel>	Basically, Mean-Machine has been doing it all by himself now and that's not really fair.
Mar 01 22:04:52 <ebel>	hence why I'm charing this meeting
Mar 01 22:05:06 <tdr1122>	would it make sense to make a full list of tasks , send them to the mail list asking for people to come forward to do them
Mar 01 22:05:23 <czajkowski>	well i said on last irc meeeting i'd update wiki. did i think.doing report this month. cant take anything new this month till after barcamp then i'd be in a position to help out more as i know tis not fair on mean-machine
Mar 01 22:05:26 <Mean-Machine>	here's a LoCo Team How To, so eeryone can see what type of tasks and responsibilities are required -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto
Mar 01 22:06:27 <czajkowski>	td nice suggestion.
Mar 01 22:06:44 <Mean-Machine>	it's quite a read actually, loads of links
Mar 01 22:07:10 <Mean-Machine>	tdr1122, I should be able to do a list by next week
Mar 01 22:07:32 <czajkowski>	aye read it before, td has a point maybe others on mailist list who dont irc s much might help out
Mar 01 22:07:59 <ebel>	yeah, there's 15 people on channel, only what 4 or 5 active now? how many more on the list...
Mar 01 22:08:08 <tdr1122>	then the work load is not just on a few
Mar 01 22:08:16 <czajkowski>	nods
Mar 01 22:08:26 <ebel>	yep
Mar 01 22:09:07 <Mean-Machine>	89 subscribed to the mailing list
Mar 01 22:10:24 <Mean-Machine>	and 73 people are members on Launchpad
Mar 01 22:11:27 <Mean-Machine>	so my action will be to send a list of tasks to the mailing list and ask for volunteers
Mar 01 22:11:44 <czajkowski>	nods
Mar 01 22:11:47 <Mean-Machine>	this should be done by the end of next week
Mar 01 22:11:55 <tdr1122>	good good
Mar 01 22:12:10 <czajkowski>	okie dokie
Mar 01 22:12:12 <ebel>	cool
Mar 01 22:12:22 <ebel>	thanks Mean-Machine 
Mar 01 22:12:38 <ebel>	Any other comments on loco member tasks?
Mar 01 22:12:39 <Mean-Machine>	np
Mar 01 22:13:19 <Mean-Machine>	it'd be nice if people read this doc-> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto
Mar 01 22:13:35 <tdr1122>	homework :(
Mar 01 22:13:42 <tdr1122>	:P
Mar 01 22:13:47 <Mean-Machine>	rofl
Mar 01 22:14:30 <ebel>	:P
Mar 01 22:14:38 <ebel>	So that's the end of the listed items on the agenda
Mar 01 22:14:46 <ebel>	Any other business?
Mar 01 22:15:00 <Mean-Machine>	no other business
Mar 01 22:15:26 <tdr1122>	a side note back t bug jams
Mar 01 22:15:43 <tdr1122>	should we try and do more of them ?
Mar 01 22:16:12 <czajkowski>	aye would be pretty cool
Mar 01 22:16:17 <czajkowski>	as for aob
Mar 01 22:16:19 <Mean-Machine>	tdr1122, yes I'd like to have 2 a year + gbj
Mar 01 22:16:24 <czajkowski>	1. ossbarcamp
Mar 01 22:16:35 <czajkowski>	everyone heres knows about it
Mar 01 22:16:37 <ebel>	tdr1122: yes I'd like to have more bug jams, that was great fun
Mar 01 22:16:46 <tdr1122>	its a good time for everyone to meet up , ie have a reason for it
Mar 01 22:16:52 <ebel>	czajkowski: feel free to talk about ossbarcamp if you'd like
Mar 01 22:16:52 <czajkowski>	but if you could at some point maybe do a blog post on it
Mar 01 22:17:19 <czajkowski>	well a lot of ubuntu talks
Mar 01 22:17:24 <czajkowski>	an all aspects of open source
Mar 01 22:17:49 <czajkowski>	just all slots are FULL
Mar 01 22:18:03 <czajkowski>	so now just need to let as many folks know about event
Mar 01 22:18:08 <Mean-Machine>	czajkowski, I will be blogging about ossbarcamp ;-]
Mar 01 22:18:25 <czajkowski>	any q's?
Mar 01 22:18:30 <czajkowski>	mean cheers
Mar 01 22:18:50 <czajkowski>	would folks like another mini bug jam organised?
Mar 01 22:19:02 <czajkowski>	i could look for room venue to use?
Mar 01 22:19:08 <Mean-Machine>	absolutely
Mar 01 22:19:15 <czajkowski>	before barcamp and before next release
Mar 01 22:19:24 <czajkowski>	right suggestions for a date?
Mar 01 22:19:40 *	tdr1122 would love to see some thing on every month 
Mar 01 22:19:47 *	ebel would also be up for a bug jam session
Mar 01 22:20:07 <czajkowski>	td ideally
Mar 01 22:20:19 *	daxroc wishes all .net apps would c-url  up and die :P 
Mar 01 22:20:21 <czajkowski>	just eed attendees :)
Mar 01 22:20:32 <czajkowski>	*need
Mar 01 22:20:48 <czajkowski>	ebel when are you in the coutry?
Mar 01 22:20:51 <Mean-Machine>	tdr1122, that will only work when TOG is up and running
Mar 01 22:20:55 <czajkowski>	between now and march
Mar 01 22:21:04 <slashtom>	ebel is away next weekend
Mar 01 22:21:15 <czajkowski>	as lets be honest one needs your help for a bit till folks get confident
Mar 01 22:21:16 <ebel>	yep
Mar 01 22:21:24 <ebel>	:)
Mar 01 22:21:35 <czajkowski>	following weekend?
Mar 01 22:21:37 <czajkowski>	ohhhhhhh
Mar 01 22:21:46 <czajkowski>	what are folks doing paddsy day?
Mar 01 22:21:49 <ebel>	Only away next weekend, I'm here following weekend
Mar 01 22:21:55 <czajkowski>	17th?
Mar 01 22:21:59 <Mean-Machine>	working ;-[
Mar 01 22:21:59 <daxroc>	Mean-Machine: might be worth while getting an idea on where everybody is based , might be better to roam around the country ?
Mar 01 22:22:03 <ebel>	17th is a tuesday...
Mar 01 22:22:07 <slashtom>	and i'm over the following two weekends
Mar 01 22:22:12 <czajkowski>	yes
Mar 01 22:22:22 <slashtom>	20/21 and 27/28
Mar 01 22:22:23 <czajkowski>	are folks working on paddsys day?
Mar 01 22:22:31 <ebel>	I'm here the weekend before that and slashtom is over here the weekend after
Mar 01 22:22:33 <czajkowski>	or else sat 1fth?
Mar 01 22:22:34 <Mean-Machine>	daxroc, a LoCo map is handy ;-] and available on launchpad
Mar 01 22:22:44 <czajkowski>	14th?
Mar 01 22:22:54 <czajkowski>	yes but our loco shows folks in oz:)
Mar 01 22:23:07 <Mean-Machine>	daxroc, https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ie
Mar 01 22:23:23 *	ebel is here the 14th.
Mar 01 22:23:33 <czajkowski>	FOLS WORKING PADDYS DAY?
Mar 01 22:23:39 <slashtom>	14th or 21st is grand
Mar 01 22:23:44 <Mean-Machine>	czajkowski, yes Im working
Mar 01 22:23:59 <czajkowski>	or shall i try for 14th so
Mar 01 22:24:05 <czajkowski>	right 14th so
Mar 01 22:24:23 <czajkowski>	even if its only 6 folks we could use my house
Mar 01 22:24:29 <czajkowski>	elese i'd go ask dit
Mar 01 22:25:00 *	ebel isn't sure if he's working paddy's day, probably not. It's a public holiday, right?
Mar 01 22:25:01 <tdr1122>	I would be up for the 14th
Mar 01 22:25:14 <czajkowski>	yup
Mar 01 22:25:29 <czajkowski>	right heuston. have to head.
Mar 01 22:25:34 <Mean-Machine>	14th should be ok
Mar 01 22:25:39 <czajkowski>	bbiab possibly
Mar 01 22:25:44 <Mean-Machine>	czajkowski, see ya
Mar 01 22:26:26 <Mean-Machine>	I have to go as well, talk to ye on mailing list and IRC during the week
Mar 01 22:26:27 <ebel>	czajkowski: bai!
Mar 01 22:26:56 <ebel>	Mean-Machine: see ya
Mar 01 22:26:58 <Mean-Machine>	ebel, is the meeting finished? I think we covered everything, right?
Mar 01 22:27:05 <ebel>	Mean-Machine: yep, that's it
Mar 01 22:27:13 *	ebel rings the meeting bell to end the meeting
</pre>

----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
