{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Events which took place in 2008/2009 ==

=== Jams ===

==== Ubuntu Global Jam Oct 2009 ====
No longer just about Bugs, the next Ubuntu Jam is going to be broader in scope and will also cover Testing, Documentation & Translations.  

Dates: 2nd->4th October (Irish events on 3rd & 4th).

More information on the Irish Teams participation in the <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-GlobalJam09|Global Jam]]</nowiki>

==== Summer Jam ====
A translation/bug jam and BBQ was held at Laura Czajkowki's house (Smithfield Dublin 7) on 27th June 2009.

==== Ubuntu Global Bug Jam ====
On the weekend of the 21st/22nd February 2009 the Irish team joined with the worldwide Ubuntu community and LoCos to work on bugs.
More information on the Bug Jam <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-GlobalBugJam-February2009]]</nowiki>

=== Release Parties ===

==== Karmic Koala Release Party ====
The Release of Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic was celebrated on Saturday, the 31st of October in Dublin.  The celebrations began with lunch at 1.30pm at Jimmy Chung's (8 Eden Quay, Dublin) followed by drinks and discussion in the Karma Pub (Handels Hotel 16-18 Fishamble Street, Temple Bar, Dublin 2) 

A very short 'as it happened' write up of this release party can be found <nowiki>[[http://meanmachine.wordpress.com/2009/10/31/ubuntu-ie-karmic-release-party-quick-update/|here]]</nowiki>

==== Jaunty Jackalope Release Party ====
Ubuntu 9.04 JauntyJackalope was released at the end of April 2009.
More information: IrishTeam/JauntyReleaseParty

==== Intrepid Ibex Release Party ====
Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex was released on the 30th of Oct. 
More information on the release party in Dublin: IrishTeam/IntrepidReleaseParty

==== Hardy Release Party ====
Ubuntu Hardy Hadron was released in April 2008. We had a release party on 1st May 2008. More information: IrishTeam/HardyReleaseParty

=== Software Freedom Day ===
''"<nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki> (SFD) is a worldwide celebration of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS). Our goal in this celebration is to educate the worldwide public about of the benefits of using high quality FOSS in education, in government, at home, and in business -- in short, everywhere!"''

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/SFD2008|SFD2008]]</nowiki>

=== OSSBarcamp ===
An OSSBarcamp was held in DIT Kevin Street Campus, Dublin Saturday 28th of March 2009.
Unfortunately due to an overhaul of <nowiki>[[http://www.ossbarcamp.com/|the ossbarcamp website]]</nowiki> the write up for this event has been lost.

A second OSSBarcamp for 2009 was held to mark Software Freedom day on Saturday the 19th September 2009 again in Dublin.  A write up of this event can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.lczajkowski.com/2009/09/28/ossbarcamp-software-freedom-day-ireland/|here]]</nowiki>
