{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Ireland IRC meeting was held at 9pm Irish time on Wednesday 16th September 2009, on #ubuntu-ie on FreeNode.

MootBot was used for keeping logs and minutes, it uses a different timezone, hence the times look wrong.

=== Attendance ===
   1. ebel
   2. czajkowski
   3. ZachK18
   4. lau1
   5. issyl0
   6. slashtom
   7. Mean-Machine
   8. Mean-Mac1ine
   9. fagan

=== Agenda ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|-
| Ubuntu-ie Booth @ <nowiki>[[http://www.ossbarcamp.com/|OSSBarCamp]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[mdanielski|Mean-Machine]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[mdanielski|Mean-Machine]]</nowiki>
|-
| Release Party
| <nowiki>[[czajkowski|czajkowski]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Minutes ===

MootBot link: http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-ie.20090916_1403.html
<pre>
Meeting started by ebel at 14:03
14:08:40 	Topic: Release Party
14:11:52 	LINK 	czajkowski 	http://pix.ie/czajkowski/album/341386
14:17:35 	VOTE 	Should we have the release party on Saturday 31st October
14:22:54 	VOTE RESULT 	4 for, 0 against, 0 abstained. Total: 4
14:38:35 	Topic: Ubuntu-ie Booth @ OSSBarCamp
14:50:07 	Topic: Ubuntu Global Jam
14:50:44 	LINK 	czajkowski 	http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/2009/09/16/Reporting_Bugs
14:55:03 	ACTION 	ebel 	raise bug jam idea with tog community
14:55:12 	ACTION 	ebel 	Mean-Machine to ask for global jam location on mailing list
Meeting ended at 15:03.

People Present:

   1. ebel
   2. czajkowski
   3. ZachK18
   4. lau1
   5. issyl0
   6. slashtom
   7. Mean-Machine
   8. Mean-Mac1ine
   9. fagan

</pre>

=== Any Other Business ===

The following topics were raised in the meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Agenda item'''
| '''Proposer'''
|}

=== IRC LOGS ===
MootBot link: http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-ie.log.20090916_1403.html
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-ie
[14:04:25] * ebel wonders if we'll get any more... decent enough crowd here as it is.
[14:04:38] <czajkowski> heh
[14:05:13] <ebel> Right well if you're here and being in the meeting, say "PRESENT" so we have an idea of who's here, please
[14:05:14] <ebel> PRESENT
[14:05:18] <czajkowski> PRESENT
[14:05:18] <ZachK18> PRESENT
[14:05:21] <lau1> present
[14:05:41] <lau1> hope it's not case sensitive
[14:05:54] * ZachK18 laughs at laul
[14:06:30] <lau1> it's a one not a "l"
[14:06:35] <ebel> :P
[14:07:15] <czajkowski> ebel: perhaps start with my topic till mean-nachine arrives?
[14:07:35] <ebel> yeah
[14:07:44] <ebel> The wiki page for this meeting is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IRCMeetings/2009-09-16
[14:08:09] <ebel> When we announce a meeting, we create a wiki page and people can put topics on there that we're going to discuss
[14:08:26] <ebel> Mean-Machine, who isn't here right now, had entered the first 2 topics,
[14:08:33] <ebel> so we'll go onto the next one.
[14:08:40] <ebel> [TOPIC] Release Party
[14:08:53] <czajkowski> right so release is due soon for Karmic Koala
[14:08:56] <ebel> which was added by czajkowski
[14:08:57] <czajkowski> 28th October
[14:09:04] <czajkowski> and I'm wondering what folks would like to do
[14:09:10] <czajkowski> last time we went for a chinese buffet
[14:09:12] <czajkowski> then drinks
[14:09:18] <czajkowski> do folks want to do the same?
[14:09:22] <czajkowski> or try something different
[14:09:27] <czajkowski> but we need to start to plan this now
[14:09:29] <czajkowski> thoughts?
[14:10:02] <ebel> 28th October is a Wednesday
[14:10:16] <ebel> that's when 9.10 (aka Karmic Koala) is out
[14:10:57] <lau1> ok for me (chinese and a pint ;) )
[14:11:09] <ebel> we could do something on the wednesday or thursday or friday or saturday
[14:11:52] <czajkowski> [link] http://pix.ie/czajkowski/album/341386
[14:12:23] <ebel> that was jimmy chungs, right?
[14:12:26] <lau1> no preferences for me (thursday not really good)
[14:12:31] <czajkowski> ebel: aye
[14:12:39] <czajkowski> aye mid week is kinda harder
[14:12:42] <czajkowski> but i dont mind
[14:12:52] <czajkowski> saturday is whenn a lottta folks do it
[14:12:59] <ebel> yeah mid week isn't great IMO.
[14:14:15] <czajkowski> would folks like to have a talk/demo ?
[14:14:19] <czajkowski> then grub and pints?
[14:14:44] <lau1> on the saturday
[14:15:03] <czajkowski> lau1: aye?
[14:15:09] <lau1> sure
[14:15:11] <czajkowski> so maybe we vote saturday ?
[14:15:12] <ebel> I don't think we've every done a saturday release party
[14:15:16] <czajkowski> whos's in fav?
[14:15:22] <ebel> it would be a good experiement
[14:15:23] <czajkowski> ebel: aye last one was in jimmy chungs/
[14:15:29] <czajkowski> cant find my blog post
[14:15:36] <ebel> hi issyl0, are you here for the IRC meeting/
[14:15:47] <czajkowski> issyl0: aloha
[14:15:50] * ebel thinks saturday is a good idea
[14:15:53] <czajkowski> issyl0: welcome
[14:15:53] <issyl0> ebel, kinda, I came to see what was going on. :)
[14:15:58] <czajkowski> ebel: vote?
[14:16:15] <issyl0> czajkowski, thanks, I don't know what I'm doing here to be honest, I just saw your tweet and decided to join!
[14:16:36] <ebel> we could vote.... but i think we've reached a consensus here.
[14:16:40] <czajkowski> issyl0: you're more than welcime to join
[14:17:03] <issyl0> czajkowski, considering I don't live in Ireland, that is puzzling, but thanks. :)
[14:17:05] <ZachK18> may i [join]?
[14:17:17] <czajkowski> ZachK18: of course
[14:17:23] <ZachK18> sweet
[14:17:28] <ZachK18> i meant the team
[14:17:32] <ZachK18> wait nm
[14:17:35] <ebel> [vote] Should we have the release party on Saturday 31st October
[14:17:39] <czajkowski> issyl0: ZachK18 you cna join as many teams as you like
[14:17:54] <ebel> +1
[14:17:56] <ZachK18> czajkowski, what's cna?
[14:18:02] <czajkowski> ZachK18: CAN
[14:18:02] <ZachK18> +1
[14:18:07] <ZachK18> oh thanks
[14:18:35] <ebel> ZachK18: the Ubuntu Irish Team is open to everyone, we have no offical members. This meeting is open to everyone, so you can join in aswell
[14:18:45] <lau1> +1
[14:18:49] <ZachK18> ebel, ah thanks
[14:19:21] <ebel> So just say "+1" if you think we should have the release party on saturday, "-1" if you disagree, and "+0" if you don't care either way
[14:19:41] <ZachK18> ebel, i already did
[14:20:13] <slashtom> sorry, i'm late
[14:20:35] <czajkowski> slashtom: aloha
[14:21:40] <ebel> well most people are in favour of release party on saturday
[14:21:45] <czajkowski> great
[14:21:48] <slashtom> which saturday?
[14:21:50] <czajkowski> so what do we want to do
[14:22:08] <ebel> slashtom: october 31st. you're over here
[14:22:14] <slashtom> +1
[14:22:19] <slashtom> :D
[14:22:25] <czajkowski> slashtom: :D
[14:22:54] <ebel> [endvote]
[14:23:13] <ZachK18> well i think the for's have the vote
[14:23:15] <ebel> By the way, the MootBot is a meeting bot we're using. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot more info here
[14:23:29] <czajkowski> it's lovely, we do <3 MootBot
[14:24:23] <ebel> Right, where'll we have it?
[14:24:48] <ebel> ideas? The regular haunt (Longstone pub)? Buffet like last time? Some other restaurant? Some other pub?
[14:24:49] <czajkowski> I'm still go say jimmy chungs and then a pub not necessariy mes maguires
[14:25:26] <slashtom> is it going to be halloween themed?
[14:25:42] <lau1> no drop bears ;)
[14:26:12] <ebel> lau1: don't joke about them.
[14:26:12] <czajkowski> slashtom: oh funky idea
[14:26:26] <ebel> more info http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drop_Bear
[14:26:32] * slashtom has never been to a halloween party
[14:27:12] <ebel> hehehe
[14:27:24] <czajkowski> wonder is there a holowwen party on that weekend we could join
[14:27:30] <czajkowski> *holoween
[14:27:45] <ebel> yeah, i worry that people might not come cause of parties on and so forth
[14:27:56] <czajkowski> aye
[14:28:10] <czajkowski> so maybe lunch and beers and ppl can stay on like last time
[14:28:16] <czajkowski> who's in favour of chinese buffet?
[14:28:23] <ZachK18> ME!
[14:29:42] <ebel> czajkowski: lunch? you mean have it early at lunch time?
[14:30:25] <slashtom> that could work
[14:30:34] <czajkowski> aye
[14:30:38] <czajkowski> say 1 pm
[14:30:41] <czajkowski> or 2pm
[14:30:57] <slashtom> um... not sure how early i can get ebel up :)
[14:31:15] <czajkowski> slashtom: challenge for you
[14:31:15] <lau1> no problem for me
[14:31:28] * ebel can get up for lunchtime OK :P
[14:32:48] <ebel> lunch is a good idea too
[14:32:58] <czajkowski> right so 2pm jimmy chungs
[14:32:58] <lau1> bait him with a bacon sarnie ;)
[14:33:05] <slashtom> good idea
[14:33:07] <ebel> sounds good :)
[14:33:07] <czajkowski> and we can put it to the mailing list for a choice of bars to go to
[14:33:11] <ebel> any comments?
[14:33:15] <czajkowski> ^^
[14:33:22] <ZachK18> i don't drink....no comment
[14:33:31] <czajkowski> fair enough
[14:33:48] <Mean-Machine> eveninkz
[14:34:20] * ZachK18 but i've had Jagermeister....one
[14:34:20] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: hi
[14:34:29] <czajkowski> ZachK18: :)
[14:35:16] <ebel> hey Mean-Machine
[14:35:22] <ZachK18> czajkowski, my grandad gave it to me because i was sick....taking nyquil and said that's what it tasted like...he said i didn't know what i was talking about so naturally
[14:35:27] <ebel> 2pm saturday, jimmy chungs?
[14:35:33] <czajkowski> ebel: sounds like a plan
[14:38:24] <ebel> right
[14:38:27] <ebel> next up is from Mean-Machine
[14:38:34] <ZachK18> well i'm out a here gentlemen
[14:38:35] <ebel> [TOPIC] Ubuntu-ie Booth @ OSSBarCamp
[14:38:43] <Mean-Machine> yes
[14:38:59] <ZachK18> Thanks for having me all
[14:39:18] <ebel> see ya ZachK18
[14:39:19] <czajkowski> ZachK18: you're welcome any time
[14:39:24] <ZachK18> bye
[14:39:46] <Mean-Mac1ine> so who is comming to ossbarcamp, and willing to spend a couple of hours at the ubuntu-ie booth/stand?
[14:40:06] <ebel> Mean-Mac1ine: Well I'll be there, but I don't know how much time I'd be able to put into that
[14:40:14] <czajkowski> I'd love to say yes, but honestlyk, I really wont have the time.
[14:40:18] * Mean-Mac1ine has some ubuntu flyers and stickers
[14:40:37] <Mean-Mac1ine> czajkowski: ure excused
[14:40:39] <czajkowski> I think tdr112 said he would. but dont want to put him forward as he's not here
[14:40:40] <lau1> sorry wedding I am not available
[14:41:48] <Mean-Mac1ine> well, if we don't have at least 4 ppl to volunteer then there's no point in having a booth, as I'd also would like to see a few of the talks :P
[14:42:00] <ebel> yeah, me too
[14:43:07] <Mean-Mac1ine> fagan: how r ya?
[14:43:29] <fagan> Sorry guys for being late network manager got messed up
[14:43:34] <fagan> bad update
[14:43:43] <fagan> just fixed it
[14:43:49] <fagan> what did I miss
[14:43:54] <Mean-Mac1ine> fagan: did u say u would do some time at the ubuntu-ie bstand @ ossbarcamp?
[14:44:01] <fagan> yep
[14:44:07] <fagan> no bother
[14:44:16] <Mean-Mac1ine> cool
[14:44:28] <fagan> anything else?
[14:45:06] <Mean-Mac1ine> fagan: do u have a place to stay?
[14:45:31] <fagan> Hmm dont know
[14:45:48] <fagan> czajkowski: any floor space?
[14:45:54] <Mean-Machine> fagan: u can stay at my place
[14:45:56] <czajkowski> fagan: sorry full house
[14:46:01] <fagan> oh cool
[14:46:20] <Mean-Machine> which nite?
[14:46:30] <fagan> sat
[14:46:36] <Mean-Machine> no probs
[14:47:20] <fagan> Its just so I can stay on a bit later. I had to go home really early last time
[14:47:41] <Mean-Machine> fagan: no worries
[14:47:51] <fagan> Thanks
[14:47:58] <czajkowski> coolio
[14:48:04] <ebel> cool
[14:48:08] <Mean-Mac1ine> so I decided to do half day at the stand
[14:48:46] <Mean-Mac1ine> we're having one, feck it
[14:49:06] <Mean-Mac1ine> fagan and ebel will help out ;-]
[14:49:12] <fagan> yep
[14:49:27] <fagan> eye eye captain
[14:49:28] <ebel> yeah i will a bit
[14:49:54] <Mean-Mac1ine> next topic mr chairman please
[14:50:07] <ebel> [topic] Ubuntu Global Jam
[14:50:12] <ebel> from Mean-Mac1ine again
[14:50:28] <Mean-Machine> here's some bad news...
[14:50:41] <Mean-Machine> czajkowski: would u like to give an update?
[14:50:44] <czajkowski> [link] http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/2009/09/16/Reporting_Bugs
[14:51:01] <czajkowski> yeah so DIT cannot hoold us for Saturyda 3&4th of cotober due to budget constraints
[14:51:08] <czajkowski> so we need to find an alternative
[14:51:10] <czajkowski> and FAST
[14:51:17] <Mean-Machine> correct
[14:51:18] <czajkowski> so I know someone mentioned UCD on mailing list
[14:51:19] <czajkowski> I dont mind
[14:51:22] <czajkowski> I also wont be here
[14:51:28] <czajkowski> so just want to make sure it;s sorted
[14:51:40] <Mean-Machine> can anyone remember who mentioned UCD?
[14:51:55] <czajkowski> nope
[14:51:59] <fagan> nope
[14:52:01] <ebel> no...
[14:52:44] <Mean-Machine> [Action] Mean-Machine to ask for global jam location on mailing list
[14:53:09] * fagan doesnt know if ill be able to afford to go up but ill make sure to be on IRC all that day to help out if needed
[14:53:29] <Mean-Machine> fagan: cool
[14:54:07] <fagan> Id say you could get carlow IT if you wanted to hold it there
[14:54:25] <fagan> but most people would prefer dublin
[14:54:28] <ebel> :P
[14:54:28] * Mean-Machine will also talk to TOG commitee
[14:54:42] <ebel> yeah.. TOG could work
[14:54:43] <ebel> as an open day
[14:54:55] <fagan> Oh good idea
[14:55:02] <Mean-Machine> ebel: yep, might just be 1 day tho
[14:55:03] <ebel> [action] raise bug jam idea with tog community
[14:55:12] <ebel> [Action] Mean-Machine to ask for global jam location on mailing list
[14:56:13] <Mean-Machine> that's pretty much from me for today
[14:56:33] <ebel> that sorta ends that topic
[14:56:38] <czajkowski> oh
[14:56:42] <ebel> is there anything anyone else wants to talk about?
[14:56:42] <czajkowski> did you see the link I posted
[14:56:45] <czajkowski> abotu how to report bugs
[14:56:52] <Mean-Machine> any mailing list moderators here at the moment?
[14:57:08] <Mean-Machine> czajkowski: yep, very good guides
[14:57:48] <fagan> hmmm i could include that in my talk
[14:58:27] <fagan> you know go to terminal and type sudo ubuntu-bug
[14:58:32] <Mean-Machine> fagan: is ur talk ready and practiced 100 times yet?
[14:58:44] <Mean-Machine> :P
[14:58:46] <czajkowski> fagan: will you even turn up on time :p so much for 7pm for you
[14:58:59] <fagan> Ha
[14:59:17] <fagan> ill get the 7 train its early but not too bad
[14:59:41] <czajkowski> hah
[14:59:45] <Mean-Machine> ebel: what's your talk?
[14:59:47] <czajkowski> who's gonna lay a bet he's gonna miss it
[15:00:06] <Mean-Machine> czajkowski: btw, nice post on ubuntu NGO!
[15:00:07] <fagan> well my talk is at 1 so even if I do make a hash of it I can still get up there before my talk
[15:00:13] <ebel> Mean-Machine: my talk is on free culture with no internets :P
[15:00:13] <czajkowski> Mean-Machine: thanks, 1 of many
[15:00:22] <ebel> anyways, nothing else on the agenda?
[15:00:30] <czajkowski> nope
[15:00:31] <czajkowski> diddly
[15:00:48] <Mean-Machine> noffin
[15:00:56] <fagan> Oh any college students other than me around?
[15:01:09] <fagan> I want to ask a question
[15:02:10] <fagan> no takers?
[15:02:14] * ebel isn't in college
[15:02:20] <Mean-Machine> no students :P
[15:02:20] <ebel> tdr is but he's not here now
[15:02:20] <fagan> ill ask on the mailing list
[15:02:22] * lau1 is old
[15:03:27] <ebel> nothing else?
[15:03:31] <ebel> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.

</pre>
----
'''Parent pages:''' <nowiki>[[IrishTeam-IRCMeetings]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IrishTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryIrishTeam
