{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


----
== Ironic.Destruction ==
----
''I want to help those I can, but I hope that I will find people able to help me reach my own goals in Ubuntu and becoming a decent programmer''<<BR>>
''I can not say I will be of great use, but I will try my best''<<BR>>
'''This profile is a work in progress, be patient, I'll have it working as soon as I can manage.'''
==== Details ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Birth year:
| 1991
|-
| Email:
| <nowiki>[[ironic.destruction@gmail.com|ironic.destruction@gmail.com]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[ironic.demise@live.co.uk|ironic.demise@live.co.uk]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntuforums:
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1064575|ironic.demise]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad:
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ironic.destruction|ironic.destruction]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Info ===
At the time of writing I am 19 years old, I started using Ubuntu about a year ago and have since moved completely from Windows.
Whilst using Windows I became a very good user, I could set-up networks, write simple scripts and manage the majority of problems that occurred, the move to Ubuntu was a difficult one but one I always wanted to make because I knew it would help me to improve my skills using a computer.

Now on ubuntu I can do everything I could do in Windows but I've also been able to learn much more and I think I'm improving at BASH very quickly.
There has been no problem I've come across in Ubuntu that I have given up on yet, I've needed to use NdisWrapper for wireless and many other fairly common issues, though that isn't without a fair amount of help that I've received from the ubuntuforum members(If I were to mention one, it would be mobiledeisel of the Ubuntuforums who also has a launchpad account because he helped me make one of my first BASH improvements).

I like to think I give more advice than I take on the forums now, mostly to new members, because I've become fairly self-sufficient in Ubuntu.

=== Current skills ===
I have done the following in my time using computers to varying degrees.
* CMD/Windows Batch files
* HTML,CSS, Apache2
* Graphics editing (Photoshop)
* 3D model texturing (<nowiki>[[http://www.imvu.com|imvu]]</nowiki> textures)
* BASH scripts

''I will be showing examples when I get chance to further edit this page''
=== Current goals ===
I'd like to begin learning Python or C++ though I'm finding it hard to choose a language to settle on and I'm finding it difficult to begin learning.

I'd like to become a more involved member of the Ubuntu community, It's the reason I'm writing this page, I want to become part of the developer group, I am certainly not the most deserving of a place in the group but Ubuntu is one of my priorities and I'm willing to take time away from my other activities to learn or contribute for Ubuntu. Even though at the moment I'm only capable of advising new users and pointing them in the right direction I like to believe that a lot of the successful developers started that way.

== About my life outside of Ubuntu ==
I've recently had a son, He was born on 01/02/2011, me and my partner are very pleased with him.<<BR>>
I like Bass guitar and skateboarding, though I'm not really any good at either... no harm in mucking around is there?<<BR>>
<<BR>><<BR>>CategoryHomepage
