{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For Hebrew, please visit our <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-il.org|LoCo website]]</nowiki> at http://ubuntu-il.org. Our Hebrew wiki is located <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/IsraeliTeam/Hebrew|here]]</nowiki>. Enjoy!

=== Reports ===
* View /TeamReports for our latest LoCo activities.
* View <nowiki>[[Events]]</nowiki> for our events reports.
* View <nowiki>[[MeetingReports]]</nowiki> for our decisions in English. For Hebrew it's <nowiki>[[Hebrew-Meetings|here]]</nowiki>

=== Details ===
* The LoCo website can be found at http://ubuntu-il.org
* IRC channel: #ubuntu-il @ freenode (irc://irc.freenode.net/ubuntu-il / ic://irc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-il http://chat.ubuntu-il.org).
* Leave a message on our <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-il.org|forums]]</nowiki>
* The current LoCo point-of-contact is AmirEldor

=== Meetings ===
We hold a meeting on our IRC channel every first Thursday of the month at 19:00 IST (16:00 GMT).<<BR>>
Logs can be viewed after each meeting on our <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-il.com/forums/viewforum.php?f=15|LoCo forum]]</nowiki> and in /TeamReports.<<BR>>
if you wish to add a topic to our next meeting agenda you are more then welcome to do so on our <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-il.org/wiki/%D7%9E%D7%94%D7%9C%D7%9A_%D7%A4%D7%92%D7%99%D7%A9%D7%94_%28Agenda%29|Agenda Page (Hebrew)]]</nowiki>.

=== Guides and Learning ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxguide.org.il/ubuntu|Linux Guide Ubuntu section]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-il.com/forums/viewforum.php?f=19|Our Guides and Learning forum]]</nowiki> (old forums)

=== Translators ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-il|The Team's Launchpad page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuHebrewTranslators|Hebrew Translators wiki page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IsraeliTeam/Hebrew/Translation|General information and guidelines]]</nowiki> (in Hebrew)

The wiki pages above include the resources needed to make a proper Hebrew translation.

=== Code of Condcut ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CodeOfConductGuidelines|Ubuntu Code of Conduct Guidelines]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IsraeliTeam/Hebrew/CoC|Hebrew]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LeadershipCodeofConduct|Ubuntu Leadership Code of Conduct Guidelines]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IsraeliTeam/Hebrew/LCoC|Hebrew]]</nowiki>)

=== New logo? ===
Help us choose a new logo: <nowiki>[[NewLogos2010]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Note that this is a bit outdated and no logo was actually chosen :), feel free to copy whatever logo you like and put it on your page.

----
CategoryIsraeliTeam
CategoryLoCoTeams
