{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* We chose a logo for our loco.
* We have decided to go along with Akiva and let Dolev, Beni, Akiva and Elyahu to have administrative position on the forum and a representative of the loco will have the rights too, in addition the site and the forum will be held on a server that one of our members is giving for our needs.
* Moshe742 will be the representative of the loco and Ddorda and shimi will be content moderators.
* We will add to Hoborg (our bot on the IRC channel) the functionality to give info about the system and who is the one to go to for any problem.
* We will have the license Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-SA 2.5 on the forum.
* newone will lead the next meeting.
