{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* the design of the site will be done according to the design of the official site when it will be stable.
* form for asking questions: will be done soon and will be sent to akiva for putting it on the forum.
* the forum is now under the CC-BY-SA.
* the server and the domain issue will be talked at the next meeting (at 3/6).
* CoC and management: is ok now.
* the old wiki has been moved to the servers of canonical.
* the new managers that are going to replace Dolev and Beni are <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Moshenahmias#preview|Moshe]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ddorda?action=show&redirect=Ddorda|Dor]]</nowiki>.
* contact man to Hamakor is <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ddorda?action=show&redirect=Ddorda|Dor]]</nowiki>.
* we will talk again about the server in the next meeting at 3/6.
* new managers are <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Moshenahmias#preview|Moshe]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ddorda?action=show&redirect=Ddorda|Dor]]</nowiki>. link to the outcome of the <nowiki>[[http://doodle.com/4ivn5ecwumqf8zrw?adminKey=&participantKey=|elections]]</nowiki>.
* giving disks and papers on ubuntu and open source software on events such as student day will be reviewed by a team that will check for the best way to do it.
* selecting new logo for the community: will be done on the forum in the next weeks.
* allowing the writer of a post to delete it: rejected.
