{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* We have decided that <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Moshenahmias|Moshe]]</nowiki> will be the chairman for the IRC meetings.
* For now there won't be change to the site and the forum till the change will get to the main site and forum and then we will change it accordingly.
* There will be rules for the beginners on how to ask questions in the beginners forum so the new ones will know what is needed so we will be able to help.
* The forum from now on is under the CC-BY-SA ver. 3 license.
* The server and the domain: under observation, if we can transfer to the ubuntu servers we will, if its impossible we will discuss it again.
* LoCo status meeting with the LoCo council.
* We have a new contact man: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ddorda|Dor Dankner (Ddorda)]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Moshenahmias|Moshe]]</nowiki> is the new reporter for the team reports.
* We are still working on integrating the CoC back to the community.
* The old wiki will be moved to the world wiki. the members that will do it are Shphongle, manowar3 and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ddorda|Ddorda]]</nowiki>.
* The new Ops in the chat are: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Moshenahmias|Moshe]]</nowiki>, Shphongle and Shimi810.
* If we will have donations it will go to Hamakor NPO (non-profit org.) so there won't be only one person that will get the money.
* The contact man to Hamakor (http://www.hamakor.org.il/en/) will be <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ddorda|Dor (Ddorda)]]</nowiki> at the start and after the initial contact Nethanel will replace him.
* The levels counts within the forum will be decided in the forum in the near future.
* we will have the "Ubuntu on the grass" meeting at 29/04 at park hayarkon, Tel Aviv.
* We had release party on 29/4.
