{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi.  I'm Isabell Long, known online mainly as issyl0, a student in England currently studying for my A Levels.  I am passionate about technology and Ubuntu and help out and am active in the Ubuntu community on IRC and on Launchpad.  My launchpad profile is http://launchpad.net/~issyl0.

=== Contact information ===
If you would like to contact me, please see my launchpad profile for more information on how to do so.  Preferred form of communication: IRC or email.

=== Testimonials ===

Isabell L on Google Update Script.

Isabell L's involvement in the Google Update Script project has been extremely valued, and we could not as a group got to the stage we are at now without her help. She has personally sorted out our Bazaar Branches when I personally could not do so, and has started our lacking documentation of the program.
Isabell is a valued member of the team, and I would fully recommend her to anyone who needed a technical minded person who can stick to deadlines and preform expertly in unknown situations.

Samuel Tarling

Lead Developer of GUS

'''''Isabell & DFEY'''''

Isabell has been a great help with organising events and activities within DFEY. She's always around to help and she definitely brings a good atmosphere into the IRC channel. Also, issyl0 will always help if she can and she is very adaptive! - This is a brilliant when being part of DFEY, as she can mould herself to a scenario and stick with it. She also helps produce amazing results, and I feel that she excels when she is participating in community work. I feel that Isabell is an invaluable part of our communities, and so she would be an invaluable part of the Ubuntu Community; I wish her all success in doing so!

<nowiki>[[JoeODell|Joe O'Dell]]</nowiki> - ''Ubuntu Contributor, <nowiki>[[http://bedslug.co.cc|bedsLUG]]</nowiki> Co-Ordinator and Fedora Ambassador''

Isabell and freenode

I work heavily on the fossevents site, started by the pdpc.  This site provides an aggregation of free and open source events around the world, and the data can be quite labour intensive to aquire and to edit.  issyl0 has been fundemental to the site, and without her help keeping things updated and fresh, and finding and editing events, I doubt it would be nearly as useful as it is today. Her help has been instrumental in this project and she truly is one of those behind the scenes people that just "makes things work."

JonathanD, freenode staff and community coordinator

I end up running into Isabell in all most all Ubuntu teams that I'm part of.  She has shown amazing enthusiasm for free software and for Ubuntu, whether it be Beginners Team, Bug Squad, or Ubuntu Women.  I truly recommend her for Ubuntu membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nigelbabu]]</nowiki> 
Isabell brings a lot of excitement and interest to her work in Ubuntu. She and I are active in many of the same projects where she's always willing to help out. Most recently I've been working with her as she's been helping me with the Ubuntu Women interviews and she's always got great ideas for things. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pendulum]]</nowiki> 

Many would agree with me without a slightest doubt that Isabell is truly an asset to the whole of Ubuntu community. Young, very intelligent, a quick learner, a keen and curious type -- always researching something and looking forward towards any technological endeavours she might encounter. She has a fantastic and outgoing personality. Hard working and generous towards others. Always eager to help and support others. Isabell will take upon even most challenging task and you can count on her, she will most certainly get to job done. It is a pleasure to work side-by-side with a person like her. -- <nowiki>[[KrzysztofWilczynski|Krzysztof Wilczynski]]</nowiki>, System Engineering Specialist, Research In Motion Limited

Isabell (Issyl0) makes me smile - whether she is sharing knowledge by teaching others, or asking questions and learning she brings a joy to the Ubuntu Women Project. Challenges become opportunities that she tackles with an inviting air and willing spirit.  Her energetic active participation combine with her growing technical abilities and contributions make her a welcome addition to any team and an asset to the Ubuntu Community. +1 for membership -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:akgraner]]</nowiki> 
Isabell is a great asset to the community, she is constantly cheerful and enthusiastic, always looking for more and more areas in which to contribute. I am staggered by the number of separate projects that Isabell contributes to in a significant way. She is unquestionably a part of our community.-- <nowiki>[[AlanBell|Alan Bell]]</nowiki>
