{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 2016-07-27
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[Janvitus|Ganvito Cavasoli]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~janvitus|LP]]</nowiki>)
* '''Components''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it|90]]</nowiki>, '''Ubuntu-it Members''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-members|37]]</nowiki>
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-it on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-it on freenode
* '''twitter''' - <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/ubuntuit|ubuntuit]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad page''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===

* Improve our own sysadmin team to better handle the two servers delegated to us (one from Canonical, one frop TOP-IX)
** one aim is to have all of our website under https (currently none)
* Migrate more Ubuntu-it services from Canonical data center into our own server provided by <nowiki>[[http://www.top-ix.org/|Top-IX]]</nowiki>.
* 2016-2017 meetings and Debian-Ubuntu conference organization (<nowiki>[[http://ducc.it/|past events]]</nowiki>).

=== Experience ===

* Services migration into our own hosting server.
* Meetings and attendance at conferences, all listed in our !LoCo Directory page: <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-it]]</nowiki>.
* Gone through a completely new Italian !LoCo Council election: our !LoCo Council is elected every two years, all approved members of our community can run for the elections.
* Set up a <nowiki>[[http://www.osqa.net/|OSQA]]</nowiki> instance matching the international "Ask Ubuntu" at http://chiedi.ubuntu-it.org
* In the last year a new Social Media team has been founded, handling all of our accounts in <nowiki>[[https://google.com/+ubuntuit|Google+]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://facebook.com/ubuntu.it|Facebook]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/ubuntuit|Twitter]]</nowiki>, with pretty good results.

==== Meetings ====
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20080126|I° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Jan 2008
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20080927|II° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Sep 2008
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20090328|III° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Mar 2009
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20100522|IV° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, May 2010
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20100918|V°Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, organized with the Debian Community, Sep 2010
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20110528|VI°Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, May 2011
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20111015|VII° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Nov 2011
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20120602|VIII° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, June 2012
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20121117|VIX° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Nov 2012
* <nowiki>[[http://2013.ducc.it/|Debian-Ubuntu Community Conference Italia 2013]]</nowiki>, organized with the Debian Community, June 2013
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20131123|IX° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Nov 2013
* <nowiki>[[http://2014.ducc.it/|Debian-Ubuntu Community Conference Italia 2014]]</nowiki>, organized with the Debian Community, May 2014
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20141122|X° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Nov 2014
* <nowiki>[[http://ducc.it/|Debian-Ubuntu Community Conference Italia 2015]]</nowiki>, organized with the Debian Community, May 2015

==== Social Media ====

As already said, we have a wide presence in the social networks, managing:

* a <nowiki>[[https://facebook.com/ubuntu.it | Facebook Page]]</nowiki> with 8,235 "likes"
* a <nowiki>[[https://facebook.com/groups/ubuntu.it | Facebook Group]]</nowiki> with 5,531 members
* a <nowiki>[[https://google.com/+ubuntuit | Google+ Page]]</nowiki> with 2,395 followers
* a <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/b/112042223560586232536/communities/109524781852009768346 | Google+ communitiy]]</nowiki> with 8,829 members
* a <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/ubuntuit | Twitter profile]]</nowiki> with 4,851 followers
* a <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCadll_Y7mtMO3acUjL0h29Q | Youtube channel]]</nowiki> with 45 self made videos, 1,259 subscribers and nearly 150,000 views.

==== Old Experiences ====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uc-F2ghGGZo|Interview for RAI3 Neapolis show]]</nowiki> (RAI3 is a national TV channel)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/user/UbuntuItalia|YouTube channel]]</nowiki> with different TV shows where some of our members have appeared
* Partecipated as member of the jury for the Italian Web TV prize <nowiki>[[http://www.tivogliodigitale.it/tivogliocosi.asp|TiVoglio Così]]</nowiki>.

Links to old photo streams of our events:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ipernity.com/group/ubuntu-it/doc]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/23209256@N05/sets/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/iliasbartolini/sets/72157624117912378/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/dolasilla/sets/72157624004226481/]]</nowiki>

=== Organization ===
The working teams are those groups that maintain certain services for the community. Current activities include: website, forum, mailing list, irc, wiki, translations, social media, sysadmins and more.

All groups have a dedicated mailing list (the Siena LUG provides us with a small server with a mailman instance that handles the <nowiki>[[http://liste.ubuntu-it.org]]</nowiki> domain to provide local mailing lists), or an email address (an alias) to be contacted.
We don't have a team that administer/moderate all our mailing lists (other than overall administration of mailman), the administration/moderation is left to the members of that particular group based on their needs.

==== The Working Teams ====

The active groups, counting as of 2016-07-27 '''90 people''' in total, are:

* Web - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoWeb]]</nowiki>
** 6 members, in charge of <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-it.org]]</nowiki>
* Forum - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoForum]]</nowiki>
** 10 members, in charge of <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-it.org]]</nowiki> with about 175,000 users
* Documentation - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoDocumentazione]]</nowiki>
** 12 stable members, in charge of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org]]</nowiki>
* Translation - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTraduzione]]</nowiki>
** 8 members, in charge of launchpad translations
* FCM Magazine - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Fcm]]</nowiki>
** 13 members, in charge of the <nowiki>[[http://www.fullcirclemagazine.org/|Full Circle Magazine]]</nowiki> translation.
* Development - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoSviluppo]]</nowiki>
** 7 approved members, mentoring packaging and application development
* Marketing - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoPromozione]]</nowiki>
** 22 stable members, producing a weekly newsletter, moderating social networks resources and other <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoPromozione/Progetti#Progetti|projects]]</nowiki>
* IRC - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoIrc]]</nowiki>
** 14 members, operators in the various #ubuntu-it-* channels used by us
* Sysadmins - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoSistemisti]]</nowiki>
** 6 members

The Italian LoCo Council is responsible for the creation of the dedicated mailing lists.

=== Other Informations ===
==== Ubuntu Members ====
!LoCo Team components whom are also Ubuntu Members: '''24'''
* https://launchpad.net/~warp10
* https://launchpad.net/~gaspa
* https://launchpad.net/~carla-sella
* https://launchpad.net/~claudio.arseni
* https://launchpad.net/~schwitzd
* https://launchpad.net/~dcavedon
* https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni
* https://launchpad.net/~thesaltydog
* https://launchpad.net/~l3on
* https://launchpad.net/~blackz
* https://launchpad.net/~dktrkranz
* https://launchpad.net/~elle.uca
* https://launchpad.net/~3v1n0
* https://launchpad.net/~mlazzari2
* https://launchpad.net/~deshack
* https://launchpad.net/~mapreri
* https://launchpad.net/~milo
* https://launchpad.net/~hallino1
* https://launchpad.net/~paolorotolo
* https://launchpad.net/~xdatap1
* https://launchpad.net/~pietroalbini
* https://launchpad.net/~rpadovani
* https://launchpad.net/~palma-salvatore
* https://launchpad.net/~primes2h

==== Previous Re-Approval Applications ====

* <nowiki>[[ItalianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2012|2012]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ItalianTeam-ReApprovalApplication2014|2014]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
