{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 2014-07-20
* '''Team Contact''' - MiloCasagrande
* '''Components''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it|101]]</nowiki>, '''Ubuntu-it Members''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-members|38]]</nowiki>
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-it on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-it on freenode
* '''twitter''' - <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/#!/ubuntuit|ubuntuit]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad page''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===

* Migrate more Ubuntu-it services from Canonical data center into our own server provided by <nowiki>[[http://www.top-ix.org/|Top-IX]]</nowiki>.
* 2014-2015 meetings and Debian-Ubuntu conference organization.
* Maintenance of the official <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ItalianCD|Italian Ubuntu CD]]</nowiki>.

=== Experience ===

* Services migration into our own hosting server.
* Meetings and attendance at conferences, all listed in our !LoCo Directory page: <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-it]]</nowiki>.
* Gone through a new Italian !LoCo Council elections: our !LoCo Council is elected every two years, all approved members of our community can run for the elections. 

==== Meetings ====
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20080126|I° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Jan 2008
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20080927|II° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Sep 2008
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20090328|III° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Mar 2009
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20100522|IV° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, May 2010
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20100918|V°Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, organized with the Debian Community, Sep 2010
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20110528|VI°Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, May 2011
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20111015|VII° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Nov 2011
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20120602|VIII° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, June 2012
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20121117|VIX° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Nov 2012
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20130601|X° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, organized with the Debian Community, June 2013
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/UbuntuItMeeting/20131123|XI° Ubuntu-it Meeting]]</nowiki>, Nov 2013
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ducc.it/notizie/leggi/1|Debian Ubuntu Conference]]</nowiki>, May 2014

==== Social Media ====

We have a presence in the social networks, managing:

* a <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.it | Facebook Page]]</nowiki> with 6.946 "like"
* a <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntu.it/ | Facebook Group]]</nowiki> with 2.581 members
* a <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/b/112042223560586232536/+ubuntuit | Google Plus Page]]</nowiki> with 1.629 followers
* two Google Plus communities: <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/b/112042223560586232536/communities/109524781852009768346 | Ubuntu-it]]</nowiki> (4.702 members) and <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/b/112042223560586232536/communities/117913550236281124057 | Kubuntu-it]]</nowiki> (243 members)
* a <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/ubuntuit | Twitter account]]</nowiki> with 3.968 followers
* a <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCadll_Y7mtMO3acUjL0h29Q | Youtube channel]]</nowiki> with 30 self made videos, 1.035 subscribers and more than 108.000 views.

==== Old Experiences ====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uc-F2ghGGZo|Interview for RAI3 Neapolis show]]</nowiki> (RAI3 is a national TV channel)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/user/UbuntuItalia|YouTube channel]]</nowiki> with different TV shows where some of our members have appeared
* Partecipated as member of the jury for the Italian Web TV prize <nowiki>[[http://www.tivogliodigitale.it/tivogliocosi.asp|TiVoglio Così]]</nowiki>.

Links to old photo streams of our events:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ipernity.com/group/ubuntu-it/doc]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/23209256@N05/sets/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/iliasbartolini/sets/72157624117912378/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/dolasilla/sets/72157624004226481/]]</nowiki>

=== Organization ===
The working teams are those groups that maintain certain services for the community. Current activities include: website, forum, mailing list, irc, wiki, translations, and more.

All groups have a dedicated mailing list (the Siena LUG provides us with a small server with a mailman instance that handles the <nowiki>[[http://liste.ubuntu-it.org]]</nowiki> domain to provide local mailing lists), or an email address (an alias) to be contacted.
We don't have a team that administer all our mailing lists, the administration is left to the members of that particular group based on their needs.

==== The Working Teams ====

The active groups, counting as of 2014-07-15 '''101 people''' in total, are:

* Web - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoWeb]]</nowiki>
** 8 members, in charge of <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-it.org]]</nowiki>
* Forum - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoForum]]</nowiki>
** 12 members, in charge of <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-it.org]]</nowiki> with about 165.000 users
* Documentation - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoDocumentazione]]</nowiki>
** 11 stable members, in charge of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org]]</nowiki>
* Translation - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTraduzione]]</nowiki>
** 11 members, in charge of launchpad translations
* FCM Magazine - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Fcm]]</nowiki>
** 14 members, in charge of the <nowiki>[[http://www.fullcirclemagazine.org/|Full Circle Magazine]]</nowiki> translation.
* Development - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoSviluppo]]</nowiki>
** 11 approved members, mentoring packaging and application development
* Marketing - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoPromozione]]</nowiki>
** 26 stable members, producing a weekly newsletter and other <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoPromozione/Progetti#Progetti|projects]]</nowiki>
* IRC - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoIrc]]</nowiki>
** 9 members
* Testing - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTest]]</nowiki>
** 5 stable members, testing Ubuntu since <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTest/Casi/Svolti|Lucid]]</nowiki>
* Sysadmins - <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoSistemisti]]</nowiki>
** 9 members

The Italian LoCo Council is responsible for the creation of the dedicated mailing lists.

=== Other Informations ===
==== Ubuntu Members ====
Lo``Co Team components whom are also Ubuntu Members: '''27'''
* https://launchpad.net/~valix
* https://launchpad.net/~alessandro-ghersi
* https://launchpad.net/~abogani
* https://launchpad.net/~quadrispro
* https://launchpad.net/~andyrock
* https://launchpad.net/~warp10
* https://launchpad.net/~gaspa
* https://launchpad.net/~claudio.arseni
* https://launchpad.net/~schwitzd
* https://launchpad.net/~dcavedon
* https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni
* https://launchpad.net/~fabiomarconi
* https://launchpad.net/~thesaltydog
* https://launchpad.net/~flavia.weisghizzi
* https://launchpad.net/~giuseppeterrasi
* https://launchpad.net/~l3on
* https://launchpad.net/~blackz
* https://launchpad.net/~lorenzosfarra
* https://launchpad.net/~dktrkranz
* https://launchpad.net/~elle.uca
* https://launchpad.net/~3v1n0
* https://launchpad.net/~mlazzari2
* https://launchpad.net/~milo
* https://launchpad.net/~hattory
* https://launchpad.net/~xdatap1
* https://launchpad.net/~palma-salvatore
* https://launchpad.net/~primes2h

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
