{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Community Knowledge Base ==

Welcome to the community knowledge base!

This page is here to provide an index of documents and articles that can help you build strong, vibrant communities. It is encouraged that the community create new articles to help expand and grow our existing documentation to help create even better teams. If we all work together to expand this documentation, we can create a pretty compelling resource.

If you want to add a document to the Knowledge Base, see <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-AddingCommunityGuide|this page]]</nowiki>.

=== Guides / HOWTOs ===

This section contains guides and HOWTOs for doing things effectively in the Ubuntu community, from setting up resources to resolving issues and being productive.

==== Team Processes ====

Things that all teams should be doing.

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|Team reporting]]</nowiki> - reporting to the wider project what your team is working on

==== Team Resources ====

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-CreatingWikiHomepage|Creating your team wiki homepage]]</nowiki> - how to create a homepage for your team on the Ubuntu wiki

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-SampleTeam|Sample Team Wiki Site]]</nowiki> - see this collection of suggested wiki pages for a sample team and use them as the basis for your own team.

===== General Information =====

General information and details about the LoCo project.

* LoCoTeams - the main homepage of the LoCo project.
* <nowiki>[[LoCoFAQ]]</nowiki> - one FAQ to rule them all! A big list of LoCo related questions.
* LoCoTeamsList - the list of approved and new teams.
* LoCoTeamContacts - how to contact the project leaders.
* LoCoTeamMeeting - details of the fortnightly LoCo team meetings held on IRC.

===== Joining a Team =====

Details about joining teams.

* LoCoTeamJoining - how to join your local LoCo team.

===== Running a Team =====

Help and resources for running a team.

* LoCoTeamHowto - our main guide to starting a LoCo team.
* LoCoTeamRegions - a guide to picking how much of a region your LoCo team covers
* LoCoGettingApproved - how to get your team approved.
* LoCoExampleApplication - an example approval application.
* LoCoGettingCds - how to get free Ubuntu CDs.
* LoCoResolvingProblems - details on resolving problems and conflict in your team.
* LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups - how to best work with other local groups such as Linux User Groups.
* LoCoTeamLeader - thoughts on being an effective leader.
* LoCoTeamDealingWithMoney - best practices for dealing with money
* LoCoTeamSpeakers - a list of those who are available to speak at conferences about Ubuntu.
* LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups - how to further promote Ubuntu while helping your area LUGs

===== LoCo Resources and Facilities =====

Guides and documentation about setting up the various resources and facilities your LoCo team may want to use.

* LoCoCreatingWebsite - how to create a website, a map of your area in which users can add themselves, a planet blog aggregator, and details about free hosting options.
* LoCoCreatingForum - how do you set up a forum for your team?
* LoCoDocsDay - how to get involved in our regular documentation days.
* LoCoBot - details about using our IRC bots for logging and other facilities.
* LoCoTeamDocsToDo - Things for us to complete
* LoCoTemplates - templates for your LoCo sites.

===== LoCo Activities =====

Guides about different types of work your team can do.

* LoCoActivism - How-to guide for digital freedom activism
* UbuntuAtConferences - how to get a "conference pack" from Canonical
* LoCoRunningInstallfests - a guide to running a local Installfest event.
* LoCoRunningReleaseParty - a guide to running a Release Party event.
* LoCoTeamEducation - how to advocate Ubuntu / Kubuntu / Edubuntu to educational users and organisations.
* LoCoComputerFairHowto - organising a computer fair booth
* '''Jams!''' - Jams are get-togethers of Ubuntu activists who work on Ubuntu directly to make it better. Useful information and materials about running '''<nowiki>[[RunningBugJam|Bug Jams]]</nowiki>''' and '''<nowiki>[[MOTU-RunningPackagingJam|Packaging Jams]]</nowiki>'''.

===== Mailing Lists =====

* loco-contacts - the main mailing list for the project is loco-contacts. You can join it by visiting https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/loco-contacts
* Team Mailing Lists - see https://lists.ubuntu.com for details of the team mailing lists.

===== IRC Channels =====

* #ubuntu-locoteams - the main IRC channel for the LoCo project.

==== Events ====

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamIrcSessions|Running Team IRC Sessions]]</nowiki> - how to run discussion, training, show and tell or other team related sessions via IRC
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-BookingUbuntuMeetingChannel|Booking #ubuntu-meeting]]</nowiki> - how to book the #ubuntu-meeting IRC channel
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty|Running a Release Party]]</nowiki> - how to organise and run an Ubuntu Release Party.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningCommunityStands|Running community Ubuntu stands at shows-conferences]]</nowiki> - a guide to running an exciting, dynamic, well staffed stand at a conference
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningAnUbucon|Running an Ubucon]]</nowiki> - a guide to running a community-driven Ubucon event
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-EventsGettingOrganised|Getting Organised]]</nowiki> -  Getting started with organising your event
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-OrganisingPhysicalEvents|Organising Physical Events]]</nowiki> - How to organise your real-life physical event
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-EventsGettingSponsorship|Getting Sponsorship]]</nowiki> - Use the best available methods to secure sponsorship for your event
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-OrganisingOnlineEvents|Organising Online Events]]</nowiki> - Plan and organise your on-line event

==== Supporting Workflow with Tools ====

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-UnderstandingWorkflow|Understanding Your Workflow]]</nowiki> - Learn how to select the right tools for the right job!
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-BuildingGreatInfrastructure| Building Great Infrastructure]]</nowiki> - Points to ponder when setting up your teams' or projects' tools.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-BuildingAndMaintainingTransparency|Building And Maintaining Transparency]]</nowiki> Transparency leads to stronger communities.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RegularWorkflowAssessment|Regular Workflow Assessment]]</nowiki> Regular assessments will refine your team or project.

==== Building Buzz ====

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-MindShare|Mind Share]]</nowiki> - Perception, change of attitudes, based on common goals and beliefs.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-BuildingBlocksOfBuzz|The Building Blocks of Buzz]]</nowiki> - Building excitement, and Motivate others.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-SettingUpYourBase|Setting Up Your Base]]</nowiki> - Specific examples on setting up your environment for buzz.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TheBuzzCycle|The Buzz Cycle]]</nowiki> - How to evaluate your affectiveness with buzz.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-BuzzTargets| Buzz Targets]]</nowiki> -  Real World Examples of Buzz Targeting done right.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-BuildingAlliances| Building Alliances]]</nowiki> - Harvesting your relationships, can help you spread your buzz.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-BuildingBuzzSummary| Building Buzz - Summary]]</nowiki> - Summary of the previous links content.
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-BuildingBuzz|Start Building Your Team's Buzz]]</nowiki> - List of places and ideas where you can start applying what you've learned.

==== Measuring Community ====

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-MeasuringCommunity|Measuring Community]]</nowiki> - 
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-FoundationsOfFeedback|Foundations of Feedback]]</nowiki> - 
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-HooksAndData|Hooks and Data]]</nowiki> - 
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-AnonymityAndPrivacy| Anonymity & Privacy]]</nowiki> - 

==== Disputes and Conflict ====

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-DealingWithConflict|Dealing With Conflict]]</nowiki> - how to deal with conflict in your team
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-CoCAndDisputes|The role of the Code Of Conduct in Disputes]]</nowiki> - some notes about where the Code Of Conduct plays a part in dispute and conflict resolution
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TakingConflictToTheCommunityCouncil|Taking Conflict To The Community Council]]</nowiki> - a guide to what to do when taking conflict issues to the community council
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-Conflict-NatureofBeast]]</nowiki> - The nature of conflict
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-Conflict-CalmBeforeStorm]]</nowiki> - Signs of impending conflict, what to look out for
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-Conflict-Resolution]]</nowiki> - How to resolve issues of conflict

==== Governance ====

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TheCaseForGovernance]]</nowiki> - When, why and how your community needs formalized governance
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-LearningFromTheLeaders]]</nowiki> - Learn from existing successful governance structures
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-SettingUpACommunityCouncil]]</nowiki> - How to bootstrap your community governance structure
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-ExpandingGovernance]]</nowiki> - When and how to expand your governance structure
* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-UbuntuGovernanceLinks]]</nowiki> - Links to further reading on how Ubuntu is governed

==== Burnout ====

* <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-Burnout]]</nowiki> - How to avoid and handle burnout

=== Articles, Blog Entries and Multimedia ===

Blog entries and articles:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=868|Misinformation: The Enemy Of Community]]</nowiki> by Jono Bacon
* <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=751|Transparency in process]]</nowiki> by Jono Bacon
* <nowiki>[[http://www.oreillynet.com/onlamp/blog/2006/04/the_increasing_importance_of_c.html|The Increasing Importance of Community]]</nowiki> by Jono Bacon
* <nowiki>[[http://www.oreillynet.com/onlamp/blog/2005/09/hindsight_is_always_2020.html|Hindsight is Always 20/20]]</nowiki> by Jono Bacon
* <nowiki>[[http://www.oreillynet.com/onlamp/blog/2004/04/advocating_honesty.html|Advocating honesty]]</nowiki> by Jono Bacon
* <nowiki>[[http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users/2006/12/how_to_build_a_.html|How To Build a Community: Part 1]]</nowiki> by Kathy Sierra

Multimedia:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=878|How To Herd Cats And Influence People]]</nowiki> by Jono Bacon

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryBuildingCommunity]]</nowiki>
