{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hi, I'm Jon. I started using Linux back in 2005, but did not begin to use it regularly until around release of Ubuntu 7.10. When I started to using Linux as my primary desktop OS, I sampled several different flavors/distributions until I was finally won over by the over whelming support and enthusiasm of the Ubuntu community.

In terms of my professional and technological interests are concerned, I am very fascinated with the concept of data networking, and with system administration coming rather naturally for me, this fancy thing called "Cloud Computing" happens to be what I spend most of my time (at work & at home) 'tinkering' with.

When the Internet is turned off, (or just in my pocket), I enjoy drinking coffee, hanging out with friends, spending time with my amazing wife, cooking, riding bikes, rock climbing, kayaking, tinkering with any sort of technology devices I am able to get my hands on, and home brewing (that means I make my own beer).

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~itsafork
|-
| IRC
| itsAfork
|-
| AIM
| itsAfork
|-
| GTalk
| itsafork@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| Jon@itsAfork.com
|-
| Website
| http://www.itsafork.com
|-
| Twitter
| http://www.twitter.com/#!/itsafork
|}

=== Contributions ===

Sense December of 2010 of I have been one of the 3 members that make up the Ubuntu Ohio LoCo Council.
I have been the organizer for the both the 2010 & 2011 UbuCon (a side event of the Ohio Linux Festival focusing on Ubuntu).

=== Future Goals ===

As a Ubuntu Member I will continue to help make strides for the Ubuntu community as a LoCo leader and, more generally, as a community activist. Additionally, as a Ubuntu Member, I will continue to push and advocate for the use of Ubuntu systems in Small Business, Enterprise & Home Computing environments as a cost effective and robust system. 

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
