{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~itzswirlz|itzswirlz]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''ItzSwirlz''' on ''irc.libera.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Github''':
| https://github.com/jpeisach
|}
=== About Me ===
Hey there, I'm Joshua Peisach (jpeisach, also known as ItzSwirlz). I lead Ubuntu Cinnamon, and I also do *many* other things.

To keep the story brief (though sometime I should probably write it all out), when I was young, my father showed me what a virtual machine was. Lots of playing later, and I had installed Linux for the first time (it was a VM for around the 14.04 release, I cannot remember).

Later, I made my own Minecraft mod from YouTube tutorials, which was how I found how much I love programming.

In 2019, I started Ubuntu Cinnamon Remix, which became an official flavor in 2023.

Ubuntu has done a lot for me, aside from just the flavor. It taught me a lot about how FOSS works, and ultimately allowed me to branch out into other aspects of computer science and technology.  Other projects I have contributed include:

* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/isledecomp/isle|Decompiling]]</nowiki> LEGO Island (1997) and later <nowiki>[[https://github.com/isledecomp/isle-portable/pull/450|porting it to the Nintendo 3DS]]</nowiki>.
* Running a HTTP server on a modded Wii U to integrate it with IoT <nowiki>[[https://jpeisach.github.io/blog/wiiu/ristretto/iot/homekit/2024/09/24/the-start-of-wiiu-home-automation.html|(blog post)]]</nowiki>.

=== Contributions ===
A lot of my Contributions have mainly been Developer related that you can find at my Developer Application. Here are my main accomplishments you should highlight:
* Creating Ubuntu Cinnamon
* Helping with bug squashing and patching.
* Helping with ISO and QA test assurance.
* Helping on Improving Features 
* Working with patching bugs Upstream if possible
* Helping out with Debian Packaging

==== Community ====
Something I could be a lot more a part of! I've mostly been active on Discourse.
* I was in the Ubuntu Hideout Discord Server (Unofficial Ubuntu Discord Fan Server, will rejoin soon)
* I've been fascinating ideas for front-end design, such as talking about DE's with others.
* I've discussed about theming Yaru in different colors and using it more.

==== My Groups ====
I've helped out in the following groups:
* All Ubuntu Flavors - Bug Squashing
* Ubuntu Quality/Testing
* Ubuntu Community Team

==== Pre-Programming Life: Minecraft ====
More is in my UbuntuContributingDeveloper application, but in short:

Minecraft Modifications exist and I created my own (now cringy) mod that you can find <nowiki>[[https://www.planetminecraft.com/mod/obsidian-ores-mod/|here]]</nowiki>.

==== Progressive Programming ====
Following other Youtube Tutorials and reading documentation/books, I began learning:
* Java (more actual Java)
* C++/C
* Batch/Bash
* Python
* Ruby
* Perl
* HTML/CSS
* JavaScript
* Played a bit with Objective-C/Swift
* Recently, Golang

I feel like I've done more languages btu that's that.

I haven't been successful really in making apps and stuff from ground-up: but I have been good of building with others and working on great projects.

==== Launchpad and QA ====
One of the things I did in Free Time when I didn't know what else to do was test the ISO's from QA-here is a chart of testcases I've done via QA from my UbuntuContributingDeveloper Application:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Version
| Type
| Position
| Testcases
|-
| Bionic
| Daily
| 134
| 2
|-
| Disco
| Final
| 40
| 1
|-
| Eoan
| Daily
| 22
| 17
|-
| Focal
| Beta
| 14
| 7
|-
| Focal
| Final
| 10
| 16
|-
| Focal
| Daily
| 7
| 77
|-
| Groovy
| Daily
| 8
| 6
|-
| Total
| 
| 
| 126
|}

* My Karma Level: 604 (and counting?)
* I've reported 16 Launchpad Bugs (probably more)
* Continue to periodically search around and use it frequently.

=== Future Goals ===

* Dont be a jerk to people.
* Work on getting my Developer Application accepted
* Apply for a PPU for my UCR Packages
* Get a bigger and better development team
* Apply for Flavor Status

=== Other Info ===
If I didn't list anything here or think I'm missing something, check my developer application. It's probably somewhere in there.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

I first met Itzswirlz when I joined the UCR Web Dev Team. I admired how he managed the UCR project and handled the huge community on the UCR Telegram groups. He's leading the UCR team very well and UCR itself is doing great under his leadership. I would absolutely back him for his Ubuntu Membership application, as I think he deserves it. I wish him luck for all his future endeavours and look forward to working with him in the future. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rs2009]]</nowiki> 