{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

My name is Ivan Ivanov and I am from Bulgaria.

The reason I am here is a cliché - I love open source, Linux, Ubuntu, GNOME and Ubuntu GNOME.

Ubuntu is a open source operating system. It is free in the meaning of freedom.

It is not only mine, it is our duty to help the developing and support project like Ubuntu. Because it is something for free and with only around 1 GB image size it has everything and much more than something that costs $200.

Yes, I have used that thing for $200 in the past. I have used it alongside Ubuntu since 2010!

From 3 years I use only Linux and different Linux-based distros. I get really angry when some friends of mine start: "There are no capable drivers for my hardware under Linux!", or "Linux is not good enough for developing, .NET is best!", or "How you copy files in Linux - only with commands is very slow, I like big buttons with images, I hate writing text, e.g. commands!".

People do not know Linux and Ubuntu at all. But more and more Ubuntu is getting popular.

Our mission is to participate in the Ubuntu projects and make Ubuntu the best of the best!

And my mission now is Ubuntu GNOME. Why? Because GNOME is harmony. I love harmony.
