{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

"Old pirates, yes, they rob i; Sold I to the merchant ships, Minutes after they took i From the bottomless pit. But my hand was made strong By the and of the almighty. We forward in this generation Triumphantly. Wont you help to sing These songs of freedom? - cause all I ever have: Redemption songs (Bob Marley 1980 Redemption songs)".

== Ivan Serra ==
Ubuntu Users living in Turin, north of Italy
Born in 1973, play the guitar and love the music

=== My goals in the community ===
Say to all that Ubuntu is the best OS of the world, I truly believe we'll get there and make Ubuntu a true Windows competitor, something has got to change.

I'm Just working at my new project, a new version of Ubuntu dedicated to female world

https://launchpad.net/ubuntushe

=== My job ===
I'm a network and security manager in a company here in Italy

=== My sites and interests ===
I create a website dedicated to Bob Marley, the http://www.bobmarleymagazine.com .In the website we play the journalist  and interview people that has or doesn’t have characterized in any way the life of this world fame artist.

This website is in the sphere of reggae but not only, and is online since 2003, earning  a big notoriety with a lot of accesses and users from all over the world

I play the guitar and love music I have a band tribute to Bob Marley, the name is Roots Revelation.

Sites:
* http://launchpad.net/ubuntushe
* http://www.bobmarleymagazine.com
* http://www.myspace.com/rootsrevelationband
* http://www.ninomanfredi.it
* http://www.giancarlogiannini.it

=== My Launchpad profile ===

* http://launchpad.net/~ivanserra
