{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hi,

My name is Ivo Xavier, and I'm a Portuguese Ubuntu user since 2007, almost a decade! I fell in love with it. It took 2 (two) years to start contributing to it on Launchpad. Since I'm not a developer, or at least have high skills to hack on the system, my contributions started on the translations front. <<BR>> On 2012 I've joined the Ubuntu Portuguese Translators Team, and become both translator and revisor. I manage the Ubuntu Portuguese Translators page and the same channel on telegram. Also, I'm a master student at Universidade do Minho, Portugal.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Telegram
| https://telegram.me/ubuntupt
|-
| Twitter
| https://twitter.com/IvoXavier5
|-
| Email
| ivofernandes12@gmail.com
|-
| Facebook
| https://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.portuguese.translators/
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~ivoxavier
|}

=== Contributions ===
* I've been translating Ubuntu, into Portuguese, since 2009 everyday. Also help translating Ubuntu RTM and Core and System Apps.<<BR>>
* I report bugs, when I found them.<<BR>>
* I've purchased an Ubuntu Phone Bq Aquaris e4.5, and got a second phone (Nexus 7) to test the translations for every OTA.<<BR>>
* I've published some apps into the Ubuntu Store, such as Instagram Web App and uJudas.<<BR>>
* I'm the admin of Ubuntu Portuguese Translators page on Facebook, and the channel with same name on Telegram.<<BR>>
* I also share the ubuntu hastag on social networks, the Ubuntu official twitter account has once shared on of my tweets about the 16.04 UOS. <<BR>>
* I also participate and share information on the Ubuntu phoners telegram group, hosted by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~tcarrondo|Tiago Carrondo]]</nowiki> .

=== Future Goals ===

* Have an Ubuntu party release in my hometown. <<BR>>
* Learn more about programming to create more apps to Ubuntu, currently I'm working on a project called 'Asks', a sort of Quiz. <<BR>>
* Continue to spread the word, and philosophy, Ubuntu. And help people to get started with Ubuntu on devices.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
