{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{http://ompldr.org/vYTZ5MA}}
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|-
| Ubuntu Forums: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1212450]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad ID: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~iwantfroyo|iwantfroyo]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC: IWantFroyo on irc.freenode.net
|-
| Email: alexpatrick314@gmail.com
|-
| Blog: <nowiki>[[www.guide2linux.org|Guide2Linux.org]]</nowiki>
|-
| Location: United States
|}

=== About Me ===
Froyo is a version of Android (2.2), that was the newest at the time my account was created. My phone however, wasn't on Froyo during that time, hence my username.

I am a student and GNU/Linux power user. I spend most of my free time outside, usually biking or taking a walk. I am fluent in Russian, and I'm learning Japanese.

Ubuntu Forums not only helped me learn Linux, but computers in general. When I joined, I was asking why "su" wasn't working in the terminal. Now, I'm learning C++ and BASH. Ubuntu Forums took me that far, and I'm highly grateful to the community.

I started using computers with Windows ME, and I didn't really know much about them. I was still running Windows XP in 2010, before I found out about Ubuntu. I tried Lucid, and promptly wiped my computers of Windows.
I now use a Toshiba T235D-S1360 13.3" laptop, and I have a homemade desktop. All of my computers run Ubuntu.

=== Interests ===

I install and reinstall Linux a lot, usually just to play around with different distributions. I am a beginning web designer, I'm learning several scripting languages (JavaScript, BASH, and Lua), and I'm learning several "compilable" languages such as Java and C++.
I like to read fiction novels, and I sketch out a lot of random technical ideas that I get, like possible aircraft designs and project ideas.
I also write a lot, both on the computer and on paper.

=== Ubuntu Contributions ===

Ubuntu Forums- I've been active since joining in December 2010, now having over 450 posts in the support areas. I'm generally in the General Help or Absolute Beginner Talk areas, but I post anywhere I can help. My profile is <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1212450|here]]</nowiki>.

LaunchPad- I have signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct, and I help out once in a while on the wikis.
I am a member of the Ubuntu Virginia LoCo team, and of the Ubuntu Documentation Contributors.

IRC- I am generally on #ubuntu. I help as often as I can.

Blogging- I have a Linux blog, with a general focus around Ubuntu at www.guide2linux.org.

=== The Future ===

I plan to continue being active in the Ubuntu Forums, start contributing more actively to the wiki, and to start contributing code (once my programming skills are good enough).
I also plan to become more active on my blog, rewriting it, and starting to including tutorials.

=== Testimonials ===

Please visit <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1838598|my application on the Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>.

If I've helped you, please feel free to leave a comment here, too.
