{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Taihsiang Ho, apply for upload rights for package rasdaemon.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Taihsiang Ho
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~tai271828
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/tai271828
|}

I am applying because:

* I am <nowiki>[[ https:--qa.debian.org-developer.php?login=e%40tai271828.me | the Debian Maintainer ]]</nowiki> of the package in Debian.
* I would like to directly support requests from the Ubuntu community, including Canonical, for this package, for example, <nowiki>[[ https:--bugs.launchpad.net-bugs-2088250|LP#2088250]]</nowiki>. 
* I would also like to help backport critical fixes to Jammy (and Focal, if possible).

== Who I am ==
I have been maintaining the Debian package "<nowiki>[[ https:--tracker.debian.org-pkg-rasdaemon | rasdaemon ]]</nowiki>" in Debian since 2023, and became an official Debian Maintainer for it in 2024. I have actively maintained it since then. See "rasdaemon" in <nowiki>[[ https:--ftp-master.debian.org-dm.txt | this Debian Maintainer list]]</nowiki>.

More about me is available on <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-tai271828 | my Ubuntu wiki page ]]</nowiki>.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I have been an Ubuntu user since 2006 and worked at Canonical between 2013 and 2025, contributing from desktop certification to server hardware enablement. In my spare time, I maintain the rasdaemon package, a valuable tool for server administrators monitoring Linux RAS status.

More about me is available on <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-tai271828 | my Ubuntu wiki page ]]</nowiki>.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

<nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-rasdaemon | My packaging work for rasdaemon has been imported into Ubuntu starting with Noble. ]]</nowiki>. However, I have not yet had the opportunity to upload it myself or through the sponsorship process.

=== Areas of work ===

Not applicable yet within Ubuntu. I am seeking upload permissions specifically for the package I maintain in Debian.

=== Things I could do better ===

I recognize that submitting several SRUs prior to applying could have helped the Developer Membership Board gain more confidence in my work. I will continue to improve in this area.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

In the future, I hope to contribute more broadly as a MOTU, particularly focusing on computational science and high-performance computing packages.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
The package rasdaemon in early Ubuntu releases (before Noble) are outdated and had been orphaned in Debian for a period, leading to known issues, although these versions are still widely used (e.g. <nowiki>[[  https:--bugs.launchpad.net-bugs-2088250 | LP#2088250 ]]</nowiki>). The Debian community has recently <nowiki>[[ https:--tracker.debian.org-news-1584105-accepted-rasdaemon-081-3bpo121-source-amd64-into-stable-backports- | provided rasdaemon backport ]]</nowiki> into stable-backports. I would like to help backport these fixes into Jammy and Focal.

----

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
Since Noble, the rasdaemon package has been directly imported from my Debian work. I do not currently have a sponsor for this package.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
