{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Taihsiang Ho (tai271828) ==

=== About me ===

Ex-Canonical Software Engineer. FLOSS contributor. Scientific computing amateur. Climber, pianist and cellist.

I was an experimental particle physic scientist to try to improve the measurement of the neutrino mass in the Dayabay collaboration. I am also an open source and FLOSS culture advocate. I joined Canonical in 2013 to contribute to FLOSS more, and I am active to organize PyCon Taiwan. I love to combine FLOSS and science, and I am an amateur researcher of computational fluid dynamics in recent years. Besides, I am a mountaineer and rock climber. When I am not in the wild and not coding, I love to play instruments e.g. guitar, piano and cello.

I have been using Ubuntu since 2006.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email
| tai271828@ubuntu.com
|-
| Website
| https://en.tai271828.me
|-
| Launchpad
| tai271828
|}

=== Contributions ===

** Maintaining <nowiki>[[ https:--tracker.debian.org-pkg-rasdaemon | rasdaemon]]</nowiki> in Debian imported by Ubuntu new releases as <nowiki>[[ https:--ftp-master.debian.org-dm.txt | the Debian Maintainer ]]</nowiki> of rasdaemon package in Debian.
** SRU testing of Desktop Certification for years by 2020 - infrastructure development and maintenance, and performing tests
** Ubuntu kernel contributor
** Ubuntu testing package <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/checkbox | Checkbox project]]</nowiki> contributor
** MaaS contributor
** Charm contributor of <nowiki>[[https://jaas.ai/u/ce-hyperscale/scalebot-jenkins | Scalebot charm]]</nowiki>
** Charm owner and developer of <nowiki>[[https://jaas.ai/u/tai271828/sge-cluster-bundle/bundle/8 | Sun Grid Engine based cluster charms and bundle]]</nowiki>
** Bug triaging, troubleshooting, and helping the community on askubuntu.com and Launchpad

=== Future Goals ===

** Packaging/debianizing <nowiki>[[ https:--github.com-commitizen-tools-commitizen | commitizen ]]</nowiki>
** Revamping <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+source-palabos | palabos ]]</nowiki> in Ubuntu

=== Testimonials ===

It’s very pleasure to work with Taihsiang to make Ubuntu/FLOSS better. His contribution is not only in FLOSS but also the world! In FLOSS, he did excellent jobs to make sure the Ubuntu certificatied platforms could be continuously upgraded/tested to protect the quality of Ubuntu announcements. I’d worked with him to identify the issues from LXC/MaaS/Network in the past. He has strong logical thinking and is patient to communicate with everyone. He participated in <nowiki>[[https://englishnews.ftv.com.tw/read.aspx?sno=D72577463372E308DC1D7ED56271DABB | fundraising to buy the land to protect Shihu/石虎/Taiwanese Lynx in Taiwan]]</nowiki>. In the meantime, he is paying attention to social issues in Taiwan as well. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:os369510]]</nowiki> 
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Po-HsuLin|Po-Hsu Lin]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu Kernel Team member) - Taihsiang is a diligent person who worked very hard on the Stable Release Update (SRU) not only running tests to ensure the quality of Ubuntu but improving the automation process to make people's life easier. You can see his enthusiasm for Ubuntu / FLOSS in different open source communities and scientific projects as well. I believe Taihsiang will make an fantastic addition to the Ubuntu Membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cypressyew]]</nowiki> 

When Taihsiang worked as a software engineer in Certification Team, we worked together to build up Auto-Sanity process for all OEM projects in Taipei office. He shows expertise in MAAS & Testflinger and has been very supportive to solve blocking issues. With Taihsiang in team, we can make aggressive plans and expect to achieve them in scedule. He also shows good sense in using Python APIs and abilities to learn new technology fast. With Ubuntu Membership, I believe Taihsiang will keep contribute with his expertise and together make Ubuntu the best operating system ever. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jasonlo]]</nowiki> 

Taihsiang joined my team at Canonical in the past year and has been a valuable contributor to our work on the arm64 port of Ubuntu. Through his testing he has discovered and triaged several issues with installing Ubuntu on these platforms, and has made many improvements - most significantly in usability - to our Juju-based automated testing infrastructure. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dannf]]</nowiki> 
It was such a pleasure to work with Taihsiang when his stay in Certification Team, I always asked a lot of questions and got really positive answers from him. Beside that he joins on many social topics try to make our world better. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:hugh712]]</nowiki> 
Tai worked with me on the Canonical Hardware Certification team. 
His diligence and attention to details saved us many times.
He's really a great guy and his contributions to our community are already impressive.
I wouldn't hesitate to recommend him for Ubuntu membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:sylvain-pineau]]</nowiki> 
I was working with Taihsiang on several Canonical OEM projects. Taihsiang's thoughtfulness is shown when he regularly goes the extra mile to make sure the implementations and fixes fulfill the requirements and tries to upstream and benefit the Ubuntu community. He is always willing to help others and happy to share his knowledge. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:robertliu]]</nowiki> 
Tai and I worked together in the Canonical Certification team. He's passionate about libre and open source software (as his many travels to attend related conferences can prove), has a great knowledge of Linux in general and Ubuntu in particular. I think he would be a good addition to the Ubuntu Members. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pieq]]</nowiki> 
Work with Tai on several bugs on kernel and other field. Tai shows professional skill and talent to solve difficult issues. I am happy to work with him and also believe it will be good to have him as Ubuntu members -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ikepanhc]]</nowiki> 
Tai would be a great asset to the Ubuntu community. While working with Tai in the Server Enablement team I have seen him make strong, thoughtful contributions to the Ubuntu ecosystem. He is proactive and generous with his time, and is keen to share his knowledge with others. He listens to and actions feedback swiftly. I have learnt to listen to and value his insights. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:andrew-cloke]]</nowiki> 