{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== March 2009 ==

** Participation at <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2009/03/17/fossconf-2009-ubuntu-tamil-team/|FossConf]]</nowiki> 2009.

== February 2009 ==
 
** IT Centre at <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tam/2009-February/000784.html|Theerthamalai]]</nowiki>, TamilNadu together with Makkal Vaazhvurimai Arakkattalai and District Administration.

== January 2009 ==

** Arunai College of Engineering, TamilNadu - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tam/2009-January/000779.html|Tamil Computing Workshop]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tam/2009-January/000780.html|Mahadanapuram]]</nowiki>, TamilNadu FOSS Intro Workshop 
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tam/2009-January/000783.html Nandha College]]</nowiki>, Erode - FOSS Intro

== December 2008 ==

** Vellore, TamilNadu <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/12/27/when-vellore-woke-up-for-ubuntu/|Intrepid Release]]</nowiki>

== November 2008 ==

* Intrepid Ibex Lauch at <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/11/24/tiruppur-intrepid-lauch/|Tiruppur, TamilNadu]]</nowiki>
* Intrepid Release Event at <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/11/10/intrepid-release-event-erode/|Erode, TamilNadu]]</nowiki>

== October 2008 ==

** Called for public hosting of Intrepid Ibex launch party was made and preparation in progress for <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/10/29/erode-to-host-intrepid-release-event/|Nov 09 Release event]]</nowiki>.
** Payanarin Paarvaiyil - Ubuntu --> Handbook for Ubuntu in Tamil in progress.

== September 2008 ==

** Software Freedom Day Celebrations with <nowiki>[[http://jayafossclub.org | Jaya FOSS Club]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2008-September/043573.html | Report]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/09/14/letters-to-be-made-better/ | Fonts Creation Session]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-l10n-tam/2008-September/001604.html | Feel the Freedom - SASTRA University, Kumbakonam]]</nowiki>

== August 2008 ==

* <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/insyder-2008-powered-by-free-software/|Insyder at Arunai Engineering College, Tiruvannamalai]]</nowiki>

== July 2008 ==

* <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/07/19/ubuntu-kaipidi-thozhargal-across-tamil-nadu/|Ubuntu Hand Over friends Implemented]]</nowiki>

== June 2008 ==

** <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/06/01/party-time-with-ubuntu/|Ubuntu Kaippidi Thozargal]]</nowiki> (Hand Over Friends) launched.
** "Payanarin Paarvaiyil - Ubuntu" - User Guide for Ubuntu to be written collaboratively and published in next four months. Language Tamil.

== May 2008 ==

* New <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2008-April/002140.html|team leads]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu Tamil Team
* <nowiki>[[http://l10n.kde.org/stats/gui/trunk-kde4/essential/|KDE 4.1]]</nowiki> to have Tamil language
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-l10n-tam/2008-May/001507.html|Celebrations for Hardy Release]]</nowiki>, Ubuntu Tamil Team's Two year Completion on 31 May 08.
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-l10n-tam/2008-May/001470.html|Ubuntu Kaippidi Thozargal]]</nowiki> (Hand Over Friends) Scheme to get launched.
* Ubuntu Pocket team training conducted at Kalmunai Sri Lanka by the Tamil team for the university stafs and private organization system admins etc around 30 people were trained by small group training.

== April 2008 ==

* KDE 4.1 translations going Upstream
* Monthly Ubuntu Intro One day class scheduled at NRCFOSS, Chennai on 26 Apr 2008
* Team Lead change proposed.
* Working on <nowiki>[[http://gnukulam.anbu.in|gnukulam]]</nowiki> e-Learning System for FOSS with ICT Teaching in Tamil Medium by Jointly <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AbdulHaleem|Abdul Haleem]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://amachu.net|Ramadas]]</nowiki>.

== March 2008 ==

* KDE 4.1 Translations going on <nowiki>[[http://l10n.kde.org/stats/gui/trunk-kde4/team/ta/|Upstream]]</nowiki>
* Last Sunday of every month dedicated for beginners who wish to migrate to GNU/ Linux. This will be held at <nowiki>[[http://nrcfoss.org.in|NRCFOSS]]</nowiki>  with Ubuntu as base Operating System. Last month this event took place for <nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2008-February/039918.html|two days each]]</nowiki>. This month it will be on <nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2008-March/040327.html|30 March]]</nowiki>.
* Special Training on Indroduction to GNU/ Linux given to <nowiki>[[http://cwdr.org.in|Women Development Group]]</nowiki> at NRCFOSS on <nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2008-March/040371.html|22 March 2008]]</nowiki>.

== February 2008 ==

** Participated in <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/02/04/foss-conf-rocked/|FossConf 2008]]</nowiki>
* Working on New Tamil Keyboard Layout for xkb.
* Debian Installer GUI part translated upstream.
* Gearing up KDE translation for 4.1 release upstream.
* On 23, 24 - Conducted a two day (one day each) - GNU/ Linux introduction for newbies at NRCFOSS, Chennai. The docs can be downloaded from http://ubuntu-tam.org/avanam/nigazhchi/2008/feb/
* Conducted a One Day Gnu/Linux Introductory Class for a Startup Dewgro<nowiki>[[http://dewgro.com]]</nowiki> and Installed Ubuntu in the Desktop PCs.

== January 2008 ==

* Preparation for Foss Conf - 2008

We started producing CDs locally now. This is also done keeping in mind <nowiki>[[http://fossconf.in|FossConf-2008]]</nowiki> to be held at Chennai, India.

* First help for commercial user

We installed Ubuntu server for <nowiki>[[http://www.cavinkare.com/|M/s Cavin Care Private Limited, Chennai]]</nowiki> for hosting their intra net Web Applications.

* Ubuntu Tamil Derivative - Anbu

We began our work towards a Ubuntu Tamil Derivative - "Anbu" making use of <nowiki>[[http://uck.sourceforge.net|Ubuntu Customization Kit]]</nowiki>. We welcome people to contribute for the same. This will be a Kubuntu derivative. Project process is named <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tam.org/mailman/listinfo/naran-aakkam_ubuntu-tam.org|Naran]]</nowiki>.

* Tamil Fonts Project - Arun

We initiated a project for creation of <nowiki>[[http://anbu.in/mailman/listinfo/minnezhuthu_anbu.in|Tamil Unicode Fonts]]</nowiki>.
