{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===
   I'm a photographer and videographer so right now I mostly use OSX in my work. However, I'll be abandoning OSX editing software in the near future for a new open source video editor - a professional, distributed video editor that my husband (<nowiki>[[https://launch.net/~jderose|~jderose]]</nowiki>) is developing.  Between the great work <nowiki>[[http://yorba.org/shotwell/|Shotwell]]</nowiki> and Jason are currently doing, I'll soon be a monogamous, open source software user. 

==== My Contact Information ====
** twitter: <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/#!/frmdrt|frmdrt]]</nowiki>
** email: frmdrt@novacut.com, taraoldfield@gmail.com
** Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~frmdrt
** Vimeo: http://vimeo.com/frmdrt
** flickr: http://www.flickr.com/photos/37955218@N08/
             
===== Blogs =====
** http://blog.novacut.com/ 

====== Community Involvement ======
   I'm working on a documentary about the Ubuntu Developer Summit that just took place in Orlando.  If all goes according to plan, I'll have some sort of presentable product within the next three months.  I'll be blogging about my editing process in order to keep the community informed about what's going on with the project.  I welcome any input that people might have about where I should distribute my documentary.

Some videos and photos have already been published:

*** <nowiki>[[http://cdn.novacut.com/EditForGraners.xhtml|Videos from Ubuntu Allstars Jam, UDS-N]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/37955218@N08/|UDS-N Photos]]</nowiki>
   
CategoryHomepage
