{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Personal Information ====
----
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| mail:
| '''''tassilo *dot* nakagawa *at* gmx *dot* de'''''
| '''(Put "LINUX" or "UBUNTU" in the subject line to not get spammed out !!!)'''
|-
| 
|-
| name:
| Tassilo Naoki Nakagawa
|-
| born:
| 1982
|-
| sex:
| male
|-
| job:
| student for Sociology
|-
| lives:
| Hamburg Downtown
|-
| offers:
| Support for Newcomers
|}

==== OpenSourceCV ====
----
When a pretty new computer magazine named "com!" brought out an article about the soon coming out Vista I decided to switch either to Mac OSX or Linux soon. 

When the hardware-elements of my WinXP-HDD started to make strange noises I tried to backup the whole data.
First I put the HDD to another WinXP computer but I could not backup one file at all.

Becoming more and more stressed I booted from an Ubuntu-GutsyGibbon-7.10-Live-Disc.
After backing up 160 Gig (Windows named it: corrupt data) by a Linux-Live-System with no problem from one HDD to a new one I decided that there would be no better time to switch.
Online I did a Linux-Test (Which Linux is the best for me?). Debian was the answer of that question, because I wanna have a system which can run Mail- and Webservers and stuff like that. 

I installed Debian Etch and was more than happy. I still am.

''By the way: "The data is still 100% intact"''

For all my friends and people around me in Real-Life I recommend Ubuntu, because it is a fast growing, very stable and secure distribution, it brings all the programs people usually need and it just needs a few small learning-steps to get used to when coming from WinXP. 

All the people who switched to Gutsy by my influence are more than happy and proud to use it.

==== Capabilities ====
----
I just have basic knowlegde in HTML, some graphics and C++. 
I just started with Linux, but I am learning fast.

==== Interests ====
----
My hobbies beside computing, Internet, Chatting, Linux and so on is: 
* Playing the guitar 
* Movies 
* Talking on the phone 
* Roller-Skating 
* Going for a Coffee with a friend 
* Surely most important of all: my wonderful girlfriend, ;-)

==== The Project and my part in it ====
----
Deciding that Ubuntu would be the best distribution for users switching to Linux, I wanna build up a LUG in Hamburg. 

I offer support for Newcomers, Meetings in Hamburg, Information, Material and so on. 

I am looking for people in Hamburg, already found some, who wanna help me give Information, CDs, Installationparties, Info-Lessons and Linux-Meetings to Newcomers. 

Anybody who is interested, please contact me via Email, the movement needs your support.

==== I want to support the Ubuntu-Project by: ====
----
* Giving information about Ubuntu-Software, Ubuntu-Organisation and Open-Source in General
* Passing on Material, Flyers, CDs, ...
* Giving Information-Events with the help of experiences Linux-Users at the University of Hamburg
* Helping inexperienced Linux-Users with problems in Hamburg in any possible way
* Helping people setting up an getting to know Ubuntu on their own computer

Thank you for interest by reading all those details, ;-)
