{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Taylor LeMasurier-Wren, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Taylor LeMasurier-Wren
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ripps818
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ripps818
|}

== Who I am ==
''Tell us a bit about yourself.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
Ubuntu replaced Windows as my primary OS around 2007. But before I became a dedicated Ubuntu user, I had already dabbled with Linux since 2002. I first started playing the early Knoppix/Fedora Core/Mandrake Linux variants while I was in High School. Then in Late 2004, after I went to College, I installed Gentoo as my #2 OS. I learned most of my knowledge about Linux and how it works during this time. Than around late 2006, I replaced Gentoo with Ubuntu as my messing around OS. After Fiesty Fawn came out, I replaced Windows with Ubuntu and haven't looked back since.

=== My involvement ===
Currently I do alot of PPA packaging and theme customization. I created the GMPC-Trunk team in early 2008 for gmpc/mpd packages. While managing these PPA's I learned most of my Debian Packaging knowledge. From there I've taking on more difficult packaging problems and tried to fix some bugs here there. Although, I've many of the fixes I've attempt to introduce into Ubuntu have been largely ignored or sitting int REVU, never to be seen again. I've started making it habit to to try and get my packages introduced through Debian instead, as I seem to have slightly greater succes getting Debian Mentors to look at my packages than I do MOTU's.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
