{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== October 2009 Team Reports ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

If your team is not making team reports, see <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|these guidelines]]</nowiki> for how to do so.

=== Ubuntu Governance ===
==== Community Council ====
Meeting, 2009-10-20:
* CoC update:
** The CC approved <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~mako/ubuntu-codeofconduct/proposed-revision/annotate/head%3A/CodeOfConduct.txt|the new Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.
** Alan Pope agreed to talk to Curtis Hovey about an update of the CoC in Launchpad.
** Daniel Holbach agreed to make sure the CoC is updated in all the right places.
* Expectations of Team Council and Board member: the CC voted on the merge of <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil-Delegation-Proposal]]</nowiki> into <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil-Delegation]]</nowiki> and approved it.

==== Forum Council ====

==== LoCo Council ====

==== MOTU Council ====

==== Technical Board ====

=== Ubuntu Development Teams ===

==== Xubuntu Team ====

=== Ubuntu LoCo Teams ===

==== Asturian Team ====
* Day 24 September: Introduction to Software Libre and Ubuntu. Library Atenéu (Turón/Mieres) <nowiki>[[http://blogs.altuxa.com/tapaponga/semeyes-de-les-xornaes-de-turon.html | Blog Tapaponga]]</nowiki>
* Day 25 September: Ubuntu Install Party. Library Atenéu (Turón/Mieres) <nowiki>[[http://blogs.altuxa.com/tapaponga/semeyes-de-les-xornaes-de-turon.html | Blog Tapaponga]]</nowiki>
* Upload poster for Install Party in <nowiki>[[http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/en/node/272 | SpreadUbuntu]]</nowiki> for the comunity.

==== Cameroonian Team ====

==== Catalan Team ====

==== Chilean Team ====

==== Danish Team ====

==== Ecuador Team ====

==== German Kubuntu Team ====

==== Greek Team ====

==== Honduras Team ====

==== Irish Team ====

==== Japanese Team ====

==== Korean Team ====

==== Norwegian team ====

==== Romanian Team ====

==== Russian Team ====

==== United States Teams ====

===== US Teams Project =====

===== California Team =====

===== Chicago Team =====

===== FloridaTeam =====

===== New York State Team =====

===== Ohio Team =====

===== Pennsylvania Team =====

=== Ubuntu Beginners Team ===

=== Ubuntu NGO Team ===
