{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== 2008 December Team Reports ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

If your team is not making team reports, see <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|these guidelines]]</nowiki> for how to do so.

=== Community Council ===
* Meeting 2008-12-16:
** <nowiki>[[PlanetUbuntu-CorporateBlogs]]</nowiki> was agreed on and the request for the addition of the Oxford Archaeology blog granted.
** Mark will ask Nigel Pugh about interest in a Google Calendar <-> IRC gateway. Daniel will mail Nick Ali about trying to get people involved in finding a solution.
** The decision on a Canonical/Ubuntu participation in a Tunisian FOSS conference was unfortunately too late.
** The three nominees for the IRC Council were appointed, the IRC Council will be asked for their OK with changing their charter to read "... at least 5 members ..." instead. The possibility of a future "IRC Contributors" team was discussed and the new IRC Council will look into finalising this. The ownership of the `~ubuntu-irc-council` team was transferred to the CC.

=== Ubuntu Development Teams ===

==== MOTU ====
===== Council =====
* We're pleased to announce that Stefan Ebner joined the MOTU team.
* We're very happy to announce that David Futcher just joined the MOTU team. He did great work in the last weeks and lives in Scotland.
* Stéphane Graber joined the MOTU team. Having put a lot of effort into LTSP and friends, we were only too happy to welcome him on board.
* Nathan Handler just joined the MOTU team. He has done fantastic work and we're very happy he's on board now.

==== Mobile Team ====

* Some of the team on holiday and UDS so a quiet month
* Work on armel build failures and depwaits including filing bugs #308834 and bug #308465
* Fixed xine-lib FTBFS (4 issues combined).
* xulrunner-1.9 ubuntu-mobile hardy ppa upload; seems to be trivial to follow the hardy xulrunner-1.9 branch.
* Sent pkg-config cleanups and testsuite fixes upstream.
* Sent acpid patches upstream.

==== Team Name ====

* Report Item
* Report Item
* Report Item
* Report Item

=== Xubuntu ===

=== IRC Council ===
* Working on setting up regular monthly meetings
* Agenda for IRC Council meetings available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrcTeam/IrcCouncil/MeetingAgenda.

=== Ubuntu LoCo Teams ===

==== LoCo Council ====
* Mali Team put in contact with French Team to see if French Team could help provide some resources like posters.
* Alan Pope will be sending the Mali Team a hard drive with all the repositories on them.

==== German Team ====
===== Berlin =====
* 2008-12-03: ubuntu-berlin user meeting (Stammtischtreffen)
* 2008-12-09: our regular Bug``Jam at the c-base
* 2008-12-10: Talk "Einführung in LaTeX unter GNU/Linux" (Introduction to LaTeX - the full story in german language: http://www.ubuntu-berlin.de/node/98)
* 2008-12-11: Tux Origami Workshop

==== Japanese Team ====

* Translated <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/community/ubuntustory|The Ubuntu Story]]</nowiki> to Japanese and published on <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/community/ubuntustory|our web site]]</nowiki>.
* Have Started planning face-to-face meeting ("Offline Meeting Tokyo 9.01") which will be hold on 17th Jan 2009.
* ATOK X3 (propietary Japanese input method software for Linux) supports Ubuntu 8.10 now.
* Exhibited at the "Gathering the Linux Distributions" at <nowiki>[[http://www.rakuten.co.jp/event/techconf/2008/|Rakuten technology conference]]</nowiki> on 29th Nov.
* Interviewd by local magazine "<nowiki>[[http://www.ascii.co.jp/books/books/detail/978-4-04-867516-1.shtml|Kantan-Ubuntu]]</nowiki>"
* Team member have written articles for following local magazines:
** "<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2009/200901|Software Design:Using software RAID on Linux]]</nowiki>"

==== Tunisian Team ====
* Ubuntu-tn at the 4th edition of the annual seminar on FOSS Tunisia : <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/TeamReporting#Ubuntu-tn at the 4th edition of the annual seminar on FOSS Tunisia | abstract ]]</nowiki>
* Migration Project of the National Engineering School of Sfax (ENIS) : <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-TunisianTeam-TeamReporting#ENIS Event 8.12 | abstract ]]</nowiki>
* 6th regular IRC <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Meetings|meeting]]</nowiki>. 

==== United States of America ====

===== Chicago Team =====
* Made initial plans for participation in the February 2009 Global Bug Jam
** Additional planning meeting set for Saturday, January 17th.
* Set tentative 6-month plan for Ubuntu-Chicago Loco activities.  Activities to include:
** Bug Jam - February
** Ubuntu and Free Software advocacy activity day - March
** Ubuntu-Chicago at "Flourish" FLOSS conference - April (Presenters & Ubuntu-Chicago representation)
** Jaunty Release Party & Install Fest - Early May
** Packaging Jam - June

===== Florida Team =====

===== Georgia Team =====
* Preparing plans and schedules for 2009.

===== New York Team =====

* Completed a redesign on the entire team wiki page including the creation of several additional sub-areas and pages.
* Held elections for new officers: PrivateVoid was elected Vice President, the-stace was elected treasurer and NewJack was elected to the at-large position for the down state region.
* The Newsletter team held two meetings (IRC and SIP) and is on its way to producing the teams first newsletter. The team is being headed by DaraAdib.
* A meetup was held at the Barnes & Noble @ RIT in Rochester, NY on December 4th.
* A meetup was held at Potato Republic in New City, NY on December 6th.
* Plans are being finalized for events from January through May including an Open Street Map event and participation in the Global Bug Jam.

===== Pennsylvania Team =====

* Continued work on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PennsylvaniaTeam/CommunityOutreachTeam/NTRDualBootImage|NTR Dual Boot Re-Image Project]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2008-December/000710.html|NTR Imaging Party Event]]</nowiki>
* Conducted meeting on Dec 17 where <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2008-December/000715.html|Global Big Jam plans]]</nowiki> were discussed

===== Arizona Team =====

* Working on installfests to be held at the two major Arizona college campuses. On at U of A in Tucson, and one at ASU in Phoenix.
* Starting work on our second open source state conference(ABLEconf) to be held in 2009.

==== Tamil Team ====

* Vellore, TamilNadu <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/12/27/when-vellore-woke-up-for-ubuntu/|Intrepid Release]]</nowiki>

==== Team Name ====

* Report Item
* Report Item
* Report Item
* Report Item
