{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== June 2009 Team Reports ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

If your team is not making team reports, see <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|these guidelines]]</nowiki> for how to do so.

=== Ubuntu Governance ===
==== Community Council ====

==== LoCo Council ====

==== MOTU Council ====

==== Technical Board ====

=== Ubuntu Development Teams ===

==== Xubuntu Team ====

=== Ubuntu LoCo Teams ===

==== Asturian Team ====
* Day 19: Presentation the Asturian translation of Edubuntu. <nowiki>[[http://blogs.altuxa.com/tapaponga/cronica-edubuntu-nasturianu.html | Blog Tapaponga]]</nowiki>
* Day 11: Chat Metting <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AsturianTeam/MeetingsPage?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=20090611_meeting_ubuntu-ast_log.txt |  Log]]</nowiki>
* Upload poster for Install Party in <nowiki>[[http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/en/poster/generic-install-party-softastur-2009 | SpreadUbuntu]]</nowiki> for the comunity.

==== Cameroonian Team ====

==== Czech Team ====
* Ubuntu Czech Republic won inquiry "Czech Open Source 2009" in category "Project of year"
** http://img36.imageshack.us/img36/9029/cos2009.png
* We are planning big redesign of our homepage and forum
** Homepage: http://wiki.ubuntu.cz/Filipec?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=ubuweb2009-nahled1.png (mockup)
** Forum: http://nusery.ic.cz/smf (test forum with betaversion of the theme)
* Two local live meetings - Pardubice (29th May) and Bruntal (20th June)
* Regular online meeting (6th June)

==== Chilean Team ====

==== Colombian team ====

==== Danish Team ====

==== German Team ====
===== Berlin =====
* June 9th: Berlin Jam, had a look at two bugs reports and patching of applications. Also did an impromptu key-signing.
* June 16th: Encryption workshop part I: GnuPG, email & jabber
* June 27th: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-berlin.de/LinuxTag09-BBQ-english|Barbecue]]</nowiki> after the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtag.org/2009/en.html|LinuxTag]]</nowiki> fair with approx. 200 guests and Marcel Bien and Ubuntu Developer Daniel Holbach as blazing DJs at the turntables. (<nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.de/martin.kossick/LTBBQ2009|Photos]]</nowiki>)

==== Greek Team ====

==== Honduras Team ====
* 5th One of our members of the Honduras Team did a presentation in <nowiki>[[http://diegoturcios.wordpress.com/2009/06/02/ubuntu-honduras-localteam-en-el-barcamp/| BarCamp Unitec ]]</nowiki> 
* 18th Our Team Contact Leader was present at the <nowiki>[[http://diegoturcios.wordpress.com/2009/06/19/100/|I Ubucom Central America]]</nowiki> which took place at Nicaragua on the <nowiki>[[http://sl-centroamerica.org|ECSL]]</nowiki>
* 25th Some of the memebers of the team make the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HondurasTeam/Pizza_Bash|I Pizza Bash]]</nowiki> it was a nice experience. Where many topics were discussed.

==== Irish Team ====

==== Japanese Team ====

==== Korean Team ====

==== Lithuanian Team ====

==== Norwegian team ====

==== Romanian Team ====

==== Russian Teams ====

==== Venezuelan Team ====

==== United States Teams ====

===== US Teams Project =====

===== Chicago Team =====

===== Florida Team =====

===== New York State Team =====

===== Ohio Team =====

===== Pennsylvania Team =====

=== Ubuntu Beginners Team ===

=== Ubuntu NGO Team ===

=== Ubuntu Women ===
* Meeting on 2 June <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/20090604|minutes, log]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-women/2009-June/002024.html|Two new mailing list admins appointed]]</nowiki>
* Launch of <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-women/2009-June/002040.html|Resources redevelopment and promotion]]</nowiki>
