{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== July 2008 Team Reports ==

If your team is not making team reports, see <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|these guidelines]]</nowiki> for how to do so.

=== Ubuntu Development Teams ===

==== Desktop Team ====

* Jockey now supports the new NVidia/Fglrx driver structure in Intrepid and can install those drivers in the usual human-friendly way. (Pitti)
* Apport retracers were finally fixed again, and are running. Apport will be enabled by default again right after Alpha-3. (Pitti)
* UpdateManager knowns now what nvidia driver packages are required on upgrade and automatically installs the right now (in the better-nvidia-support bzr branch) (mvo)
* Compiz and kwin will share the same script (compiz-manager) to detect if the system is capable of running a composited window manager (mvo, jriddel)
* GNOME has been updated to 2.23.5 (seb128)
* the new gnome-session has been uploaded to intrepid (seb128)
* the new gdm has been packaged and is available in the ubuntu-desktop launchpad bzr but there is still some issues that need to be solved (seb128)

==== Kubuntu ====

* New website [kubuntu.org]
* KDE 4.1 packaged

==== MOTU ====
===== Mentoring =====
Quite a lot of changes in this period:

* rainct joined the team as a mentor and is now mentoring bobbyward, thanks rainct!
* emgent and vorian are not MOTU, way to go guys!!
* warp10 is now mentoring didrocks and pitti is mentoring tacone.

* porthose, huats and nxvl have joined the reception team and are now busy helping with matching and updating our records and documentation. Welcome on board guys!

* To coordinate better the work flow within the reception I have requested a team mailing list, request which so far was unanswered. In the meantime, we have setup a private mailing list.

* We are pushing the new mentoring model through (see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Mentoring/NewModel). We are right now in a transition period, busy updating our documentation and ready to roll off the new program.

===== MOTU Council =====
* MC Call 2nd July
** Open Applications: Emanuele Gentili
* Working with the Security Team for several months and a clear focus on other security-related activities got <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~emgent|Emanuele Gentili]]</nowiki> a good reputation and lots of sponsors weighed in on his application. We're happy to have him on the <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> team.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~vorian|Steve Stalcup]]</nowiki> has done amazing work and got amazingly good feedback during his MOTU application. Please welcome him to the <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> team.
* MC Call, July 16th: 
** There are no open applications at this time, noone had other business.

==== Server Team ====

==== Xubuntu ====

* JMak has completed the GDM theme for Intrepid.
* Final draft of the Xubuntu Strategy Document has been completed. This will be presented to the Community Council at the next meeting.
* Many updates completed on Xubuntu Wiki
* Organized the team for the update of the ''''''Xubuntu.org'''''' website
* Released Hardy Heron 8.04.01.
* Released Intrepid Alpha 1 and 2 Xubuntu versions
* Added catfish to desktop-recommends.
* Added yelp to desktop-recommends.
* Moved avahi-daemon to desktop-recommends.
* Moved gnome-system-tools to desktop-recommends.
* Moved xfce4-mcs-plugins-extra to desktop-recommends.
* Moved xfce4-terminal to desktop-recommends.
* Added xfce4-mixer to panel by default.
* Set catfish as search command for places plugin.
* Started wiki page on <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Development-Performance|performance]]</nowiki> and began collecting data.
* Xubuntu Testing is looking for a Team Leader. Please contact <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CodySomerville|Cody Somerville]]</nowiki> if you are interested.
* Xubuntu is in need of people skilled in Artwork, CSS and HTML for the update of the ''''''Xubuntu.org'''''' website.
* Xubuntu website project status information is available on the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-SpecialProjects|Special Projects]]</nowiki> page.
* Held a community meeting on July 12, 2008. Draft plan to update the website was discussed. Status of xfce4.6 was agreed upon.

=== Ubuntu LoCo Teams ===

==== LoCo Council ====

** Lithuania, Tunisia approved
** Japan successfully reviewed
** Jorge to help with mailing lists

==== Georgia (US) Team ====
** Held planning for Atlanta Linux Fest 2008
** Held planning for November UbuCon.  
*** Found location
*** Created logo

==== Japanese Team ====

** Team members have written articles for following local magazines:
** Nikkei Linux August issue: <nowiki>[[http://itpro.nikkeibp.co.jp/article/MAG/20080702/309965/|"Ubuntu 8.04　徹底活用" / "Ubuntuの育て方"]]</nowiki>
** "<nowiki>[[http://www.shuwasystem.co.jp/products/7980html/2012.html|Ubuntu Linux 入門キット]]</nowiki> for 8.04 LTS"
** The Japanese Team exhibited at the "<nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2008-kansai/|Open Source Conference 2008 Kansai]]</nowiki>" on Jul 18 - 19
** The Booth had over three hundred visitors. We distributed Ubuntu CDs, leaflets, and displayed an original poster.
** A seminar was titled "Ubuntu 45 minute cooking." led by Fumihito YOSHIDA
** Summrized experience of the previous year and roadmap for the future of the Japanese LoCo Team for Annual Review.
** Released Japanese Remix Desktop CDs for Kubuntu 8.04
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/news/kubuntu804-ja-desktop-cd
** Released virtual machines for Virtual Box and VMware for Ubuntu 8.04 LTS
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/news/ubuntu804-ja-vm

==== Colombian Team ====

* We were part of <nowiki>[[http://www.campus-party.com.co|Campus Party]]</nowiki> Colombia in no official way, as a team and organizing two activities about desktop and graphic enviroments modding, additional to being part of the install fest that lasted the whole week long, doing around 80 Ubuntu installations. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/CampusPartyBogotColombia2008|Campus Party photo Gallery]]</nowiki>.

* Installfest on SENA Bogota, on the borrowed computers for the first free software journey on this institution.  <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/PreInstallfestJornadaSLSENABogot|Photo Gallery]]</nowiki>.

* The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Eventos/openfestSENA2008|first Free Software Journey]]</nowiki> took place on SENA Bogotá, where different talks were given and had a demostration and workwhops room. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/JornadaSLSENABogot|Photo Gallery]]</nowiki>.

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-co.com/node/14|Ubuntu and Cali underground]]</nowiki> got together to share free software among Rock music, there was a concert and linux demostrations on the same event.

==== Israeli Team ====

* Ubuntu Hebrew Blog created at: http://www.ubuntu-il.com/blog.
* A new Drupal main site is being developed.

==== Tamil Team ====

 <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/07/19/ubuntu-kaipidi-thozhargal-across-tamil-nadu/|Ubuntu Hand Over friends Implemented]]</nowiki>

=== Full Circle Magazine ===

* Issue #15 is now released (as of 25th July).
* #14 released on 26th June, ~20k downloads so far.
* #12 Hungarian and #13 Chinese, Hungarian and Italian are up for download.
* We're on the look out for new articles so if you (or someone you know) wants to write an article please email a paragraph detailing your article to: ronnie@fullcirclemagazine.org and I'll get back to you ASAP with a response. Number one rule is: your article must relate (in some way) to K/X/Ubuntu.

=== WineTeam ===

* Wine 1.0.0 is available for Hardy in hardy-updates.
** This version includes a fix for double clicking .msi files, however hardy also needs an update to shared-mime-info.
* The version of Wine for Intrepid will likely be from the stable Wine 1.0 branch.
* Wineconf is in September, and ScottRitchie will be going.  He might decide on a later Wine for Intrepid if he can get some reassurances about regressions.

=== MozillaTeam ===
* Mozilla Extension Team report: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Extensions/ReportJuly08

=== Team ===

* Report Item
* Report Item
* Report Item
* Report Item
