{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== August 2009 Team Reports ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

If your team is not making team reports, see <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|these guidelines]]</nowiki> for how to do so.

=== Ubuntu Governance ===
==== Community Council ====
Discussion from 4 August 2009 meeting

# ''Update on the nominations for new Community Council members'': the Council is currently considering approximately 12 candidates for nomination. The election will start after the nominees have confirmed they are willing to stand. Discussion took place on the best way to vote and has continued on the mailing list. As with the Technical Board nominations, we plan for voting to take place by <nowiki>[[http://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/civs.html|Condorcet Internet Voting Service]]</nowiki>.
# ''Team wiki licensing issues'': <nowiki>[[http://www.happyassassin.net/2009/06/25/ubuntu-wiki-not-shareable/|a blog post]]</nowiki> in the Fedora community highlighted the fact that material on the Ubuntu wiki is not available under a free license. Discussion took place about the best way to achieve a free license on the wiki. Particular issues are whether there is a need to permit users to apply exceptions for certain content types, how to relicense existing content and whether it is possible for copyright in the material to be assigned to Canonical to make any relicensing easier. A preference for CC-BY-SA was expressed. MatthewEast and DanielHolbach will prepare a specification to address these issues and to identify any blockers, based on the WikiLicensing spec that was done for the help wiki.

==== Forum Council ====

==== LoCo Council ====

==== MOTU Council ====

==== Technical Board ====

=== Ubuntu Development Teams ===

==== Xubuntu Team ====

=== Ubuntu LoCo Teams ===

==== Cameroonian Team ====

==== Catalan Team ====

==== Chilean Team ====

==== Danish Team ====

==== Ecuador Team ====

==== Greek Team ====

==== Honduras Team ====

==== Irish Team ====

==== Japanese Team ====

==== Korean Team ====

==== Norwegian team ====

==== Romanian Team ====

==== Russian Team ====

==== United States Teams ====

===== US Teams Project =====

===== Chicago Team =====

===== FloridaTeam =====

===== New York State Team =====

===== Ohio Team =====

===== Pennsylvania Team =====

=== Ubuntu Beginners Team ===

=== Ubuntu NGO Team ===

=== Ubuntu Community Learning Project ===
