{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== July 2009 Team Reports ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

If your team is not making team reports, see <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|these guidelines]]</nowiki> for how to do so.

=== Ubuntu Governance ===
==== Community Council ====
* CC Meeting, 13 July 2009 (incomplete):
** one.ubuntu.com proposed as better than ubuntuone.com
* CC Meeting, 7th July 2009:
** CC Re-staffing: only 4 members (of 8) left on the Community Council. We're going to ask for nominations, will ask nominees to put up wiki pages with their ideas, plans and ideals and have an election. Daniel to announce the schedule. Mako will stay on the CC until the election.
** Code of Conduct review: Mako and Daniel worked on a few generalisation changes and proposed <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mako/ubuntu-codeofconduct/proposed-revision|lp:~mako/ubuntu-codeofconduct/proposed-revision]]</nowiki>. After a quick review, Mark put up a new <nowiki>[[https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~sabdfl/ubuntu-codeofconduct/proposed-revision/+merge/8375|proposal]]</nowiki>. Please everybody comment and review, we will ask ~ubuntumembers to vote with the CC election.

==== Forum Council ====

==== LoCo Council ====

==== MOTU Council ====

==== Technical Board ====

=== Ubuntu Development Teams ===

==== Xubuntu Team ====

=== Ubuntu LoCo Teams ===

==== Asturian Team ====
* Day 24: Publication of the video: Edubuntu Experience in Asturian. <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rqOZ16kCuqw | Youtube]]</nowiki>. The Asturian LoCo team, testing Edubuntu with students and teachers. 

==== Cameroonian Team ====

==== Catalan Team ====

==== Czech Team ====

==== Chilean Team ====

==== Danish Team ====

==== Ecuador Team ====

==== German Team ====
===== Berlin =====
* July 1st: Regular team meeting: Sunshine, BBQ and loads of people.
* July 10th: User talk: Programs around the shell.
* July 22nd: OpenStreetMap workshop (JOSM editor) with guests from the OSM community.
* Berlin BugJams will be paused during summer.

==== Greek Team ====

==== Irish Team ====

==== Japanese Team ====

==== Korean Team ====

==== Norwegian team ====

==== Romanian Team ====

==== Russian Team ====

==== United States Teams ====

===== US Teams Project =====

===== Chicago Team =====

===== FloridaTeam =====

===== New York State Team =====

===== Ohio Team =====

===== Pennsylvania Team =====

=== Ubuntu Beginners Team ===

=== Ubuntu NGO Team ===
