{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== October 2008 Team Reports ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

If your team is not making team reports, see <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|these guidelines]]</nowiki> for how to do so.

=== Ubuntu Community Council ===
* Meeting 2008-10-21:
** No quorum (only JamesTroup and DanielHolbach)
** Is there a need to coin a new phrase for an "Ubuntero"? <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/launchpad/+bug/272826/|discussion]]</nowiki>
** DanielHolbach to ping all CC members to express their opinion on the bug itself.
** JamesWestby asked how best to deal with problematic people in Launchpad.
** DanielHolbach asked to mail CC about it first, so we can get in touch with that person. Only talking to the Launchpad Admins will not necessarily help.
** RafikOuerchefani asked for advice on ideas he has and decided to mail the CC about it out of band.

=== Ubuntu Technical Board ===

==== Meeting 2008-10-07 ====

* Members present: Matt Zimmerman, Scott James Remnant
* Ubuntu-core-dev application from Mario Limonciello

  The MOTU council recommended Mario Limoncello for membership in the core development team: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/motu-council/2008-September/001650.html.  The board approved Mario's application and welcomed him to the core development team.

* Ubuntu-core-dev application from Harald Sitter

  The MOTU council recommended Harald Sitter for membership in the core development team: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/motu-council/2008-October/001685.html.  The board approved Harald's application and welcomed him to the core development team.

* Limited upload rights from Romain Francoise

  The Technical Board is considering to grant upload privileges to Romain Francoise for emacs-snapshot.  The decision wass deferred due to time constraints, and it was agreed to continue this conversation in email or at the next meeting.

* cdrtools update

  We are expecting to receive a summary from Eben Moglen regarding his interpretation of the licensing terms for cdrtools, and will take next steps based on that.

==== Meeting 2008-10-21 ====

* Members present: Scott James Remnant, Matt Zimmerman
* Upload rights for pre-MOTUs

  The technical board has received requests for upload privileges from developers who are not yet MOTUs.  On further investigation, the cases were three:

** One developer was frustrated with sponsorship delays for updates to Hardy, and requested upload privileges in order to work around that.  It was agreed that it would be better to improve the sponsorship process for stable maintenance, and Daniel Holbach will work to organize a team of developers who are especially interested in maintaining stable releases (particularly LTS).
** Another wished to sync their package from Debian, and found this process too slow as well.  Daniel agreed to investigate this as well to understand the problem and see how it could be improved
** Another believed (as did their sponsor) that they would not be accepted for MOTU based on their contributions to a small number of packages in main, and that an upload ACL would be a better solution.  This led to a prolonged discussion about how the MOTU council should evaluate applicants with regard to the scope of their packaging work, which it was agreed to continue by email.  Matt Zimmerman will start a thread on ubuntu-devel.
* Reinhard Tartler asked the Technical Board for a statement of policy regarding the use of codecs potentially associated with patents.  The Board has neither legal expertise nor the knowledge of the specific patents involved, and has therefore sought third-party legal advice.
* The cdrtools saga continues, with an active dialog between Eben Moglen of SFLC and Joerg Schilling of cdrtools.  The outcome of this dialog is not yet clear, but if the two participants can reach agreement on the legal status of cdrtools, it will be able to be restored to the Ubuntu repositories.

=== Ubuntu Development Teams ===

==== Kubuntu ====

* We Released Kubuntu 8.10, the first with a supported KDE 4!
* We had a meeting [Kubuntu/Meetings/Minutes/2008-10-17] adding two members Andreas Wenning and Roderick Greening

==== MOTU ====
===== Council =====
* MC Meeting, 2008-10-01:
** Open Applications: smarter (motu), asomething (universe-contributors), apachelogger (core-dev).
** Discussion of the MC application processes.
* MC Meeting, 2008-10-15:
** Open Applications: smarter (motu), asomething (universe-contributors).
** Sharing thoughts about Archive Reorganisation and connected application processes.
** Discussion of the MC application processes.
* We're pleased to announce that after lots of great work in the KDE community, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~smarter|Guillaume Martres]]</nowiki> just joined the ranks of MOTU.

==== Sugar Team ====
* The <nowiki>[[SugarTeam]]</nowiki> synced Debian's <nowiki>[[http://sugarlabs.org|Sugar]]</nowiki> packages into Intrepid
* Lots of bug fixing... If you're interested in Sugar, please help test!
* The latest upstream stable release is in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sugarteam/+archive|SugarTeam PPA]]</nowiki> for hardy

==== Wine Team ====
* Wine 1.0.1 is in Intrepid, and releasing it for Hardy as an SRU is underway
* Wine-gecko is in Intrepid; Wine no longer needs to connect to the internet to download the gecko rendering engine once an application needs a fake internet explorer.
* I (Scott Ritchie) am considering locking the Wine Team on launchpad and removing all members who don't need to upload to the PPA, similar to the move done by the 5-a-day team.  From what I can tell, I'm the only active member of the team anyway despite over 60 members on launchpad for over a year.
* I want to make an instructional Wine YouTube video, demonstrating how much better it is these days.  I'm still actively seeking ideas for applications to include, especially ones that don't work on Vista itself (eg 16 bit apps).
* Wineconf has left me with a large todo list of user interface improvements
* Wine 1.2 will likely be in Jaunty's timetable provided someone can implement USB support within the next four months.  Otherwise, Alexandre won't start the stabilization process for a new release.

==== Mobile Team ====

* A dummy ISO was prepared which allows booting ubuntu-mobile and -mid USB images as hdb in kvm/qemu/etc..  The bochs BIOS CMOS params don't allow to boot of disk 2, so it's convenient to boot from the ISO.
* Lots of work on xorg, especially around psb like:
   - Making sure xorg selects vesa on poulsbo ('psb') devices for now (which can be overriden when xorg-psb is installed)
   - Fixed -psb packaging to have proper ABI provides in hardy ubuntu-mobile ppa
   - Requested deletion of psb in intrepid; drop from video-all; proper conflict etc.
   - Move from Driver psb to Driver vesa on upgrades
   - Pulled new xorg-server and xorg (meta) from Debian
   - Tweaked video-all, resynced with i386, installable again
   - Enabled geode and openchrome for lpia; pending Pas
* Added ACPI and grub to the mobile seeds.
* lots of testing on install and on the images
* Initial work towards not hardcoding "ubuntu" as the user
* A lot os work on touch..primarily with the evtouch driver
* Bluetooth testing.
* Resolved the remaining outstanding issue with grub-installer not being included in ubiquity for lpia
* Initial work towards allowing install with an empty password string
* Prepared casper branch to force --automatic for -mid installs, pending the previous landing.

=== Ubuntu LoCo Teams ===

==== Danish Team ====
* Planning 8.10 Release Party in Copenhagen. Expecting about 100 visitors.
* Creating and printing flyers and banners for permanent use
* Attended Open Source Days (Largest OSS conference in Scandinavia) in Copenhagen with a booth
* Was mentioned in a whole page article about Ubuntu in the largest Danish tabloid paper. Four-doubled the amount of visitors per day.
* Continued focus on optimizing organizational structure and processes.

==== German Team ====
===== Berlin =====
* We kicked off <nowiki>[[http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=249|regular Bug Jams]]</nowiki> in Berlin and are attracting more and more new people who are interested in <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage|helping with bugs]]</nowiki>.

==== Irish Team ====

* Organizing <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrishTeam/IntrepidReleaseParty|Intrepid Ibex Release Party]]</nowiki> in Dublin

==== Italian Team ====
* One of our team member is writing for <nowiki>[[http://www.ossblog.it/|Ossblog]]</nowiki>, an Italian Open Source blog. Ubuntu related articles:
  <nowiki>[[http://www.ossblog.it/post/4457/ubuntu-italia-compie-tre-anni|Third Birthday of the Italian community]]</nowiki><<BR>>
  <nowiki>[[http://www.ossblog.it/post/4444/bright-ubuntu-distribuzione-per-utenti-con-disabilita-visive-presentata-ad-ancona|A Ubuntu Remix version with a11y in mind]]</nowiki><<BR>>
  <nowiki>[[http://www.ossblog.it/post/4443/poche-novita-per-il-tema-grafico-di-intrepid-ibex|The new theme of Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* Some of our team members will attend the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxday.it/|LinuxDay]]</nowiki> on 25th October, Italian national day about Linux, open source and free software. They'll be talking about Ubuntu in:
  Udine<<BR>>
  Siena<<BR>>
  Lucca<<BR>>
  Rome<<BR>>
  Bologna<<BR>>
  Pordenone<<BR>>
  Vicenza

==== Japanese Team ====

* Team member have written articles for following local magazines:
** Software Design: "<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2008/200811|Ubuntu 8.10 先行レビュー(First Review: Ubuntu 8.10)]]</nowiki>"
* The Japanese Team exhibited at the "<nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2008-fall/|Open Source Conference 2008 Tokyo/Fall]]</nowiki>" on October 3 - 4
** The Booth had many visitors. We demonstrated Intrepid Ibex and ubuntu-mobile, and displayed an original poster.
** A seminar was titled "How to gather Ubuntu News." led by Mitsuya Shibata.

==== Jordan Team ====
More than 400 CDs of UBUNTU 8.04 were distributed in the three major universities of North Jordan, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Yarmouk University and Al- Al-Bayt University.

The CDs, provided by Ubuntu Jordan LoCo Team, were distributed primarily by members of JUST Open Source Group.

http://www.just.edu.jo/opensource/article.php?id=36

==== Swedish Team ====

* Planning 8.10 release parties in Gothenburg and Kalmar at least.
* Celebrated 10.000 members in our web forum, we also noted that our website had got 16.030 independant visitors in a week, even that a record.
* Team leader Urban Anjar attended ''''Open Source Forum 2008'''' as an invited speaker.
* Translator Daniel Nylander nominated for ''''Nordic Free Software Awards''''

==== Mexican Team ====

* Recovering by a hosting change... making all site issues again...
* Guiving technical support
* Prepairing the participation on this events: http://par-a-par.org/ and http://www.wcitc.org/eng/
* Maturing our Mentoring Team

==== USA ====
===== Georgia US Team =====

* Atlanta Linux 2009 Planning -  We are beginning to form what will become the Atlanta Linux Fest 2009, scheduled for September of next year.
* Held face to face meeting in Decatur, Georgia.
* Held planning for InstallFest in early November.

===== New Mexico Team =====

* Weekly IRC <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/Meetings|meetings]]</nowiki> have been going on as scheduled.
* Intrepid Ibex release Party November 8th, 2008 from 6:00pm till 9:00pm At the Down Town Flying Star, Albuquerque New Mexico go <nowiki>[[http://www.flyingstarcafe.com/locations.htm|here]]</nowiki> for directions.
* Added Ubuntu 8.10 release party to Duke City Fix <nowiki>[[http://www.dukecityfix.com/events/event/show?id=1233957:Event:205054| Events]]</nowiki> page.
* Started Gearing Up for New Mexico LinuxFest 2009 go <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMexicoTeam/NewMexicoLinuxFest|]]</nowiki>here to see the progress.

===== Pennsylvania Team =====

* Held IRC Meeting on Oct 15th to discuss Philadelphia Intrepid release party
** November 1st a release party will be held at Drake's Tavern, details here: <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillyIntrepidRelease]]</nowiki>
* Pittsburgh team is also planning a social get-together, details being discussed on our forum: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=936955|Pittsburgh Intrepid Release Party]]</nowiki>
* A team member also did some work with Canonical hoping for a US Store, his work is detailed here: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=914045|Land's End Ubuntu Goods]]</nowiki> but Canonical ended up launching a <nowiki>[[http://usshop.ubuntu.com/|US Shop]]</nowiki>, negating our need for the Land's End shop
* A couple of Philadelphia members are working on a new potential project with NTR, details posted to and discussions have been had our mailing list and forums:
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=912276]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2008-September/thread.html#624]]</nowiki>
* Finally, back in August several of our members attended a LAN party hosted by the US-NJ team, photos have been posted in our gallery:
** <nowiki>[[http://gallery.ubuntupennsylvania.org/main.php?g2_itemId=468]]</nowiki>

=== Tamil Team ===

** Called for public hosting of Intrepid Ibex launch party was made and preparation in progress for <nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/10/29/erode-to-host-intrepid-release-event/|Nov 09 Release event]]</nowiki>.
** Payanarin Paarvaiyil - Ubuntu --> Handbook for Ubuntu in Tamil in progress.

=== Ubuntu Women ===
* <nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-17/|Full Circle Magazine Issue 17]]</nowiki>, page 33: Ubuntu Women by Cathy Malmrose
* <nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-16/|Full Circle Magazine Issue 16]]</nowiki>, page 29: Ubuntu Women by Elizabeth Bevilacqua

=== Full Circle Magazine ===
* #17 was released on Fri. 26th September.
* #18 will be released on Fri. 31st October.
* We have received four books (for review) from Apress, two from No Starch Press and one from Pragmatic Programmers. These will be reviewed then used as competition prizes. In future FCM will feature ads for any companies wishing to support FCM with review material(s).
* Chinese #16 (Traditional & Simplified), Italian #15 and Hungarian #16 translations now online.
* Edward Hewitt will, from #19, be writing an Ubuntu Games piece for each issue.
