{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== September 2007 Team Reports ==

If your team is not making team reports, see <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity/TeamReporting|these guidelines]]</nowiki> for how to do so.

=== DesktopTeam ===

* We worked to get 2.19.92 (2.20.0 Release Candidate) packaged into Gutsy.
* We got GNOME 2.20.0 into Ubuntu Gutsy.
* Lots of contributors helped with that: <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam/WeeklyTODO]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam/LastWeeksTODO]]</nowiki>

=== KernelTeam ===

* Added p54 driver to linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.22
* Merged 2.6.22.6 into gutsy kernel
* Edgy, Dapper and Feisty kernel security updates
* VMware stability patches for Feisty (from VMware)
* Packaged Intel AMT Management tools
* New Virtual kernel flavor, stripped down for virtual machines
* Updated to UnionFS 2.1.3, fixing several bugs exposed by LiveCD
* Updated iwlwifi drivers (Intel 4965 Wireless support)
* Enabled 64-bit Xen kernel
* Updated nVidia driver to latest release, fixes suspend/resume issues
* Enabled nVidia/FGLRX drivers on Xen/RealTime kernels
* Lots of bug fixes

=== Kubuntu ===

* Bug fixes done for kdebase, kdelibs, kdepim, kdebluetooth and kdenetwork
* Gutsy docs completed and uploaded for translation
* Tweaks, fixes and configurations done to Dolphin in preparation to have it take the spot as default file manager
* Python-kde3 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/117731|Bug #117731 - Python crashes after attaching pty to a konsole kpart]]</nowiki> fixed and uploaded to Gutsy. Feisty upload currently being tested.
* Kdebase updated to fix kdm security vulnerability
* Kubuntu lead developer Jonathan Riddell is really enjoying his vacation

=== MOTU ===

* After putting lots of good work into the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mathiaz|Mathias Gug]]</nowiki> became MOTU.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~stevenk|Steve Kowalik]]</nowiki> managed to get <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virtualbox|VirtualBox]]</nowiki> into Gutsy.
* After tremendous work in the MOTU team, we're happy to call <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~raof|Chris Halse Rogers]]</nowiki> a team member.
* We included <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevTools]]</nowiki> in `universe`.
* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bluekuja|Andrea Veri]]</nowiki> is now part of the MOTU team.
* <nowiki>[[MOTU/WikiCleanUp]]</nowiki> is in full swing.

=== Mythbuntu ===

* MythTV 0.20.2 SRU for edgy & feisty
* Bug fixing in lirc, splash, cd builds, mythtv, mythplugins
* Weekly builds released: fixes & trunk
* Control centre enhancements
* Adding XFCE As default window manager
* Support within the channel

=== ScreencastTeam ===

** Started month of screencasts
* Added screencast site RSS feed to planet ubuntu
* Added RSS feeds to popular podcasting site "feedburner" so that we can enable users to download screencasts using podcatcher programs.
* Added large (HD720p) Ogg feed to Miro (democracyplayer as was) as a channel, so people can watch screencasts within their player.
* Fielded questions from external non-English speaking people about subtitle translation
* Recruited a member to transcribe screencasts to .srt caption/subtitle files for translation
* Recruited a member to write a script to make video conversion easier
* Meeting held on 10th Sept:- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/Meeting20070910
* Subtitles added to the site:- http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/Subtitle_Usage

=== ServerTeam ===

* mathiaz and dantalizing will look after TeamReporting.
* nealmcb will send an email to ubuntu-server ml about blueprints cleaning
* soren presented his print-server task for tasksel. His proposal can be found at http://tinyurl.com/3czchw.  soren waits for feedback from ubuntu printing expert and may write an MIR for printconf.
* soren will send an email to ubuntu-devel about using postfix as default package in control files.
* DocDay was held last friday (07 Sept) and produced an updated wiki page for the KnowledgeBase.
* sommer updated php5 pages in the wiki and in the ubuntu server guide.
* nealmcb created a list of factoids that should be added to ubotu.  To be discussed ubuntu-server mailing list.
* mathiaz has integrated the latest upstream version fo AppArmor.  keescook started to review mathiaz's bzr branch and will test it.

=== Ubuntu-IRC ===

* Preventing fake loco channels
** Seveas will codify (on the wiki) the discussion we had about this as a naming policy.
** We will continue to handle these cases in a case-by-case manner and use this policy to point people at.
* Cloaks
** We discussed policies for bot cloaks. Seveas will codify it as a policy on the wiki.
* Both policies above are up for discussion on the ubuntu-irc list when the first draft is finished.
* Launchpad teams were shifted around, with a new ubuntu-irc-council team being set as owner for ubuntu-irc and ubuntu-irc-cloaks
* Now that the council has been approved, Seveas is replacing all references to himself on the wiki with the Council where appropriate.

=== Ubuntu Women ===

* Working to establish formal relationship with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom|Ubuntu Classroom Project]]</nowiki> to replace our <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Courses|Courses]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/20070916|IRC meeting where some discussion took place]]</nowiki>

=== US LoCo Teams Project ===

* see <nowiki>[[USTeams/Reports/September2007|September Report]]</nowiki> for a full list of Metrics
* <nowiki>[[MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges|Case Badge Project]]</nowiki> Lead by the MassachusettsTeam
* Several LoCo teams assisted in the planning of representing Ubuntu at the <nowiki>[[http://ohiolinux.org/|Ohio Linux Fest]]</nowiki>.
* The project also encouraged LoCo teams to participate in SFD.
* Engaged in discussion on how teams handle money and reduce exposure to liability
* A US Teams meeting was held on September 22. Meeting Logs and Summary can be found here.

----
CategoryTeamReport
