{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Meeting of the TB, 2010-05-18
** Chair: sabdfl
** Present: cjwatson, kees, keybuk, mdz, pitti, sabdfl

** Review of Actions

** On Reinhard's patent question: pitti got a reply from Amanda [Canonical legal] and replied to Reinhard and tb@
** cjwatson has sync'd MoM
** pitti has switched Soyuz' sync-source.py

** 10.10.10

** The Board continued their discussion on the proposed release date for Maverick Meerkat. Concern was expressed about releasing on a Sunday: it was agreed that the release would need to be prepared by the previous Friday. Various stakeholders (webmaster, marketing) will be ready for the release on the Sunday, but the bulk of the work should wrap during the previous work week and only a skeleton team need be in place over the weekend, barring a release crisis.

** The updated release schedule, with 10.10.10 has been published, and should now be considered canonical :-)

** Releases to 12.04

** The Board discussed Robbie's data on the factors affecting actual development time during releases. It's now clear that April releases get reduced developer time, due to the number of Western holidays during the cycle. As a result, we would like to release the October release a little earlier than we have in the past.

** The Board voted and approved a proposal to ask Jorge Castro to engage with the GNOME release team, to see if they have similar dynamics in their cycle, and are amenable to aligning in this way. In addition, we asked Jorge to explore the possibility of publishing a schedule of release dates for 10.10 till 12.04, now. That would allow us to fix the dates of conferences, sprints and other events further in advance.

** The Board also discussed avoiding the final week of the month for releases, but the idea did not carry and no consensus emerged.

** Sparc and IA64 Status

** Keybuk pointed the Board at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArchitectureStatus which lists architectures and gives an indication of their degree of support in Ubuntu.

** The Board approved that Keybuk publicise that page, together with the statement that SPARC and IA64 are declining in levels of usage and maintenance to the point where they are candidates for decommissioning. In the case of SPARC, the issues are severe, with kernel and toolchain causing problems to the point of SPARC being unusable. In the case of IA64, there was some discussion of benefits to the team of having IA64 builds, and a recognition of the fact that kernel and toolchain are in better shape. Nevertheless, the decision was taken that unless a substantial community effort rallies around IA64, it should also be decommissioned, and Keybuk will frame the mail that way.

** Derivative hosting requests
** Persia asked if the TB needed to be involved in questions about new derivatives, and the decision was that yes, if the request involved hosting or modifications to key infrastructure and build services, then requests should be addressed by the TB.

** The chair for the next TB will be Keybuk.

* Technical Board meeting, 2010-05-04 
** Attendees: Martin Pitt (chair), Kees Cook, Matt Zimmerman, Colin Watson, Mark Shuttleworth 
** Guests: Jonathan Riddell, Scott Kitterman, Emmet Hikory 
** Action review
** Riddell and ScottK to sort next steps of KDE Updates process
*** Outstanding, but there was progress this week
** cjwatson to write up 2010-03-09 meeting minutes
*** Outstanding
** cjwatson to drive libfaac issue to conclusion
*** Outstanding
** Scan the mailing list archive for anything we missed
** That was done, added to agenda below
** Request for Kubuntu Unseeded Packages Team
** Would be best to create an explicit list of packages as a seed, based on the "reverse dependency" criterion
** Once this list is done, DMB can implement
** Scope of Canonical's acquired ffmpeg patent licenses for derivatives
** This is believed to be strictly an OEM business, and not apply to Ubuntu in general
** [ACTION] Martin to confirm with Canonical's legal department and follow up
** Default sync source for Maverick
** During lucid we synced from Debian testing by default; recently a <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2010-April/030594.html|survey]]</nowiki> was done (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2010-April/030655.html|summary]]</nowiki>)
** The TB unanimously voted for switching back to unstable for Maverick
*** [ACTION] cjwatson to switch MoM (''done''))
*** [ACTION] pitti to get Soyuz' sync-source.py switched
** Chair for next meeting: Mark Shuttleworth
