{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

MartinPitt conducts a review of the most popular ideas on <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com||brainstorm]]</nowiki> for the December 2012 <nowiki>[[TechnicalBoard-BrainstormReview|brainstorm review]]</nowiki> cycle.

There are quite a number of software center related issues, but as this is currently being redesigned anyway (dash integration) I skipped those.

==== No Ubuntu version in the splash screen, for telling apart images/burned CDs ====

* http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/30269/
* Pointed out .disk/info in developer comment
* Status: No further action

==== No way to control music while screen is locked ====

* http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/29852/
* Add sound indicator to lock screen? gnome-settings-daemon's media keys plugin could continue to work at the lock screen, unless we are going to switch to another VT when moving to lock handling in lightdm?
* Status: Asked Robert Ancell

==== Adjust keyboard backlight defaults on laptops ====

* http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/29924/
* Original request was for display brightness as well, which should already work. Limited to configuring keyboard illumination default.
* Status: Martin Pitt will respond

==== Ability to turn off notification ====

* http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/29906/
* John Lea gave a link to the planned "presentation mode"
* Status: Answered

==== Check the ink level of printers ====

* http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/30099/
* Status: Asked Till Kamppeter

==== Reinstate option not to install bootloader during installation ====

* http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/29909/
* Status: Asked Colin Watson

==== Warn users about attached external drives before installing Ubuntu ====

* http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/29984/
* Status: answered
