{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting 2013-06-24 ===
==== Attendees ====
* Colin Watson
* Dave Walker
* Kees Cook
* Matt Zimmerman
* Soren Hansen
* St√©phane Graber (chair)
* Steve Langasek

==== Notes ====
===== Development series alias on archive.ubuntu.com and for uploads =====
During the last Ubuntu vUDS Rick Spencer was tasked with finding a good
name for the new development series alias which would allow users to
stick to whatever is the current development release (or to use it as an
upload target). Rick came up with "rolling" as the suggested name. After
a bit of discussion between the present TB members, it appears the
members prefer "next" instead.
The main concern about using "rolling" is added confusion with regard
to the how Ubuntu is developed as it'd surely be interpreted by some as
Ubuntu being on a Rolling Rlease schedule which it's not.

The Technical Board didn't make a final decision on the name though as
Rick couldn't attend the meeting himself to defend his proposal. As a
result, the Technical Board feels that Colin should go ahead with the
implementation of the feature in Launchpad but not put it live until
after our next meeting (8th of July) so to leave until that time for
Rick to defend his proposal (on our mailing-list or at our next meeting)
or for someone else to propose a better name. In any case, we expect to
make a final decision on the matter on the 8th.

===== Packages linking against OpenSSL =====
Discussion is on-going on the Technical Board mailing-list about whether
OpenSSL should be considered as "system library" allowing packages to
link against it without the need to include a special exception in the
license of the software.
We expect to vote on this at our next meeting, discussing the various
interpretations of the license on our mailing-list until then.

===== Micro release exceptions =====
Stefan Bader asked for a micro release exception for Xen, unfortunately
nobody from the Technical Board had time to look into this and reply to
his request but we expect this to move forward soon. There are some
concerns regarding how much regression testing happens on Xen and
whether this is enough for us or if we need to do more on our side. This
discussion will be continued on our mailing-list.

Kees also brought up that we have a few "provisional" exceptions that
should be reviewed to either become full MREs or be withdrawn.

===== Topics for the next TB meeting =====
Based on the above, the following will be discussed at our next
scheduled meeting:
* Final vote on the development series alias name
* Final vote on the OpenSSL system library discussion
* Review our current "provisional" Micro Release Exceptions

Meeting log:
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-06-24-20.10.log.html

==== Next meeting ====
* 2013-07-08 21:00 London time (mdz to chair).
