{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Technical Board meeting, 2009-07-14
** The Board agreed on the text for the Developer Application Board proposal and has passed it to the Community Council and MOTU Council for review.  The outcome of this will be discussed at the next board meeting.

** Colin Watson has proposed sets of packages based on the current seeds and intersections between distributions, Matt Zimmerman has an action to review this.

** Based on this, Colin Watson will begin setting up interviews with developers whose upload permissions may change as a result of the seed changes.

** The board has completed its review of the proposed patent policy text, and has asked Jono Bacon to provide a new draft by Tuesday next week to allow sufficient time for review before the next board meeting.  Mark Shuttleworth has yet to review this text.

** Matt Zimmerman presented his Release Manifest <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicKoala/ReleaseManifest> for comments.

** It was agreed that the hostname for distributing images for Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud would be cloud-image.ubuntu.com

** The Technical Board agreed to increase its membership, and undergo a nomination period.  This will follow in a separate mail.

** Colin Watson will chair the next board meeting.

* Technical Board meeting, 2009-07-28
** Review of outstanding actions
** Action: Colin to set up interviews with developers regarding upload privilege reorganisation (for ArchiveReorganisation)
** Technical Board nominations
** Action: Matt to contact TB nominees to confirm they wish to stand
** Developer Membership Board
** The proposal has been well received by the Technical Board, Community Council and MOTU Council
** Action: Scott to implement Developer Membership Board proposal (LP, mailing list, documentation, etc.)
** Action: Jono to see that documentation is updated to reflect the Developer Membership Board
** Patent policy
** Voted to accept the draft patent policy as official
** Action: Matt to communicate the new patent policy
** Governance review
** Reviewed Jono's recommendations from the most recent governance review (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoard/JauntyAssessment)
** Action: Colin to update http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/techboard
** Action: Jono to draft text to communicate the TB's willingness to review key topics submitted by the community
** Action: Colin to discuss with Bdale (Debian technical committee chair) about having a Debian representative on the Ubuntu TB
** Select a chair for the next meeting
** Action: Colin to chair next TB meeting
