{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Technical Board meeting, 2009-09-08
** Debian technical committee participation in techboard
** Bdale Garbee has put himself forward to participate and help define the role
** ACTION received:  cjwatson to respond to Bdale, make arrangements for him to participate
** Java SRU policy
** Passed: proposed Java SRU policy at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates#sun-java* as amended for appropriate smoke testing by pitti/kees.
** ACTION received:  pitti to update SRU document per vote
** Removal of sun-java6 from Karmic
** Passed: remove sun-java6 from karmic in favor of openjdk-6, contingent on approval from the maintainer (Matthias Klose).
** ACTION received:  kees to confirm removal of sun-java6 with doko
** Developer Membership Board
** Scott has set up the appropriate teams in Launchpad
** The DMB now needs to be communicated, and start doing the work of processing membership applications
** ACTION received:  cjwatson to announce DMB to MC, -devel announce
** Action: jono to update documentation
** Archive reorganisation (Colin Watson)
** Colin had a couple of minor items to confirm with the TB before throwing the switch on package sets
** Ubuntu package sets are now implemented in Launchpad
** Community bugs (none)
** select a chair for the next meeting (kees)

* Technical Board meeting, 2009-09-22
** reviewed actions from last meeting
** ACTION: Keybuk to find Bdale at LinuxCon to hash out participation
** Removal of sun-java6
** Based on feedback all around, it was agreed that it is still early for sun-java6 to be dropped.  However, it was not yet clear if responsibility for the package should be changed.
** ACTION: kees to drive sun-java6 email thread and get resolution on responsibility
** Developer Membership Board
** Striking the right balance between openness and privacy combined with the desire to not change existing processes too radically continues to be a non-trivial issue.
** ACTION: cjwatson to drive DMB email thread to conclusion
** Discuss UnitsPolicy
** Excepting some clarifications to the language surrounding file sizes, the Policy is nearly ready.
** ACTION: Keybuk to finalize unit policy and email to TB for vote
** Community Bugs (none)
** Archive reorganisation (Colin Watson)
** There was general agreement that team admins have been delegated the responsibility to grant upload privileges, but that how they choose developers is not entirely clear.
** Daniel expressed a concern that team admins should follow a standard transparent process when dealing with applicants.
** Scott proposed having it split into "application" (standard) and "approval" (up to the admin)
** Martin proposed that the TB would approve a set of possible application processes an admin could choose from.
** ACTION: cjwatson to drive vote on Archive Reorg rights for ubuntu-desktop and mythbuntu in email
** Select a chair for next meeting (pitti)
