{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Meeting 2013-09-02:

* Chair: Colin Watson
* Attendees: Martin Pitt, Soren Hansen, Stéphane Graber
* Apologies (US holiday): Kees Cook, Matt Zimmerman

* Review our current "provisional" Micro Release Exceptions
** We agreed to continue this by e-mail rather than reviewing them on
    IRC.

* Technical board restaffing (current memberships expire on 2013-10-06)
** Colin Watson and Matt Zimmerman are retiring from the TB at the end of their terms.
** [ACTION] Martin Pitt will contact Mark Shuttleworth to organise nominations and elections.

* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2013-August/001704.html|Review people in the ~uds-organizers team (Chris Johnston)]]</nowiki>
** A set of people have been identified as clearly having stale memberships of ~uds-organizers (i.e. they are known to have previously been responsible for UDS tracks, but to now be inactive in Ubuntu or no longer involved in UDS); we will deactivate them straight away.  If a mistake has been made then their memberships can of course be restored with apologies if they contact us.
** There is another set we aren't sure about, and we will set a one-month expiry for them to give them a chance to respond.
** For the rest of the team, we will set a regular one-year expiry to try to keep the team's membership fresh in future.

Meeting 2013-09-30:
* Chair: Martin Pitt
* Attendees: Colin Watson, Matt Zimmerman, Kees Cook, Soren Hansen, Stéphane Graber
* Guest: Micah Gersten

* Technical Board elections
** Nominations/elections are running late, we asked SABDFL for extending the current board by a month
** No public call for nominations so far, just some potential candidate recommendations by private mail to SABDFL

* Requiring Core dev membership for TB members (Micah)
** The board strongly recommends that TB members should be Ubuntu Core developers in order to qualify, and will send that recommendation to SABDFL
** However, the board rejects making this a strict requirement, for both practical and formal reasons: the electorate's vote should have the final word on this, an existing TB member (Matt Zimmerman) has voluntarily given up core-dev membership in the interest of privilege minimization, and there are doubts that the TB would even have the power to restrict its own membership rules.

* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2013-September/001714.html|Provisional MRE Request For KDE Telepathy]]</nowiki> (Scott Kitterman)
** Straightforward extension of the existing KDE MRE, unanimously approved.

* Chair for next meeting: Kees Cook
