{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Technical Board meeting, 2010-02-09
** Attendees: Martin Pitt (chair), Kees Cook, Mark Shuttleworth, Colin Watson
** Guests: Emmet Hikory, Daniel Holbach
  
** Review https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/LucidMOTU
** Acknowledged; unclear part is the membership approval, which is the next item
 
** Approvals for new MOTUs
** There was a very long discussion about whether the DMB or the MC should handle applications for new MOTUs
** There is a certain tension between MOTU self-governance, and having done the DMB elections under the announcement of unifying the approval process of core-devs, MOTUs and per-package uploaders
** The MC is currently in the process of redefining its goals and reconstituting
** The TB unanimously took the following decision:
 
     Hearing and approvals for MOTU will now be exclusively done by the DMB, with the option of delegating it to the MC upon request by MC or DMB, and approval by TB in the future.
 
** Prior actions: deferred until next meeting, due to timeout
** [ACTION] kees to follow up with Debian TC on units policy
** [ACTION] cjwatson to follow up with mythbuntu-dev to get ubuntu-core-dev added
** [ACTION] ScottK to update Kubuntu/UpdatesPolicy based on Kubuntu upstream feedback (cf. http://techbase.kde.org/Policies/Minor_Point_Release_Policy/Draft)
** [ACTION] sabdfl to propose to CC that the TB is a CC delegate, and clarify his role
 
** Chair for next meeting: Scott James Remnant

* Technical Board meeting, 2010-02-23
** Attendees: Kees Cook (chair), Martin Pitt, Colin Watson, Matt Zimmerman
** Guests: Iain Lane, Emmet Hikory, Jonathan Riddell, Chow Loong Jin, Jo Shields, Jussi Schultink, Scott Moser, Daniel Holbach, Jonathan Carter, Benjamin Rubin
  
** Action Review has a few remaining items:
** [ACTION] receive Debian TC response to Units Policy (bdale, kees)
** [ACTION] receive upstream KDE approval of updates policy (Riddell)
** [ACTION] propose to CC that the TB is a CC delegate, and clarify sabdfl's role (sabdfl)

** Have delegated teams become responsible for security of their package-sets (Kees Cook)
** proposal needs review of language, discussion with teams
** [ACTION] kees to bring up proposal in email, go from there

** Package set for CLI/Mono packages (Iain Lane)
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2010-February/000094.html
** Approved: creation of CLI/Mono team with sebner directhex raof hyperair laney, pending TB agreement on delegated package list (via email)
*** 3 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.
** Approved: CLI/Mono team membership is delegated to DMB
*** 4 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.
** Approved: packageset extension of CLI/Mono team done via TB e-mail confirmation
*** 3 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.

** Ubuntu IRC Council Access level in #ubuntu-devel (Jussi Schultink)
** None against: implement IRC Council Access on IRC
*** 2 for, 0 against, 2 abstained.

** Review https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/RefreshPolicy (Scott Moser)
** Approved, 4 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.

** Ran out of time, had to defer:
** Edubuntu Developers Delegation
** Archive reorganisation (and sponsorship items)
** community bugs

** Chair for next meeting: Scott James Remnant
