{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Meeting 2010-11-02
** Chair: Kees Cook
** Present: Martin Pitt, Matt Zimmerman, Colin Watson, Mark Shuttleworth
** Apologies: Scott James Remnant
** Guests: Emmet Hikory

** Action review
** Colin to ensure that documentation on nature of extras.ubuntu.com archive makes it into process docs, and ensure that ARB legality checks are synchronised with those of ubuntu-archive. '''carry over'''
** Matt to follow up with Brian on 174375 '''DONE'''

** Dynamic "per package upload permissions" for Debian Developers
** Supported in theory, formal proposal desired, since the details will be the hard part.

** Micro release exception request for Chromium
** Approved and documented.

** Quarterly Brainstorm review
** [ACTION] Matt to write up Quarterly Brainstorm review and send to TB mailing list.

** TB meeting moved to 1500 UTC

** Next chair: sabdfl

* Meeting 2010-11-16
** Chair: Martin Pitt
** Present: Colin Watson, Kees Cook, Scott James Remnant
** Guests: Scott Kitterman, Allison Randall, John Lenton, Eric Casteleijn

** Action review
** Colin to ensure that documentation on nature of extras.ubuntu.com archive makes it into process docs, and ensure that ARB legality checks are synchronised with those of ubuntu-archive. '''DONE'''
** Matt to write up Quarterly Brainstorm review and send to TB mailing list. '''DONE'''

** KDE micro version update exception
** upstream policy draft: http://techbase.kde.org/Policies/Minor_Point_Release_Policy/Draft
** Proposed policy: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/UpdatesPolicy
** Approved with 3 for, 0 against. 0 abstained
** Martin added this to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates/MicroReleaseExceptions

** couchdb on lucid: backport 1.0
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2010-November/000563.html
** UbuntuOne cloud servers got updated to couchdb 1.0 to handle the load and SSL
** According to README and James Westby, the 0.10 -> 1.0 upgrade needs to be done manually for the system wide instance
** Impact on per-user couchdbs to be clarified
** API is said to not have changed "much", but any change will break existing couchdb applications, and thus needs to be clarified and evaluated
** will cause problems with shared home directories and clients with mixed 1.0/0.1 packages
** To be investigated by U1 team: introduce couchdb-1.0 package into lucid; what other packages need to be changed, what's the impact?
** To be re-discussed at next meeting with more information on the wiki page

** ARB exception proposal
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PostReleaseApps/MaverickExceptionsProposal
** Public python libraries shouldn't be a matter for these packages
** Private libraries could be kept in the app dir by setting sys.path
*** Can quickly templates be updated in lucid to automatically add the application dir to sys.path?
*** Non-quickly apps would have a requirement to set this up by themselves; is that practical?
** .pyc files are not a must, so we could ship maverick packages without them
** general opinion was that making an exception for desktop files only would be okay
** Some discussion whether using a vendor prefix in /opt would make sense

** Next chair: sabdfl (carried over)

* Meeting 2010-11-30
** Log: http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.20101130_0859.html
** Chair: Matt Zimmerman
** Other members present: Martin Pitt
** Guests: Allison Randall, John Lenton, Eric Casteleijn, Rick Spencer, Stuart Langridge, Emmet Hikory

** Action review
** KDE microversion SRU docs - done
** <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.log.20101130_0859.html#3|couchdb lucid backport SRU - John Lenton]]</nowiki>
** Continuation from the previous meeting
** We enumerated options for the Ubuntu One team to restore lost functionality in Ubuntu 10.04 resulting from the CouchDB 1.0 server-side update. The options supported by the TB members present were:
*** option 1: parallel package couchdb 1.0, update desktopcouch to use it, and release via SRU exception
*** option 3: update couchdb to 1.0 in backports, superseding 0.1 in lucid
*** option 4: do nothing, focus on natty, move on
** The U1 team will decide which option to pursue based on available resources and business considerations 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.log.20101130_0859.html#5|ARB exception proposal - Allison Randal]]</nowiki>
** Continuation from the previous meeting
** Allison's proposal was supported by the TB members present:
*** Allow .desktop files to be installed outside /opt.
*** In Natty, we'll modify Quickly, cdbs, python-support, and related packages o support installation in /opt.
*** For Maverick, accept that .pyc files and version symlinks won't be generated for Python libraries.
*** For Maverick, ARB will perform manual package fixes on proposed applications, to install in /opt and load libraries from /opt.
*** Binaries only in /opt (no exceptions for Maverick), will not be in $PATH.
*** Official install location is /opt/extras.ubuntu.com/ (with version number? i.e. "/opt/extras.ubuntu.com/foo-1.5")
