{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Technical Board meeting, 2010-01-12 (chair cjwatson)
** Prior action review, leaves the following still to do:
** [ACTION] kees to follow up with Debian TC on units policy
** [ACTION] cjwatson to follow up with mythbuntu-dev to get
     ubuntu-core-dev added
** [ACTION] ScottK to update Kubuntu/UpdatesPolicy based on Kubuntu
     upstream feedback (cf.
     http://techbase.kde.org/Policies/Minor_Point_Release_Policy/Draft)
** [ACTION] sabdfl to propose to CC that the TB is a CC delegate, and
     clarify his role

** Units Policy
** We discussed briefly whether to recommend that developers go ahead
     with implementation in advance of feedback from the Debian TC.  The
     majority of the board preferred to wait for at least a while, since
     we've requested feedback and should wait for it, and since the
     benefit may not outweigh the cost of carrying another stack of
     patches.
** Check back on status next meeting.

** When is it a good idea to fail out of a maintainer script?
    (MattZimmerman)
** While there is loose agreement that "something ought to be done"
     about this, the technical options are not yet clear enough to decide
     something at the TB level.  Shelving for the moment; mdz will bring
     this up on ubuntu-devel if and when he gets the chance to put
     together some detailed options.

** Execute Permission Policy (KeesCook)
** After some discussion, the TB ratified this policy
     (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Policies#Execute-Permission%20Bit%20Required)
     conditional on detailed feedback from the desktop team, including
     the unresolved question of what happens to existing handlers on
     upgrade.  Mark's +1 was on the condition that we will have time to
     iterate implementation before Lucid or pull it entirely if it
     doesn't work out.

** Check up on community bugs (standing item)
** The only item already has an associated action.

** Next meeting is 2010-01-26.  Chair: Keybuk

* Technical Board meeting, 2010-01-26 (chair kees)
** Prior action review, leaves the following still to do:
** [ACTION] ScottK to update Kubuntu/UpdatesPolicy based on Kubuntu
     upstream feedback (cf.
     http://techbase.kde.org/Policies/Minor_Point_Release_Policy/Draft)
** [ACTION] sabdfl to propose to CC that the TB is a CC delegate, and
     clarify his role

** Archive reorganisation (cjwatson)
*** persia mentioned that he handled "Update Ubuntu developer and process documentation to reflect changes" task
*** [ACTION] persia to update documentation with anything discovered to be missing

** Kubuntu/UpdatesPolicy
*** still waiting on Kubuntu upstream

** Units Policy
*** waiting to hear back from Debian TC

** Check up on community bugs (standing item)
*** Waiting on update from sabdfl.

** Next meeting is 2010-02-09.  Chair: Keybuk
