{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Meeting: 2011-10-06
** Chair: Martin Pitt
** Attendees: Kees Cook, Stephane Graber
** Guests: Allison Randal, Scott Kitterman, Lamont Jones
* Brainstorm review update: Cycle completed, see <nowiki>[[http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/ucgi/~cjwatson/blosxom/ubuntu/2011-10-06-brainstorm-review.html|Colin's summary]]</nowiki>

* Recruiting new members for the ARB (Allison)
** Proposal: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppReviewBoard/Restaffing
** This was discussed and edited to add the requirement that new board members must be Ubuntu developers, i. e. ~ubuntu-dev members. This does not retroactively apply to the already existing members, though.
** Proposal carried with 3 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.

* Postfix microrelease exception request (Scott K)
** Upstream has tight requirements for what goes into stable microreleases, QAs them with regression tests, and has a good history of not breaking anything. Known breakage so far was in the packaging.
** Our QA regression testing repository has an <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bugcontrol/qa-regression-testing/master/view/head:/scripts/test-postfix.py|existing integration test script]]</nowiki> which should be run on the proposed packages for checking for general mis-builds, packaging errors, etc.
** Team members generally feel good about routinely SRUing microreleases, but want to see an existing successful SRU first. Martin signed up for reviewing that SRU. This will be re-discussed after that.
