{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting 2013-02-04:

* Chair: Colin Watson
* Attendees: Kees Cook, Martin Pitt, Stéphane Graber
* Guests: Scott Kitterman, Scott Moser, Steve Langasek
* Apologies: Soren Hansen

* MAAS SRU (Andres Rodriguez, represented by Scott Moser)
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2013-January/001467.html|Initial request from Andres]]</nowiki>
** The board generally endorses <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2013-January/001468.html|Steve's reply]]</nowiki>, and authorises a waiver of the SRU policy for the maas package and (if required) for the addition of the python-tx-tftp package to precise.
** Colin took an action to clarify the SRU documentation in light of Steve's comments on bundling.

** There remain three python-django changes, two of which have been bounced up to the board by the SRU team.  For these, the primary consideration is avoiding a risk of regressions for other Django users.  The changes are targeted rather than a wholesale version backport, which is good and makes this amenable to detailed review.
** At an initial review during the meeting, GenericIPAddressField appears as though it could be handled in MAAS, while the prefetch changes do seem to need to live in Django itself.  However, there needs to be a clear plan for regression-testing '''outside''' the context of MAAS.
** The board is generally willing to authorise a waiver for the SRU policy of no-new-features for these python-django changes, conditional on code review and non-MAAS regression testing.  If any of the changes can reasonably be handled within MAAS instead, then they should be, since that would involve the least total risk to 12.04 users.
** The board delegates Steve Langasek to perform additional code review for the SRU team.

Meeting 2013-02-18:

* Chair: Martin Pitt
* Attendees: Colin Watson, Stéphane Graber, Soren Hansen
* Guests: Anthony Wong, Jack Yu
* Apologies: Matt Zimmerman, Kees Cook

* Action review:
** Colin to clarify the SRU documentation in light of Steve's comments on bundling: '''done'''

* Flavor of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin|Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki>
** The Technical Board welcomes the Kylin community to take up a real Chinese Ubuntu flavour, as the Ubuntu Developer team has traditionally lacked Chinese specific skills
** The individual points of above document have been discussed, and most items regarded as genuine localization. However, there were a few points which were requested to be clarified/changed.
** Chinese Input Method: Using fcitx will not be compatible with the Ubuntu/Unity/GNOME assumptions of using ibus, i. e. this will not work with e. g. control-center, the keyboard indicator, and the ibus indicator.
** ''ACTION:'' JackWu to document justification for switching to fcitx, and impact on control center, indicators, application support
** Cooperation with WPS: The TB feels that promoting proprietary software in the installer and default desktop is against the spirit and letter of the Ubuntu brand and philosophy and should not be done. Easy installation through Software Center is perfectly valid of course.
** ''ACTION:'' JackYu to clarify on the wiki page what WPS is, how it's going to be integrated, and status of Libre``Office
* System Assistant, Photo Handling: These two are not Chinese specific, but should rather be done in the general Ubuntu context; System Assistant sounds like the old computer-janitor, a potential successor of which should be implemented in software-center proper
** ''ACTION:'' JackYu to clarify goals and details for both
* The guidelines for accepted Ubuntu flavours require a signed CoC, one or more developers have upload rights, show 6 months activity and have a QA contact
** ''ACTION:'' JackYu and Anthony Wong to sign CoC
** The TB recognizes that requiring already existing upload rights is not something we can enforce in this case, and that developer merits should be acquired while working on Kylin instead. This should be reviewed in six months, until then the Foundations team has agreed to be formally responsible for the flavour and help out with mentoring, sponsoring, and release engineering.

* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2013-February/001475.html|SRU Minor Release Exception for Ceph]]</nowiki>: Deferred to email as we ran out of time

* Chair for next meeting: Kees (carried over)

* Next meeting is 2013-03-04.
