{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Technical Board meeting, 2009-12-01 (chair mdz)
** Prior action review, leaves the follow still to do:
** [ACTION] cjwatson checking on IS RT #36139 to add devel-permissions
** [ACTION] Scott to redraft Units policy to address Scott's and Matt's concerns and clean up language
** [ACTION] Colin to clarify trademark/license distinction on licensing policy

** Archive reorganisation (ColinWatson)
** [ACTION] cjwatson to create a wiki reference for development teams to participate in the reorg

** https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/UpdatesPolicy
** Would be good to outline a regression handling policy as well.
** Default to assuming users want stability.
** [ACTION] ScottK to revise proposal based on TB meeting discussion

** When is it a good idea to fail out of a maintainer script? (mdz)
** Generally, failing preinst is preferred to failing postinst.
** Generally, daemon start-up failure should not fail postinst.
** May help to make a distinction between devel and release upgrades.
** No clear "philosophical" state of being configured, so it's is non-obvious how to decide what should be considered a failure.
** Would be beneficial to present a straw-man proposal to the Debian TC to coordinate this.
** Will continue at the next meeting.

** Community Bugs
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/485569 "TB term length is unclear"
*** elections single-year staggered with resulting positions having a two-year term.
*** [ACTION] sabdfl to update LP/wiki/www to reflect the actual term length for TB
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/485971 "Technical Board mailing list archive is private"
*** blocked on IS, now that DMB is up and running.
*** [ACTION] cjwatson to nudge RT 35428

** Out of time, deferred further review to next meeting

** Next meeting: kees to chair

* Technical Board meeting, 2009-12-15 (chair kees)
** Prior action review
** Excepting tasks covered under the UnitsPolicy and Kubuntu/UpdatesPolicy discussions below, prior actions were all done.

** UnitsPolicy
** Generally okay, but some minor clean-ups still needed.  Could coordinate with Debian.
** [ACTION] mdz to fix language wrt cmdline meaning in Unit policy
** [ACTION] kees to present Units policy to Debian TC via bdale

** Status of ARM port vs. archive publishing (slangasek, mdz)
** ARM is considered supported for Karmic and later, even though it lives on ports.
** [ACTION] cjwatson to document meanings of archive vs. ports, cdimage vs. releases, etc.

** Archive reorganisation (ColinWatson)
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopers/TeamDelegation
** [ACTION] cjwatson to add a bit more intro to UbuntuDevelopment/TeamDelegation, and link it from appropriate places
** [ACTION] cjwatson to follow up with kubuntu-dev and mythbuntu-dev to get ubuntu-core-dev added

** Kubuntu/UpdatesPolicy
** [ACTION] ScottK to update policy based on kubuntu upstream feedback
** [ACTION] kees to follow up with ScottK on Kubuntu/UpdatesPolicy updates

** Execute Permission Policy (KeesCook)
** [ACTION] kees to clean up further and re-present at next meeting

** Check up on community bugs (standing item)
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/485559 "Mark Shuttleworth has no expiration date set in the tech-board LP team"
*** [ACTION] sabdfl to propose to CC that the TB is a CC delegate, and clarify his role
*** [ACTION] sabdfl to update bug with status and discussion

** When is it a good idea to fail out of a maintainer script? (Matt Zimmerman)
** Deferred, ran out of time.

** Next meeting is Jan 12, 2010.  Chair: cjwatson
