{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Meeting 2014-06-24:
* Chair: Steve Langasek
* Attendees: Martin Pitt, St√©phane Graber
* Apologies: Adam Conrad, Kees Cook, Marc Deslauriers

* Action review:
** No outstanding actions

* juju-core MRE
** discussed with Robie Basak the proposal from the list
** agreed to a provisional MRE, with a +1 from Martin and no objections
** '''ACTION''': pitti to formally record the provision MRE and follow up to the mailing list.

* Meeting time
** '''AGREED''': Next meeting, July 8 @ 1600 UTC
** '''AGREED''': stgraber is chair for the next meeting
