{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Task name:''' 
Identify and simplify everything so a tech literate teacher would not need to even know that the command line exists. 

'''Description:'''
A tech literate teacher is one who knows how to do office apps, e-mail/browser stuff, maybe photo management and other common apps.  This teacher is willing to learn any program that will help them teach, within limits.  A teacher has an extremely full docket: the picture of a teacher saying, "Turn to Page x and do the odd problems, y through z..." is not too accurate these days.  The less a teacher has to think about "cd /here" and "ls that", the more they can concentrate on teaching AND the broader the supply of willing tech literate teachers to attempt to teach in a computer-enabled classroom...

----
'''What are the minimum things a teacher must be able to do with the thin client server?:'''

* '''add users'''
** ManageUsers settings etc?

* '''manage groups'''
** Add and delete users from groups
** ManageGroups permissions

* '''update software'''
** How often?
** How do system updates?
** How update Software '''not''' in the different universes.

----
'''Comments:'''
=== v1 ===
These are a couple of the things that came to my mind (David).  Please proliferate as possible!
=== v2 ===

=== v3 ===

=== m1 ===

=== m2 ===

=== m3 ===
