{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Meeting 2010-10-05
** Chair: Colin Watson
** Present: Kees Cook, Matt Zimmerman, Martin Pitt
** Apologies: Mark Shuttleworth
** Guests: Michael Vogt, Jamie Strandboge

** Action review
** Martin Pitt to ask Martin Pool about bzr self test instructions on installed system -- '''DONE'''
** Kees to add bzr selftest to qa-regression-testing project -- '''DONE'''
** Martin to add bzr microrelease exception to StableReleasePolicy -- '''DONE'''

** Decide/document ubuntu-archive interaction with ARB packages
** Michael Vogt confirmed that extras.ubuntu.com is a mirror of a PPA owned by the ARB, which means that ubuntu-archive will have no direct interaction with it as it stands.
** [ACTION] Colin to ensure that documentation on nature of extras.ubuntu.com archive makes it into process docs, and ensure that ARB legality checks are synchronised with those of ubuntu-archive

** Decide on permission changes documented in Bug:174375 - Matt Zimmerman
** The TB voted in favour of Brian's proposal.
** Martin noted that bug targeting needs to be more open than just release managers (Brian's proposal asks that it shouldn't exclude uploaders).  There was no disagreement.  The main goal here is to separate the blueprint and bug permissions currently aggregated into ubuntu-drivers.
** [ACTION] Matt to follow up with Brian on Bug:174375

** Chromium security updates (continuation of previous discussion)
** General consensus seems to be that we can drop the seven-day waiting period on promotion to -updates for chromium-browser, but should not drop -proposed and some kind of verification.
** While this still seems too immature for main, the security team will need to treat it essentially like the non-free Flash plugin: it's universe and therefore theoretically unsupported by the security team, but in practice we know lots of people use it and act accordingly, running updates through all the usual checklists.  Regressions on individual web pages and such won't merit a USN, though.
** Jamie says that qa-regression-testing has a semi-automatic script which should catch any huge issues here.
** The board is currently awaiting a proposal from the principal uploader, Fabien Tassin, and a formal vote will wait for that.

** No new community bugs to look at

** Next chair: Kees Cook
