{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Ted Gould, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Ted Gould
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~ted | lp:~ted]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/TedGould/ | wiki:TedGould]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==

Just a guy.  Just a guy that wants people who don't love computers to get the benefits of Open Source.  Just a guy that wants to unlock the creative potential of everyone without requiring them to get permissions, clearance and approval before they create.  Just a human being that loves other humans.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I initially came to Ubuntu as an upstream developer.  I was attempting (failing) to be the maintainer of gnome-media.  One of my biggest problems was keeping up with the GNOME stack that was constantly changing.  By the time I would get everything in a state that I felt comfortable testing patches the time I had for doing it was gone.  I came to get a more up-to-date GNOME so that I could spend more time working ON GNOME instead of building it.

What I found was more than I was looking for.  What I found was a group of people taking pragmatic real-world decisions to ensure that open source software got into the hands of users in a place where they could use it.  While I love the fun of an installfest, we simply can't scale with it, we need people have a good experience on their own.  And it was clear to me that this was the best opportunity to bring Open Source to all my friends and relatives.

TODO

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I think that Ubuntu has a lot of refined processes for what gets into Ubuntu, from reviews to confirmations to simple processes of versioning.  What it lacks is process on what gets out of Ubuntu.  If a package becomes unmaintained, what happens to it?  When should there be a new security review?  How many CVE's do you have to have before getting smacked?  What if there is simply a better program at implementing those features?  These are all complex questions that need to be handled with a nuanced approach, but are important to maintaining the health of the project long term.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
