{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Tekcronic - My name is William Crandell. I am a developer thanks to the open source community I have some tools under my belt. 

I am planning on creating a Ubuntu remix named Blubuntu - The Media Remix. This is reflected in launchpad.net. Also I am using a Playstation3 and want to use a Blu-Ray disk for the install though a DVD collection may also work. Anyone with knowledge here please make a page and let me know what has or needs to happen. I ask because of my current understanding of the codecs may be incorrect or there may be an open source alternative. As I know the are issues using the Blu-Ray format but also this may only be for video playback.

I will be using a website to blog my experiences with Ubuntu Gutsy and Feisty (mostly 7.10). This will be an overall website of the open source community with a focus on windows and Ubuntu as well as Blubuntu. Of course I will setup a website for just Blubuntu as a distro but this will come sometime around the beta period may take a couple of months. 

~+Update+~  ~-I have been bad about blogging my experiences though it is still planned.  I am creating a Corporation for the name Tekcronic.  This will follow the open business model and be more concerned with local customers.  This should be like having a huge entity backing you while still only working with the locals maintaining first name usage, and customers are remembered by there name and not Bank account.

I will be working towards using Ubuntu as my server but first need to cover bandwidth cost as this can be expensive.  Although Ubuntu will be the system for my workstations and current already implemented.
-~
