{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

List of missing leaders
* Michael Berger (tideline) michaelallenberger@gmail.com - owner of Launchpad team
* Matthew Craig (m-c) matthew-t-craig@ubuntu.com - founder of <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-%23ubuntu-us-tn|#ubuntu-us-tn]]</nowiki>

Poll: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1145150|How often Should we Meet on IRC?]]</nowiki>

=== Letter to Tennessee Team calling for June 2nd meeting ===

Esteemed Tennessee Team Members,

I am writing on behalf of active members in #ubuntu-us-tn on Freenode. Collectively, we are concerned that our team has lost contact with the individuals holding official leadership roles. The primary concern is that we are unable to utilize traditional means of mobilizing the LoCo.

In our LoCo #ubuntu-us-tn is where the proverbial rubber meets the road. The founder of our IRC channel on Freenode (#ubuntu-us-tn) is Matthew Craig (m-c) - he has not been present for several months now and has moved out of state. It seems possible to change our IRC founder. At the very least we would like to appoint multiple active and responsible members to OP status for the purposes of changing the channel's topic and any other responsibilities incurred by an OP.

Critical to LoCo team operation is Launcpad administration. The owner of the Tennessee Team on Lauchpad is Michael Berger (tideline) - he too has been out of contact for several months now. We are trying to contact him to get some active members listed as "admins" for the team. If he fails to respond, we have recourse and will use alternative means to resolve the issue.

Our team's most vocal leader, Don Harper (w4ett), has been out of contact for several months now. He did a great job mobilizing the team and organizing meetings. His presence in our team has been noticeably missed. In Don's absence our LoCo needs to reorganize.

We would like to reestablish regular meeting times. We currently have a poll at?http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1145150 - please vote if you haven't already. Currently we have a majority in favor of monthly meetings. It is in the LoCo's best interest to establish a regular meeting time that allows maximal participation from active team members.

We propose a meeting Tuesday, June 2nd at 7pm CDT. The meeting will take place in #ubuntu-meeting on Freenode. We will utilize mootbot to provide a summary to this mailing list. Primarily we will address the team's lack of leadership. We will reach consensus about which people will fill the aforementioned roles (IRC OPs and Launchpad admins).

We hope to see you June 2nd at 8pm Eastern/7pm Central (-600 UTC) in #ubuntu-meeting on Freenode.

Best Regards,
John (pace_t_zulu)

--
John Haitas
jhaitas@gmail.com

 
=== MootBot Log from June 2nd meeting ===

	<MootBot> Meeting started at 19:00. The chair is pace_t_zulu.

	<MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TennesseeTeam/Meeting

	<MootBot> New Topic:  OPs and founder-ship on #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  transfer founder-ship to an active team member and get OP privileges to at least a couple active team members

	<MootBot> Please vote on:   our current founder is uncooperative and we should thus pursue the process of transferring founder-ship.

	<MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6

	<MootBot> AGREED received:  our current founder is uncooperative and we should thus pursue the process of transferring founder-ship

	<MootBot> Please vote on:  w4ett to be appointed founder of #ubuntu-us-tn.

	<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5

	<MootBot> AGREED received:  w4ett to be appointed founder of #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> ACTION received:  w4ett to be appointed founder of #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> New Topic:  OPs in #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  2 OPs in addition to founder

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  vote on 2 OPs in addition to w4ett

	<MootBot> Please vote on:  2 OPs in addition to w4ett in #ubuntu-us-tn.

	<MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  nominations for first op

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  vote on pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  vote on pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> Please vote on:  vote on pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn.

	<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5

	<MootBot> AGREED received:  pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> ACTION received:  pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> New Topic:  Launchpad Adminstrators for /~tennessee.team

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  select new owner of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  vote on w4ett assuming ownership of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad

	<MootBot> Please vote on:  w4ett assuming ownership of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad.

	<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5

	<MootBot> AGREED received:  w4ett assumes ownership of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad

	<MootBot> ACTION received:  w4ett assumes ownership of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  select additional admins for Launchpad /~tennessee.team at next meeting

	<MootBot> New Topic:  Regular meeting time for Tennessee LoCo

	<MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1145150

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  vote on meetings occurring at 8pm EDT / 7pm CDT on a weekday to be selected

	<MootBot> Please vote on:  Meetings will be at  8pm EDT / 7pm CDT on a weekday to be determined.

	<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5

	<MootBot> AGREED received:  Meetings will be at  8pm EDT / 7pm CDT on a weekday to be determined

	<MootBot> ACTION received:  Meetings will be at  8pm EDT / 7pm CDT on a weekday to be determined

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  Meet at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT on the first Thursday of the month

	<MootBot> Please vote on:  Meet at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT on the first Thursday of the month.

	<MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5

	<MootBot> AGREED received:  Meet at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT on the first Thursday of the month

	<MootBot> ACTION received:  Meet at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT on the first Thursday of the month

	<MootBot> IDEA received:  Table all outstanding items on agenda for meeting Thursday, June 4 at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT in #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> Please vote on:  Table all outstanding items on agenda for meeting Thursday, June 4 at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT in #ubuntu-us-tn.

	<MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6

	<MootBot> ACTION received:  Table all outstanding items on agenda for meeting Thursday, June 4 at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT in #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> AGREED received:  Table all outstanding items on agenda for meeting Thursday, June 4 at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT in #ubuntu-us-tn

	<MootBot> Meeting finished at 20:19.

	<MootBot> Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
