{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Meeting started at 19:00. The chair is pace_t_zulu.
New Topic:  Announce Tennessee Team Linkedin and Facebook groups
LINK received: http://www.facebook.com/pages/Ubuntu-Tennessee/134857110680
LINK received: http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=2081103
New Topic: Elect leader for point of contact and team coordination
Please vote on:  1 year term limit for leader point of contact and team coordination.
Final result is 7 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 7
AGREED received:  1 year term limit for leader point of contact and team coordination
Please vote on:  August 6th meeting to nominate and elect lead point of contact, members must be present to nominate, accept nominations and elect individual.
Final result is 7 for, 1 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6
AGREED received: August 6th meeting to nominate and elect lead point of contact, members must be present to nominate, accept nominations and elect individual
Please vote on:  w4ett is temporary point of contact until august meeting.
Final result is 8 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 8
New Topic:  Removing missing members from admin positions
Please vote on:  Removing missing members from admin positions.
Final result is 7 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 7
AGREED received:  Removing missing members from admin positions
ACTION received:  Removing missing members from admin positions
New Topic:  UNIX birthday party?
IDEA received:  vote on party August 8
Please vote on:  UNIX birthday party August 8.
Final result is 4 for, 1 against. 2 abstained. Total: 3
AGREED received:  UNIX birthday party August 8
Meeting finished at 20:37.
Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
</pre>
