{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Our group, the Tennessee, USA LoCo, is applying for recognition and establishment as a formal LoCo.  

Our membership covers and provides a supportive, friendly presence for Ubuntu in the three commonly accepted regions of Tennessee - East, Middle, and West Tennessee.

== Key Details ==

*** Date - November 18th, 2010
*** Team Contact - <nowiki>[[ infocop411 ]]</nowiki>
*** Membership - on Nov. 16 2010, 65 on Launchpad, 121 on the mailing list
*** Mailing List - ubuntu-us-tn@lists.ubuntu.com
*** IRC - #ubuntu-us-tn

== Roadmap ==
In this section, we document our planned future events, both physical/f2f and virtual.

* '''Future F2F Events'''
* LoCo-wide, we are actively seeking opportunities to engage with the community as directly as possible by having an advocacy-directed presence at appropriate group meetings, seeking out installfest and service opportunities, and being willing to become visible as individual Ubuntu contributors and elements of the Membership at large.
* In the East Tennessee region, the membership of our LoCo is planning xxxx.
* In the Middle Tennessee region, the membership of our LoCo is planning xxxx.
* In the West Tennessee region, the membership of our LoCo is engaged in continuing advocacy with the City of Memphis, encouraging additional adoption of Open Source software.  [Link to report / notes / blog posts]

* '''Future Virtual Events'''
* Because of the wide geographical region of our state - end-to-end being a day's drive - many of our LoCo's contacts are prmarily virtual rather than physical.  We take advantage of appropriate social media channels to build our community and communicate regarding opportunities of which others within our diverse geographical region might not hear.
* Our LoCo generally holds IRC meetings on the first Thursday night of each month.
* Our next IRC meeting is scheduled for Thursday evening, December 2nd.
* In the Middle Tennessee region, one of our participants <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElijahWright|ElijahWright]]</nowiki> is developing a "Big Data processing with R" session for the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom|Classroom]]</nowiki> series.

== Experience ==
In this section, we document our previous events, both physical/f2f and virtual.

Historically our LoCo membership has been loosely coordinated and people have pitched in as they found time or were able; we are trying to make the transition from loose coordination to active planning and carefully considering the distribution of our time and resources.

* '''Past F2F Events'''
* Memphis advocacy / event:
* Nashville / Middle TN event: [Release party / gathering?]
* Knoxville / East TN event [Installfest?]:

* '''Past Virtual Events'''
* Previous official IRC meeting (link to minutes)
* Two meetings ago (link to minutes)
* Three meetings ago (link to minutes)
