{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Meeting started at 19:00. The chair is pace_t_zulu.
New Topic:  Launchpad Admins
IDEA received:  proceed with new admin question...table the question of m-c and Tideline admin status
IDEA received:  2 admins in addition to the team owner (w4ett)
IDEA received:  Nomination Time
IDEA received:  vote on pace_t_zulu and wrst to be Launchpad admin's in addition to team owner (w4ett)
Please vote on:  pace_t_zulu and wrst to be Launchpad admin's in addition to team owner (w4ett).
Final result is 3 for, 0 against. 2 abstained. Total: 3
AGREED received:  pace_t_zulu and wrst to be Launchpad admin's in addition to team owner (w4ett)
IDEA received:  Informal discussion for social gathering
ACTION received:  pace_t_zulu and wrst to be Launchpad admin's in addition to team owner (w4ett)
ACTION received:  table the question of m-c and Tideline Launchpad admin status
New Topic:  Informal discussion regarding social meeting
IDEA received:  we should discuss getting more of our active members involved in our IRC meetings
IDEA received:  maybe we need to promote the next meeting better via the mailing list and personal contact
IDEA received:  meet at 3 locations at once and videoconference
IDEA received:  poll in forums to gauge interest level in social meetings
AGREED received:  poll in forums to gauge interest level in social meetings
IDEA received:  poll in forums to determine suitability
IDEA received:  poll in forums to determine suitability of IRC meeting on 1st Thursday of each month
AGREED received:  Polls are a good thing
AGREED received:  meeting adjurned
Meeting finished at 19:46.
Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
</pre>
