{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Write up your details, and let your teammates know where you are located and your interests.  This information will help organizers of meet-ups and local-community-specific efforts.

===== Edit this wiki page and add your Name(s), Geographic Area, and Special LoCo Interest =====

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JohnHaitas|John Haitas]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net/~jhaitas|johnhaitas]]</nowiki>), Nashville, Ubuntu+1, Ubuntu Bugsquad, Ubuntu Desktop and Ubuntu Server
* <nowiki>[[AlexLowe]]</nowiki> (Lengau), Murfreesboro (Middle TN), Kubuntu desktop, Ubuntu server, Xubuntu desktop, Xubuntu plaything.
* Andrew Croney <nowiki>[[sumguy231]]</nowiki>, Murfreesboro (Middle TN), using Kubuntu and Xubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[CalebCupples]]</nowiki>, Savannah (West TN, near the TN/AL/MS border), Kubuntu desktop, Ubuntu server.
* Chris Talley aka chris4585.
* Don Harper <nowiki>[[w4ett]]</nowiki>, Dickson, Unanswered Posts Team, Beginners Team, Ubuntu Bugsquad, Desktop Alpha/Beta Tester, Ham Radio Integration.
* Matt Latsha <nowiki>[[Saxonjf]]</nowiki>, Nashville(Bellvue), Gnome Desktop Art (Combining Controls with Window Borders and Icons), creating desktop backgrounds.
* <nowiki>[[MichaelBerger]]</nowiki> (tideline), Knoxville, Ubuntu Server, Carrier Grade Ubuntu, Sparc Team, Bug Squad.
* Rob Case <nowiki>[[robc4]]</nowiki>, Nashville, Ubuntu Server, Kubuntu Desktop, Xubuntu Desktop, Possible MTSU organizer if needed.
* <nowiki>[[xTEMPLARx|Todd Taylor]]</nowiki>, Lenoir City (between Knoxville and Chattanooga), digital photography, music editing,gaming with Ubuntu Desktop on desktops, netbooks and servers.
* <nowiki>[[Tracy_Phillips]]</nowiki> (bucketshop), Cookeville (Middle TN), Ubuntu, Ubuntu Server.
* <nowiki>[[Trenton Bussell]]</nowiki> (exodus_ms), Tullahoma (Middle TN), Ubuntu Desktop New to Linux
* <nowiki>[[WilliamFPearson]]</nowiki> (LibertyTiger), Cordova(Memphis), Linux Systems Engineer - Worldspice.net
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mikeosmith|Mike Smith]]</nowiki> ([tpm]), Chattanooga, Ubuntu Server/Desktop
* Brandon Sharp (bsharp), Hendersonville (Nashville), Ubuntu Server/Desktop.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/infocop411|Zach Gibbens]]</nowiki> (1nf0(0p411), Cleveland (Chattanooga Area), Whatever I can get a hold of.
* Thomas Williams<nowiki>[[tjcertified]]</nowiki>, Clarksville, Ubuntu + education
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/baytes|Brad Aytes]]</nowiki> (baytes/eights), Knoxville, Ubuntu Bugsquad, Launchpad, Security, Open Source Web Technologies
* <nowiki>[[Michael Stokes]]</nowiki> (mmb113) {Clinton, TN}   Student, & new to Linux
* Patrick Hill(Xoanan).{Gallatin, TN} Xubuntu + education
** <nowiki>[[http://www.patrickxfce.vox.com]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jfenn2199|Joseph Fennell]]</nowiki>(jfenn2199) Memphis TN;  Ubuntu, Linux, and Netbooks
* <nowiki>[[ChristopherLunsford|Christopher Lunsford]]</nowiki>(chrispluns, binarymutant), Knoxville, TN, Ubuntu, Debian
* Justin White, North-eastern TN, Ubuntu and web design.
* Wesley Stout (wrst), Livingston, Ubuntu, Ubuntu Server
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~buckner-jonas|Jonas Buckner]]</nowiki> (KidShenck), Johnson City (Tri-Cities) Anything Open Source
* <nowiki>[[mailto:b.sullivan83@gmail.com|Brendan Sullivan]]</nowiki>(galant14b), Louisville, Glad to help where I can, and will soak up useful knowledge in the mean time ;)
* Gary Strange (linuxman410), Morristown, Ubuntu and any other thing i can help with
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mac9416|mac9416]]</nowiki>, North of Memphis, TN (West);  Python, Wordpress (PHP/CSS), <nowiki>[[http://keryxproject.org/|Keryx]]</nowiki>
* Genie Clarke (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~defragmeout|defragmeout]]</nowiki>), Memphis, Introducing people to Ubuntu desktop environment
* Lewis Stingfellow(<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dabeast901]]</nowiki>)aka redsoxking, Memphis, Noob to Ubuntu and the Tech World, just trying to learn from some of the best
* Rich Gray (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/netritious|netritious]]</nowiki>), South of Memphis, Ubuntu Server, Virtualization, Security
* Christos "Chris" Ekimogloy (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xpistos|Xpistos]]</nowiki>), Columbia (South of Nashville) Ubuntu Laptop, Ubuntu Server and Linux newb just trying to make a difference
* Eric Goddard (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ericgod48|ericgod48]]</nowiki>, ericG), Memphis, Ubuntu Desktop, netbooks, GRASS
* JP Russell (RagnarokAngel) Knoxville/Harrogate TN; Ubuntu laptop, netbooks.
* Jason Raup (jasonr2210)  Crossville, TN. New to the Ubuntu world.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.mrmosier.com|Scott Mosier]]</nowiki>, (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mrmosier|Launchpad]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MrMosier|Wiki]]</nowiki>) Shelbyville/Murfreesboro, Tennessee. Ubuntu, education, custom solutions, Virtualbox, server - classroom applications.
* Joe Schwentker (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jschwentker77|Launchpad]]</nowiki>), (chibihogoshino) Knoxville, Tn. linux,ubuntu,laptop/desktop,<nowiki>[[http://chibi-hogoshino.deviantart.com/|photography]]</nowiki>,photo correction
* CR Andrews (Shocktheatre) Johnson City, TN. Ubuntu desktop & server -- especially lean alternate installs with customizations; Apache, VirtualBox
* <nowiki>[[https://www.jasonamyers.com|Jason Myers]]</nowiki> (jamdatadude)  Rutherford County, Ubuntu and Enterprise networking, Ubuntu documentation team
* <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/lilo346|Omar Owens]]</nowiki>,(vychune), Whitehaven, Memphis, TN. Ubuntu in general. My website is <nowiki>[[http://www.chestpaint.com|Chestpaint Social]]</nowiki>. 
==== Other contact Information ====

If you cannot find your answer here, we then recommend you try the mailing list and IRC channel:

* '''Mailing List''' - the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-tn|Tennessee loco mailing list]]</nowiki> is a mailing list for general Tennessee LoCo discussion.
* '''IRC''' - join <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-us-tn|#ubuntu-us-tn]]</nowiki> on Freenode to ask anything about the Tennessee LoCo team.
