{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Meeting started at 19:00. The chair is pace_t_zulu.
LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TennesseeTeam/Meeting
New Topic: OPs and founder-ship on #ubuntu-us-tn
LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot
IDEA received: transfer founder-ship to an active team member and get OP privileges to at least a couple active team members
Please vote on: our current founder is uncooperative and we should thus pursue the process of transferring founder-ship.
Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6
AGREED received: our current founder is uncooperative and we should thus pursue the process of transferring founder-ship
Please vote on: w4ett to be appointed founder of #ubuntu-us-tn.
Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5
AGREED received: w4ett to be appointed founder of #ubuntu-us-tn
ACTION received: w4ett to be appointed founder of #ubuntu-us-tn
New Topic: OPs in #ubuntu-us-tn
IDEA received: 2 OPs in addition to founder
IDEA received: vote on 2 OPs in addition to w4ett
Please vote on: 2 OPs in addition to w4ett in #ubuntu-us-tn.
Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6
IDEA received: nominations for first op
IDEA received: vote on pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn
IDEA received: vote on pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn
Please vote on: vote on pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn.
Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5
AGREED received: pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn
ACTION received: pace_t_zulu and infocop411 receiving OP privileges in #ubuntu-us-tn
New Topic: Launchpad Adminstrators for /~tennessee.team
IDEA received: select new owner of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad
IDEA received: vote on w4ett assuming ownership of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad
Please vote on: w4ett assuming ownership of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad.
Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5
AGREED received: w4ett assumes ownership of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad
ACTION received: w4ett assumes ownership of /~tennessee.team on Launchpad
IDEA received: select additional admins for Launchpad /~tennessee.team at next meeting
New Topic: Regular meeting time for Tennessee LoCo
LINK received: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1145150
IDEA received: vote on meetings occurring at 8pm EDT / 7pm CDT on a weekday to be selected
Please vote on: Meetings will be at 8pm EDT / 7pm CDT on a weekday to be determined.
Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
AGREED received: Meetings will be at 8pm EDT / 7pm CDT on a weekday to be determined
ACTION received: Meetings will be at 8pm EDT / 7pm CDT on a weekday to be determined
IDEA received: Meet at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT on the first Thursday of the month
Please vote on: Meet at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT on the first Thursday of the month.
Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
AGREED received: Meet at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT on the first Thursday of the month
ACTION received: Meet at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT on the first Thursday of the month
IDEA received: Table all outstanding items on agenda for meeting Thursday, June 4 at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT in #ubuntu-us-tn
Please vote on: Table all outstanding items on agenda for meeting Thursday, June 4 at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT in #ubuntu-us-tn.
Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6
ACTION received: Table all outstanding items on agenda for meeting Thursday, June 4 at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT in #ubuntu-us-tn
AGREED received: Table all outstanding items on agenda for meeting Thursday, June 4 at 8pm EDT/7pm CDT in #ubuntu-us-tn
Meeting finished at 20:19.
Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
</pre>
