{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''When will be beta candidates images appear?'''

 When the release team decides that the archive is in a good enough state to build them. Typically 2-3 days after the archive freeze and 2-3 days before the scheduled release of the beta itself.

'''Where are the candidate beta images?'''

 They will be in the same place as the daily images. They are in fact just daily images that may become beta images if they pass the testing.

=== Where do I report <type of bug> ===

'''"No kernel modules were found"''' in the alternate installer -- This is just a case of the kernel version in the installer seed being out of sync with that in the version of d-i on the CD, or that the kernel version in the installer seed is no longer in the archive. No point in filing a bug about this. It should go away when the next CD is built.

'''The Live CD installer crashes''' -- Can be a wide range of issues, but bugs can be filed against '''<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bugs|ubiquity]]</nowiki>''' and will be triaged from there.

'''The CD does not boot''' -- Try booting with F6 and remove the --quiet and --usplash flags. This will show where in the boot process it fails. It will often be a kernel problem.
