{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-basic | Return to Basic Test Suite Home Page]]</nowiki>

=== Device Drivers ===
Device drivers are used to access the various hardware modules in devices. Several of these modules require specific drivers in order to operate to their full potential. The following cases ensure that all modules are operating as designed.

==== WLAN Support ====
WLAN support allows access to Wifi networks.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-wlan| WLAN Support Cases]]</nowiki>

=== SDIO Support ===
SD card technology is now a standard for small form factor devices such as smart phones and digital camera.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-sdio| SDIO Support Cases]]</nowiki>

==== Touchscreen Support ====
MID devices are defined as pocket sized fully functioning desktop environments. Touchscreen input takes the place of the mouse in these devices.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-touchscreen| Touchscreen Support Cases]]</nowiki>

==== BlueTooth Support ====
Bluetooth is a short range wireless protocol which eliminates the need for wires for devices such as mice, keyboards, headsets, and MP3 players.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-bluetooth| Bluetooth Support Cases]]</nowiki>

==== Graphics ====
X.org is required for GUI and 3d acceleration.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-graphics| Graphics Support Cases]]</nowiki>

==== Video Decode Acceleration ====
Video acceleration allows for smooth playback of high resolution video.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-video| Video Acceleration Support Cases]]</nowiki>

==== USB Client Support ====
USB client support allows devices to connect to another host and transfer data over USB connection.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-client| USB Client Support Cases]]</nowiki>

==== Audio ====
Audio protocols allow for sound to be reproduced from internal speaker, headphone jack, and bluetooth headset

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-audio| Audio Support Cases]]</nowiki>

==== USB Camera Support ====
External USB devices such as webcams allow MIDs to act as video conferencing stations.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-camera| USB Camera Client Support Cases]]</nowiki>

==== Printing/Scanning ====
USB and Ethernet based Printing and scanning support

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-printing| Printing and Scanning Support Cases]]</nowiki>

==== Keyboard Support ====
Hot Keys are used for several hardware functions including volume and brightness.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-drivers-keyboard| Keyboard Support Cases]]</nowiki>
