{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Continuous Integration ==
Releases 11.10 and 12.04 will have a critical focus on improving the automation testing efforts for Ubuntu.  

=== 11.10 sprint cycle automation goals ===
* Building the continuous integration infrastructure
* Add selected Ubuntu packages to CI process
* Add Installer (Ubiquity) tests to CI process
* Add Kernel tests to CI process
* Create process for notifying teams of test failures and process for fixing failed builds

==== CI Environment ====
Machines will be built to run Jenkins servers and slaves.  The lab will be a combination of physical and virtual machines.  

Configuration items to consider:
* Security realm (local, SSO, etc.)
* Roles
* Email server
* Backup plan

==== Package Testing ====
Ubuntu Engineering Teams are providing a prioritized list of packages they would like to have initially added to the CI process.  Some packages lack the unit/integration tests required to ensure stable builds.  Once those are identified, tests will be developed as part of the source code.  Packages that require a separate testing process (ie, GUI functional testing) will be noted.  The effort for building special test frameworks will be postponed to a future sprint.

==== Ubiquity Testing ====
A test pilot has been completed to show that Ubiquity can be automated from an image at startup.  A framework needs to be built around the existing tests to allow easier development of new tests, maintainability (Ubiquity constantly changes), and reporting.

==== Kernel Testing ====
TBD

==== CI Process ====
We need to define some guidelines and principles so everyone understands the process.
* Requirements for adding builds
* Who gets notified per build (failed/unstable/successful)
* How to notify community of a failed package
* How failed builds get fixed in a timely manner
* Centralized reporting/results overview

=== 12.04 sprint cycle automation goals ===
TBD

=== Encouraging Upstream CI ===
Brainstorm:
* Add a field on LP to link to a CI server - their own or Ubuntu's Offical CI :)  The potential link may spark enough interest
* We could even create a process for getting upstream developers to submit their own projects for official Ubuntu CI
** ie, "Continuous Integration Team" responsible for reviewing submissions and providing feedback for improving tests

 
