{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Getting a Scanner for Ubuntu ==

Zach wanted to find a scanner that he knew would work for him.  In the end he ended up finding a scanner that runs directly from the laptop power using USB and also saving money:

 I just wanted to share '''a couple of Ubuntu success stories''', and just a
 couple more things to add to the list of '''why I love using linux'''.  The success to happen this week was with my flatbed scanner. 

 One of the problems with scanners (and other hardware in general) in
 linux is that the driver support lags behind the products'
 availability in retail channels because '''drivers have to be developed
 by the community'''.  Consumer product cycles are so short that often
 manufacturers will introduce new models within 12 or even 9 months of
 introducing the previous model, so by the time a particular product
 has a working driver in linux, or `xsane`, or whatever, that model is no
 longer available in retail channels.

 A few weeks ago I was asking the
 list what types of flatbed scanner folks were having success with,
 since my Epson isn't well supported.  Many people responded that the
 '''Canon LIDE 30 works well with `xsane`'''.  Of course the LIDE 30 is no
 longer available in retail stores, and there isn't much information
 for models that are available, so I left it alone for a while. 

 However I really can't get by without my scanner so I decided to check
 out ebay.  I found several LIDE 30 scanners on ebay, and I placed a
 bid on one.  The auction closed with me having the high bid of just
 over US$18.  Add to that about US$10 shipping and '''I had myself a
 scanner for under US$30'''.  The scanner was used, and the seller had
 bought it used himself, but I figured for this amount of money, if it
 doesn't work, I'd be disappointed but not broke.  I've spent more than
 this on dinner from time to time (but not often).
 
 The scanner came in
 yesterday.  It is very obviously used, but not in terrible shape. 
 Th ere are a few cosmetic dents on the metal lid, and it just feels
 less than brand new.  The seller included a usb cable, which I didn't
 expect.  He also was thoughtful enough to burn Windows and OS X
 drivers to cd-r, though I won't likely make use of those.  '''One of the
 neat features''' of the Canon LIDE scanners is that they actually '''take
 advantage of USB's ability to power the device''', rather than relying on
 an external power adapter.

 My '''ubuntu laptop, a Vaio PCG-V505''', was
 already on the kitchen table and up and running, so I took the thin
 and light scanner and it's accompanying USB cable, layed it next to
 the laptop and plugged the cable into both devices.  Nothing visual
 happened on the screen or the scanner, but I wasn't worried.

 '''I
 started up the xsane program''' which scanned for devices, and detected
 my scanner.  The scanner then powered up and acquired a preview.  This
 was very cool--'''no software installation or messing''' or fussing.  I
 closed xsane and fired up the Gimp.  I clicked acquire and xsane
 started again.

 I placed a document on the scanner and picked some
 settings for black and white, etc. then clicked preview, and a preview
 appeared.  Then I clicked scan (or acquire, can't remember) and a full
 size scan was performed and sent to the Gimp.  Although I haven't
 tried photos yet, I can say that the scanner appears to work as
 expected.  And '''the really cool part was that it Just Worked(tm)'''.  No
 installing of drivers or additional software (which I would have had
 to do with Windows).

In the original message, Zach also talks about <nowiki>[[Testimonials/ZachC_MP3_Splitting|Splitting up an MP3 file]]</nowiki>:

* http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-marketing/2005-November/000143.html

CategoryTestimonial
