{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


The Ubuntu Testing day is a special day where the Ubuntu Community comes together with a shared goal of testing an specific set of ISO images (Alpha, Beta, RC, Gold or Point releases), an specific feature or some bugs needing verification. Taking the idea from the <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki>, we want to apply the same concepts to ISO testing.

=== Join the Testing Day ===

Who can join the Testing Day? Everyone. You don't need to be a developer. You don't need to know how to code. Everyone is welcome. If you don't know how to help, then just stop on by and we'll explain everything to you. In fact, one of the objectives of the Testing Day is to help people willing to start testing Ubuntu to make it better.

Where to join the Testing Day? Come to '''#ubuntu-testing''' on freenode <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki>.
Normal testing activity takes place in '''#ubuntu-testing''' at other times also.

=== Which is the goal for this testing day? ===

We will be testing the two main '''installers''' in Ubuntu: '''debian-installer''' (the installer featured in alternate images) and '''ubiquity''' (the installer featured in Live CDs). We are going to test Ubuntu Jaunty Beta ISOs. You can have a list of the available ISOs to test at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/jaunty/beta|http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/jaunty/beta]]</nowiki>

What we are looking for in this new Testing Day is not only trying to install '''Jaunty Beta''' in you're system using a "Next"->"Next"->"Next" approach. We are looking for finding those corner cases that normally does not tested, in order to find new bugs.

Examples of this could be: installing in a slave disk, installing in a system with multiple partitions (or any other advanced partition schema), starting the Live CD in Russian and then install in Japanese, ... Your imagination is the limit :-)

For formal testcases you can visit <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install|the testcases wiki]]</nowiki>. But again, play around!

If you don't want to use your own machine yet, you can install it in a  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/VirtualBox|virtual machine]]</nowiki> and test from there.

If you find a bug, please file it in Launchpad in the appropriate package and add it to the lists below, so everybody can track your awesomeness :-)

==== debian-installer ====

'''Bugs are located at:'''
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug description
| Bug number
| Tester
|}

==== ubiquity ====

'''Bugs are located at:'''
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug description
| Bug number
| Tester
|-
| Side-by-Side option only chooses the last disk
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/351473|351473]]</nowiki>
| ara
|}
