{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Testing the Development Release ==

This page gives a quick run down on what is needed to test a development release from its first creation to the final release candidate. It is not a replacement for the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Activities | Activities page]]</nowiki>, but as a quick guide as to what is needed.

=== Tutorial / Classroom Sessions ===

The tools of testing, how to install them along with a presentation on using them is held each cycle. They are highly recommended to both read and book mark for future reference.

 '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Activities/Classroom | All about tutorial / classroom sessions.]]</nowiki>'''

=== What do I need? ===

==== Launchpad Address ====

First you’ll need a Ubuntu SSO account (also known as a Launchpad address).

==== Basic Understanding of the QA Tracker ====

The QA Tracker is where we register all our test results and any bugs that we find. Details of this are below.

==== Test Area ====

Depending on what machine(s) you have, you may want to set up a Virtual Machine (VM) or you may have a spare machine to run tests on. This is discussed below.

==== A Test ISO / Instructions ====

These are downloaded from the QA tracker if you are doing image testing (usually using zsync), other testing is explained in the mailings that are sent out prior to each cadence week or an application test etc.

==== Virtual Machines ====

Certainly in the early stages, it is usual to use a Virtual Machine (VM) for testing. Further details on these can be found at:

'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Virtual_Machines | Virtual Machines]]</nowiki>.'''

=== Testing Stages ===

Below is a brief over view of '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Overview/TheStages | the stages of testing]]</nowiki>'''.

==== Alpha Builds ====

In the pre-alpha and alpha series (roughly cadence weeks 1 to 5) as stated <nowiki>[[QATeam-Cadence-Saucy | here]]</nowiki> it is quite usual to use a Virtual Machine, these run under your existing system.

==== Beta Builds ====

Roughly cadence weeks 6 and 7. At this stage, we are moving away from virtual machines (although they are still useful) and testing on actual hardware. Often this just means making a new partition to install the system on and try it out.

==== Release Candidates ====

Roughly cadence week 8. Again, whilst virtual machines can be used, testing on real hardware is very important.

=== What testcases should I run? ===
Testcases can be marked as '''mandatory, run-once or optional'''. '''Mandatory''' testcases should always be run, for the item being tested in order to ensure it's successful. '''Run-once''' testcases should be executed at least one time, but are not required to be re-run if a new version of the item is released (for example, a re-spin to fix bugs found in an iso). Finally, '''optional''' testcases are just that, optional. They don't need to be run in order for the item to be considered "tested" but are still important. If possible, running an optional test can help ensure there are no regressions.

==== The QA Tracker ====

If you're new to all of this, head over to check out the walkthroughs below to help you submit your first result! Although the underlying website is the same, the process for testing is slightly different depending on the type of testing your wishing to help with.

==== Image Testing ====
Interested in helping test out our images to help make sure they install and work properly on a variety of hardware? 

'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Walkthrough|Iso Testing Walkthrough.]]</nowiki>'''

==== Cadence Testing ====
Interested in helping out during a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cadence/|cadence testing]]</nowiki> week?

'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cadence/Walkthrough|Cadence Testing Walkthrough.]]</nowiki>'''

==== Call for Testing ====
Interested in helping test a specific package or piece of software via a call for testing? 

'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/CallforTesting/Walkthrough|Call for Testing Walkthrough.]]</nowiki>'''
