{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu 9.10 Eucalyptus Testing ==

Ubuntu Server 9.10 Karmic Koala includes support for Eucalyptus and a private cloud. To ensure this support works as effectively as possible, we are looking to experienced eucalyptus users to test this support and provide some feedback. To do this testing we will need you to install the cluster controller and the node controller.

Please note that this testing will require some clean installs of a very recent 9.10 development build.

=== Getting Started ===

To participate in the testing you will need:

* Two computers which can run KVM.
* The most recent Ubuntu Server ISO which can be found at: TBC.
* Some knowledge of Eucalyptus.

To make the testing as simple as possible, we have produced a screencast that shows what you need to test. This is at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gcx8HZWSYB8

=== What To Test ===

==== Setting up the cluster ====

* Boot the Ubuntu Server ISO and select your language when it boots.
* From the boot menu select '''Install Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud'''
* On the next few screens choose your language and location.
* Next add a hostname for the machine you are setting up. Set this as '''euca-cc'''hi darlin
* In ''Select cloud installation mode'' select '''Cluster'''.
* Follow the remaining screens as you would any other install.

=== Filing Bugs ===

Bugs should be filed in Launchpad in the Ubuntu eucalyptus package. You can see this list of bugs at https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eucalyptus

Bugs should be reported using the ubuntu-bug tool. This tool is shipped with Ubuntu Server. To file a bug, type in:

     ubuntu-bug eucalyptus

and it will send relavent debugging content to Launchpad to help identify and resolve the bug. More details on ubuntu-bug can be found at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs

=== Feedback ===

While testing Eucalyptus, you can use this section to share your feedback on non-bug elements of your experience such as user interface, instructions, documentation and anything else.
