{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu Testing Days are an open, inclusive and safe space to get started contributing with free software communities.

Every Friday will be a testing day, and we will host a session in https://ubuntuonair.com. On each session, we will invite a developer from an active and interesting free software project to show us the things they have been working on recently. Then we will show a tool or process we can use to contribute with their current release cycle. During the day we will be available in https://rocket.ubuntu.com/channel/community to help anybody who wants to start contributing.

The sessions will be focused on testing as an introduction to the free software world, but we will also cover other things like translations, triaging, packaging, automation, bug fixing and new feature development.

== Staff ==

* <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/yoelopio|Leo Arias]]</nowiki> (elopio): bug bot

* <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/rainveil|Kyle Fazzari]]</nowiki> (kyrofa): of world fame for being the nice developer of snapcraft

* <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/zygoon|Zygmunt Krynicki]]</nowiki> (zyga): no habla español

== Sessions ==

20161125-18:00UTC - Nextcloud and Virtual Machine Manager, with Kyle Fazzari: http://elopio.net/blog/ubuntu-testing-day-wrap-up-20161125/

20161202-19:00UTC - Rocket Chat and bug reporting, with Aaron Ogle: http://elopio.net/blog/ubuntu-testing-day-wrap-up-20161202/

20161209-16:30UTC - Unity 8, with Kevin Gunn: http://elopio.net/blog/ubuntu-testing-day-wrap-up-20161209/

20161216-20:00UTC - Snapcraft and brews, with Sergio Schvezov: http://elopio.net/blog/ubuntu-testing-day-wrap-up-20161216/

20170303-16:00UTC - Games, with Alan Pope: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hsqBWEW3d44

20170310-16:00UTC - Linux Containers with Stephane Graber: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yrJ3sKvQ-W0

20170317-17:00UTC - System 76 with Ryan Sipes and David Jordan: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BcTEGNnbOCU

20170324-19:00UTC - conjure-up with Adam Stokes: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SB1mcVsUM0s

==== Flavours ====

20170407-16:00UTC - Ubuntu Mate, with Martin Wimpress: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=75zgIVHkXRA

20170421-18:00UTC - Ubuntu Budgie, with David Mohammed: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jrqcuW9MpHs

20170505-22:00UTC - Xubuntu, with Sean Davis: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i4a-N-kxPoY

20170512-19:00UTC - Kubuntu, with Aaron Honeycutt: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NHZAH8SZD4E

20170519-16:00UTC - Ubuntu Studio, with Eylül Doğruel and Len Ovens: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IifME1M8lpM

20170616-18:00UTC - Lubuntu, with Simon Quigley and Walter Lapchynski: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mqiu9uC_qTU

20170630-11:00UTC - GNOME, with Marco Trevisan: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMOwozLBdXI

=== Ubuntu Core and crossover with 96boards Open Hours ===

During February and March our focus will be Ubuntu Core, the new full snappy operating system. And we will share the space with our friends from 96boards at Linaro.

20170203-16:00UTC - Ubuntu Core and Qemu, with Michael Vogt and Federico Giménez: http://elopio.net/blog/ubuntu-testing-day-wrap-up-20170203/

20170210-16:00UTC - Ubuntu Core and Dragonboard 410c, with Robert Wolff and Oliver Grawert: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FPGAFs8jzPo

20170216-16:00UTC - Ubuntu Core 101 at 96boards Open Hours, with Robert Wolff, Zygmunt Krynicki and Sergio Schvezov: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jrBh46SRBCA

20170217-17:00UTC - Ubuntu Core Kiosk, with Alberto Aguirre: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1hrsIJnuDLo

20170223-16:00UTC - Ubuntu Core and Dragonboard 410 at 96boards Open Hours, with with Robert Wolff and Oliver Grawert: https://www.youtube.com/watch?list=PL-NF6S9MM_W1QBjUc2B5Pg502bz7qslxk&v=hleL3_Q3x3Y

20170302-16:00UTC - ROS demo at 96boards OpenHours, with Robert Wolff and Kyle Fazzari: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=prUs2eGay40

20170309-14:00UTC - OpenHours live from Budapest, with Oliver Grawert in the panel: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bd7InYlMLAE

== Calls for testing ==

http://bitly.com/callsfortesting

== Old testing days ==

The testing days started a long time ago, but then in 2009 they took a long break. You can read about the old testing days in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/UbuntuTestingDay/old
