{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

These tests are to check the functionality of the seahorse and seahorse-plugins packages.  Please try to run all of the following tests.  

Report any bugs you find using the following command in a terminal:
<pre>
ubuntu-bug seahorse
</pre>

You can learn more about reporting bugs at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReportingBugs.

=== Tests ===
==== Creating GPG keys ====

==== Creating SSH keys ====

==== Importing keys from keyserver ====
# Click "Find Remote Keys"
# Enter a search term (pick a random name)
# Select one of the results
# Click the Import button
# Check that the key now shows up in the "Other Collected Keys" tab
# Repeat using Key->Import instead of the main Import button on the search results window

==== Configuring SSH key/server ====
# Create an SSH key
# Right click on the SSH key, and choose "Set Up Computer for Secure Shell"
# Enter the hostname of the server in the "Computer Name" box
# Enter the username used to login to the server in in the "Login name" box
# Click "Set Up"
# Enter the password used to login to the server in the "Passphrase" box
# Try to ssh to the server you just set up
''Note:''  If you haven't used the SSH key to login to a server yet in this session, you will be prompted for the SSH key's passphrase.  This is expected.

==== Encrypting files ====
# In Nautilus, right click a text file and choose "Encrypt"
# A window will come up asking what key to encrypt with.  Choose your own.
# Choose no signature.
# A new file should be created with the same name plus a .pgp ending (ex: file.txt is encrypted to file.txt.pgp)
# Using the "less" command, verify that the file has turned into gibberish.  It may warn that it could be binary.  This is fine.  Open anyway.

==== Decrypting files ====
# Right-click the encrypted file from the previous test and choose Open with "Decrypt File"
# Enter a new name to save the file
# Enter the key's passphrase
# Open the new file and verify that it has been properly decrypted

==== Signing files ====
# Right-click a text file from Nautilus and choose "Sign"
# Pick one of your keys to use to sign the file
# Enter the key's passphrase when prompted
# A new file should be created with the same name plus a .sig ending (ex: file.txt is signed as file.txt.sig)
===== If the file and .sig are in the same directory =====
# Right-click the .sig file and choose Open with "Verify Signature"
# A notification bubble should pop up saying that the signature is good
===== If they are in different directories =====
# Right-click the .sig file and choose Open with "Verify Signature"
# You will be asked to choose the file to which the signature belongs
# A notification bubble should pop up saying that the signature is good

CategoryAppTesting
