{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Spliting long MP3s into tracks ==

Zach had a really good experience after he wanted to split a radio show up into several different tracks for easier listening:

 I just wanted to share a couple of '''Ubuntu success stories''', and just' a
 couple more things to add to the list of '''why I love using linux'''.

 The other day I was getting ready to '''burn several podcasts''' to cd-r to
 listen to in the car.  Some of the podcasts I listen to (namely This
 Week in Tech) take up the whole CD.  I thought it would be great to be
 able to arbitrarily '''slice them into tracks''' of equal lengths before
 burning them to CD so I wouldn't have to spend a long time seeking
 back to where I left off if I changed discs or something.
 Unfortunately K3B (my preferred cd burning app) can't do that,
 although it can split a track into two parts at an arbitrary point.
 Serpentine can't do it either.

 As a last resort, I decided to see if there was any other tool that could.  I fired up  synaptic, and with
 universe and multiverse enabled, I '''searched for the terms 'mp3 split.' '''
 There were about four hits, '''one of them being the package 'mp3splt.' '''
 After reading the description I discovered this was a command line
 tool (nice for scripting :-) ) that had various mp3 and Ogg/Vorbis
 cutting capabilities.

 I installed mp3splt with synaptic, then checked
 out 'man mp3plt.'  The man page revealed that the -t option would do
 just what I wanted, which was to split the mp3 arbitrarily into slices
 of t length and put them into the `-d <dir>` directory.  After playing
 with it for a few minutes I had the hang of it and had all of my
 podcasts carved up into 5-minute tracks which I cold then burn to cd-r
 using k3b or Serpentine.  '''Awesome'''.

In the original message, Zach also talks about <nowiki>[[Testimonials/ZachC_Scanning|Scanning]]</nowiki>:

* http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-marketing/2005-November/000143.html

CategoryTestimonial
