{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The Ubuntu Testing day is a special day where the Ubuntu Community comes together with a shared goal of testing a specific set of ISO images (Alpha, Beta, RC, Gold or Point releases), a specific feature or some bugs needing verification. Taking the idea from the <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki>, we want to apply the same concepts to testing.

=== Join the Testing Day ===

Who can join the Testing Day? Everyone. You don't need to be a developer. You don't need to know how to code. Everyone is welcome. If you don't know how to help, then just stop by and we'll explain everything to you. In fact, one of the objectives of the Testing Day is to help people willing to start testing Ubuntu to make it better.

Where to join the Testing Day? Come to '''#ubuntu-testing''' on freenode <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki>.
Normal testing activity takes place in '''#ubuntu-testing''' at other times also.

=== Which is the goal for this testing day? ===

We will be testing qemu-kvm in Karmic. If you are running the development release of Ubuntu, please, keep reading.

=== Why is it important to test qemu-kvm? ===

KVM is the preferred virtualization technology in Ubuntu.  It's incredibly useful to run virtual machines under Ubuntu, whether you're a developer, tester, administrator, or even a user who wants to have access to more than one operating system at a time.

KVM is also provides the technical foundation for the Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud, an open source implementation of Amazon's EC2 platform.

=== Prerequisites ===

* A real system running Karmic (on the physical hardware, not in another virtualization container)
* With the latest available qemu-kvm package installed
** sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get install qemu-kvm
* And VT acceleration extensions on their CPU
** /usr/bin/kvm-ok and make sure it exits "KVM acceleration can be used"

The testcases are available in <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Applications/KVM|the testcases wiki]]</nowiki>. Feel free to follow the testcases and also play around to find new bugs when you feel confident about the application.

If you find a bug, please file it in Launchpad in the appropriate package and add it to the lists below, so everybody can track your awesomeness :-)

To report a new bug, please, from a terminal execute:

<code>$ ubuntu-bug qemu-kvm</code>

That would include the necessary hardware information to the bug report.

==== kvm-qemu ====

'''Bugs are located at:'''
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kvm
Testcases:
<nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Applications/KVM]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug description
| Bug number
| Tester
|}
