{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Sony VAIO VGN-SZ330P ==

=== David Lee ===
<nowiki>[[lisdavid89|My Wiki Page]]</nowiki>

==== Test Cases ====
Based on the <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Plans/LaptopTesting|Plans/LaptopTesting]]</nowiki>.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="font-weight: bold"> Test
| <style="font-weight: bold">Description
| <style="font-weight: bold">Passed/Failed
|-
| exc-001
| Launch applications from data file icons
| <style="background-color: green">Passed
|-
| snr-001
| Suspend/Resume smoke test
| <style="background-color: green">Passed
|-
| snr-002
| Extended Suspend/Resume test
| <style="background-color: yellow">only tests 1-5 performed, suspend triggered via dbus message failed - cause unknown
|-
| snr-003
| Hibernate/Resume smoke test
| <style="background-color: grey"> Skipped
|-
| him-001
| Test Card Reader
| <style="background-color: green">Passed
|-
| him-002
| Reconnect Card Reader and Verify Remounting
| <style="background-color: green">Passed
|-
| hiw-001
| Test Picture
| <style="background-color: yellow">Initially failed - webcam not turning on. Problem fixed - installing the correct build for ricoh-webcam-r5u870 solves the webcam problem.
|-
| kbt-002
| Terminal typing test
| <style="background-color: green">Passed
|-
| usk-001
| Attach keyboard
| <style="background-color: green">Passed
|-
| usk-004
| Typing test OO.o Writer
| <style="background-color: green">Passed
|-
| usk-005
| Remove keyboard
| <style="background-color: green">Passed
|-
| usk-006
| Reinsert keyboard
| <style="background-color: green">Passed
|-
| More tests to be conducted later...
|}

==== Issues ====
* "Fn" controls are a little buggy. For example: after increasing or decreasing volume with the Fn+(F3 or F4) button pressing any key will change the current volume and can cause the volume control to slow down or hang for a bit.
* Bluetooth doesn't work unless the "bluetooth" package is installed.
* Sony Visual Communication Camera doesn't work unless the correct build for "ricoh-webcam-r5u870" is installed.
* Brightness cannot be controlled at all. I've tried all sorts of packages, hacks, and settings/configurations and nothing has worked. I'm actually stumped by this. It would be nice to have some brightness control since always being on maximum brightness really drains out the battery, especially on this old laptop.
