{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Summary ===

Test the Windows-based Ubuntu installer -- WUBI.

=== Procedure ===
 
# Please view <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Backing_Up|backing_up]]</nowiki> before you start this process.
# Start Windows (a range of versions from 98 to vista would be good)
# Insert the Ubuntu Live CD
# If you have Autoplay enabled a menu should appear
# Try the 3 different options
** Demo and Full Installation (CD boot helper)
** Install within Windows (Wubi installation)
** More information - should display a web page with links (not yet written)

==== CD boot helper ====

 In this mode Wubi adds a boot menu entry to allow users to boot off the CD without having to change the device boot order in the bios. 

# Select "Demo and Full installation"
# Select the third option "CD-booter"
# A small dialog should appear with some further information. Confirm and install.
# You should now have a new "Ubuntu" option within the Windows boot menu. If you boot from CD anyway, select "Boot from first hard disk" within the CD boot menu in order to simulate the circumstances of a user with different device boot order. If you use grub or other bootloader, you will have to chainload into the Windows bootloader to see the new entry.
# If you select "Ubuntu" it should load the kernel/initrd from hard disk and then try to boot off the CD rom (which should be in the tray) and land in the Live CD desktop.

==== Wubi ====

 Wubi creates a loopmounted installation, which works as a standard dual boot setup, but uses a file within the Windows filesystem as root device.

# Select "Install inside windows" in the CD menu or run "wubi.exe" within the CD.
# Change the settings as appropriate and click "Install"
# A new menu item will be added to the Windows boot menu. If you use grub or other bootloader, you will have to chainload into the Windows bootloader to see the new entry. Reboot and select the Ubuntu option.
# Wait as Ubuntu installs itself in the virtual drive
# Reboot and test the system following <nowiki>[[Testing/Cases/UbuntuDesktop]]</nowiki> as appropriate for the flavour being tested
# Try to install a different kernel (to test kernel upgrades) and/or generate a new initrd
# Reboot into Windows and uninstall Wubi from add/remove programs in the control panel.
