{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Summary ==

Perform structured testing of the Ubuntu desktop on the Live CD or post-install. These steps should be followed during the distro-specific part of <nowiki>[[..-LiveCDSession]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[..-LiveCDInstall]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[..-AlternateInstall]]</nowiki>.

== Procedures ==

=== Live session testing ===

1. '''Examples folder'''  
** Click on the example files and confirm that the appropriate applications start correctly.
** A bug about the actual content of the files should be reported about the package example-content
** A bug when viewing the example content should be submitted about the application used
1. '''Nautilus'''  
** Click on the places menu select '''Home Folder'''
** In '''Home Folder''' right click on a blank section and create a folder called ''test''.
** Still in '''Home Folder''' right click again and select '''Create Document -> Empty File'''. Name the resulting file ''moveme.txt''.
** Drag ''moveme.txt'' and drop into the folder ''test''.
** Right click on ''test'' and select '''Move to Trash'''. Check that waste appears in the bin bottom right of the screen. <<BR>> 
1. '''Desktop effects'''
** Test if compiz is running by pressing SUPER (windows key)+ e at the same time.  You will see two desktops side by side if it is running.
** Open the Example Documents and play the "Experience ubuntu.ogg" and see if that playing works
** Press ALT+F2 and type "glxgears" and see if it works 
** Watch out for screen artifacts  
** ''Please report any problems you observe and include some details of the problem and the files "~/.xsession-errors" and the output of "lspci -vvnn" ''

=== Post-install testing ===

 ''Follow these steps on an installed system.''

# '''Examples folder''' Click on the example files and confirm that the appropriate applications start correctly.
# '''Nautilus''' 
** If you are on a local network try connecting to a shared Samba or Windows folder and copy some files across ('''Places -> Network''')
** If you have one, plug in a USB drive and check that it is mounted and you get a Nautilus window
1. '''Desktop search'''
** Open '''Places -> Search for files ...'''
** In ''Look in folders:'' select the ''Examples'' folder
** In the ''Contains the text:'' field type 'ubuntu' and click 'Find'
** Confirm that several files appear in the results
1. '''Firefox'''
** Start Firefox from the panel icon
** Visit http://www.ubuntu.com and confirm that it displays as expected.
** Visit https://launchpad.net to make sure https works correctly.
** Visit http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com to add your test reports.
** Visit http://www.youtube.com/ubuntudevelopers to test Flash
1. '''Pidgin'''
** Click '''Applications -> Internet -> Pidgin'''.
** In the new window add an new account.  Select '''IRC''' from the drop-down list.  Type in your details.
** Click on '''Buddies/Join a Chat'''.  Add #ubuntu-testing to the room box.
** Type a greeting in the text entry box and hit return.
1. '''Rhythmbox'''
** Click '''Applications -> Sound & Video -> Rhythmbox Music Player'''.
** In the ''Library'' list, select '''Radio'''. Pick a station and press the play button.
** Click on Podcast. Right-click the empty list and select '''New Podcast Feed'''. Add the URI to your favourite podcast or http://www.lugradio.org/episodes.ogg.rss .  Confirm that Rhythmbox updates to show you the latest episodes and starts to download the last episode.
** If you have a music player device,  plug it into your system and check whether rhythmbox imports the music correctly. Test playing music from the device. <<BR>> ''Easy codec installer'' should recognize any codecs that aren't installed and install them. <<BR>>
1. '''Testing Brasero.'''  
** Open Brasero from the Applications/Sound & Video section.
** If you have another ISO to test you can burn it using '''Burn image'''.
** If you have some file you have downloaded and wish to keep try burning them to cd using '''Data session'''.
** Try copying an Ubuntu install cd using the '''Disc copy''' section.
** If you have some music on your music player try creating an '''Audio session'''.
1. '''Testing Ekiga.''' (proposal)
** Click '''Applications -> Internet -> Ekiga'''.
** In the new window follow all the step to finish the wizard, including the use of an ekiga.net account. (you better already have an account on Ekiga.net, if not create one and wait for the confirmation e-mail).
** In the main window, '''call the echo test sip:500@ekiga.net''' , verify at least audio is working (and video if you have a webcam).
** '''Hang up''' and '''exit''' Ekiga.

==== Extended post-install testing ====

1. '''Installing and testing Thunderbird.'''  
** Open '''Applications -> Add/Remove...'''
** Select '''All available applications''' from the drop down box top right.
** Click in the search box at the top  and type '''Thunderbird'''.
** Click on the check box next to the text ''Mozilla Thunderbird Mail/News''.
** Click '''Apply Changes''' Lower right.
** Click on '''Apply''' to install.
** Open Thunderbird from the Applications/Internet section.
** Fill in the details of your email account
** Send a test mail to a second email account and confirm receipt.
** If you have an GPG/PGP Key add Enigimail from Applications/Add/Remove. Now restart Thunderbird and try sending a signed email.
** Save a draft mail and confirm that it can be opened, edited and sent
** Delete a mail. 
