{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Acer Aspire One D150 ==

=== Ubuntu 9.10 - Karmic Koala ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="font-weight: bold"> Test
| <style="font-weight: bold">Description
| <style="font-weight: bold">Final
| <style="font-weight: bold"> Notes
|-
| 
|-
| dls-001
| Live Session Start
| <#008800>PASS
| 
|-
| his-001
| Verify Screen Functionality
| <#008800>PASS
| 
|-
| kbt-002
| Test Keyboard
| <#008800>PASS
| 
|-
| hmo-001
| Test Touchpad
| <#008800>PASS
| 
|-
| hwn-001
| Test Automatic Connectivity (wireless)
| <#008800>PASS
|-
| hcn-001
| Test Automatic Connectivity (wired)
| <#008800>PASS
| 
|-
| hsi-001
| Test Audio (speaker)
| <#008800>PASS
|-
| hhi-001
| Test Audio (headphone)
| <#008800>PASS
|-
| hhu-002
| Test Audio (usb)
| 
| 
|-
| hmi-001
| Test Recording (internal)
| <#008800>PASS
|-
| hme-002
| Test Recording (external)
| <#008800>PASS
|-
| hmu-002
| Test Recording (usb)
| 
| 
|-
| hmu-002
| Test USB Mouse
| <#008800>PASS
| 
|-
| hiw-001
| Test Webcam (internal)
| <#008800>PASS
| 
|-
| udc-002
| Full Installation (ISO Source)
| <#008800>PASS
| 
|-
| snr-001
| Suspend/Resume smoke test
| <#008800>PASS
| 
|}

<<FootNote>>

=== Post-install fixes ===

==== Wireless (Karmic Koala) ====

1. If you have wired connection

** '''Automatic Broadcom proprietary driver installation:'''

   i. Update and upgrade your system.
   i. Open System->Administration->Hardware Drivers and activate the BCM driver.

1. If you don't have wired connection or you are on a live session

** '''Download and install the Broadcom proprietary driver:'''

   i. Download the .deb file of the bcmwl-kernel-source package from <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/admin/bcmwl-kernel-source|here]]</nowiki>.
   i. Make sure you download all its dependencies as well (or just try to install and let the package installer complain, so that you will know what are the missing dependencies).
   i. Double-click on the .deb files to open the package installer.
   i. After installing bcmwl-kernel-source open a terminal and run
<pre>
sudo modprobe wl
</pre>

==== Audio (Karmic Koala) ====

Open a terminal and run
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
</pre>
Copy the following lines to the end of the file:
<pre>
alias snd-card-0 snd-hda-intel
options snd-hda-intel model=acer
options snd-hda-intel power_save=0 power_save_controller=N
</pre>
Save. Exit.

=== Known issues ===

==== Wireless ====

* Turning on/off wireless via the switch key does work but Ubuntu is not aware of the switching. Only after a while it realizes "there are no available networks" or some "connection problems", not that the device is actually off.

* LED does not work as it should: slow blinking when not connected, full when connected and fast blinking when sending/receiving data.
