{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The Ubuntu Testing day is a special day where the Ubuntu Community comes together with a shared goal of testing an specific set of ISO images (Alpha, Beta, RC, Gold or Point releases), an specific feature or some bugs needing verification. Taking the idea from the <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki>, we want to apply the same concepts to ISO testing.

=== Join the Testing Day ===

Who can join the Testing Day? Everyone. You don't need to be a developer. You don't need to know how to code. Everyone is welcome. If you don't know how to help, then just stop on by and we'll explain everything to you. In fact, one of the objectives of the Testing Day is to help people willing to start testing Ubuntu to make it better.

Where to join the Testing Day? Come to '''#ubuntu-testing''' on freenode <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki>.
Normal testing activity takes place in '''#ubuntu-testing''' at other times also.

=== 5-a-day-ing ===
During testing days you can also do <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/5-A-Day|5-A-Day]]</nowiki> for this one you can do the following in order to tag your work on the testing day:

* 5-a-day --add-tag testingday-20090223
* Add bugs to 5-a-day as usual when creating, verifying or commenting on bugs
* And when done with testing day run: 5-a-day --remove-tag testingday-20090223

=== Which is the goal for this testing day? ===

We will be testing new features that are going to be released in Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty). If you are running the development release of Ubuntu, or want to give it a try in a Virtual Machine, please, go on reading.

Depending on the flavour of Ubuntu you're running (desktop, netbook, server), you have a new feature to test with it. This is all new stuff, so it can be fun to play around finding bugs nobody else have found before!

If you don't want to upgrade to Jaunty yet, you can install it in a  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/VirtualBox|virtual machine]]</nowiki> and test from there.

If you find a bug, please file it in Launchpad in the appropriate package and add it to the lists below, so everybody can track your awesomeness :-)

Also, the Ubuntu QA team, recently opened a <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com|wiki to track all the test cases]]</nowiki>. You can help making Ubuntu better also by editing this wiki with new test cases you come up with while testing.

==== Ubuntu Desktop & Server ====

Screen Profiles!

A new feature is available in Jaunty, the screen-profiles package.
After installing Jaunty, 'sudo apt-get install screen-profiles', then run 'screen'.  You should be prompted to select a profile.  Or, if you have already selected a profile, you can run 'select-screen-profile' at any time to switch among the available profiles.

Please test:
* Switching among existing profiles (plain, ubuntu-dark, ubuntu-light)
* Different consoles (tty, gnome-terminal, konsole, others)
* Default keybindings (to see the keybindings, hit F9, then go to help)
** Ensure that they operate as advertised
* F9 launches the screen-profiles configurator, please test each action there
** Help
** Change screen profile
** Change keybinding set (if you select 'None', none of the F-keys will work, run 'screen-profiles' again to re-enable the 'common' set)
** Change escape sequence (default is ctrl-a, you can change to another character)
** Create new window(s)
** Manage default windows (you can disable/enable the welcome screen)
** Install/remove screen by default at login (to test, ssh into your system)
* Adding your customizations to ~/.screenrc
* We're still working on the internationalization, but some Spanish and French should be present

'''Bugs are located at:'''
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/screen-profiles

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug description
| Bug number
| Tester
|-
| screen-profiles menu appears always I run screen
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/screen-profiles/+bug/333180]]</nowiki>
| ara
|-
| Selecting the plain profile might confuse the user when trying to change the configuration
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/screen-profiles/+bug/333189]]</nowiki>
| ara
|-
| Sometimes the menu does not refresh correctly
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/screen-profiles/+bug/333211]]</nowiki>
| ara
|}

==== Netbooks ====

Are you the proud owner of a brand new netbook? Please, help us testing if Ubuntu Netbook Remix works well with your model. Ubuntu Mobile team is now publishing daily images of UNR, so please, download the latest USB image from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook-remix/daily-live/current/]]</nowiki> and report back any bugs you might find.

You can read the test cases for UNR at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/Ubuntu-Netbook-Remix]]</nowiki>

'''Bugs are located at:'''
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/netbook-remix

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug description
| Bug number
| Tester
|}

==== Ubuntu Server ====

At the moment, guided LVM partitioning always consumes almost the whole disk for /, which loses much of the flexibility of LVM; it is possible to control this, but only by using manual partitioning which is rather fiddly for LVM. As a middle ground, we will adjust the guided LVM partitioning mode to offer a straightforward way to select the amount of the volume group that should be allocated to logical volumes, indicating that this can easily be increased later. 

Testcase: ask for how much space to use in volume group, and select by default on servers. See https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-February/027398.html for more details.

'''Bugs are located at:'''
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug description
| Bug number
| Tester
|-
| Number display incorrect
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-auto-lvm/+bug/333349 | Bug 333349]]</nowiki>
| davmor2
|-
| System doesn't boot with LVM
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/332270 | Bug 332270]]</nowiki>
| davmor2
|}
