{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Testing of the major milestones Beta, RC and Final stretches over about a week and is done in two stages, smoke and validation testing.

== Karmic ISO test schedule ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc"> '''Release'''
| '''Task'''
| '''Date'''
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFFFCC"> Beta
| Smoke testing
| Sept. 24-29
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFFFCC">
| ISO validation testing
| Sept. 29-Sept. 30
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFEBBB">  Release Candidate
| Smoke testing
| Oct. 15-20
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFEBBB">
| ISO validation testing
| Oct. 20-22
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCCCC"> Final
| Smoke testing
| Oct. 22-27
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFCCCC">
| ISO validation testing
| Oct. 27-28
|}

== Testing details ==

In the first ''smoke test'' phase we perform a wide series of tests to cover every ISO and install method but do not attempt to test every combination. The aim is to find bugs quickly so they can be addressed for the milestone. As candidate ISO images become available we test each image following the relevant test case to each ISO in order to ensure that every ISO we ship works as expected. This phase is quite labor intensive and will require the participation of 20 or more people in a short window of time.

=== Smoke testing ===

The first round of testing is designed to find high impact bugs in a short period of time so they can be addressed before the milestone is released. Smoke testing should occur just after the archives are frozen. Upgrade and netboot testing can start immediately; ISO testing starts after the first daily images based on the frozen archive appear. The following elements should receive coverage during smoke testing:

* Core distro flavours: '''Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu, Xubuntu, UNR, UMR, Server'''
* Supported architectures: '''i386, amd64, sparc, armel'''
* Image types: '''Live CD, Alternate, Netboot''' (not DVDs)
* Install methods: '''erase disk, auto-resize, manual partitioning, entire disk with encryption, Netboot, Upgrade'''
* Select features: '''Session management applet, encrypted folder, Wubi'''

Testing will be coordinated in '''#ubuntu-testing''' and the results tracked on a '''<nowiki>[[Testing-ISO-Smoke|simple checklist]]</nowiki>'''. The number of tests is kept low intentionally, but they should be performed with care (e.g. there are only 3 Live CD session test in total, but they should be thorough; testing much of the default applications and installing others).

=== Image validation testing ===

Complete validation testing of all images and test cases. If the smoke testing was effective there should not be any show-stopper bugs appearing at this stage. The broader testing is likely to reveal a large number of minor bugs though. These should be targeted at the next milestone or stable release updates. Track image validation testing at '''<nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|iso.qa.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>'''.
