{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre> comment
INSTRUCTIONS:
Replace the word PACKAGE with the package (or packages) that contains this application.  If more than one package is involved, list them.

Replace the word SRC-PACKAGE with the source package from which the installer package comes since bugs are filed against source packages.

If there is more than one package involved in this application, do the following:
- Instead of just "Tests", make "myapp" and "myapp-plugins" sections
- Separate out as best you can which tests go with which package (ex: myapp and myapp-plugins)
- The "Report any bugs you find..." line should be placed under each of those package section headings with the appropriate SRC-PACKAGE string
</pre>

These tests are to test the calendar functionality of the Evolution package.  Please try to run all of the following tests.  All tests require being in Calendars view.

Report any bugs you find using the following command in a terminal:
<pre>
ubuntu-bug evolution
</pre>

You can learn more about reporting bugs at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReportingBugs.

=== Tests ===
==== New Appointments ====
# Click the New button
# Fill in the summary, date, and time fields
# Click Save
# Verify that the appointment shows up in the Month, Day, and Week views (Work Week as well if it's a workday).  On the Day view it should span the proper times

==== Appointment Recurrence: forever ====
# Create an appointment
# Click the Recurrence button on the toolbar of the appointment-adding window
# Check the "This appointment recurs" checkbox
# Choose a frequency and the "forever" option
# Close the Recurrence window and Save the appointment
# Choose a month far in the future (say, 10 years?) and verify that the appointment is still repeating

==== Appointment Recurrence: modification ====
# Open the appointment that is supposed to recur forever and go to its Recurrence window
# Change from "forever" to "until" and choose a date
# Verify that the appointment stops recurring after that date

==== Appointment Recurrence: exceptions ====
# Open an appointment that has recurrence and go to its Recurrence window
# Next to the Exceptions box, click the Add button
# Choose a date on which it would recur and click OK
# Close the Recurrence window and Save the appointment
# Verify that the appointment does not show up on that date in any calendar view

==== Appointment Recurrence: days of the week ====
# Create a new appointment and go to its Recurrence window
# Choose to repeat weekly
# You should be presented with the days of the week.  Choose a few
# Close the Recurrence window and Save the appointment
# Verify that the appointment shows up on those days of the week

CategoryAppTesting
