{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The Ubuntu Testing day is a special day where the Ubuntu Community comes together with a shared goal of testing an specific set of ISO images (Alpha, Beta, RC, Gold or Point releases), an specific feature or some bugs needing verification. Taking the idea from the <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki>, we want to apply the same concepts to ISO testing.

=== Join the Testing Day ===

Who can join the Testing Day? Everyone. You don't need to be a developer. You don't need to know how to code. Everyone is welcome. If you don't know how to help, then just stop on by and we'll explain everything to you. In fact, one of the objectives of the Testing Day is to help people willing to start testing Ubuntu to make it better.

Where to join the Testing Day? Come to '''#ubuntu-testing''' on freenode <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki>.
Normal testing activity takes place in '''#ubuntu-testing''' at other times also.

=== Which is the goal for this testing day? ===

We will be testing one new cool feature in Jaunty: the new notification system. If you are running the development release of Ubuntu, or want to give it a try in a Virtual Machine, please, go on reading.

The new notification system comes by default in Jaunty and it gives your notifications systems a complete new look and feel. There are some screencasts around, just in case you want to have a look to how it looks like:
* <nowiki>[[http://macslow.thepimp.net/?p=176|icon-only case, new bar-rendering]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://macslow.thepimp.net/?p=188|Tweaking details]]</nowiki>

The testcases are available in <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Applications/Notification|the testcases wiki]]</nowiki>. Feel free to follow the testcases and also play around to find new bugs.

If you don't want to upgrade to Jaunty yet, you can install it in a  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/VirtualBox|virtual machine]]</nowiki> and test from there.

If you find a bug, please file it in Launchpad in the appropriate package and add it to the lists below, so everybody can track your awesomeness :-)

==== notify-osd ====

'''Bugs are located at:'''
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd

Testcases:
<nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Applications/Notification]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug description
| Bug number
| Tester
|-
| Brightness notifications have a duration of 5000ms
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd/+bug/343553]]</nowiki>
| ara
|}
