{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

While Bindwood is included in universe starting with Karmic, you can always grab the latest development versions by following these instructions. ObDisclaimer on the nature of developmental code. In the case of Bindwood, make sure you have backups of your Firefox profile(s), and be prepared for the possibility that you might be better off deleting the bookmarks database from your Desktop CouchDB instance.

=== Developing/Testing with Bindwood ===

Grab a copy of the Bindwood branch you intend to test: 

 . <pre>
$ bzr branch lp:~urbanape/bindwood/<branch being tested> ~/dev/bindwood/<branch being tested> </pre>

I make a `current` symlink in my ~/dev/bindwood directory pointing to the branch being developed/tested: 

 . <pre>
$ ln -s ~/dev/bindwood/<branch being tested> ~/dev/bindwood/current </pre>

Create a file pointing to your `current` directory inside your Firefox profile's `extensions` directory (~/.mozilla/firefox/<profile name>/extensions/). It needs to be named `bindwood@ubuntu.com` (the extension's id), and contain a path to the top-level of the checkout. Note that you don't want a trailing slash: 

 . <pre>
/home/zbir/dev/bindwood/current </pre>

By default, Bindwood will only log errors to the Error Console, but you can enable verbose debugging output by setting a boolean preference in about:config labeled 'bindwood.debug' set to 'true'.

To designate an alternate CouchDB database to use, you can set an environment variable when launching Firefox:

 . <pre>
$ BINDWOOD_DB=test_bookmarks firefox 2>/dev/null & </pre>

When doing this, you'll want to duplicate (backup) the `bindwood.last_seq` and `bindwood.latest_modified` preferences, so that the test database will be populated with all bookmarks.

=== Firefox Add-Ons ===

I suggest installing the Console² add-on for Firefox - this provides an enhanced error console, with an especially useful feature that lets you copy the whole console log, rather than just single lines (good for pastebin-ing). See:
* <nowiki>[[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/1815]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://console2.mozdev.org/]]</nowiki>
