{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Summary ==

Perform structured testing of the Ubuntu desktop on the Live CD or post-install. These steps should be followed during the distro-specific part of <nowiki>[[..-LiveCDSession]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[..-LiveCDInstall]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[..-AlternateInstall]]</nowiki>.

== Procedures ==

=== Post-install testing ===

 ''Follow these steps on an installed system.''

1. '''Nautilus''' 
** If you are on a local network try connecting to a shared Samba or Windows folder and copy some files across ('''Places -> Network''')
** If you have one, plug in a USB drive and check that it is mounted and you get a Nautilus window
2. '''Desktop search'''
** Open '''Main Menu -> Places -> Search for files ...'''
** In ''Look in folders:'' select the ''Examples'' folder
** In the ''Contains the text:'' field type 'ubuntu' and click 'Find'
** Confirm that several files appear in the results
3. '''Firefox'''
** Start Firefox from the menu icon.
** Visit http://www.ubuntu.com and confirm that it displays as expected.
** Visit https://iso.qa.ubuntu.com to add your test reports.
** Visit http://www.ubuntuvideo.com/ to test Flash
4. '''JACK'''
** Open '''Main Menu -> Applications -> Sound&Video -> Audio Production -> JACK Control'''
** Click on the '''Setup''' button.
** In the ''Parameters'' section click the '''Realtime''' box.
** Click the '''OK''' box at the bottom.
** Now click '''Start'''.
** "'''Started'''" should now be displayed in yellow on the display.
5. '''Ardour'''
** Make sure "JACK" is started from step #4.
** Open '''Main Menu -> Applications -> Sound&Video -> Audio Production -> Ardour GTK2'''
** This should bring up a window labeled "Ardour - Session Control". Give your session a name and continue.
** Ardour should start without error.
6. '''Blender w/Compiz'''
** Make sure you have Compiz enabled. '''Main Menu -> System -> Preferences -> Appearances.''' '''"Visual Effects" tab -> "Normal" settings button'''
** Open '''Main Menu -> Applications -> Graphics -> Blender'''
** Use Blender with Compiz enabled and report any issues.
