{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Thanks a lot for taking part in the testing. You make Kubuntu better and you help us to keep track of the necessary changes.

'''<nowiki>[[Testing-Kubuntu-Current]]</nowiki>''' gives an overview over the most current CD, who did testing on it, which installation methods were covered and which bugs are already known.

=== Getting the Test CDs ===
* Check <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|the ISO tracker]]</nowiki> for the current Test CDs. The milestones in ''Testing'' are the relevatn ones.
* If you are testing the Daily CDs or DVDs, use the ''rsync'' application to speed up your download ( ''Rsync'' is able to download only the changes in the binary file, it doesn't have to download the file all over again.)
  Example: rsync -vPz rsync://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/kubuntu/daily-live/current/pangolin-desktop-i386.iso ./
* Another way to easy get the images and test them in a VM is testdrive (testdrive-gtk package)

=== Checking the Test Routines ===

==== Common Tasks ====

This is a short version of the test plan. It should take you just some minutes to go through all the tests.
 (0. Install the system - see <nowiki>[[Testing-Kubuntu-Current]]</nowiki>. )

1. Boot the system
** Confirm proper graphical progress display and login screen presentation
1. Log in with default session
** is the resolution as you expected? (Check in System Settings -> Display)
** Note login sound, if equipped with appropriate hardware
1. Load www.kubuntu.org in rekonq
** Is the keyboard layout as you expected?
1. Open the Examples folder (System->Home->Examples, or on the desktop CD just Examples on the desktop)
** copy an Libre``Office Text Document (an .odt, .rtf or .doc file) onto the desktop
** open it
** change some bits of the text
** does spell check work?
** save it
# Launch Help from Writer
# If you have one, plug in a USB drive and check that the popup window lets you mount it
# K-Menu->Computer->Muon Software Center:
** Open Settings->Configure Software Sources
** Confirm that privilege escalation by password (kdesudo) works as expected
** Add universe.
** Install something (like konqueror)
** Confirm that privilege escalation by password (polkit-kde) works as expected
1. Log out, shutdown/reboot
** Confirm proper graphical progress display and reboot/shutdown functionality

1. '''Common Problems''' ( these features are likely to break )
10.1

==== Long Routine ====

This is the long version of the test plan. It will take you a bit more time, but some steps probably won't apply to your environment. You can safely skip them.
# If you are sure that 3D acceleration works on your box, open up glxgears (part of the package mesa-utils) and test it. 
# If you usually connect only using one of these methods and have access to another one, can you try if another one works too?
** DSL installation
** More than one device
** Modem/ISDN
1. To test the network, start K Menu->Applications->System->Package Manager and:
** Attempt update from Muon, confirm success.
** Check if the Universe repository is enabled, if not - enable it.
** Attempt installing $PACKAGE from universe, confirm success.
1. If you have access to a Samba or NFS share, try to use it.
** Browse the network
** Copy a file over
** Download it
** Remove it again
# If you have a DVD drive, put in a DVD and see what it contains.
# If you happen to own a CD burner, try burning a CD.
# Using the mail application (try both POP and IMAP if possible):
** Retrieve your mail.
** Setup an account in the application's preferences.
** Send an email to that account.
** Retrieve it again.
# Using the Groupware application, add a task, a calendar entry, and a contact.
# Does Localization work?
** Install Kubuntu.
** Install Kubuntu using English as the default keyboard layout and language.
** Add a right-to-left language, and test correct output, menus, etc.
** Add a western European language, and test correct output, menus, etc.
1. Add a new user:
** Login as different user.
** Log back in as the initial user.
** Remove the new user.
1. Test a printer:
** Plug in your printer and run K Menu->System Settings->Printer Configuration. If it doesn't show up, add it to the list.
** If printer is listed, try to print a test page.
** If you happen to have a network printer, add it by running K Menu->System Settings->Printer Configuration and do a test print.
# If you are testing a laptop, repeat the following steps, one time for an open source graphics driver, and one if you also have a device that's supported only with a proprietary driver:
## Put your machine to sleep , and then wake it back up. Does it come back?
## Try to hibernate, and then try to restore from that. Does it work?
** Click on hibernate in K Menu->Leave
** The machine should power off after a time. If it doesn't, or if your session isn't restored after pressing the power button, then it has failed.
## Set up your machine to go to sleep after a short period of time. Does it fall asleep after that time?
## Set up your machine to hibernate after a short period of time. Does it hibernate after that time has passed?
# DVD, CD (burning)
** If not already done, download the Kubuntu Live CD ISO from kubuntu.org
** Burn it to a CD
** Does the CD work alright? Confirm.
# CD/DVD/USB drive: put a CD, DVD disk or USB drive in your computer, and see if it auto-mounts.
# If you have a Windows partition, try to access it.
# Digital Camera
** Take a photo.
** Plug the camera into your computer and import a photo from it.
1. iPod
** Plug the iPod in.
** Try to access it
1. If you have a bluetooth phone and your computer has this functionality too:
** Send a file from your phone to your computer
** Send a file from your computer to your phone
# Try to scan a page with a scanner.
# Navigate to the Examples folder and see how these files work
** PDF
** Pictures
** MP3, Ogg
** Movies
** LibreOffice documents
** .zip files.
# if you have an AudioCD at hand, try playing it.
# 'grep -r' for your password in /var/log/installer/ and /var/cache/debconf/; make sure it does not appear. (This is to ensure that <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/34606|bug #34606]]</nowiki> does not recur.); be careful on a live system though since this command will land in your bash history.

=== Reporting Bugs ===

If you find something not working as expected, please file a bug using the following command in a terminal:

<pre>
ubuntu-bug PACKAGENAME
</pre>

where '''PACKAGENAME''' is the package with which you are experiencing a bug.  You can learn more about reporting bugs at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReportingBugs.  

CategoryKubuntuReview
