{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Testcase types ===
Two types of testcases are currently recognized for use; normal and smoke.

==== Normal Testcase ====
This testcase is intended to provide step by step instructions, followed by an expected result for each step. To perform the testcase, read the perform action, and then verify the expected result step. If there is no 
expected result for the action, simply continue on performing the next action until the test is complete.

==== Smoke Testcase ====
This testcase is intended to ask generalized questions for you to answer before rendering a pass or fail result. The questions are used as an aide to help you test the image, package, hardware, etc that is intended. By design, these testcases are open-ended and require the user to think critically about if the item being tested has regressed or otherwise contains any bugs. To do this, the user must go through there own personal use-cases, and checking the results against there own expectations. This requires more user knowledge of the item being tested.

=== Contributing Testcases ===
If you are <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-manual-tests|contributing a new manual testcase]]</nowiki>, the text must include formatting to ensure it shows up visually correct on the tracker. The following shows the markup required for all testcases. The current testcases in the repository will show the same markup applied. 

==== Testcase Markup ====
<pre>
<h2>Testcase name <span>test-case-number-001</span></h2>
<p>A brief description what the desired outcome and area of focus for the
    testcase is, if it isn't obvious after reading the testcase instructions.</p>
<dl>
  <dt>Perform X action</dt>
    <dd>Expect Y result</dd>
  <dt>Perform A action</dt>
    <dd>Expect B result</dd>
    <dd>Expect C result</dd>
</dl>
</pre>

==== Additional Formatting ====
In addition to the testcase markup shown above, you might want to use more formatting for your testcase. Below is the recommend list of HTML tags and their preferred use:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Tag'''
| '''Usage'''
| '''Example'''
|-
| <code>
| When you want to denote a command the user should run or output from a command.
| <code>ls</code>
|}
