{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Objective ===
* Test the release candidate image.

=== Date and Time ===

Started on 22 October 2009, 19:10 (EST)

=== AMI used ===

* ami-ec527998 - Europe 32bit RC image.
* ami-2132d148 - US 32bit RC image.
	

=== Tester ===

<nowiki>[[Mtrudel|Matt Trudel]]</nowiki>

=== Formal testing ===

[Table for the written test cases of the test plan.]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Testcase
| Passed/Failed/NotRun
| Bug number
| Comments
|-
| ec2-001
| Passed
| 
| As expected.
|-
| ec2-002
| Passed
| 
| As expected.
|-
| ec2-003
| Passed
| 
| As expected.
|-
| ec2-004
| Passed
| 
| default: 1b in both EU and US, changed to 1a successfully in both cases.
|-
| ec2-005
| NotRun
| 
| '''[1]'''
|-
| ec2-006
| NotRun
| 
| 
|-
| ec2-007
| Passed
| 
| As expected.
|-
| ec2-008
| Passed
| 
| '''[a]'''
|-
| ec2-009
| Passed
| 
| As expected.
|-
| ec2-010
| Passed
| 
| As expected.
|-
| ec2-012
| Passed
| 
| As expected.
|-
| ec2-013
| Passed
| 
| As expected.
|-
| ec2-014
| Failed
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ami-testing/+bug/458671|458671]]</nowiki>
| Smbd somehow does not get started correctly, or at least doesn't allow local connection. '''[b]'''
|-
| ec2-015
| Passed
| 
| As expected.
|}

=== Test notes ===

* '''[1]''' Rebundle testing cannot be done without Amazon S3. Doing so seems to work, but produces a ''running'' instance that can not do anything useful.

=== Issues found ===
* '''[a]''' Attempting to use ''sudo tasksel --section server'' as suggested by motd is useless. All options are already selected, thus it simply returns. One should run ''sudo apt-get update'' first. Reported as bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ami-testing/+bug/458644|#458644]]</nowiki>.
* '''[b]''' I couldn't run my additional test case for Samba, to run ''smbtree''. As root or as ubuntu, it fails with NT_STATUS_UNSUCCESSFUL, but worked fine on 20091019. Reported as bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ami-testing/+bug/458671|#458671]]</nowiki>

=== Bugs summary ===

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ami-testing/+bug/458671|#458671]]</nowiki> - samba doesn't start with sane config, can't connect to itself
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-ami-testing/+bug/458644|#458644]]</nowiki> - tasksel contains no useful settings
