{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Pyrering is a test runner written by Google to be used to run their automated tests (command line tests). Hwtest is the test runner written by Ubuntu to run their hardware tests, though it can be used to run any other test.

Both systems have their own configuration files to describe test suites and their own log system. We would like to modify hwtest to align these files to the Pyrering format. The objective is to be able to run tests both in Pyrering and hwtest without the need of modify the configuration files.

=== Config Files ===

==== Pyrering ====
The first time pyrering.py is run, a config file (conf/pyrering.conf) is created. This file contains fixed options for pyrering. A list of this options can be found at http://code.google.com/p/pyrering/wiki/PyreRingUsage#Configuration_File_Options

==== hwtest ====

==== Integration ====

=== Test Suite Files ===
==== Pyrering ====

When running pyrering you have to pass a .suite file indicating which tests from the test folder to run.

* folder/ (will run any .sh, .py or .pl under folder and subfolders)
* -folder/excludetestcase.py (how to exclude a particular test)
* folder/onlythisone.py (how to select only certain tests)
  
==== hwtest ====
==== Integration ====

=== Log files ===
==== Pyrering ====

Each time a test suite is run with pyrering two log files are edited:

* pyrering.log: This log is edited everytime pyrering is run. It contains verbose information about the testcases run.
* machine_datetime.txt: This is a well presented log for each of the test suites run. It contains:
** Header: including machine specific data, suites run or linux version.
** Summary: Number of test passed, number failed, ratio.
** Body: List of tests run, with Fail, pass comments.
** Extra: 
