{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== QATeam Bug Report Layouts and Reasoning ==

=== Template ===

RELEASE: <<BR>>
CD/DVD VARIANT: <<BR>>
ISO BUILD:

SYMPTOMS:

CAUSE:

STEPS TO REPRODUCE:
# Step 1
# Step 2

=== The Reasoning ===

We as the QATeam should be producing the best bug reports available.  Using this simply but effective layout means you as the reporter don't forget to add useful info and it also makes the bug much easier to read (Thanks goes to cgregan for originally introducing me to bug report layouts).

=== How to Use ===

Simply copy and paste the text into your bug report and fill in the details in the relevant places.

=== What to Put Where ===

* RELEASE: The name of the release you are testing e.g. Intrepid, Hardy.1 etc
* CD/DVD VARIANT: The actual build you are testing e.g. 32bit Ubuntu desktop cd, 64bit Kubuntu Alternate cd etc
* ISO BUILD: The date and version of the build you are testing e.g. 20080730 20080730.1 etc
* SYMPTOMS: What the report is about.  Keep it short, to the point and informative.
* CAUSE: You might of spoken to developers on IRC about the issue and they've said oh it's this.  Put it in just as a reminder and just put unknown if unsure.
* STEPS TO REPRODUCE: This is a critical bit.  If a developer can see what you did to get to the place where things went wrong, they can do it and hopefully fix the issue.  Also it means that triagers can quickly work through the steps and confirm/triage the bug with greater efficiency.

=== Comments/Suggestions ? ===
