{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The Ubuntu Testing day is a special day where the Ubuntu Community comes together with a shared goal of testing an specific set of ISO images (Alpha, Beta, RC, Gold or Point releases), an specific feature or some bugs needing verification. Taking the idea from the <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki>, we want to apply the same concepts to ISO testing.

=== Join the Testing Day ===

Who can join the Testing Day? Everyone. You don't need to be a developer. You don't need to know how to code. Everyone is welcome. If you don't know how to help, then just stop on by and we'll explain everything to you. In fact, one of the objectives of the Testing Day is to help people willing to start testing Ubuntu to make it better.

Where to join the Testing Day? Come to '''#ubuntu-testing''' on freenode <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki>.
Normal testing activity takes place in '''#ubuntu-testing''' at other times also.

=== Which is the goal for this testing day? ===

We will be testing your system audio with the most popular multimedia applications in Ubuntu: Totem Movie Player and Rhythmbox. If you are running the development release of Ubuntu, or want to give it a try in a Virtual Machine, please, go on reading.

If you don't want to upgrade to Jaunty yet, you can install it in a  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/VirtualBox|virtual machine]]</nowiki> and test from there.

If you find a bug, please file it in Launchpad in the appropriate package and add it to the lists below, so everybody can track your awesomeness :-)

Also, the Ubuntu QA team, recently opened a <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com|wiki to track all the test cases]]</nowiki>. You can help making Ubuntu better also by editing this wiki with new test cases you come up with while testing.

==== Totem Movie Player ====

'''Bugs are located at:'''
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/totem

Testcases:
<nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Applications/MoviePlayer]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug description
| Bug number
| Tester
|-
| Error creating screenshot galleries: totem-video-thumbnailer not such file or directory
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/totem/+bug/336574
| 336574]]</nowiki>
| ara
|-
| Totem Crashes after it completes a you-tube video
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/336741 | Bug 336741]]</nowiki>
| davmor2
|}
==== Rhythmbox ====

'''Bugs are located at:'''
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rhythmbox

Testcases:
<nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Applications/RhythmboxMusicPlayer]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug description
| Bug number
| Tester
|-
| Rhythmbox last.fm plugin fails to continue playback if you don't start from track 1
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rhythmbox/+bug/336696 | Bug 336696]]</nowiki>
| davmor2
|-
| Rhythmbox Unable to enable DNLA/UPnP support
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/160592 | Bug 160592]]</nowiki>
| davmor2
|}
