{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Classroom Session 3 ==

This area is for setting up what is needed to best follow <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Activities/Classroom#Section_3 |classroom section 3]]</nowiki>. You '''need''' to have:

* A working Launchpad address (Section 1).
* Zsync (Section 1).

For testing and installing ISO's You '''need''' to have an ISO downloaded and at least '''one''' of following installed:

* Virtual Box (VBox)
* Virtual Manager (KVM)
* Test Drive

You are welcome to install all of them, attend each session and then decide which you prefer to use. 

=== Download an ISO ===

As there are different flavors of the Ubuntu family, the initial parts just need a base operating system installed. Onto this, you can add your flavor (Edubuntu, Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Mythbuntu, Ubuntu, Ubuntu Studio or Xubuntu) once the classroom session has ended. 

* When going onto the iso area to download an iso you will often see '''WARNING: This image is OVERSIZED. This should never happen during milestone testing.''' This is quite normal and has no affect on using the vitual machines.

==== Which ISO should I use? ====

For the vast majority of people, you would choose the standard AMD64 ISO. Head over to the <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker | ISO Tracker]]</nowiki> and select the flavour / architecture you want. 

E.G. If you specifically want to test just one flavor / test system, then select the iso you want (e.g. Lubuntu Alternate AMD64, Xubuntu Desktop i386, etc.).

This will open a new window, click on the link to the right of '''HTTP''' and the ISO will start to download. Do not close any windows. Once that is completed, you need to check it has arrived safely and with no corruption.

 Most browsers will default to your Downloads directory, if you have changed this to, say Desktop, then adjust the command below accordingly. Open a <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal | terminal]]</nowiki> session and issue:

<pre>
cd Downloads
ls *iso

</pre>

The command ''ls *iso'' should list up the ISO file you have just downloaded. Assuming it is there, issue the command:

<pre>
md5sum *iso
</pre>

After a short while, this will come back with a series of numbers and letters. Go back to window that you had open when you clicked on the link to download (The one which had '''HTTP''' on the left). This time, click on the link to right of '''MD5 checksum'''. This will open a new window, the first line has a sequence of numbers and letters. These must match what was reported from the md5sum command you issued in the terminal. If they do not, then you will need to download the file again. A corrupted ISO is of no use at all, so please ensure that the checksum matches, it is there to save you endless heartache which will happen if the file is corrupt.

=== Virtual Box ===

In addition to a suitable Ubuntu ISO to test, this session requires the pre-installation of Virtual Box. If your host PC is running Ubuntu Quantal or Raring, the command

<pre>
sudo apt-get install virtualbox -y
</pre>

=== Virtual Manager ===

This session requires the pre-installation of Virtual Manager.
From the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal | terminal]]</nowiki> issue the following command:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install virt-manager -y
</pre>

You will be asked for your password and then Virt Manager and associated files will install. 

You now need to add yourself to the group for libvirtd

<pre>
sudo adduser `id -un` libvirtd
</pre>

That is all that is needed to fully take part in this session.

==== Guest Fish ====

There is an additional suite of tools available for virt-manager, named <nowiki>[[http://libguestfs.org/ | guest fish]]</nowiki>. It provides a fantastic extra set of tools to deal with virtual machines running under virt-manager. I will be covering a couple of handy commands in the classroom session. 

From the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal | terminal]]</nowiki> issue the following command:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install guestfish -y
</pre>
You will be asked for your password and then guestfish and associated files will install.

Please then issue the command:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install libguestfs-tools -y
</pre>

(Say yes to the additional tool if asked)

Once these are installed issue the command:

<pre>
libguestfs-test-tool
</pre>

This will take a while to run, and may seem to 'complain' / 'report errors'. The only requirement is after a few minutes you see the following line:

''' ===== TEST FINISHED OK ===== '''

That message ensures that full tool kit has installed okay. Please contact <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> directly if your install has failed.

=== Test Drive ===

This session requires the pre-installation of Test Drive.
From the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal | terminal]]</nowiki> issue the following command:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install testdrive -y
</pre>
You will be asked for your password and then Test Drive and associated files will install. That is all that is needed to fully take part in this session.
