{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

These tests are to check the functionality of the bluez-gnome package and Ubuntu's bluetooth support in general.  Please try to run all of the following tests.  

Report any bugs you find using the following command in a terminal:
<pre>
ubuntu-bug bluez-gnome
</pre>

You can learn more about reporting bugs at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReportingBugs.

=== Tests ===
Prerequisite : Make sure you have a bluetooth hardware in your computer and at least one discoverable bluetooth device in range.

==== Test that bluetooth hardware works ====
This test should avoid regressions like https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+bug/289836 from happening again.
# Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
# hcitool scan
# verify that your discoverable devices appear in the list

==== Pairing ====
This test should avoid regressions like https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez-gnome/+bug/284994/ from happening again.

==== Transfer a file to your computer ====
This test should avoid regressions like https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/290875
1. TODO

==== Transfer a file from your computer ====
1. TODO

==== Browse a remote storage ====
1. TODO

==== Print on a bluetooth printer ====
# Verify that your printer is supported : http://openprinting.org/printer_list.cgi
# Install your printer using system/administration/printers
# Print a test page

CategoryAppTesting
