{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Summary ===
A call for testing is meant to call attention to a particular piece of software for testing over a short time-frame in order to confirm and resolve and bugs and ready for general consumption. The QA community can install and test your software for bugs and usability and provide bug reports and feedback using the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/QATracker|qatracker]]</nowiki>.

=== What do I get? ===
As a developer, you will get consolidated feedback on how many people tested, the bugs reported, and any comments they may have left while testing. In addition, you will be able to see this for each of your versions of the software. This allows you to spot regressions and confirm fixes between versions.

=== What does it look like? ===
Have a look at <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/223/builds|the Kernel testing]]</nowiki> as an example. Let's point out the different pieces:

<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/223/history|Quick summary of all the versions of the software, number of testers and bugs found (rollover the bugs to get additional details)]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/223/builds/19062/testcases|Testcases for the software]]</nowiki>. Notice the link to the <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/223/builds/19062/downloads|installation instructions]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/223/builds/19062/buginstructions|bug reporting instructions]]</nowiki>. Also notice also the changelog showing the changes in this version at the top

<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/223/builds/19062/testcases/1306/results|Detailed results for the specifc version selected]]</nowiki>. Notice the usernames of the tester, bugs, the pass/fail indications and comments

<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/reports/defects|A list of bugs, and more information about bug status found for each piece of software under test]]</nowiki>

Finally, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/CallforTesting/Walkthrough|here's information]]</nowiki> on how the users will use the site to submit results.

=== What do I need to do? ===
Coordinate with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nskaggs|Nicholas Skaggs]]</nowiki> to setup a tracker for your software. In order for a call for testing to work, the following will need to be addressed:

* Testcases
** If possible, contribute your testcases directly to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-manual-tests|ubuntu-manual-tests project]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ContributingTestcases/ManualStyleGuide|Style guide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ContributingTestcases/Manual|Tutorial for contributing]]</nowiki>
** The testcases can be simple smoke tests (like, "Does the application "work"?"), but ultimately we would like to add more in-depth testcases for specific functionality. The testcase format is <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/TestCaseFormat#contribute|documented here]]</nowiki>. 
** If you don't have testcases, or are unable to contribute, coordinate with the QA Community Coordinator to have these tests created for you in order for your testing event to occur.
* A ppa with builds for each of your target releases
* Instructions for installing (something like add the ppa, and install X package)
* Instructions for uninstalling (usually just ppa purge works)
* Instructions for reporting a bug. It's important to note what package you want the bug report against, and if multiple packages, which one to report for which reason. You may choose to use ubuntu-bug, or provide a pre-formatted link to 'report a bug' on launchpad.
* A timeframe for testing, if applicable

=== Then what happens? ===
With those prerequisites completed, the QA community coordinator will verify the application, tests and the ppa. A new milestone for your package will be created and and the link will be provided back to you. A wide call for testing will go out to the greater ubuntu community, and users will utilize the tracker to report results.

=== Results ===
As results come in, the tracker will update to reflect the number of contributors, what tests are passing or failing, and what bugs are reported. Everything is public and available via the tracker. See the 'What does it look like?' section above.
