{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-apps| Return UNR Apps]]</nowiki>

=== Terminal Testing ===

==== Launching ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail/Blocked
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 20081027
| Tom Halchuk
| 20081031
| Pass
| 
| 
|-
| 1.0.1
| brianchidester
| 20081104
| pass
| 
| 
|-
| NHP20081217
| thalchuk
| 20081218
| Pass
| 
| 
|-
| NCP20081219
| brianchid
| 20081222
| Pass
| 
| 
|}

 1. '''Launch the UNR Terminal using various input devices'''
** Click desktop icon using touch screen
** Click desktop icon using hardware trackball/joystick
** Click desktop icon using Bluetooth/USB mouse

==== Using ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail/Blocked
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 20081027
| Tom Halchuk
| 20081031
| Pass
| 
| 
|-
| 1.0.1
| brianchidester
| 20081104
| pass
| 
| 
|-
| 20081110
| thalchuk
| 20081111
| Pass
| 
| 
|-
| NHP20081217
| thalchuk
| 20081218
| Pass
| 
| 
|-
| NCP20081219
| brianchid
| 20081222
| Pass
| 
| 
|}

 1. '''Run applications from terminal'''
** Try launching an application from the terminal.
** close the terminal check that the application closes too.
** Type ls, lspci to check that general commands are functioning correctly.

==== Menus ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 20081027
| Tom Halchuk
| 20081031
| Pass
| 
| 
|-
| 1.0.1
| brianchidester
| 20081104
| pass
| 
| 
|-
| NHP20081217
| thalchuk
| 20081218
| Pass
| 
| 
|-
| NCP20081219
| brianchid
| 20081222
| Pass
| 
| 
|}

 1. '''File'''
** Open New see that the link and shortcut function correctly.
** Open Tab see that the link and shortcut function correctly.
** New Profile set up a profile with your name change the background and font colours and ensure they change.
** Close tab and close window be sure they do.

 2. '''Edit'''
** Copy and paste a section of text using the links and shortcuts.
** Profiles and profile properties changes the current profile alter the background and font colour ensure the changes are seen.
** Keyboard shortcuts edits the menu shortcuts for a more personal terminal.

 3. '''View'''
** Ensure full screen works from both the shortcut and link
** Ensure the zoom options function as expected from both the link and shortcuts.
