{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-apps| Return to UNR Apps Testing Home Page]]</nowiki>

== Media Player ==

==== Media Player - Features ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail/Blocked
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. ''' Features '''
 a. Click Applications -> Sound & Video -> Rhythmbox Music Player.
 a. In the Library list, select Radio. Pick a station and press the play button.
 a. Click on Podcast. Right-click the empty list and select New Podcast Feed. Add the URI to your favourite podcast or check www.npr.og for a list of available podcasts. Confirm that Rhythmbox updates to show you the latest episodes and starts to download the last episode.
 a. If you have a music player device, plug it into your system and check whether rhythmbox imports the music correctly. Test playing music from the device.
 a. Easy codec installer should recognize any codecs that aren't installed and install them. 

==== Media Player - Content ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail/Blocked
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. '''Content'''

Verify the following:
  a. MPEG-3 (MP3) Support
  a. Windows Media Audio (WMA) Support
  a. Ogg Vorbis (ogg) Support - UNR Specific
  a. Wav files - UNR specific
  a. Real Audio Support
  a. Musepack Support
  a. FLAC Support
  a. Real Helix DRM Support
  a. WM DRM Support
  a. OMA DRM v2.0 Support
