{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<<UserPreferences>>
----
see HelpOnUserPreferences for help

== Creating a profile ==

To login in the wiki you need to already have a Launchpad account. If you do not have one yet, read <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/NewAccount|how to create a new profile]]</nowiki>.

== Resetting password ==
If you forgot your password, resetting it is simple: go to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/+forgottenpassword]]</nowiki> and insert the e-mail address associated with your Launchpad account. You will receive a new password soon.

== Changing settings ==
'''''' updates your profile (stored on the wiki server).

== The Cookie ==
The cookie will expire next midnight - except if you choose '''''' (after being logged in), then the cookie will not expire. After the cookie has expired, you have to login again.

== Quick Links ==
Links placed here will appear in the navigation menu for your login. You can add and remove pages here or you can click '''''' or '''''' on the desired pages.

In the following syntax examples, the first is a link to an external site and the second is a link to a page within the wiki.  See also HelpOnEditing.
<pre>
<nowiki>[[http://moinmo.in/|MoinMoin Homepage]]</nowiki>
HelpOnEditing
</pre>

== Subscribed wiki pages ==
You will receive email notification of changes made to the pages listed here.  These can be a wiki page names or regular expressions.  You can add and remove pages here or you can  click '''''' or '''''' on the desired pages.

In the following syntax examples, the first subscribes to the WikiSandBox page and the second subscribes to all subpages of it:
<pre>
WikiSandBox
WikiSandBox/.*
</pre>  

For more details, please see HelpOnSubscribing.
