{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre> comment
INSTRUCTIONS:
Replace the word PACKAGE with the package (or packages) that contains this application.  If more than one package is involved, list them.

Replace the word SRC-PACKAGE with the source package from which the installer package comes since bugs are filed against source packages.

If there is more than one package involved in this application, do the following:
- Instead of just "Tests", make "myapp" and "myapp-plugins" sections
- Separate out as best you can which tests go with which package (ex: myapp and myapp-plugins)
- The "Report any bugs you find..." line should be placed under each of those package section headings with the appropriate SRC-PACKAGE string
</pre>

These tests are to test the functionality of the Gnome Terminal(2.22.3) package.  Please try to run all of the following tests.

Report any bugs you find using the following command in a terminal:
<pre>
ubuntu-bug gnome-terminal
</pre>

You can learn more about reporting bugs at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReportingBugs.

=== Tests ===
==== First test : Basic Sanity ====
1. Open Gnome Terminal
2. Make sure that the Title is as per the Default Profile
3. Make sure that the Prompt on the shell is correct
4. Make sure that the Menu Toolbar has all the default entries.

==== Second test : Tabs ====
1. Open Gnome Terminal
2. Click on "File" -> "Open Tab"
3. Check that a new tab is opened successfully.
4. Close the Tab and make sure the Application does not crash.
5. Press "Ctrl" + "Shift" + "t"
6. Check that a new tab is open successfully.
7. Repeat step 4.

CategoryAppTesting
