{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Checkbox.Future ==

This is a dumping ground for ideas/notes/features that we may address at some point, but have currently not scheduled.

=== User Experience Notes From UDS Karmic ===

===== Complaints about Checkbox (with responses) =====
* doesn't do application testing
** "yes it does" -- schwuk
* lspci would be more useful
** Checkbox is already collecting lspci data
* reports hardware incorrectly
** it reports what the kernel says
** e.g. says 4 USB ports on a machine with 3 USB ports and an SD reader on the USB bus
** how can we do anything with this?
** allow users to say if the results are correct or not
*** this is exactly what Checkbox does right now
** can it display secondary levels of hardware?
* needs larger test coverage
** (covered in other sessions)

===== User Experience Suggestions =====
* not always obvious what a test has done or what the expected results are
** e.g. network test isn't obvious that it's done anything and description doesn't change after "Test" is clicked
** should be more verbose about what tests involve
* should show progress of testing process
* tests that take a long time seem to have hung
** needs to have some indication of progress in long tests
* preview of report makes it difficult to see long responses from tests
** everything is compressed into a one-line string
** a paragraph format for this display would be nicer
* at the beginning it should show what tests will be run and allow choosing of test suites
* need a way to cancel a test in progress
** especially in long-running tests
* should have a different format for local reports
** more user-friendly for viewing
* should we make it more obvious that you can cancel at the "enter your LP email address" screen and keep the report locally?
** might discourage people from submitting results
* should simplify terminology of hardware detected
** e.g. "a wired network port" instead of "blah foo broadcom ethernet"
* ability to report hardware that was not detected
** e.g. a webcam that is not detected at all will not have any tests come up
** can the "comments" field be used for this?
* should cache the LP email address for future runs
* should consider making the final page before submission the report itself
** we don't want users to feel that we're sneaking anything past them
 

===== Who is the target audience for Checkbox? =====
* hard-core QA engineers and advanced users?
* "normal" users?
* should we have a different user experience for the different groups?
** perhaps "Checkbox" is for end-users and should be as simple as possible
** have a "checkbox-qa" or something that provides more detail
** how about just asking the user at startup if they want advanced tests?
** this would have to be ''very'' carefully worded...
* need to have a placeholder for test output before it is filled in
** it often now looks like a blank box and causes users to think tests failed

===== Takeaways =====
* simplify expression of tests for end-users
** explain what is going on
** use user-centric language and avoid computer terminology
* supply advanced tests for QA and advanced users
** can use more technical language
** can have more in-depth tests and expect more user involvement
* should involve the DUX team to get their input as we prototype
  
====== For End-Users ======
* signify that a test has been done and what the results were
* include a cancel button in case a test hangs
* might not want to display progress/number of tests
** because we will have a small number of tests
** OTOH users might want to have an idea of progress
* should be enough coverage to actually be useful (and give the user a feeling of having helped) without being overwhelming
* ensure all hardware was covered even if there isn't a test
** e.g. a form at the end that asks if any hardware was missed

====== For Advanced Users ======
* be verbose
** every piece of information about hardware, apps, etc. that you can show
** that's not really true -- there's a ''lot'' of information collected
* show all the information collected
** this might need to be a different tool -- it sounds largely outside the scope of Checkbox -- fader
* ability to customize the tests used

=== CLI Integration ===

<pre>
I would like to eventually see checkbox-cli installed on -server by default during the development cycle. Additionally, I would like to extend Dustin's screen profile to say something like: 3 tests pending.
</pre>
