{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Browser Testing ===

==== Launching ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. '''Launch the Ubuntu Mobile Edition browser using various input devices'''
** Click desktop icon using touch screen
** Click desktop icon using hardware trackball/joystick
** Click desktop icon using Bluetooth/USB mouse
** Launch browser from console command

==== Appearance ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. '''Screen layout (Main browser window)'''
** The layout should be consistent in both design and appearance.
** The menu layout should display when selected and be obvious to navigate and use.

==== Menus ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. '''New Tab'''
** Utilise tab browsing in a similar fashion to FireFox. (Open, input an address, close)

1. '''View'''
** Status Bar can be activated and deactivated
** Zoom in/out/reset work when clicked and when using keyboard shortcut
** All character encoding options are available and functioning
** Full Screen provides more screen space for browsing.

1. '''Tools, History, Bookmarks'''
** Bookmarks should be no more complex to add and remove than a normal browser on any platform.
** History shortcut keys are supplied for forward and back.
** Show all history and bookmarks will open a side bar similar to FireFox.
** Tools should be no more complex than those of FireFox.  On the whole they are self explanatory.
  
1. '''Web Search'''
** As with FireFox there are plenty of options for searching the web.
** Google
** Yahoo
** Ask
** Dictionary
** Ebay
  

1. '''About'''
** About dialogue contains version, copyright, and credits.
  

1. '''Working off-line and quit'''
** Working off-line can be toggled on and off and cached pages should be viewable.
** Quit should close the browser cleanly

==== Browsing ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. '''Check popular sites for media handling and appearance'''
** YouTube
** CNN
** MySpace
** Digg

1. '''Check common user path features of browser'''
** Back button memory
** Bookmark management
** Add-ons
** HTTPS/SSL

==== Java Runtime Support ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. '''Test the version of JVM'''
** Open link: http://www.java.com/en/download/help/testvm.xml in the browser
 
==== Error Handling ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. '''Handling of common errors'''
** File/Page not found
** Corrupted pages

1. '''Handling environment errors'''
** Kill browser unexpectedly
** Connection dropped

=== RSS Reader ===

==== RSS - Feeds ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. '''Adding'''
  a. Confirm feeds can be added through the reader
  a. Confirm feeds can be added by clicking icon in Browser
  a. Confirm newly added feeds immediately update
  a. Confirm newly added feeds persist after system restart

1. '''Editing'''
  a. Confirm that you can edit the details of an existing feed
  a. Confirm that edited feeds still update

1. '''Deleting'''
  a. Confirm that feeds can be deleted
  a. Confirm that all feed data is removed when deleted

==== RSS - Features ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

1. '''Updates'''
  a. Confirm that the RSS reader continuously updates feeds
  a. Confirm updated feeds provide visual feedback of new information

1. '''Usability'''
  a. Confirm new data can be read
  a. Confirm links within feed items work
  a. Confirm new feed items can be marked as read
  a. Confirm that all new feed items can be "mark all as read"

=== Blogging plugin ===

==== Blogging plugin - Features ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

* Plugin allows direct access to blog for easier update and post

=== Bookmarks sync ===

==== Bookmarks sync - Features ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

* Bookmarks are synced with online service and can be shared between machines

=== Reduced download interface ===

==== Reduced download interface  - Features ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

* Download manager has been streamlined to fit more easily on small screen devices
