{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UNR-apps| Return UNR Apps]]</nowiki>

=== VOIP Ekiga Testing ===

==== Launching ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail/Blocked
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 20081031
| thalchuk
| 20081103
| NA
| 
| 
|-
| 1.0.1
| brianchidester
| 20081104
| N/A
| 
| 
|-
| 20081110
| thalchuk
| 20081111
| NA
| 
| 
|-
| NHP20081217
| thalchuk
| 20081218
| NA
| 
| 
|-
| NHPGM20090114
| thalchuk
| 20090112
| Pass
| 
| NA
|}

1. '''Launch the UNR internet phone using various input devices'''
** Click desktop icon using touch screen
** Click desktop icon using hardware trackball/joystick
** Click desktop icon using Bluetooth/USB mouse
** Launch ekiga from console command

2. '''Register for an account or add an existing one'''
** Follow first time use instructions.
** Add your existing ekiga account details.
** Open a new account follow the instructions on screen to create a new account.

==== Appearance ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail/Blocked
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 20081031
| thalchuk
| 20081103
| NA
| |
| 
|-
| 1.0.1
| brianchidester
| 20081104
| N/A
| 
| 
|-
| 20081110
| thalchuk
| 20081111
| NA
| 
| 
|-
| NHP20081217
| thalchuk
| 20081218
| NA
| 
| 
|-
| NHPGM20090114
| thalchuk
| 20090112
| Pass
| 
| NA
|}

1. '''The overall look and feel'''
** Layout should be instantly recognisable as a phone dialling pad.
** Menus should open when selected and be easily understood and navigated.

==== Menus ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Build tested
| Tester
| Date
| Pass/Fail/Blocked
| Bug #
| Comment
|-
| 20081031
| thalchuk
| 20081103
| NA
| |
| 
|-
| 1.0.1
| brianchidester
| 20081104
| N/A
| 
| 
|-
| 20081110
| thalchuk
| 20081111
| NA
| 
| 
|-
| NHP20081217
| thalchuk
| 20081218
| NA
| 
| 
|-
| NHPGM20090114
| thalchuk
| 20090112
| Pass
| 
| NA
|}

1. '''Call'''
** Make a call sip:500@ekiga.net will give you an echo test.
** End the call
** Close the window
** Quit

2. '''Edit'''
** Accounts should give a list of available accounts.
** Preferences lists all the options available for codecs speeds and accounts.
** Retry the Configuration Druid.

3. '''View'''
** View mode change mode and ensure that the mode changes.
** Control Panel change the mode and ensure that the mode changes.

4. '''Tools'''
** Ensure that address opens correctly and is displayed well.
** Ensure that the chat window pops up when selecting Chat.
** Ensure that the general history correctly logs what you have done.
** Ensure that the Calls history logs the test call you made.

5. '''Help'''
** Ensure the docs in contents are correct.
** Ensure that about displays the correct version.
