{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== CD Build Quick Check ==

After a long chat with Colin Watson I've been told about a few things to check before testing cds.

=== Check one ===

If the dates are inconsistent on cdimage then it likely means that the cd build has failed.  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/

intrepid-desktop-amd64.iso      08-Sep-2008 08:05  697M  Desktop CD for 64-bit PC (AMD64) computers (standard download)<<BR>>
intrepid-desktop-amd64.list     08-Sep-2008 08:05  3.6K  Desktop CD for 64-bit PC (AMD64) computers (file listing)<<BR>>
intrepid-desktop-amd64.manifest 04-Sep-2008 09:35   33K  Desktop CD for 64-bit PC (AMD64) computers (contents of live filesystem)

As you can see the manifest is dated the 4th this means that the build is from the 4th and any updates will not of gone through.  This is normally easily confirmed if you have loads of updates once on the system.

=== Check two ===

If there are Problems with the build they will show up in one of 3 places.

The daily build report.html found on the dailies page of each version.  Example found here http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily/current/report.html <<BR>>
If there are build issues in report.html then Alternate will most likely fail to install and it can point at issues on LiveFS too.

=== Check Three ===

Finally you can then check the following to see what has caused the issue.  If you want you can try and fix it then :)

The LiveFS build pages here http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/livefs-build-logs/intrepid/ubuntu/latest/

The Alternate build pages here http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/cd-build-logs/
