{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

IRC Logs from 3 January 2009 meeting: 
<pre>
(09:00:14 PM) stlsaint: 9pm on the dot
(09:00:25 PM) thebwt: qho all is present?
(09:00:27 PM) thebwt: who*
(09:00:40 PM) stlsaint: o/
(09:01:39 PM) stlsaint: spridel, jfluhmann mrand robbiew_ cashmoney  PING
(09:01:56 PM) spridel: howdy
(09:02:12 PM) stlsaint: HHEEELLLLLOOOOO MEETING TIME
(09:02:38 PM) spridel: yeah, getting ready for my flights back to dallas
(09:02:47 PM) thebwt: *nods*
(09:02:59 PM) thebwt: well even if it is just us, we nshould carry on
(09:04:02 PM) thebwt: stlsaint: you hace the first topic on the list, should we start there?
(09:04:08 PM) stlsaint: SURE
(09:04:14 PM) stlsaint: opps
(09:04:36 PM) mrand: Just got home.... 
(09:04:59 PM) stlsaint: i just wanted to put out that there should be a designated person chairing meetings...pretty much what you do thebwt to ensure topics are in order and personnel know when we are moving onto next issue
(09:05:04 PM) stlsaint: mainly to keep organization
(09:05:25 PM) stlsaint: as the last meeting showed it cant be left up to 'maturity' to maintain order
(09:06:40 PM) stlsaint: whoever it be(it can switch as personnel cant make it) but it can be noted on wiki page...thats all i had
(09:07:53 PM) thebwt: what should the powers of this person be?
(09:09:03 PM) stlsaint: just set topic according to agenda, and set when to move onto next topic, voting/ballots reminders, etc
(09:09:08 PM) spridel: if I may, I would like to suggest the use of time limits on agenda items, as in the last meeting, we spent too much time on a few issues last time
(09:10:14 PM) stlsaint: thebwt, case in point
(09:10:46 PM) thebwt: *nods*
(09:10:50 PM) stlsaint: this is why we need a chair person...we are on one topic but another has been brought up
(09:11:11 PM) stlsaint: which in a crowded room causes confusion
(09:11:15 PM) spridel: to me the chair sets the limits
(09:11:40 PM) mrand: spridel: I believe I agree.  Maybe 10 or 15 minutes max per item as a general rule?
(09:12:00 PM) stlsaint: alright before we move on are we in agreement that a chairman is needed?
(09:12:00 PM) mrand: If a topic is likely to need more, put it at the end and allocate "the remainder of the meeting" or something.
(09:12:09 PM) stlsaint: or does this require a month long vote?
(09:12:11 PM) thebwt: perhaps, but it seems more like rules need to be decided ahead of time, then the chair enforces those rules (via moderation)
(09:12:33 PM) stlsaint: according to census moderation=dictaor/control freek
(09:12:34 PM) mrand: stlsaint: a meeting without someone directly driving it is not much of a meeting.
(09:12:43 PM) thebwt: stlsaint: It will come to a vote on the mailing list, we should use this meeting to brainstorm a proposal.
(09:12:56 PM) stlsaint: mrand, agreed
(09:13:07 PM) stlsaint: cool
(09:13:12 PM) spridel: we need to come up with the general rules, i.e. Norms to be followed
(09:13:49 PM) stlsaint: AGREED...thats huge IMO
(09:13:53 PM) spridel: haha, i believe we have a consensus
(09:14:25 PM) stlsaint: add that to vote list it seems
(09:14:54 PM) thebwt: right
(09:17:43 PM) thebwt: perhaps we can lump these into a single proposal? "Meeting Procedure"
(09:18:12 PM) spridel: agreed
(09:18:25 PM) stlsaint: do we need a vote to decide who is gonna put them together out on mailing list? :P
(09:18:37 PM) mrand: make it stop! :-)
(09:18:40 PM) thebwt: you proposed it, it's your thing :)
(09:19:03 PM) mrand: ha.  That'll teach anyone from suggesting things.  
(09:19:06 PM) spridel: no we can work it out and designate a reporter... I nominate thebwt
(09:19:09 PM) stlsaint: LOL...oh no im not catching the heat rounds from this one...i can just image the complaints...
(09:19:22 PM) stlsaint: spridel, how did you come to that conclusion?
(09:19:35 PM) stlsaint: spridel, seems your doing the very thing you argued with me about the other day!!
(09:19:56 PM) spridel: :-)
(09:19:57 PM) stlsaint: (but yes thebwt is cool...no work for me :D )
(09:20:12 PM) thebwt: blargh... you know how much I like writing proposals up...
(09:20:23 PM) stlsaint: spridel, hrm, see how the tide turns on ya! :P
(09:20:32 PM) thebwt: I'll do it though :)
(09:21:20 PM) spridel: how quickly does it need to be up, I feel that this is a major step forward for the group organizing
(09:21:31 PM) thebwt: I can type it up tomorrow
(09:22:15 PM) stlsaint: thebwt, PPPLLLEEAASSSEEE let one be that if someone wants to speak they raiser their hand o/
(09:22:37 PM) stlsaint: then the chairman calls on that individual and they speak...not the entire room talk at once like before
(09:22:37 PM) thebwt: *nods* It will be a discussion on the mailing list.
(09:22:40 PM) spridel: what i'm getting at with the group development: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forming,_storming,_norming_and_performing
(09:22:49 PM) thebwt: so if I forget things, we can still hammer things out
(09:23:08 PM) spridel: exactly
(09:24:17 PM) thebwt: alright so, stlsaint are we done with your talk fornow?
(09:24:29 PM) stlsaint: yep yep
(09:24:55 PM) thebwt: kk then the only other topic on the agenda is discussion on a statewide jam
(09:25:04 PM) thebwt: it can be any jam,
(09:25:11 PM) spridel: Strawberry?
(09:25:12 PM) thebwt: but jsut something to bring us together
(09:26:01 PM) mrand: Interesting idea.  What did you have in mind?  Driving around and throwing CD's out the window at the same time across the state?  
(09:26:04 PM) stlsaint: with so many new members/new people to linux i suggest a doc jam
(09:26:20 PM) stlsaint: mrand, that doesnt bring us together :P
(09:26:25 PM) thebwt: My thought is that we gather where we can (not everyone in that state in one place, that is silly)
(09:26:44 PM) mrand: stlsaint: well, it brings a few people together in a car for a little while ;-)
(09:27:13 PM) cashmoney: sorry, running late
(09:27:30 PM) spridel: well we could get put in jail together ;P
(09:27:37 PM) thebwt: anyways I wanted to know what other peiple thought before I threw it up for desolation/debate on the mailing list
(09:27:41 PM) mrand: haha spridel
(09:27:43 PM) thebwt: no worries cashmoney
(09:28:26 PM) thebwt: the other thought is 'when'
(09:28:37 PM) thebwt: do we want to do it sooner , or later
(09:28:50 PM) thebwt: doing it sooner gives us early experience
(09:28:54 PM) stlsaint: i think its a good idea...bug jam or doc jam ( again i suggest docs with so new users)
(09:29:03 PM) thebwt: docs may be the way to go
(09:29:11 PM) mrand: I don't know what later buys you.
(09:29:20 PM) thebwt: mrand: likewise
(09:29:55 PM) spridel: I like it, if it is later, would we like to have it coincide with Lynx or TexasLinuxFest or would we prefer before april?
(09:30:13 PM) stlsaint: theres a texaslinuxfest??? where????
(09:30:18 PM) thebwt: possibly
(09:30:34 PM) thebwt: if things go real well, I wouldn't mind the statewide jams becomeing a quarterly event.
(09:30:34 PM) spridel: Austin, getting organized and currently set for april 10
(09:30:58 PM) thebwt: jfluhmann is the goto man on that
(09:31:29 PM) thebwt: anyways, I'm done :)
(09:31:41 PM) thebwt: I'll writeup a proposal on that as well.
(09:32:23 PM) spridel: we we've decided we want some ground rules and set up chairs, and that we want a jam but have not timetable currently
(09:33:01 PM) stlsaint: !spridel
(09:33:04 PM) TexBot: I asked too many questions and then got placed in the corner!
(09:33:10 PM) thebwt: :)
(09:33:46 PM) thebwt: someone want to attach a logfile to the meeting page?
(09:33:55 PM) spridel: I'm just summarizing what we've stated, and I move to close
(09:34:23 PM) stlsaint: again...
(09:34:26 PM) stlsaint: !spridel
(09:34:26 PM) TexBot: I asked too many questions and then got placed in the corner!
(09:34:40 PM) thebwt: oh a move to close
(09:34:44 PM) thebwt: I agree :)
(09:34:46 PM) mrand: seconded
(09:34:49 PM) stlsaint: third
(09:34:54 PM) thebwt: done
(09:35:13 PM) thebwt: IMO once the last topic is complete, it's open forum :)
(09:35:21 PM) stlsaint: cashmoney, did you want a tex factoid?
(09:35:41 PM) cashmoney: sure
(09:36:12 PM) stlsaint: what would you like?
(09:36:50 PM) cashmoney: Thinking bad thoughts to stop bad people.
(09:37:07 PM) stlsaint: exactly like that?
(09:37:49 PM) spridel: yes, he wants naked women on every cord
(09:37:58 PM) stlsaint: !cashmoney
(09:37:59 PM) TexBot: Thinking bad thoughts to stop bad people.
(09:38:09 PM) cashmoney: sweet
(09:38:11 PM) spridel: wow I am tired, misplaced delete and enter
(09:38:34 PM) stlsaint: cool :D
thebwt TheTardFarmer 
(09:43:07 PM) mrand: thebwt: thanks for the key sign, by the way.
(09:43:26 PM) mrand: pleia2: friendly reminder... if you haven't lost my fingerprint, could you sign also please?
(09:43:56 PM) mrand: And jfluhmann too, I think, maybe?
(09:45:34 PM) stlsaint: mrand, no soliciting allowed
(09:46:07 PM) ***spridel nominates stlsaint  for IRC Police
(09:46:17 PM) mrand: Would it still be soliciting if I demanded it?
(09:47:14 PM) stlsaint: mrand, i have a bot for protection...im not ascareded of you
(09:47:22 PM) stlsaint: spridel, gladly!!!
(09:49:51 PM) mrand: hahaha.   And when did we vote on this "no soliciting" rule?  *grin*
(09:50:17 PM) thebwt: indeed!
(09:50:25 PM) stlsaint: mrand, good point....
(09:50:29 PM) stlsaint: thebwt, add that to list please
(09:50:32 PM) mrand: *laugh*
(09:50:47 PM) mrand: that'll teach me.
(09:50:56 PM) stlsaint: mrand, im the law you have to obey me....ALL YOUR BASE BELONG TO US!!!
(09:50:58 PM) spridel: it will have to be voted in the mailing list by itself
(09:54:29 PM) EastDallas [n=Matt@cpe-76-186-122-248.tx.res.rr.com] entered the room.
(09:59:16 PM) stlsaint: spridel, we should have a vote on irc police thing just to cause a rucus! :D
(09:59:44 PM) mrand: When things are just calming down?  uggggg
(10:00:05 PM) stlsaint: exactly....its the peace before the storm!! :D
(10:02:07 PM) spridel: well if you go though group/team development then we are in the storming/norming phase
(10:02:35 PM) thebwt: stlsaint: make a bug/blueprint on it :)
(10:02:51 PM) stlsaint: haha
(10:03:01 PM) thebwt: srsly, don't
(10:03:10 PM) thebwt: uggg
(10:03:15 PM) stlsaint: the temptation is there i must say
(10:25:43 PM) stlsaint: say bye everyone
(10:25:46 PM) stlsaint: !bye
(10:25:46 PM) TexBot: Night Texas!
(10:25:55 PM) TexBot left the room (quit: Remote closed the connection).
</pre>
