{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== TeXmacs ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.texmacs.org/|TeXmacs]]</nowiki>
 GNU TeXmacs is a free scientific text editor inspired by TeX and emacs
 
=== Installation ===

TeXmacs can be installed using the main menu '''Add/Remove''' menu item. This installs TeXmacs into the '''Accessories''' menu. (That's true for Edgy and for Feisty. I don't know about other versions.)

Alternatively, TeXmacs is in the Ubuntu universe and can be installed with synaptic or apt-get. The package name is "texmacs"

==== TeXmacs and Maxima Integration ====

TeXmacs can be used as a pretty front-end to <nowiki>[[Maxima]]</nowiki>.

There is a bug in Edgy-Hardy preventing TeXmacs from being used as a front-end to Maxima. (See https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/texmacs/+bug/58498) The problem can be solved by changing the first line of file /usr/lib/texmacs/TeXmacs/bin/maxima_detect to #!/bin/bash.

If you use Maxima5.13 and Texmacs 1.0.6.11, scripts maxima_detect and tm_maxima in directory /usr/lib/texmacs/TeXmacs/bin needed to changed manually.

find the following code in maxima_detect<pre>
        if $MAXIMA --list-avail | grep -F "version 5.9.1
version 5.9.2
version 5.9.3
version 5.10
version 5.11
version 5.12" >/dev/null
</pre>
change to
<pre>
        if $MAXIMA --list-avail | grep -F "version 5.9.1
version 5.9.2
version 5.9.3
version 5.10
version 5.11
version 5.12
version 5.13" >/dev/null
</pre>

find the following code in tm_maxima
<pre>
5.11.* | 5.12.*) exec maxima -u $1 -l $2 -p "$TEXMACS_MAXIMA_PATH/texmacs-maxima-5.11.0.lisp";;
</pre>
change to
<pre>
5.11.* | 5.12.* | 5.13.*) exec maxima -u $1 -l $2 -p "$TEXMACS_MAXIMA_PATH/texmacs-maxima-5.11.0.lisp";;
</pre>

=== Running TeXmacs ===

To run TeXmacs open a terminal and type
<pre>
texmacs
</pre>

=== Resources ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.texmacs.org/|TeXmacs website]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.texmacs.org/tmweb/help/faq.en.html|TeXmacs FAQ]]</nowiki> 

* A nice <nowiki>[[http://arxiv.org/html/cs.SC/0504039|tutorial]]</nowiki> for using TeXmacs as a front-end to Maxima
