{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/large-text-editor-removal
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': vim-common emacs 
* '''See also''': 

=== Summary ===

emacs and vim are both large heavy text editors that are not useful to the vast majority of desktop users, and should therefore not be included on the CD. 

ColinWatson: Huh? emacs is not on the CD at all.

ColinWatson: I've replaced vim by vim-tiny in minimal now.

=== Rationale ===

vim and emacs are both very large (23mb vim, FIXME emacs), taking up space on the CD that could be better used for other programs. These editors are only used by advanced unix users, who we assume to have an internet connection and the know how to easily install these packages.

=== Use Cases ===

** Dave is a manager at a grocery store, he uses Ubuntu to look at websites, send emails and write and print documents. He never notices that vim and emacs are not on the CD

** Sancho is an application developer, who uses Ubuntu to develop his applications in emacs. He installed the new version of ubuntu off the CD, uses apt-get to update his packages before 

** Bob is a technical support officer who uses Ubuntu for exploring unix, 

=== Scope ===

This is only covering the inclusion or not of these packages on the CD

=== Design ===

A specification should be built with the following considerations:

** The person implementing it may not be the person writing it. It should be clear enough for someone to be able to read it and have a clear path towards implementing it. If it doesn't, it needs more detail.

** That the use cases covered in the specification should be practical situations, not contrived issues.

** Limitations and issues discovered during the creation of a specification should be clearly pointed out so that they can be dealt with explicitly.

** If you don't know enough to be able to competently write a spec, you should either get help or research the problem further. Avoid spending time making up a solution: base yourself on your peers' opinions and prior work.

----
CategorySpec
