{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== General ===
My name is Alan Doyle and I am a father, husband, software engineer, Ubuntero and an advocate of digital freedom and subsequently free software and free formats. I currently live in Birmingham, UK with my loving wife and 2 daughters, originally though I'm from Dublin, Ireland.

I've been working as a Software Engineer for over 10 years now, initially in embedded software (Routers and Telco switch equipment) but I'm currently work in the Motor Trade industry writing software for AIX, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu), SCO and Windows.

I became interested in computers in 1986 when I got a Commodore 64 for Christmas I immediately started programming simple apps and games, I then progressed onto the Amiga 500 and 1200 finally getting my first PC in 1996 with Windows 95. I've used every version of Windows since 3.11, including Vista, and can't say I've been impressed with any version which led me to try Linux repeatedly (Redhat, SuSE, Fedora, Puppy, Slackware and Debian) until I discovered Ubuntu in 2005.

I've been running Ubuntu on the desktop since Hoary Hedgehog (5.04), currently running Lucid Netbook Edition i386 on my Samsung NC10 netbook. I've also run Linux as a server OS since I got Slackware 3.3 on CD (circa 1996), currently running Lucid Server i386 on my homeserver which hosts most my domains.

=== Contact ===
'''Email''': <<BR>>
'''Lauchpad''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~tgellen]]</nowiki><<BR>>
'''Ubuntu Forums''': <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=51140]]</nowiki><<BR>>

=== Websites ===
* '''<nowiki>[[http://alandoyle.com|Personal Blog]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[http://osmium.org|Osmium Consortium]]</nowiki>'''
