{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://www.launchpad.net/~cascardo
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ThadeuCascardo
|}

== Who I am ==

I am Thadeu Cascardo and I work for Canonical as member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team. Currently, I am a member of the Stable Kernel Team and my main focus is on the SRU process.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I have been a GNU/Linux user since 1997 and started using Debian in 2002 and contributing to Debian in 2006.

=== My involvement ===

I have joined the Ubuntu Kernel Team in late 2016, and started working with the Stable Kernel Team packaging kernels for the Ubuntu stable releases. I have been contributing to Linux upstream since 2008.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

The following URL contains the activities I've been involved, mostly commiting fixes and doing releases:

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/~cascardo

As my main focus has been on kernel packaging, there are several Linux related packages that I have uploaded into Ubuntu repositories. As I do not have upload rights yet, I always need to find sponsors for these packages. Also, I always need to find someone to accept the nominations for bugs I open or commit the fix for.

Here is a list of sponsored packages:

  http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*thadeu*cascardo*&sponsoree_search=name

==== Summary ====

== Endorsements ==

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader ===

==== General feedback ====

I have sponsored quite a few kernel packages for Thadeu and did not find
much to complain about there. He got into our workflow quite well and
is working quite independently now. I trust him to be careful with his
rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

Thadeu has run multiple rounds of the SRU cadence (as lead or as
helper) under my supervision and the two of us share the work of
pulling in the upstream stable updates for Xenial.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

One thing to improve (and that is to be blamed on me/us as well for
not better communicating) is to be more aware of the effects which
manual overrides on tracking bug states can have.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v2
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=ERbi
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Seth Forshee ===

During the past year of working with Thadeu on the Canonical Kernel Team I've found him to be quick to learn, careful, and to have good judgement. I've only reviewed one of his packages, and in that instance I found no errors. I also trust Thadeu to know his limits and ask questions when appropriate, therefore I have no resevation in recommending him for PPU rights for kernel packages.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQIcBAEBCgAGBQJZzkviAAoJEKtIAKYtufc6DfwQALEpr2GVgxrXzS9bnaeXmc08
524ByDb+m9RLSwnxQEPb1JUJOLoYqpSDkTVmQoNvDjPG8pfrOrSOhYFxgu5lBrux
NjawUwtWCSq9diDCNQge2on+Uy4SW0zGIxaq6jDCksAW9iYkVsNrjRbl/zg6/KLH
WXHPiu841XIyIWzSHIL2LwXnYnTx6Jogm1A9VIcStiSzpbAEKOgJwBsoopL5cvAq
QmGr7xEMrlxt5+GBw7oGJwk/c2M4Xg70/BoAEB02O3VtMn2OJ4RxdjsjGA7nucgZ
v8nCEXXpNoxcoU2ts1iyyiWISfgqMQMDWqPU0gtBvxZtX/4hrrUo9p5xebAjXuIe
BHPQAZaGuhN61/YTcWrVF2EdG1S+2AUJy9nwf03oA6m67gJR0oOwL5z4c4J4CN53
H1z9stRs0rzQeXvRq0ny1RVms2TY7YbXGBIv4BZqQxKm1VNPgU4OQoy4hrxqfvxq
lrGX9FR+YqFKOgfdwPQ+ONv1dDGcKN7+HCF1ZQfFISSqSFLJlKN8nQf1cJnN1TIg
q0QCUHStbunIFzPkvcrBllsMtmKaGO+w4eIMVuKCdzRB1vaeyt5Cea7PUqtUConj
vWdw+WpWHzCR1+mq7lX25nxayjaY1SiPSAsf4pFAYXSlaT1/IQU3U/ZAevxcnm7i
DchXWnRp88EoGrLURyyv
=DO1E
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Andy Whitcroft (~apw) ===

==== General feedback ====

I have worked with  Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo regularly since he
joined Canonical.  He has shown both aptitude for the work and a desire
to reinvent our process improving it as he goes.  He has always produced
quality work and when issues were found was quick to fix and learn
from them.

Overall he is a valued member of the kernel team.  He has regularly
overseen the delivery of full SRU cycles without incident.  I fully
support the proposal to add Thadeu to the kernel uploaders team.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

Over the months I have reviewed a large number of his packages as
part of my role as an SRU Team Member, performing queue reviews
before release.  They are always of good quality.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Trust himself more to take decisions.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQIcBAEBCgAGBQJaeMEXAAoJEE/75Oku/epy6KkQAJYazc+66R9cr3HhY35qcSyE
KTze0m+UgWhdMI1mqApkaoSEaZuaTQUMlla+tPzSNoKseFJOmkEHHs4Pfmq3iMVA
xLAH0LAhjXdEao8vbcTYQ7HgIPfXKVh9qjPn+vLHlpWpB/kwVj7eNIwEn+7hdvfh
SvRzC7PVAdc9vhVPPOlcv35OGs4nO3OxZ/C6PvkyMnzjrjzMbtHTKvpsc1gLeudz
gW/xTrWnhXFXNfs6Dq5RTT4RSgC6sexPk1y1Xz58IUDlkHBViTB0OcSDr36rLZ0e
evCDiT3b29IDyl4sEYQ9o/Pwpgcxy+qKimd1jTMKoWnZK71r0gX6lkxSBy+eKu6r
wM7sRrYpDN8rSeijqIje+0kue/O8J/s0v04Shx0nH7n372/kDqUj2kp2VFTCrp4K
wEJk8TNZ6Cd5Tgg53ASF+FLKZGxncSgHTXkvwbwcICt4pVvQsK7HaIgEjXvQ5bxx
pYm1tAnUtcjRH9OYT6YJ7xvb2B0cNjvf9rAQL33AsSPzguDQk3yCOTSWuZ3OWc7S
t3LQCp7gIn6cx69N/W2pNzy87ZnwG4/k+WERy5w8nTJPk8r1uZbkmTNnUAucskgL
7BxpOA800exRvp2mMvvHxaYxMfrwrbVcPWEemtEMC7kxX7dGk/qDJGDdSZaWIrEx
hgKEqoBdYuOY5XV9sQ4D
=EyMl
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
