{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== About Me ==
I am a Systems Engineer at the <nowiki>[[http://www.lds.org|LDS Church]]</nowiki>.  As part of my job, I work mainly with SUSE Linux Enterprise Server

=== My interest in Ubuntu ===

I have been playing with Ubuntu off and on since the beginning (2004). On servers, I have primarily run Red Hat and SUSE distributions. I really like using Ubuntu on my desktop systems.

=== Contact ===
* Name: Thad Van Ry
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~thad|Thad Van Ry]]</nowiki>
* Blog: <nowiki>[[http://www.woodscrosscitizen.com/|Woods Cross Citizen]]</nowiki> - I mostly write about local politics, but occasionally put some tech info in as well.
* Email: thad {at} linuxnetadmin {dot} com
* Jabber: tvanry {at} gmail {dot} com
* IRC: 
** Nick: thaddeusq
** Channel: #ubuntu-us-ut
** Server: irc.freenode.net

== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ==

=== Regular activities ===

* Maintain a regular Bittorrent seed of the latest Ubuntu ISO images
* Enjoy following all Ubuntu related news on a daily basis
** <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Planet]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Fridge]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter|Ubuntu Weekly News]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu|Launchpad specifications]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RecentChanges|Changes to the Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki>

=== UtahTeam Member ===

We help provide local support and education about Ubuntu for the state of Utah.  For information about our team please see:

* <nowiki>[[UtahTeam]]</nowiki> wiki
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-utah|UtahTeam Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://utah.ubuntu-us.org|Ubuntu Utah Team]]</nowiki> Website

----
CategoryHomepage
