{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Approval Application for Thai Loco Team (ThaiTeam) ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams|Home]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamList|Teams List]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamJoining|Join a Team]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamHowto|Start a LoCo Team!]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamMentoring|Team Mentoring]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoFAQ|FAQ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamContacts|Contacts]]</nowiki>
|}

This page is the reapproval application for the ThaiTeam.  Most of our internal communication is in Thai, and our main website is <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuclub.com|UbuntuClub.com]]</nowiki>.  Our website -- especially our bulletin board -- is very active, as is our IRC channel.  We are planning a few events for the near future, including an InstallFest.  We have successfully had meetings, fundraisers, contests, seminars, meetings, trainings and other events over the past year.

While Thailand will have country-wide Loco team. There are active Ubuntu users in many parts of the country, especially Bangkok and Chiang Mai.

=== Key Details ===
* '''Date''' - 19 May 2011
* '''Team Contacts''' - Sira Nokyoongtong (gumaraa at gmail), Jeroen Vermeulen (jtv at canonical dot com)
* '''Membership''' - about 6000 members of ubuntuclub.com, about 400 member of <nowiki>[[http://on.fb.me/ubuntuclub-group|Ubuntuclub Facebook group]]</nowiki> and about 800 people liked <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/ubuntuclub|Ubuntuclub Facebook Fan page]]</nowiki>
* '''Mailing List''' - http://groups.google.com/group/ubuntuclub
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-th on Freenode

=== Roadmap ===

* '''Localization''' - Translate Ubuntu interface up to 80%
* '''Writing an Ubuntu content''' including: NEWS, How to
* '''Participate national seminars, exhibitions and events''' - both booth and session
* '''Hold Thailand Release Party every six months''' 

=== Experience ===

* '''11.04 Release party''' - <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=oa.146795842055408|Facebook album]]</nowiki>
* Past experiences are list separately at <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-th/events/history|event history]]</nowiki> page.
