{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi! We are the Thai LoCo Team. We normally use our web site, http://ubuntuclub.com to discuss on activities, most discussions are in Thai. Anyway, we can speak English as second language and everyone from the world is welcome to join.
== Activity ==
* Moved to http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-th/events/history
* Activity gallery https://picasaweb.google.com/107871874923916082598

== Team Contact ==
Interested parties or any you can contact the Ubuntu Thai Team via the following:
* '''Webpage:''' http://ubuntuclub.com
* '''IRC:''' irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-th
* '''Forums:''' http://forum.ubuntuclub.com
* '''Community Wiki:''' http://wiki.ubuntuclub.com
* '''Mailing List:'''  ubuntuclub@googlegroups.com, http://groups.google.com/group/ubuntuclub

== Team List ==
If you are interested, please list your name below.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="text-align: center;">'''Status'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''Name'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''Wiki'''
| <style="text-align: center;">'''E-mail'''
|-
| Leader and contact
| Sira Nokyoongtong
| <nowiki>[[Gumara]]</nowiki>
| gumaraa@gmail.com
|-
| Team member
| mk
| IsriyaPaireepairit
| markpeak@gmail.com
|-
| 
| nat3
| <nowiki>[[nat3]]</nowiki>
| natkung@gmail.com
|-
| 
| Iporsut
| <nowiki>[[Iporsut]]</nowiki>
| singpor@gmail.com
|-
| 
| Teerapap
| 
| teerapap.c@gmail.com
|-
| 
| apidej
| <nowiki>[[apidej2001]]</nowiki>
| apidej2001@yahoo.com
|-
| 
| Chris
| ChrisRivas
| chris.rivasgmailcom
|-
| 
| Chaow Porkaew
| <nowiki>[[Chaow]]</nowiki>
| porkaewchaow@yahoo.com
|-
| 
| Manatsawin Hanmongkolchai
| <nowiki>[[Manatsawin]]</nowiki>
| manatsawin@gmail.com
|-
| 
| pcpanel
| Not now
| pcpanel@gmail.com
|-
| 
| Sugree
| SugreePhatanapherom
| sugree@gmail.com
|-
| 
| rooney
| Not now
| boyelec@gmail.com
|-
| 
| PoomK
| <nowiki>[[PoomK]]</nowiki>
| poomkongniratsaikul@gmail.com
|-
| 
| Thai Pangsakulyanont
| <nowiki>[[ThaiPangsakulyanont]]</nowiki>
| o.rg.yi.dttvb@gmail.com
|-
| 
| sourcecode
| <nowiki>[[Sourcecode]]</nowiki>
| sourcode@gmail.com
|-
| 
| mon12
| Not now
| 
|}

== Roadmap ==

Our goals are
* Become the central resource for Thai Ubuntu users
* Participate in related national events: conferences, exhibitios, seminar to promote Ubuntu
* Provide Ubuntu documents, trainings, supports for Thai users
* Promote use of Ubuntu and Free Software in Thailand

For more details of each future project, see the <nowiki>[[Ideas]]</nowiki> page.

== Experiences ==

* Just look at Activity gallry https://picasaweb.google.com/107871874923916082598

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
