{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''28 October 2013'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Sira Nokyoongtong <gumaraa@gmail.com>
* '''Membership''' - 2,000 in Forum http://forum.ubuntuclub.com and 2,000 in Facebook group
* '''Launchpad Team''' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-th
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntuclub@googlegroups.com
* '''Facebook group''' - https://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntuclub/

=== Roadmap ===

Plan for this year.

* ''Thai Translation'' - Translation Thai language for 14.04
* ''Promote on Facebook'' - Promote Ubuntu on Facebook as we do on 2013.
* ''Helping'' - Give a help for user on Forum and Facebook group.

In political situation in Thailand I cannot commit for any activity in 2014. Our team can do only online activity.

=== Past activity ===

A past activity in a year ago.

* ''Facebook fan page'' - We try to promote Ubuntu and giving a knowledge via Facebook fan page. The gallery is here https://www.facebook.com/ubuntuclub/photos_stream
* ''Release party'' - We not party in 2013. Because Ubuntu is down-trend in Thailand. Everyone go Android. Yes, We wait for Ubuntu phone also.
* ''Thai font'' - We try to do glyph Thai to compatible with Ubuntu font. It's on https://github.com/ubuntu-font-thai-project/ubuntu-font-thai

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
