{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is for brainstorming on future projects of ThaiTeam.

== Install Fest ==

I (Chris) think an InstallFest could be fun.  I suggest we read LoCoRunningInstallfests if we plan to do this.

We can install Linux on as many computers as possible - usually that is every computer we see that is not broken - in one day.

We will do everything possible to make sure everyone who brings a computer is happy with all changes when they leave.

We can install new OSes and software, fix Linux installs, and configure special hardware and peripherals (networking, cf/sd/mmc/etc/etc readers, mp3, camera, video, audio, USB toys, bluetooth, phones, etc).

==== When is everyone available? ====

I (Chris) am available the 3rd or 4th Saturday in January, or any Saturday in February, starting at earliest 10:00.

==== How can we help? ====

I (Chris) can set up networking and servers, and make maps for the InstallFest. I also can install or fix, talk about, etc Ubuntu Linux on laptop and desktop computers for this event.

==== Where can we do this? ====

I don't know.  Anyone have a suggestion?

If you have ideas, or can help install or help in any other way, please reply on here.

== Ubuntu LPI Exam ==

Ubuntu and <nowiki>[[http://www.lpi.org|LPI]]</nowiki> have an Ubuntu Certified Professional certification program.  We can get people together to study, and to take the exam.  The price listed is $100 (about 3500-3700 THB).  Maybe if we have a big event and have many people take the exam at one time we can get a discount!
