{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hello to anyone reading this. I've been using Ubuntu since 2008, hopping on other distros and unices now and then, but always returning to the best one. My reasons for being with UNIX systems initially has been being tired of Windows, but then I got into it, loving the customizability, stability and, of course, freedom offered by UNIX and GNU/Linux, as well as Ubuntu specifically. Being with Ubuntu helped me to get into programming, Python at first, then Perl, Ruby, and no matter how funny that sounds, even C#. Throughout those years, I managed to understand a lot about how computers work, as well as how GNU/Linux works. Ubuntu inspires me for improvement and creation, and I hope that this feeling will remain for a long time. Whoa. That was quite the speech.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~theadmin-|theadmin-]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC
| theadmin (on Freenode)
|-
| Email
| 13thSlayer@gmail.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

I've been trying to contribute to Ubuntu in any way I can, but unfortunately, there aren't many ways I could help with. Still, though, gaining knowledge about GNU/Linux and following the Ubuntu philosophy of sharing, I decided to help out in the Ubuntu IRC whenever I could, and have been doing that for quite a while. However, there were a few major blackout periods when I have been with other distros. I have also been trying to file bug reports (although, thankfully, Ubuntu is stable enough so there weren't many) and do translations to Russian.

=== Future Goals ===

I'm planning to keep contributing to Ubuntu as much as I can. Hopefully, with the new skills I learn I may become able not only to report bugs, but to actually fix them as well. With the increasing knowledge I hope to be able to provide more and better support to the Ubuntu IRC users. In case we are talking about major goals, I'm hoping that I, as well as Canonical and other contributors, will finally be able to fix <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1|bug #1]]</nowiki>.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

==== ActionParsnip ====

Great helper with great knowledge and patience. Frequently in #ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
Glad theadmin is helping out the Ubuntu community.
