{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~druke]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| 2048R/C22A586E
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=25261|druke]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''thebwt''''' irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| thebwt@gmail.com
|}
=== About Me ===

Howdy! I'm Brandon Tomlinson, a college student in the Austin area. I started using Linux in the summer of 04 with SuSe, then got thirsty for knowledge and dove into Slackware. Shortly afterwards a friend from the Planeshift community mentioned this weird new distro called 'Ubuntu', I get my first install right at the end of warty. Warty was aptly named, the software was far from perfect, but the spirit of the community really resonated with me; I've never looked back.

I'm working on a CS degree and am not sure where I am going after that. My dream is to do indie game development, but I understand that it doesn't happen overnight (or many, many nights).

At home I run a server, my desktop and laptops on ubuntu; in the 'cloud' (see: Dallas), my linode is running it as well. I'm a jack of all trades, but I'm starting to become very python focused. I've done android, c++, perl, web (css/html/js), and I'm not bad with humans either.

==== My Team Memberships ====
* Ubuntu Texas Loco

==== Contributions ====
===== Bugs =====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/software-properties/+bug/515990|Launchpad bug 515990]]</nowiki>

===== LoCo =====
* <nowiki>[[TexasTeam| Major rewrite of the Texas Team wiki]]</nowiki>
* I mod the Texas Loco forums, IRC, and mailing list.
* Tons of <nowiki>[[http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/|logged]]</nowiki> tech support in the #ubuntu-us-tx, also <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=25261|in the forums]]</nowiki>
* Participated at the Ubuntu/Canonical desk at <nowiki>[[TexasTeam-ToolBox-Updates-2010-04-10|Texas Linux Fest]]</nowiki>

==== Plans ====
* I'm looking to get more involved in development, <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-FocusGroups-Development|BeginnersTeam-dev]]</nowiki> seems like the proper venue.
* Finish my python-OpenGL (via pyglet) state engine and get a quickly template set up.
* Make an entry for <nowiki>[[http://www.joanganzcooneycenter.org/Initiatives-31.html|National STEM Video Game Challenge]]</nowiki>
