{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe theDaveTheRave here.

OOH it's a wiki page all about me!

for now, as I don't have that much to say this is just a copy of the stuff I am planing in the near future....

It it has already been done... apologies, pass me the link and I'll add it in.

I plan to include some wiki pages on the following.

MySQL

Brief setup and configuration
Getting some public data and populating a new table with it so as to enable new MySQL users to get straight down to using / understanding the syntax of writing queries, cross referencing, joining, importing / exporting from files etc.
I plan this as I was always "stressed" by the idea of having to "invent" a set of data to populate a table with. Now I know where to find public information that can then be used to quickly get into working with MySQL. I still intend to create a "catalogue" of all our DVD's, CD, video vinyl and tapes (maybe I even have some old beta-max stuff )

PhP.

Again like MySQL using PHP is actually incredibly easy... once you know how, often trying to find the information for performing that little bit of "clever" trickery is a real pain. I hope to bring it all together in a selection of PHP pages with demonstrations and file for working on.... again using publically available data.

Other stuff.

I work as a bioinformatician, and I will endeavour to support other new bioinformatics users by creating links to the various sites that we use with brief howto's on their utillisation. I also hope to develop my own tools that I will ultimately share (and support) via this and my own personal web site (if I ever get it up and running that is! ).

But I really need to put this onto my launchpad home page, which is currently rather sparse....

so here goes...
