{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About ===

I am Finnian Herzfeld, a college student who is interested in Ubuntu and uses it on a daily basis. I attend the the University of Washington , specifically the Bothell campus.

=== Contact ===

* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:thefinn93]]</nowiki>
* thefinn93 [at] thefinn93.com
* Jabber: thefinn93 [at] gmail.com
* IRC: thefinn93

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
* reddit: <nowiki>[[http://reddit.com/user/thefinn93|thefinn93]]</nowiki>

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----

=== IRC ===

I generally hang out on:

* Freenode
** <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-us-or|#ubuntu-us-or]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-us-wa|#ubuntu-us-wa]]</nowiki>

=== Things I've Done ===

* Staffed the Ubuntu booth at OSCON 2011.
* Attended <nowiki>[[OregonTeam|Ubuntu Oregon]]</nowiki>'s Natty Narwhal 11.04 release party.

=== Testimonials ===

Finnian is an outstanding contributor to the Ubuntu Oregon LoCo where he has put in many hours at the Ubuntu Booth at OSCON 2011 and spent time gathering Ubuntu materials for future events. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bkerensa]]</nowiki> <<TimeDate>>
