{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In a diverse universe, it's important to speak a common language.

===== General principles =====

'''1. The goal is to make people try Ubuntu.'''  After trying it the choice is theirs.

'''2. Never make people feel bad about their decision.''' Never criticize other operating systems, let people know they have a choice and what are the benefits of it.

'''3. Know your market, live for your market.''' Some people may like less technical news while others may not. See how your audience reacts and choose the more suitable type of news.

'''4. Never oversell and never cover up weaknesses.'''  Encourage people to try it and let Ubuntu surprise them in a positive way.

'''5. Explain how it can all be possible.''' Make sure people knows why your claims are true before making them.

'''6. Let people know the advantages of FOSS ''' Being free and open source is what sets us apart from other OSs. It's important to tell the advantages it conveys.

'''7. Be assertive. ''' Take initiative. If you come up with a good idea, you still need to nurture it until it takes off. 

===== About independent sites and social networks =====

'''1.  Make sure the type of content you issue is clear for everyone from the start.''' If your site focuses on tech stuff let your site's name and info transmit your decision. If your audience is already defined you should adapt to it.

'''2. Be reachable. ''' Let us know you are there, register to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdminsList|Admins List]]</nowiki> and offer an active email address so that people from the community can contact you.

===== About Activism and LoCo Teams =====

'''1. Don't play solo. ''' Find and join your local team at the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamList|LoCo Team List]]</nowiki>

'''2. Always have Ubuntu cds with you.''' Giving away CDs has proven to be the most effective way of making people try Ubuntu, you can't go out without them.

----
<nowiki>[[themkpledge-resources|Resources]]</nowiki> 
