{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Net Duck. What can I say, well... The Net Duck is accually a pirate. Yes thats right, a Pirate Duck. Very cool and kicks cyber butt. The Net Duck is know for the feared pirate quack and "its" amazing typeing ablities, developed over years and years of mindlessly making programs in Java, VB, Batch (kinda) C++/C and many scripting languages (they all have the same basic syntacs/orginization principles). Although The Net Duck is a computer duck, this duck has not yet mastered the ability to spell very well.... which can get annoying at times. Other than that, The Net Duck is a pretty cool quack. His main mato is "Shut up and get Quackin" and yes, he is feared among all other ducks.... 

 The Net Duck

What I am currently involved in:
                                 Making a cool website for me
                                 Making a cool website for ubuntu skins
                                 Learning how to become a MOTU (Way cool) 

 Here are some great links!
  
Screen Video Maker -  http://ubuntu.wordpress.com/2006/06/08/how-to-create-a-screencast-in-ubuntu/

Mount an Interal Partition - http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountlinux

My websites - http://www.thenetduck.com
              http://www.cobbman.com/thenetduck   <-- this one is the best but is not yet finished.
