{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Recommend via Ubuntu-MM LoCo Team ===

<nowiki>[[loco.ubuntu.com-teams-ubuntu-mm|Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team]]</nowiki> Core Member.
Who is advocated by ubuntu-mm team member. 

(./) {*} Event/Class Organizer<<BR>> 
(./) {*} Event/Class Volunteer<<BR>>
(./) {*} Event/Class Helper<<BR>>
(./) {*} Event/Class Trainer <<BR>>
(./) <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam| Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team]]</nowiki> Supporter<<BR>>

Who is Core Member of Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team. Likewise, administrator of <nowiki>[[MyanmarTeam | Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team]]</nowiki> and supporting the Ubuntu LoCo Teams' Facebook groups and LoCo Teams' movement.

Who is advocate Open-Source and Ubuntu whenever possible.
For ease of use, I publish the customize DVD to whom who need it and I publish the Ubuntu Live CDs and ISOs
as much as I can. I am also doing the favour for who doesn't know the Ubuntu and
hasn't discovered Ubuntu by giving the Ubuntu Live CDs. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-mm| Ubuntu-MM LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
| Admin
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-mm| Ubuntu-MM Launchpad ]]</nowiki>
| Admin
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://ask.ubuntu-mm.net| Ubuntu-MM Ask Localize]]</nowiki>
| Admin
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://u4mm.com/| Ubuntu-MM Forum Localize]]</nowiki>
| Admin
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://facebook.com/ubuntumm | Ubuntu-MM LoCo Team Facebook Page]]</nowiki>
| Admin
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://facebook.com/groups/ubuntu4mm | Ubuntu-MM LoCo Team Facebook Group]]</nowiki>
| Admin
|}

We Support  <<BR>>
{OK} <nowiki>[[http://www.barcampyngon.org/| Barcamp Yangon]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
{OK} <nowiki>[[http://www.barcampmandalay.org/| Barcamp Mandalay]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
{OK} <nowiki>[[http://www.barcamplashio.org/| Barcamp Lashio]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
{OK} <nowiki>[[http://www.barcamploikaw.org/ | Barcamp Loikaw]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

==== Event ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-mm/events/history | LoCo Event ]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntu4mm/events/ | Event Physical and Web Chat  ]]</nowiki>
|-
| Where and When Barcamp at daily most popular topic is "I Love U {*} " and "Work with U {*} "
|-
| you can find our Event Photos at <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntu-mm/ | here]]</nowiki>
|}

==== University Computer Student [City] ====
 (./)  UCSM - M = Mandalay 1 and 2 <<BR>>
 (./)  UCSL - L = Lashio   UCSL and GTU <<BR>>
 (./)  UCSM - M = Monywar  GTU <<BR>>

Ubuntu Introducing and Install Fest have done!

==== Event Photos ====
you can find me there.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| http://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntu-mm/pool/
| Ubuntu-MM Team Activity Photo
|}

==== Interviews ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--www.flickr.com-photos-bonepyae-6287637723-in-set-72157627994634638- | Internet Journal 1 ]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[ http:--www.flickr.com-photos-bonepyae-6288157110-in-set-72157627994634638- | Internet Journal 2 ]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-mm_mg.pdf | Mobile Guide ]]</nowiki>
|}

It's example. more interview is can see Press and News Media. 

==== We can't success without this person ====

{i} ''Warning: this template is limited access with who approved <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mm-council|Ubuntu Myanmar LoCo Team Core Member]]</nowiki>'' 
