{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubucon Sevilla Speakers ==

If you can come, have an idea, or know somebody else that has a burning issue, or just wants to demo their new application (Wobble windows anyway?) in a lightening slot---Add yourself and a note below:

=== Contacted Speakers ===

The following people have confirmed that they are willing to speak if we ask them to:

* FabianRodriguez (Canonical), "Ubuntu Support Ecosystems" (in Spanish and/or English), a talk given at Ubucon NYC 2007. Traveling from Montreal, Canada.
* Jono Bacon, The Ubuntu community (Canonical)
* Paul Sladen, laptops, history, magic, anything Ubuntuish (Nineteen Inch)
* Juan Conde, Guadalinex and the Spanish regional goverment (Junta de Andalucía)
* Billy Cina, Ubuntu training (Canonical)
* Melissa Draper, LoCo-teams (travelling from Sydney)
* Luis de Bethencourt Guimerá, Ubuntu Studio (travelling from Madrid)
* ? Belinda Lopez, Ubuntu-Women (traveling from Houston, just turned into an unknown b/c of a potential work conflict) Melissa will take
* Jordi Alins, Catalan LoCo Team (traveling from Lleida) Ubuntu diffusion between adult population, from a construstivistic pedagogic perspective [in Spanish]

==== Local Helps ====

The following people have confirmed that they want to help:

* Raúl Soriano, SpainTeam LoCo Contact.
* Luis de Bethencourt Guimerá, Ubuntu Studio
* Antonio Pérez-Aranda, <nowiki>[[Ant30]]</nowiki> SpainTeam Loco Member.
* JuanjeOjeda, Guadalinex, Metadistros, Unidistro.
