{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


To read about ways you can get involved with the Ubuntu Community (there are many ways for people of all abilities!), please see <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|this page]]</nowiki>. Thanks, and have fun!!

* Ubuntu Board Meetings:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/techboard|Ubuntu Technical Board]]</nowiki> meets twice a month, see its next TechnicalBoardAgenda 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/council|Ubuntu Community Council]]</nowiki> meets twice a month, see its next CommunityCouncilAgenda 
* Ubuntu Around the World:
** LoCoTeamList - Local Community Teams. Join, or start one in your area! 
** UbuntuWorldWide - A map of Ubuntu Users around the world!
** <nowiki>[[Rosetta]]</nowiki> - Translate Ubuntu in your language!
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-forums.nl]]</nowiki> - Dutch community - dutch ubuntuguide, dutch kubuntuguide 
* UbuntuLove - regular days dedicated to helping you get involved 
* UbuntuMembers. See also, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/newmember|New Member Process]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-women.org|Ubuntu-Women]]</nowiki>
* UbuntuDevelopment - docs for developers 
* DocumentationTeam and <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeamFAQ]]</nowiki> - docs for documenters 
* UbuntuTeams - these are the teams that work on every aspect of Ubuntu
** <nowiki>[[Accessibility-Team|AccessibilityTeam]]</nowiki> 
** ArtTeam
** DesktopTeam 
** DocumentationTeam 
** InstallerTeam 
** KernelTeam 
** <nowiki>[[Kubuntu]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Xubuntu]]</nowiki>
** LaptopTestingTeam 
** <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> - Masters of the Universe 
** ServerTeam 
** TranslationTeam   
** EmbeddedTeam
** MarketingTeam
** CategoryHomepage - A list of all the personal pages on the wiki that are marked in the Homepage category.
