{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Welcome to the Ubucon NYC Additional Activities Planning Page ===

Want to get together for drinks after the unconference?  Want to meet up with your fellow attendees and share a cab from the airport?  Hoping someone will join you for a tennis match in Central Park?  Have a couch to offer?  You've come to the right place!

'''Shared Rides/Transport'''

If you're seeking or offering rides/shared transport, use this section to collaborate.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Email Address
| Ride Needed/Offered
| Arrival Time/Airport
| Departure Time/Airport
| Notes
|}

'''Shared Accomodations'''

If you're seeking or offering a place to stay or are hoping to find someone to share a hotel room with, use this section to collaborate.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Email Address
| Housing Needed/Offered
| Arrival Time/Airport
| Departure Time/Airport
| Notes
|}

'''Other Activities'''

That's right, we all love free software and free beer.  Plan your beers here!  (Or walks through Central Park, or whatever else suits your fancy.)

Enjoying New York After the Conference

Conference goers are invited to join NYLXS after the Conference downtown at New Yorks favorite Free Software watering hole at the Killarny Rose in Lower Manhattan

Killarny Rose 80 Beaver Street NY, NY

2nd Floor Lounge No Cover

2,3,4,5 Trains to Wall Street J, M to Broad Street or the N and R Train to Whitehall Street

On the Corner of Beaver Street, Wall Street and Pearl Street

Ruben [WWW] http://www.nylxs.com 
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Email Address
| Activity Proposed
| Time Proposed
| Notes
|}
