{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Getting to the Ubucon Sevilla ==

=== English ===

=== Where ===

'''Universidad de Sevilla'''

'''Escuela Técnica Superior de Ingeniería Informática'''

''Avenida de Reina Mercedes s/n. 41012. Sevilla. Spain'' 

'''Alfonso Cala''' and '''Juan Conde''' are contacts for arranging with the University.

=== Getting There ===

* '''By plane''': San Pablo airport, 15 km.
**** Taxi Airport tariff (3) to city: workdays 7am-9pm €19.04,  otherwise €21.24, think €20 or €22; no tip necessary.
**** Economical route from airport: EA bus (stop at end of Arrivals hall, beyond taxis), €2; timetables PDF  http://www.turismo.sevilla.org/documentos/Autobus%20del%20Aeropuerto.pdf, (as PDF>html  http://tinyurl.com/2rmqcj ); every 15 mins during much of day, otherwise 30 mins; catch bus to end-of-line (bus 34 within a short walking distance) or (alongside) Santa Justa station, and then taxi or city bus.

* '''By train''': Santa Justa Railway Station, 5 km.

* '''By city bus''': Lines 06 and 34

* '''Taxis within Seville''': workdays 7am-9pm €1.09 +€0.76 p km (otherwise €1.33 + 0.93 p km)

* '''By coach''': Estación del Prado de San Sebastian station, 3 km. and Estación Plaza de Armas, 4 km.

* '''Access by road''': From Madrid by the Andalusia dual carriageway (A-4) (538 km). From Mérida, Badajoz (217 km) and Caceres (264 km) by the A-6. From Malaga (219 km) by the A-92 and the N-334. From Huelva (94 km) by the A-49.

* '''From Hotel Al-Andalus''': On foot, some 800 m.  

For exact location visit: http://www.informatica.us.es/situacion.php

The centre of Seville is some 3.5 km away and the Parque de Mª Luisa park, 1.5 km.

Tourist Office web http://www.turismo.sevilla.org/paginas_en/aeropuerto.asp

Road traffic, current intensity, web-cams: http://www.trajano.com/mapa_estado_trafico.html

=== Español ===

=== Donde ===

'''Universidad de Sevilla'''

'''Escuela Técnica Superior de Ingeniería Informática'''

''Avenida de Reina Mercedes s/n. 41012. Sevilla. Spain'' 

=== Medios de transporte ===

* '''Avión''': Aeropuerto de San Pablo, a 15 km.
**** Taxi, tarifa de/a Aeropuerto (3): laborables 7am a 9pm €19.04,  resto €21.24, unos €20 o €22; no se requiere propina.
**** Ruta económica desde el Aeropuerto: Autobús EA  (para al final de la zona de llegadas, pasdos los taxis), €2; horario en PDF  http://www.turismo.sevilla.org/documentos/Autobus%20del%20Aeropuerto.pdf, (como PDF>html  http://tinyurl.com/2rmqcj ); frecuencia, cada 15 minutos la mayor parte del día, el resto 30 minutos; dejar el autobús al final de la línea (parada de bus 34 cerca) o en la Estación de Santa Justa, y tomar taxi o autobús urbano.

* '''Tren''': Estación de Santa Justa, a 5 km.

* '''Autobús urbano''': Lineas 06 y 34

* '''Taxis, recorridos urbanos''': laborables de 7am a 9pm €1.09 +€0.76 por km (resto €1.33 + 0.93 por km)

* '''Autocar''': Estación del Prado de San Sebastian, a 3 km. y Estación Plaza de Armas, a 4 km.

* '''Carretera''': Desde Madrid por Autovía de Andalucía (A-4) (538 km). Desde Mérida, Badajoz (217 km) y Caceres (264 km) por A-6. Desde Malaga (219 km) por A-92 y N-334. Desde Huelva (94 km) por A-49.  

* '''Desde el Hotel Al-Andalus''': A pie, unos 800 m.

Ubicación exacta disponible en: http://www.informatica.us.es/situacion.php

El centro de Sevilla se encuentra a unos 3.5 km y el Parque de Mª Luisa a 1.5 km.

Web de la Oficina de Información Turística: http://www.turismo.sevilla.org/paginas_es/aeropuerto.asp

Información de tráfico, web-cams: http://www.trajano.com/mapa_estado_trafico.html
