{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Welcome to the Ubucon NYC Conference Schedule Page ===

'''Date''': Friday February 16, 2007

The Ubucon NYC (New York City) is an <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unconference|unconference]]</nowiki>, so most of the day's schedule will be decided on the day of the conference. For more details, also see the <nowiki>[[http://yalesf.org/pipermail/theubucon/2007-January/000040.html|original announcement]]</nowiki>.

If you'd like to schedule a session, please list the topic under the proposed session topics heading, including your name and the size of the audience you're expecting/can accommodate.  The schedule is currently broken into one hour increments, but if you'll need more or less time for your presentation please indicate that along with your entry in the session topics section.

We'll fully populate the schedule matrix following the opening remarks and '''may''' be able to add more rooms if necessary.

'''Proposed Session Topics'''

'''Schedule Matrix'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Time
| Room One - Seats 260 (Tech Talk)
| Room Two - Seats 28 (Baker Field)
| Room Three - Seats 16 (Inwood)
|-
| 08:30 - 09:00
| 
| 
| Doors open for the Ubucon NYC - Continental Breakfast will be Served
|-
| 09:00 - 09:45
| 
| 
| Opening Remarks & Scheduling by John Mark Walker
|-
| 09:45 - 10:00
| 
| 
| Break
|-
| 10:00 - 11:00
| Contributing to Ubuntu - How and Why
| <nowiki>[[DebuggerTalk| gdb-like debuggers for GNU bash, GNU make, Python and Ruby]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UbuConInstallfest| Installfest bring your computer]]</nowiki>
|-
| 11:00 - 12:00
| Gerald Carter
| debugging
| Installfest
|-
| 12:00 - 13:00
| 
| 
| Lunch Served
|-
| 13:00 - 14:00
| Gfx - Inkscape, Gimp, Blender
| debugging extended
| Installfest
|-
| 14:00 - 15:00
| Bradley Kuhn - (Topic TBD)
| Tutorial on creating .deb packages
| Installfest
|-
| 15:00 - 16:00
| FabianRodriguez, Canonical Support - Ubuntu's Support Ecosystem (Q&A)
| launchpad
| Installfest
|-
| 16:00 - 16:30
| 
| 
| Afternoon Break
|-
| 16:30 - 17:30
| Free Software History - Jay Sulzberger
| 
| Installfest
|-
| 17:30 - 18:00
| 
| 
| Concluding Remarks by John Mark Walker
|-
| 18:00
| 
| 
| Ubucon NYC concludes - venue closes
|}

Interested in dinner or drinks after the conference?  Want to meet up with your fellow Ubuntu enthusiasts over the weekend?  Check out the TheUbuconNyMeetups page.

If you will be attending and you have not yet added your name to <nowiki>[[TheUbuconRSVP]]</nowiki> list, please do so ''in advance of the event'' as people not on the list will not be able to enter the building.

----
CategoryUbuntuConferences
