{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Todo list:

* (./) --(Figure out how to do <strike>in moinmoin wiki</strike>, ask the ubuntu-doc team)--. PaulSladen 2007-03-26
* (./) --(Mail the sysadmins to ask for a simple, quick easy 'ubucon-sevilla@' mailing list)-- Done waiting for response, PaulSladen 2007-03-26 (2007-03-29: still waiting...).
* (./) Contact "John Mark" about the previous Ubucons.  Melissa Draper 2007-03-26.
** John Mark Waller <johnmark@johnmark.org> 
** Writeup of Mountain View here: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/513 (Mountain View)
** About the existing mail mailing list: http://www.theubucon.org/mailman/listinfo/theubucon
* Better wording/introduction. There's some good wording on the following which says: ''Part un-conference, part installfest, and part user group meeting, The UbuCon will take place simultaneously in one large auditorium and 3 - 6 small (~20 people) conference rooms.'' and sums things up really well in one sentence. From http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=348885
* (./) Catering.  We've got funding for 50-100 people, and up-front funding to cover at least 50 people.  This means that we can go to the caters and sign-up for food/buffet for a minimum of 50 people and tell that there final numbers will likely be bigger. [*] Done, Luis de Bethencourt 2007-03-27, trying to decided what/when to have for drinks/lunch.
* Need an RSVP page to give an idea of numbers and help people to car-share.
** (./) This could be done using a group in launchpad and people "signing up" to it or a proper 'Sprint/Event' thing.  2007-03-27, Paul Sladen.  Go to https://launchpad.net/sprints/ubucon-sevilla/+attend
* Find out central-point-of-contact for the University.  Eg. The building is locked and we need to get in... [*] [Ask Guadalinex].
* Contact for the IT department at the University for network/bandwidth details. [*] [Ask Guadalinex].  luisbg has emailed Guadalinex 2007-03-26.
* Work out format for talks (eg. 45minutes talk+questions and 15minutes faff/gap between sessions).
* Work out time-table, a Spanish local tells me people have breakfast at 09:00, lunch at 14:00.  So if we run 10:00-17:30 that should allow people to travel from Madrid on the morning.
* What do we need for a party?
** Answer: "<luisbg> everybody there... food, internet, drinks (coffee's and beers) and cool stuff to do"
* (./) Contact the local LUGs.  Done GatoLoko (I've wrote to all LUGs listed in http://libroblanco.com/joomla/index.php?option=com_mosforms&Itemid=80) 2007-03-30
* Write a mail "calling for assistance/helpers" and it'll get seen by the spanish linux community.
** Somebody (PaulSladen?) to draft in English and send to luisbg to translate/copy around everyone.
* Poke Rob/Lifeless about an "ubuntu on tap" (box setup to do net-installs), useful for not only any new users that may be around, but anyone who wants to reinstall, and especially those without functional cd drives,
* (./) Poster for the Ubucon
** Melissa Draper did a poster that is available for download at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-spain.org/?q=node/15|ubuntu-spain.org]]</nowiki>
** Poster was posted in various places through the university and some computer stores that support us.
* ensure proper promotion on-campus at the University.  Easier to target the locals than pursading people to come from Barcelona.
* Publicity:
** Melissa might be able to do Linux.com, OSTG, Newsforge and they will also publish Press Releases on spec
** Use material from hopefully interviewing John Mark about experiences of organizing the previous one
** LWN, (and our own Fridge).  <1 months means it's probably too short notice for the paper press.
** Ask Slashdot: How to throw a party.  What do we need, what are your worst install-fest experiences.
** Ant30 publish a spanish introduction on <nowiki>[[http://eventos.barrapunto.com/article.pl?sid=07/04/19/238208|Barrapunto.com]]</nowiki> a Slashdot.com style in spanish and on <nowiki>[[http://meneame.net/story/conferencia-internacional-ubuntu-sevilla-mayo-2007|Meneame.net]]</nowiki> a Digg like system .
* On the day:
** Organise Posters
** Direction signs (to Ubucon, Food, Toilets...)
* On-going: Translation, keeping everything in sync.

* - ask guadalinex

=== Ask Slashdot ===
