{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubucon Sevilla Call For Papers ==

=== English ===

To make this event really rock I need YOUR help! :) I am keen to get lots of people speaking at the event, and I am interested in having the following speaking tracks:

* Main track - talks about general Ubuntu topics such as development, packaging, loco teams, forums, governance, case studies etc.
* Spanish track - talks given in Spanish about Spanish language and Spain related subjects.
* BOF sessions - a range of informal discussion sessions about anything in the Ubuntu landscape.

So, I need your help to build this event. If you would like to speak at the event, send an email to jono AT ubuntu DOT com with the subject 'Spanish Ubucon Talk: <name of your talk>' and include the following inthe email:

* Your name
* The name of the talk
* Details of the talk
* Your bio
* Spoken in Spanish or English?

All talks will be 50 minutes long, included questions.

I am also interested in having some demos. These will be quick 10 minute long demos of interesting technology - here you could demo beryl/compiz/gstreamer/multimedia/desktop etc.

So, get your talk submissions in!

=== Spanish ===

Con el fin de que este evento funcione de verdad necesito VUESTRA ayuda :)  Espero obtener mucha participación, y estoy interesado en tener los siguientes grupos de charla:

* Un grupo principal -  que hable de temas generales de Ubuntu como el desarrollo, empaquetando, los equipos locales, los foros, la llevanza del proyecto, casos de estudio, etcétera.

* Un grupo español - que hable acerca del idioma español y  temas relacionados con este idioma.

* Sesiones BOF - una serie de reuniones informales para discutir acerca de cualquier cosa en el panorama de Ubuntu.

Así que, necesito vuestra ayuda para realizar este evento. Si quereis hablar en el evento, envad un correo electrónico a "jono AT ubuntu DOT com" escribiendo en el asunto 'Spanish Ubucon Talk: <nombre de tu charla>' e incluyendo lo siguiente en el e-mail: 

* Nombre
* Título de la charla
* Detalles de la charla
* Biografía
* Idioma de la charla: Español o Inglés

Todas las charlas tendrán 50 minutos de duración, preguntas incluidas.

También interesa tener algunas demostraciones. Estas serán de unos 10 minutos y estarán relacionados con las ultimas tecnologías de interés (beryl/compiz/gstreamer/multimedia/escritorios) 
