{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents WIP'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Thibault Ferrante, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| '''Thibault Ferrante'''
|-
| Launchpad Page
| '''https://launchpad.net/~thibf'''
|-
| Wiki Page
| '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/thibf'''
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is Thibault Ferrante, and I have been a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team since June 2023.

I studied in France at ESEO and Ecole Centrale Nantes where I got two master's degree in Software development with a focus on embedded/real-time systems.

From there, I worked in the automotive world where I worked 8 years through companies of different scales before joining Canonical. During this time, I worked on ADAS systems, IOT car dongle, car charging stations, electric solar car. All these projects were using widely different boards/systems/stacks/tooling.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I started using Ubuntu while I was in studying, discovering through the lens of Virtualbox. Quickly I began to use it as daily driver while still using windows in dual-boot for unsupported (proprietary) software. It's at this period I began to learn and appreciate the values behind by open-source software and start to really migrate towards only using Ubuntu. I have still this old Windows 7 partition in some HDD that I haven't booted in years.

Through the years, there was kernel oops and some funky issues, but I grown a better understanding of the system and being able to customize it to my preference was delightful. Furthermore this has been amplified when I started developing Linux platform support as part of the product to be delivered (charging station/infotainment system).

=== My involvement ===
Since I started, I worked quite a bit on cranking kernels with the stable team to deliver SRU releases. I'm also contributing/testing to enable specific hardware products. I also tries to contribute to tools in kteam-tools.

==== Summary ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;">  Sponsor
| Count
|-
| Roxana Nicolescu
| 23
|-
| Khaled El Mously
| 9
|-
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| 9
|-
| Juerg Haefliger
| 3
|-
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| 3
|-
| Tim Gardner
| 3
|-
| Stefan Bader
| 2
|-
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| 1
|-
| Total
| 53
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;">  Date
| Sponsor
| Sponsoree
| Package
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| 2023-05-25 13:09
| Juerg Haefliger
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-kvm
| 5.19.0-1025.26
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-05-25 13:46
| Juerg Haefliger
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.19.0.1025.22
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-05-25 13:51
| Juerg Haefliger
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.19.0-1025.26
| kinetic
|-
| 2023-06-22 09:47
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-ibm
| 5.4.0-1052.57
| focal
|-
| 2023-06-22 09:51
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.4.0.1052.78
| focal
|-
| 2023-06-22 09:51
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.4.0-1052.57
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-12 15:11
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0-78.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-12 16:05
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-restricted-modules-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0-78.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-12 16:05
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0.78.85~20.04.38
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-12 16:05
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0-78.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-13 13:33
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-lowlatency-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0-78.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-13 14:00
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-lowlatency-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0-78.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-13 14:03
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0-78.85~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-13 14:05
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-lowlatency-hwe-5.15
| 5.15.0.78.85~20.04.35
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-18 12:51
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-kvm
| 6.2.0-1010.10
| lunar
|-
| 2023-07-18 13:37
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-kvm
| 6.2.0.1010.10
| lunar
|-
| 2023-07-18 13:38
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-kvm
| 6.2.0-1010.10
| lunar
|-
| 2023-07-24 15:53
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-kvm
| 5.15.0-1039.44
| jammy
|-
| 2023-07-24 16:08
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.15.0.1039.35
| jammy
|-
| 2023-07-24 16:08
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.15.0-1039.44
| jammy
|-
| 2023-08-16 10:21
| Khaled El Mously
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-ibm
| 6.2.0-1008.8
| lunar
|-
| 2023-08-16 14:11
| Khaled El Mously
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-ibm
| 6.2.0.1008.8
| lunar
|-
| 2023-08-16 14:11
| Khaled El Mously
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-ibm
| 6.2.0-1008.8
| lunar
|-
| 2023-08-17 12:40
| Khaled El Mously
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-gkeop
| 5.15.0-1026.31
| jammy
|-
| 2023-08-17 13:08
| Khaled El Mously
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-gkeop
| 5.15.0-1026.31
| jammy
|-
| 2023-08-17 13:08
| Khaled El Mously
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-gkeop
| 5.15.0.1026.25
| jammy
|-
| 2023-08-24 14:41
| Khaled El Mously
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1026.31~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-08-24 15:13
| Khaled El Mously
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0.1026.31~20.04.22
| focal
|-
| 2023-08-24 15:13
| Khaled El Mously
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1026.31~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-08-28 18:37
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-ibm
| 5.4.0-1056.61
| focal
|-
| 2023-08-28 18:50
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.4.0.1056.85
| focal
|-
| 2023-08-28 19:00
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.4.0-1056.61
| focal
|-
| 2023-09-07 09:44
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-ibm
| 5.4.0-1057.62
| focal
|-
| 2023-09-07 10:20
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.4.0.1057.86
| focal
|-
| 2023-09-07 10:20
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.4.0-1057.62
| focal
|-
| 2023-09-07 11:41
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1099.105
| focal
|-
| 2023-09-07 12:03
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1099.94
| focal
|-
| 2023-09-07 12:04
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1099.105
| focal
|-
| 2023-09-15 09:52
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-ibm
| 5.4.0-1058.63
| focal
|-
| 2023-09-15 10:02
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.4.0.1058.87
| focal
|-
| 2023-09-15 10:02
| Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.4.0-1058.63
| focal
|-
| 2023-10-03 10:26
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1044.50~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-10-03 10:26
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1044.50~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-10-03 10:26
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0.1044.50~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-10-03 10:27
| Stefan Bader
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-oracle
| 5.15.0-1044.50
| jammy
|-
| 2023-10-03 10:27
| Stefan Bader
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-oracle
| 5.15.0-1044.50
| jammy
|-
| 2023-10-03 10:27
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-oracle
| 5.15.0.1044.39
| jammy
|-
| 2023-10-06 14:18
| Tim Gardner
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1101.107
| focal
|-
| 2023-10-06 14:59
| Tim Gardner
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1101.96
| focal
|-
| 2023-10-06 14:59
| Tim Gardner
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1101.107
| focal
|-
| 2023-10-11 13:30
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1102.108
| focal
|-
| 2023-10-11 14:13
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1102.97
| focal
|-
| 2023-10-11 14:13
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Thibault Ferrante
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1102.108
| focal
|}

Thanks <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~corytodd/+git/tools|@corytodd]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi|UDD]]</nowiki> for the generation of these tables.

=== Things I could do better ===

Looking to get more used to cross debugging experience and better understanding of the building of Ubuntu image.

== Plans for the future ==

Upstream more commits for IMX platforms and get better tooling along the way to do kernel work.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Roxana Nicolescu (roxanan) ===
==== General feedback ====
I reviewed a lot of kernels prepared by Thibault and everything was prepared with care and attention to detail. He also cranked a variety of kernels and encountered some corner cases, so I am confident he is already pretty experienced with it. He is also proactive in asking questions, helping people, and improving our tooling and documentation. I fully trust him with upload rights and give him my +1.
==== Areas of Improvement ====
Nothing I can think of, keep up the good work.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=OEay
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz ===
==== General feedback ====
I've reviewed some linux-ibm kernels prepared by Thibault. They were all prepared with care and some small issues were always swiftly corrected. He asks the right questions when in doubt and also works on improving our documentation and tooling. For these reasons I trust him with upload rights and give him my endorsement and +1. 
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=Ww4B
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
