{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Thierry Carrez, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Thierry Carrez
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ttx
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| ThierryCarrez
|}

== Who I am ==

I am a 36-year-old man living in the center of France with my wife and two daughters. I'm originally a mechanical systems engineer, specialized in systems administration and IT management. I was hired by Canonical in 2008 as an Ubuntu Server developer, to work as a generalist on the Ubuntu Server stack.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I've been using Linux more or less for 14 years now, both personally and professionally. My active contributions to Open Source started when I became a Gentoo developer in 2004, working on their Security team. I switched to using Ubuntu, both Desktop and Server, in 2006 when I changed jobs and couldn't spend as much time on Gentoo. I applied for a job at Canonical in January 2008 and started getting more involved with Ubuntu development. During the Intrepid cycle I was a contributing developer, and was accepted as MOTU during the Jaunty cycle.

== My involvement ==

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* Packaging Tomcat 6 for Ubuntu main (and making sure Debian would adopt it afterwards) was my first Ubuntu achievement. Even if I'm not a Java fan, I'm proud of the work I've done to improve the state of the Java stack in Ubuntu in general, and this work will continue as I tackle the state of Eucalyptus Java dependencies in Karmic.

* Working on etckeeper integration was a pleasure, both from an upstream relationship point of view and from a community perspective. Everyone was (and still is) very motivated by bringing this useful tool to the general public.

=== Areas of work ===

* On the development side, as part of my Canonical Server developer job, I have to package and integrate new features for the Ubuntu Server product. This included working on Tomcat 6, Eucalyptus, a CIM/WBEM stack, Likewise-Open...

* On the maintenance side, I now maintain several server-related packages in universe (etckeeper, tomcat5.5, sblim-*...) and in main (openvpn, dnsmasq, nagios3, tomcat6, likewise-open...). In all cases, I try to develop good relationship with the upstream project and the Debian maintainer. Where I'm not the main maintainer, I try to stay on top of bugs by triaging and proposing fixes (for example for the samba package).

* On the community side, in addition to the Server team community I also participate in the Ubuntu Java team and try my best to share with others my experience in handling Java packages.

=== Things I could do better ===

Ever since I became MOTU I tried to spend time doing mentoring and sponsoring, but in the Jaunty cycle I didn't have as much time as I wanted to devote to it. I hope to be able to improve that, especially if I become core-dev and can act as a main sponsor.

== Plans for the future ==

=== Karmic cycle ===

For the Karmic cycle I'll work on cleaning up the Eucalyptus Java dependencies packages and making them suitable for main/CD inclusion. I'll also work on convergence between likewise-open5 (universe) and likewise-open (main) so that they both seamlessly upgrade to future version 5.2 (in main). Time permitting, I'll continue integrating etckeeper and bzr into a more powerful configuration management tool, and update the CIM/WBEM stack I introduced in universe as of intrepid.

=== General objectives ===

I want to make Ubuntu Server the best technical server solution out there. We need to start integrating industry best practices into the server stack, to make a powerful and pleasant systems administration experience. We need to start making choices and deliver a Server product rather than a Server platform.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Coming from a distribution with a fully VCS-driven package archive (Gentoo), I find tracking changes across packages in Ubuntu quite tedious. I place high hopes in the DistributedDevelopment initiative: how it will change the way we work and lower the barrier of entry for new contributors.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

* Thierry is a pleasure to work with, and I am continually pleased by both the quality of his work, his willingness to tackle large problems, and his commitment to completing that work. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:james-w]]</nowiki> 

----
== Endorsements ==
=== Dustin Kirkland ===
==== General Feedback ====
Although I haven't sponsored many of Thierry's uploads, I haven't had problems with that I have uploaded for him.  Thierry works with persistence on tough problems -- such as his packaging of Java-stack applications like Tomcat and Eucalyptus.  I think Thierry will make an nice addition to Ubuntu's Core Developer Team.
==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Thierry has given me some good feedback on byobu.  We've also worked together a bit with Canonical partners on the alphabet soup of (snmp, cim, webm, and sblim).

=== Mathias Gug ===
==== General feedback ====
I've been working with Thierry since he joined the Ubuntu Server and witnessed the evolution he went through. Thierry tackled important issues such as the Java stack in Ubuntu and moved forward solving one issue after the other seeking advices and suggestions for each of them. His technical skills as well as his sense of diplomacy have shined through out his contributions to Ubuntu.

I fully trust him as an Ubuntu Developer and Thierry will be a great asset to the Ubuntu Core Developer team.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've sponsored most of his work on tomcat6 and openvpn. He's always been open to comments and prompt to adjust his technical solutions to feedback. Thierry has also dived into samba bugs and does an amazing job at triaging them.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Eat more cheese.

=== ChuckShort ===
==== General feedback ====
I work with Thierry on a daily basis on the Ubuntu Server team and have sponsored most of his uploads to main. He has learned quickly and has adjusted himself to feedback. Im also impressed in his hard work on the java packaging for eucalyptus.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Like Mathias I have sponsored a majority of Thierry's uploads to main. I never had a problem with the quality of his contributions.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Say "happiness is hard to find" in a heavier French accent.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I reviewed and sponsored a few uploads of Thierry and I was always impressed with the appreciation of detail. Also I had a few discussion with him around Java packaging and he's doing a great job there.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/squid3/+bug/301960
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dnsmasq/+bug/301581
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tomcat5.5/+bug/212536

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Talk (and blog) more about what he's doing. :-)

=== Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand) ===
==== General feedback ====
I work with Thierry on the Ubuntu Server team and he is always a pleasure to
work with. He has learned a lot about packaging in Ubuntu, and his work with
the Java stack is impressive, especially when considering his coordination with
Debian. I am always pleased with his thoughtfulness and care when dealing with
bugs, patches, uploads and others in the community. I absolutely feel he is
ready for core-dev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apparmor/+bug/357581
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nagios-plugins/+bug/291265
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dnsmasq/+bug/47438
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/dnsmasq/2.41-2ubuntu2.1
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openvpn/+bug/352170

==== Areas of Improvement ====
None I can think of. The few (minor) mistakes he has made along the way he fixed
immediately and hasn't made again. Keep up the great work!

=== SorenHansen ===

==== General feedback ====
While I don't recall doing any sponsoring for Thierry, I have worked closely with him on several occasions, most notably on Eucalyptus. Thierry really benefits from having worked on a Linux distro before. He has a firm grasp of how everything plays together (the different components of an operating system, how changes in one place can impact on others) and has incredibly quickly caught onto the details of Debian/Ubuntu packaging and policies.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I worked closely with Thierry on getting Eucalyptus into Ubuntu.  He did a fantastic job, not only taking care of the technical side of the Java packaging stuff, but staying on top of the vast, complex set of packages involved and really managing that whole side of things. He's was determined and he managed to keep a firm eye on the goal throughout the process.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I honestly can't think of anything. 

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
