{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/thierryn/|thierryn]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''thierryn''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''GPG''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x8F80BF37246DE6A347CD95018F4B8D2612CC71FA|12CC71FA]]</nowiki>
|}

==== About me ====

I'm a french-canadian pre-university student in science. I've been working with linux since around 2001. I tried various distributions like mandriva and fedora until I find ubuntu. I'm using ubuntu since warty and I really appreciate the job that the MOTUs and all the developpers do to make this distribution better.

==== My contribution to ubuntu ====

I fixed about all <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UniverseDesktopFileAbsolutePath|UniverseDesktopFileAbsolutePath]]</nowiki> myself with all the tips and help from seb128.

I sent a couple of patchs for the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Packages/NoDesktopFile|No desktop file]]</nowiki> problem. Some examples of the bugs I've reported for this issue : <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/4899|#4899]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/space-orbit/+bug/5288|#5288]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gnome-sudoku/+bug/5544|#5544]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/grace6/+bug/6726|#6726]]</nowiki> <<BR>> 
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/bugsx/+bug/30110|#30110]]</nowiki> <<BR>><nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gbase/+bug/30113|#30113]]</nowiki>. <<BR>>

I packaged libfxscintilla <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=1470|there]]</nowiki> wich is now in the dapper repository. I also started packaging libfxruby1.4 wich can be found on REVU at <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=1589|this adress]]</nowiki>.

I've also done some translations for the french ubuntu team.

Finally, I do my best to triage here and there when I'm working on launchpad. Some simple examples of my triaging work :  
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/hal/+bug/15105|#15105]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/mozilla-thunderbird/+bug/17951|#17951]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

==== My plans for Ubuntu in the next future ====

I plan to finish packaging libfxruby1.4 once dapper will be released. After that I'd like to package <nowiki>[[http://rubyforge.org/projects/freeride/|freeRIDE]]</nowiki> wich is a ruby code editor written in ruby.

I also plan to continue my work with the french translation team and I'd be interested in helping with the documentation of ubuntu (either in french or in english or both).

I wish to become a MOTU one day to being able to contribute even more to the ubuntu community.

==== Other linux related work ====

I also help triaging bug on the <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/|gnome bugzilla]]</nowiki>.

I sent patchs for a few simple bugs on gnome bugzilla such as: <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=135093|#135093]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=154158|#154158]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=315223|#315223]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
