{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Thierry Fauck is a software engineer that started to use Linux desktop environments since 1993 (Slackware 1.0) and moved to Ubuntu 12.04 (Launchpad member since 2013-07) while working with ppc64le port. Currently Thierry is working at IBM focused on Debian and Ubuntu in the ppc64el (and possible s390x) architectures.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| thf1
|-
| GTalk
| thfautoul@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| thierry@linux.vnet.ibm.com
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~thierry-j
|-
| Github
| https://github.com/tfauck/
|}

=== Contributions ===

I have been working on a different set of Ubuntu areas, most of them focused on ppc64el (and possible s390x) architectures. I have been handling a lot of bugs, most of them from the IBM side, and thus, mirrored from IBM side to launchpad.
Regarding the technical matter, I am working on bug fixing and packages debianization. One of my key focus would be adding new IBM packages in the Ubuntu repositories, as the applications we have for the ppc64el and s390x applications that are still not part of the Ubuntu archives.

=== Future Goals ===

I want to be the technical key guy for Ubuntu on ppc64el and s390x platforms, acting on different fronts to be defined as needed.

=== Testimonials ===

Soon to come
