{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

France, Montpellier (South of France), linux user since 1996 (RedHat 5.0), I've switched to ubuntu 2 years ago. Now, creating my own company along with an old friend from college dealing with OSS, consulting, integrating, supporting OSS solutions for SMEs. Starting with an association, we intend to propose OSS to French SMEs. 

I really believe in Open Source try to involve both personally and with my future company.
Personally, I'm married 31 years old with 1 little boy name Mathew (6 years Old). I achieved a bachelor in computer science (2004), then I worked for an Internet publisher and quit to live/choose my life.

Words that make sense for me :
* Linux
* Open Source
* Stallman 
* Linus
* Lasagnes
* Python
* Gigko Biloba
* Love
* Peace 
* Peace and Love
* Laïcité
* Wiki
* Community

Softwares that make sense for me (at the moment, Sorry I had to cut the list. In fact almost 11000 packages really make sense... :-) within Ubuntu distribution) :
* Schooltool
* Tablix2
* Gnome-pilot
* Evolution
* Thunderbird
* Firefox

What I don't like :
* Poverty
* Human Inegalities
* Market 'Only' economy based system
* Avid shareholders

What I like :
* Internet Communities
* Tolerance
* Respect
* Manage companies with social considerations
* My son's laugh
* My wife's smile

More seriously, contact me at pierre.vannier at gmail dot com for any problematics dealing with Linux/Ubuntu or Open Source Software
