{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

ThinkPad is the generic name for a series of IBM (now Lenovo) laptops.  See general information in the LaptopTestingTeam pages.

== ThinkPad ==
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

ThinkPad is the brand name for a highly successful range of portable laptop and notebook computers originally designed and sold by IBM. Since early 2005 the ThinkPad range has been manufactured and marketed by Lenovo, which purchased the IBM PC division.

The ThinkPad range was introduced at Comdex 1992 using the series designators 300, 500 and 700 (allegedly analogous to the BMW car range and used to indicate market), the 300 series being the "budget", the 500 series "midrange" and the 700 series "high end". This designation continued until the late 1990's when IBM introduced the "T" series as 600/700 series replacements, and the 3,5 and 7 series model designations were phased out for A (3&7) & X (5) series. The A series was later partially replaced by the R series.

Traditionally black in color, ThinkPads feature innovations such as the magnesium or titanium composite, TrackPoint pointing device that allows the performance near that of a mouse, ThinkLight, an LED keyboard light put on the top of the LCD screen, solidly constructed full size keyboard(including the fold-out butterfly keyboard on the 701 models), the Active Protection System, a device that detects when a ThinkPad is falling and shuts the hard drive down to prevent damage, biometric fingerprint reader, dual wireless antennae that allow for more stable connections, and the Client Security Solution that allows for industry standard TPM encryption and password management to counter keylogger spywares. ThinkPads have a reputation mostly for being solidly built and dependable.
