{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The purpose of the report is to convey information to the reviewer, so there is no problem with varying the text in the bullet items, or with adding additional information.

Please be informative, and in particular be thorough in investigating and explaining any weaknesses and problems with the repository. The purpose of the report is to show to the reviewer that the repository has been properly investigated, and to give the reviewer the information from that investigation, for their decision. 

== Identifying Information ==
* repository name
* repository URL; apt lines
* repository driver email (responsive) a
* repository drive lp account for bug escalation

== Description ==
=== Repository Purpose ===

=== Repository Background ===
Include  information regarding usage and existing track record for the repository.

=== targeted releases ===

== Package Info ==
Complete the following sections for each package in the repository

=== Rational ===
Why is this package required

=== Development Release QA Process ===
How is  QA and bug fixing handled for development releases for this package?

=== Stable Release QA Process ===
How is  QA and bug fixing handled for stable releases for this package?

=== Maintenance Type ===
Is the package LTS-only package or will it be shipped for all releases?

=== License ===
What is the license for this package?

=== Stable Release Update Frequency ===
how frequently are packages updated in repositories for stable releases?

=== Launchpad Project ===
the launchpad project you use to track bugs

== Landing Pages ==
please list all landing pages where you plan to place apturl links; also explain where the launchpad "report bug link" is placed on each of those pages

= Archive key +
needs to be either:
## signed by driver lp account gpg key
## for PPAs -> driver has to be owner or admin of the team that owns
  the PPA
  1. link to a https website that proves owner of website is driver of repository 
