{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Generate a GPG key ===

http://www.dewinter.com/gnupg_howto/english/GPGMiniHowto-3.html#ss3.1

Please also see some general guidelines about how to handle your GPG key to keep it secure:
http://www.gnupg.org/gph/en/manual.html#WISE

=== Build a trusted path to distributions ===

This requires a physical identity verification by one of the following

1. Linux Foundation generates key and signs all the manufacturer's keys, distros sign LF's key

1. Distros directly sign the manufacturer's keys (needs physical meeting of a representative of each distro with a representative of each manufacturer)

1. Manufacturer uploads their key fingerprint to a web site with an SSL certificate which has been signed by an official registrar.
 
 In this case distributions cannot just download the key from the keyservers, because its validity cannot be verified automatically. However, a distribution developer can download the key, manually compare the fingerprint with the one mentioned on the web site, and include the GPG key into their distribution packages for driver setup. The distributions can ''not'' just sign the manufacturer's key there, since SSL-based fingerprint verification is much weaker than physical key signing. 

Please see the GnuPG tutorial about key signing for details:

* http://www.dewinter.com/gnupg_howto/english/GPGMiniHowto-1.html#ss1.3
* http://www.dewinter.com/gnupg_howto/english/GPGMiniHowto-3.html#ss3.6

=== Get the GPG key into the keyserver network ===

See "Distributing keys" in the GnuGP handbook:

  http://www.gnupg.org/gph/en/manual.html#AEN464

=== Sign packages/repositories with the key ===

==== deb archives (Debian/Ubuntu/derivatives) ====

GPG signatures happen at two places:

1. Source packages. The signature is contained in the ".dsc" file, which contains the parts of the source packages (tarball, diff), their checksums, and the GPG signature of this information. If you use the "debuild" tool to build your source packages, signing will happen automatically once your key is set up. Otherwise, you can sign a .dsc/_source.changes file pair with "debsign foo_source.changes". Please see "man debsign" for details.
 
 If you use alien to generate .debs from RPMs instead of having real Debian source packages, this step is not needed.
 
1. Archives. All .debs in an archive are listed in the "Packages.gz" file together with their checksums. In Ubuntu's archive http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/lucid/ you see all Packages.gz files and their checksums listed in the "Release" file of the archive. The Release file needs to be signed to provide a standalone signature. This signature is available in the Release.gpg file which can then be verified for integrity with the manufacturer's public GPG key.

 For an example, see http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/lucid/ (the Release and Release.gpg files). apt does the signature check automatically.

The paths are examples for the Ubuntu archives. Generally they are composed as follows:

  http(s)://<fully-qualified domain>/<path to archives>/dists/<distribution>/

The archives of OpenPrinting are located at

  http://www.openprinting.org/download/printdriver/debian/dists/lsb3.2/

Note that these archives are not signed (no Release.gpg file).

==== RPM archives (RedHat/SUSE/derivatives) ====

RPM packages are signed with

  rpm --addsign <package file> ...

See further instructions via

  man rpm

sections "SIGNING A PACKAGE" and "USING GPG TO SIGN PACKAGES".
