{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Name -''' Thomas Crowe 
* '''Location -''' San Juan Bautista, CA USA 
* '''OS -''' Xubuntu, Debian. 
* '''Project(s) -''' Xubuntu. 
* '''Email -''' thomas@crowenix.net 
* '''IRC -''' The-Kernel @ irc.freenode.org 
* '''launchpad -''' https://launchpad.net/~thomascrowe
* '''GPG -''' 603632D9

==== About Me ====

Hi, my name is Thomas I'm from California, USA. I've been into Ubuntu since late 2005. I got started in Linux when I got my first computer which had Red Hat 8 installed on it. However I only recently started to really get into developing Linux/Ubuntu.

==== Projects ====

I've mainly stuck with Xubuntu and helped out in developing there. I am pretty new to this stuff and I know very little C/C++ code, however I plan on learning and using it for developing Ubuntu. I have helped on on debugging for Feisty Fawn, and right now I'm mainly into documentation of which I have enjoyed helping. I am also heavily involved in technical support for #xubuntu of which I've been a part of since December 2006.

==== Skills ====

Like I stated before I'm new to coding but I can do some.

I thoroughly know HTML and CSS.

I'm learning Python, C, and C++. I am hoping to volunteer for a project that needs Python programmers so that I can further learn this great language.

One of my most used and polished is Networking, I have done some networking with Ubuntu/debian systems for a few companies.

==== Education ====

I received my High School Diploma in June 2007, and currently attend a Community College and I hope to later attend a University in the subject of Computer Science and Mathematics.

==== Thanks ====

I would like to thank the Xubuntu team for letting me help them so that I can learn how to code. I would also like to thank maxamillion because he's been a good mentor and teacher to me. I want to thank CodySomerville for letting my use his page layouts. :P
