{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

   
  Hi, I am Thor Halvorsen, I am currently a Sociology major at Gallaudet University, got introduced to Linux by Kevin Cole, and have been "hooked" since. I enjoy learning, and eventually would like to Port UBUNTU to my Jornada 680 handheld. I today just ported Ubuntu to one of the newer aquisitions I got from around campus. I am hoping to work with existing and newly formed organizations to assist in the spreading of the infectuousness that Linux passed on to me, how Linux can help many people in so many ways, both educationally, socially, and economically. 

    There exists an educational divide, where incomes for schools are based upon land taxes, not federal taxes, therefore the richer parts of town get more money per student than the poorer neighboring areas. This is an institutional injustice, an injustice I feel is not acceptable, and finally has a recognizeable solution in Linux. Horray for Linux! Horray for Ubuntu, and those other efforts to lessen the waste and irresponsible management due to ignorance that causes many to throw out computers just because MS_world said that your computer isn't good enough for their up-duh-date software, they need new guinea pigs for their latest releases! I like Linux for the unparalleled support and community awareness they support and foster in others similar social obligations, both environmentally, socially, and humanely. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Links are Links, of course, of Course:

There are a few businesses in the area that are becoming quite interested in Ubuntu and its spin-offs. Some are still learning Linux themselves, but are willing to offer affordable support to non-profits, and others with a limited budget.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.citidc.com/|Community IT Innovators (CITI)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.pcretro.com/webstore/catalog/|PCRetro.com]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ceo4u.com/|Community Empowerment Operations (CEO)]]</nowiki>
(Borrowed from DCTEAM website)

=== Contact Info ===
See my <nowiki>[[#0|Launchpad Profile]]</nowiki>^0^.

=== Teams and Projects ===

* <nowiki>[[DCTeam|Washington, DC]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[EdubuntuWiki|Edubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AccessibilityTeam|Accessibility Team]]</nowiki>
(Borrowed from Kevin Cole's Site- Thanks)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

==============================================================================================================================  ==
PROGRESS AND INPUT BLOG
December 13th, 2005

I decided to change to including the most recent entry at the top, than if interested can read further on the bottom. In agreement with Kevin Cole, both of us being founders of the Linux For Social justice concept, have jointly decided to phase out Linux for Social Justice, and merge our concept ideas with Ubuntu-DCteam, and Edubuntu. So here's to the effort and the challenge.  

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(28th October 2005:
 Burned the ISO of Edubuntu using a Dell Inspiron 8500 DVD/Cdrw combo drive, the iso seemed ok, booted in the Dell Poweredge 4400 server, made partitions but fauled when installing the base system while it was installing all the files during the installation process. 

 1. Possible relation to the disc burner itself, having a higher density thus resulting in maybe a flawed burn? (though the disc did sucessfully boot and as before-mentioned, was in the middle of the install process.

 2. The Edubuntu was not compatable with the server since it is probly not considered Legacy in any way, (<5 years old), and is a server, not a desktop computer, with Raid and SCSI infrastructure. 

 3. Possible botched or bad partitioning on my part?

 4. Possible issue that I am not technically savy enough to diagnose?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

October 28th, 2005:
--  SUCCESS!! I installed UBUNTU version 5.04, successfully on a P3 small dell Dimension desktop tower, formerly having windows 2000 professional, which I wiped both for security reasons (if being windows is enough of cause, but it being an older op system makes it doubly vunerable) and because I wanted a linux system, which I believe will make the computer soo much better :) I am sure the computer is better off now with Linux anyways. For the installation I'll note:

No problems in hardware recognition, installation process, and did recognize the network and succeeded updating upon reboot, all is GO!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

UPDATE on Edubuntu entry of October 28th...
October 29th, 2005

Kevin Cole informed me that he burned a copy of Edubuntu for himself, and runs fine, though had difficulty recognizing the network, probly due to recognizing his wireless first, not his physical line internet. 

I am going to see about reburning Edubuntu this time at a lower speed??

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
October 29, 2005

Also Bugzilla note: Firefox in Ubuntu 5.04 Installed on Harddrive.

On that Ubuntu installation (version 5.04) on the aboved mentioned Dell Dimension L866r desktop, p3 system, I noticed an error with FireFox, when you attempt to download a program (in my case limewire and YahooMessenger), I encountered the following error...

XML Parsing Error: Not well-formed

Location: chrome://mozapps/content/downloads/unknownContentType.xul

Line Number 1, Column2:

k(aSavedToDisk)
-^

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Also noted, on the Ubuntu System mentioned above,I installed and ran the Epiphany Web browser, and the above mentioned error did not appear, and successfully downloaded the files, though noted is that it claimed no program to view RPM files was installed, so couldnt download Yahoo like I wanted. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OCT 29, 2005

Here is suggestion, for grammar checking capabilities, I suggest upon installation of Ubuntu version 5.04, one package you might be interested in is Abiword, which will give you pretty good grammar checker formidable to MSword. I noted that OpenOffice did not come with a grammar checker. Abiword is an included package in Ubuntu, but still advisable to update the actual Abiword package since they added to the dictionary and thesaurus for Abiword.
 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
November 17, 2005

Note: I added another harddrive which the FSTAB has located, but I seem not to be able to get it to mount in the /mnt, also am having some trouble mounting it. Here is a look at the FSTAB:

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<pre>
 
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
/dev/hda1       /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/hda6       /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/hda5       none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 ro,user,noauto  0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

</pre>
 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Also noted, I cannot seem to mount a CD anymore.. says device doesnt exist, yet there it is in the FSTAB. Hmm. I am open for duh moments and any insideous laughter moments as it is probly something stupid I just forgotten to do, out of practice it seems. 
Noted also, I have been playing with the hardware some, trying to connect a secondary IDE card to the computer to attach additional Harddrives. The computer has yet to recognize the card though. Any help in getting the bios and all Linux to recognize the seconary IDE card (and the drives attached to it) would be my hero :)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DECEMBER 8th, 2005

As for the noted error above about mounting the CD, my CD drive was at fault, not Ubuntu. Also I had trouble mounting  version 5.10 from CD, found the CD drive I was using had errors in about 3 GB out of the 8gb on the disc. The partitino could read it, but when came to actual writing upon the harddrive, it came up short (errors). Ordered, and changing the Harddrive. (Sad to note, this new drive also had some error, so returning it for new drive). 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
