{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Colorado Technology In Education (TIE) Conference Info ==

=== Announcements ===

==== May 30, 2007 ====
I heard from Canonical today that they will pony up the cash for a booth in the exhibition hall. I think this will be a great opportunity to spread the word about ubuntu. We plan to have a working thin-client set up at the booth (2-3 terminals and the server) to show everyone the basic idea. Canonical is also sending/has sent a conference kit with goodies to give away. If anyone has any other ideas for the booth please share them. Also, sign up below if you will be spending any time at the conference and can help with the booth.

==== May 20, 2007 ====
<nowiki>[[Ubucon-Boulder|Ubucon Boulder]]</nowiki> will take place on Saturday, June 2. Among other things, part of the time will be devoted to discussing, planning and/or developing content for TIE. Visit the wiki page to learn more and sign up.

==== May 18, 2007 ====
The second planning meeting was held today. A brief summary of outcomes is listed below.

==== May 15, 2007 ====
Attention: The next planning meeting is scheduled for May 18 (Friday) at 6:00pm at the Saxby's in Loveland (west of I-25 on 34 in the Chili's shopping center). See below for more info.

==== General notes ====
''Note: This page was moved from the corresponding section of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JimHutchinson?action=recall&rev=34 since this seems like a better place.  But the wiki.ubuntu.com pages referred to from there need to be moved or linked to differently from here - e.g. people's home pages and pages like http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AstronomySampleLessons  Perhaps there is already a place for the latter pages or perhaps they should be organized as subpages of a "SampleLessons" page here?''

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JimHutchinson|Jim Hutchinson]]</nowiki>, a media specialist at Windsor High School in Colorado,
signed up to give a 3-hour presentation on "Open Source Solutions for Classroom Instruction" at Colorado's Technology In Education (TIE) Conference in June 2007.
We will also have an Ubuntu booth at the conference.  This page is for organizing the presentation, demos and booth.

See more info about the conference itself on the TIE web site <nowiki>[[http://www.tiecolorado.org/]]</nowiki>

=== Date and Time ===

* '''Conference Dates''': June 19-22, 2007
* '''Place''': Copper Mountain, Colorado
* '''Our Session''': Open Source Solutions for Classroom Instruction
* '''Session Time''': June 19, 2007 @ 1:00 - 4:00 pm
* '''Session Room''': Wheeler C, Copper Station, 50 seats, Windows Lab

=== Related teams and web pages ===

* <nowiki>[[Edubuntu/Launchpad/Teams]]</nowiki>
* EdubuntuSchoolSupport
* <nowiki>[[BETTShow2007]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-study-content|Launchpad edubuntu-study-content team]]</nowiki> - to create lesson plans and training for teachers
* <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/school-advocacy/C/index.html|Edubuntu School Advocacy pamphlet for 7.10]]</nowiki>

=== Planning Meetings, Goals and Updates ===

==== Goals Developed at Planning Meeting on May 9 ====

* Develop an overall presentation model with handouts and other materials as appropriate
* Develop a list of ed apps and sample lessons/tutorials (volunteer below by May 14)
* Develop a wiki (on appropriate host such as Ubuntu) to collect and organize content and as a point of access for conference attendees and anyone else
* Develop a list of community members willing to assist school and district personal in their area with Ubuntu or ed related FOSS (ie. mentors or adopt-a-school model)
* Assess hardware needs during TIE session (ie. thin-client server with apps)
* Assess hardware needs for booth or table throughout the entire conference

==== Outcomes from the Second Planning Meeting on May 18 ====

===== OBJECTIVES: =====

* Identifying ed apps (I’d like to find 20+ good apps)
* How to write a short lesson
* Appropriate location to host the lessons
* How to involve the broader FOSS community
* Staffing booth/table at TIE
* Alternative to running a thin-client during the FOSS session (the TIE overlords are not open to us bringing our own server)
* Others?

===== OUTCOMES: =====

* Developed a list of about 30 apps on which to focus. These were added to the TIEColorado wiki.
* It was decided that the <nowiki>[[Lessons|Lessons]]</nowiki> wiki was the appropriate place to host the lessons - at least for now.
* David will contact the other local teams to see if there are others interested in adding to the pool of lessons.
* Jim will follow-up With Mark Murphy (of Canonical) to see about Canonical support for a boot at TIE. This was tentatively agreed to by Mark Shuttleworth so it's a matter of following through.
* David, Bryan and Jim will try to cover most or all of the booth time (Wed and Thurs). Others are welcome and encouraged.
* A table will be set up near the session room with a couple computers connected to the thin-client server and staffed from around noon to 5:00 on the 19th as a demo for others who cannot attend and to extend the time during which the thin-client can be seen in action.
* The same thin-client sever will be set up at the booth on Wed and Thurs.
* We still need to collect info on the lab setup at TIE. In the event it is wireless, we will be prepared to wire it rather than try and boot over wireless.
* Touch base with Leon to see what he has found out about the lab setup and the willingness of ISC to support our takeover of the lab for the session.

=== Community (CoLoCo) Opportunities to Help ===

In order to give FOSS and Ubuntu as much publicity at the TIE conference as possible, we are in need of volunteers. There are several ways in which you can participate.

==== I AM PLANNING TO ATTEND THE FOSS SESSION AND HELP ====

If you would like to lend a hand during the actual session on June 19, please add your name and contact info (launchpad page, email, etc) below including if you plan to stay for one or more days and whether or not you will be able to help man the booth that Canonical is sponsoring. The booth is open Wed-Thurs, June 20-21 from around 10-4 plus time to set up and tear down.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''CoLoCo Members Helping at TIE'''
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Contact Info'''
| '''# of Days'''
| '''Help with Booth'''
|-
| Jim Hutchinson (session presentor)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jimhutchinson]]</nowiki>
| June 18-22
| Yes - both days, various times
|-
| DavidOvercash (ColoradoTeam Lead)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~funnylookinhat]]</nowiki>
| June 19 (Maybe 20 Too)
|-
| Bryan Gartner (session presentor)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bwgartner]]</nowiki>
| June 18-22
|-
| Leon Jaimes (volunteer)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slyride]]</nowiki>
| June 18-20
|-
| Neal McBurnett (volunteer)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nealmcb]]</nowiki>
| maybe
|}

==== I CAN HELP DEVELOP LESSONS OR TUTORIALS OF SOFTWARE PACKAGES ====

Another way to help is to select an application that has education merit and develop a lesson and/or tutorial for participants to use during the session (stay tuned for an example).

Begin by selecting a content area and application (those listed are only suggestions - feel free to add others) and assign yourself to it. Once you have a lesson developed, add a link to the lesson. Lessons are now being collected on the <nowiki>[[Lessons|lessons]]</nowiki> wiki page. Help on writing learning goals and objectives can be found at http://www.ion.illinois.edu/Resources/tutorials/id/developObjectives.asp

To choose topics it can be helpful to review the Colorado State standards (learning objectives) for your subject areas. These are categorized by grade level at http://www.education-world.com/standards/state/co/index.shtml#fine

Pay close attention to the deadlines.
* '''May 14''': Assign yourself to an application(s)
* '''May 28''': Develop and publish your lesson(s) (your own wiki is fine for now)
* '''June 4''': All lessons tested and proofed (do not proof your own)
* '''June 11''': All lessons considered final and ready for the public

===== OPEN SOURCE APPS FOR EDUCATION: Technology in Education - CoLoCo/HP Project:: =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - Science'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| Astronomy
| Celestia
| WirtWolff
| AstronomySampleLessons
| 
|-
| Astronomy
| Stellarium
| WirtWolff
| AstronomySampleLessons
| 
|-
| Chemistry
| Kalzium
| JimHutchinson
| https://wiki.edubuntu.org/Lessons/Kalzium
| 
|-
| Chemistry
| Chemical Calculator
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|-
| Physics/EE
| Electrical CAD
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|-
| Physics/EE
| Gwave
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|-
| Physics/EE
| KiCad
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - Math'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| Geometry
| Kig
| JimHutchinson
| TBA
| 
|-
| Statistics
| r
| JimHutchinson
| TBA
| 
|-
| Algebra
| KmPlot
| DavidOvercash
| TBA
| 
|-
| Algebra
| Koctave
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|-
| Arithmetic
| Sudoku
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - History'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| History/Geography
| KGeography
| WirtWolff
| HistorySampleLessons
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - Music'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| Composition
| Lilly Pond
| unassigned
| TBA
|-
| Composition
| hydrogen
| unassigned
| TBA
|-
| Audio Mixing
| Jack
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|-
| Digital DJ
| Mixxx
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|-
| MIDI/audio sequencer
| Muse
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|-
| Music Editor
| Rosegarden
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|-
| Ear Training
| Solfege
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - Art'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| Graphic Design
| GIMP
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - PE'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| ?
| ?
| ?
| ?
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - Technology'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| Programming
| Anjuta
| unassigned
| TBA
| 
|-
| Typing
| ?
| ?
| TBA
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - Ed Games (drill and practice)'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| Various
| Jeopardy
| Bryan Gartner
| TBA
|-
| Math
| ?
| ?
| TBA
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - Web Collaboration'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| Web Design
| Nvu
| unassigned
| TBA
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''Sample Lesson Plan Assignments - Other'''
|-
| ''Subject''
| ''Application''
| ''Owner''
| ''URL''
| ''Proofed By''
|-
| ?
| ?
| ?
| ?
|}

 
----
CategoryConferenceAppearance
