{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Announcements ===

* --(We will have an informational meeting for anyone interested during the Natty Narwhal Release Party on Sunday, May 1.)--
* Sign up below to be a volunteer.
* Set up of the lab will be on Tuesday (6/21) at 1:30 until whenever unless there are conflicts. Watch this space for updates. We will be setting up in the Jacques Peak room. I currently do not know where that is but shouldn't be too hard to find once up there.

=== Description (as advertised to conference attendees) ===

'''Linux and Free Software Playground'''

New this year at TIE is the Linux and Free Software Playground. This fully staffed, open access lab features computers stocked with a variety of free educational programs. Stop in at your convenience. Staff will be available to help you or feel free to just explore. The lab is open 8:00-4:00 on Wednesday and Thursday in the Mountain Plaza – Jacques Peak room. Several software demonstrations and Q & A sessions are also planned. See the schedule below for times.

=== Date and Time ===

* '''Conference Dates''': June 21-24, 2011
* '''Place''': Copper Mountain, Colorado (in the Jacques Peak room which it was moved to from Union Peak)

Wed, June 22
* 9:00 am – Graphics, animation and audio editing tools
* 11:00 am – A planetarium on your desktop: hands on with Stellarium and other science software
* 1:00 pm – Amazing math tools
* 3:00 pm – Out with the old (Office) in with the new and free

Thurs, June 23
* 11:00 am – Linux and LTSP thin-clients for IT staff: getting your own lab set up
* 1:00 pm – Secure wireless mesh on the cheap (tentative)
* 3:00 pm – Open discussion with schools using Free Software

=== Volunteers ===

Please add your name below to indicate you planning to help out during either day or during the setup day which is June 21 in the afternoon (no set time yet). More than 3 people can volunteer. If the slots fill up just add another.

Lab set up on June 21 will be at 1:30. Watch the announcements above for any changes.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''I'm planning to help'''
|-
| Lab setup on June 21
| Jim Hutchinson
| Nick Post
| Diane Leikvold
| your name here
|-
| Anytime Wed June 22
| Jim Hutchinson
| Bryan Gartner
| Diane Leikvold
| David L. Willson
|-
| Anytime Thurs June 23
| Jim Hutchinson
| Bryan Gartner
| Diane Leikvold
| your name here
|-
| Lab take down June 23
| Jim Hutchinson
| Bryan Gartner
| Diane Leikvold
| your name here
|}

==== Volunteering to Run a Demo ====

Please sign up for a demo you would be willing to run. See the list above for general ideas. Anything you can fit into one or more of them is fine. Email Jim for more info.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%">'''CoLoCo Members Helping at TIE'''
|-
| Times
| '''Wed June 22'''
| '''Thurs June 23'''
|-
| 9:00
| your name here
| your name here
|-
| 11:00
| David L. Willson
| your name here
|-
| 1:00
| David L. Willson
| your name here
|-
| 3:00
| Diane Leikvold
| your name here
|}

No specific demo, but Bryan Gartner will be bringing 150 copies of http://www.theopendisc.com/education/
