{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Compile TiLP from source ==

=== What is tilp? ===

TiLP is a program that allows you to connect a TI-graphing calculator to your computer. To use TiLP you need some sort of cable between the computer and the calculator. For information about obtaining such a cable check out: 

http://www.ticalc.org/hardware/cables/

=== Install using apt: ===

If you run breezy badger you can do:
<pre>
sudo aptitude install tilp
</pre>
However this pre-compiled version of tilp did not work for me, instead I got lots of errors similair to:
<pre>
(tilp:23563): libglade-WARNING **: could not find signal handler 'on_get_idlist1 _activate'.

(tilp:23563): libglade-WARNING **: could not find signal handler 'on_treev
</pre>

=== Compiling from source: ===

To fix this problem(which makes TiLP unusable) I decided to compile from source. This page describes how this can be done, in case other people run in to the same problem as I did!

First I removed the apt-version of tilp by typing:
<pre>
sudo aptitude remove tilp
</pre>
Now I downloaded the latest(stable) source-version of tilp, openbox and obconf from:

Tilp: http://lpg.ticalc.org/prj_tilp/linux.html

Openbox: http://icculus.org/openbox/

Obconf: http://tr.openmonkey.com/pages/obconf

Next step was to: 
<pre>
sudo aptitude install libtifiles0-dev libstartup-notification0-dev libticalcs4-dev libgtk2.0-dev
</pre>

Now I opened a terminal and did: 

<pre>
tar -zxvf <openbox filename>
cd <openbox directory> 
./configure
make
sudo make install
cd ..

tar -zxvf <obconf filename>
cd <obconf directory>
./configure
make
sudo make install

finally I unpacked the latest stable tilp-version and did
tar -zxvf <tilp filename>
cd <tilp directory>
./configure
make
sudo make install
</pre>

and now I can start tilp from a console by typing:
tilp

=== Known issues: ===

For this to work you will need a working compiling-environment installed.

/ Onaka
