{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== TimeWarp File Change Monitor ==

The File Change Monitor is the primary application in the TimeWarp Suite. It is responsible for 

# Reading the <nowiki>[[TimeWarpConfig|config]]</nowiki> files.
# Establishing live watches on the appropriate file systems and directories.
# Starting the <nowiki>[[TimeWarpScheduler|Scheduler]]</nowiki> as a sub process with appropriate arguments.
# Adding appropriate items to the master queue as files change in the watched directories.

The iNotify library is used to monitor the file system for changes. 

=== iNotify Events ===
The iNotify library geneates a number of different events when files are changed - the Table attempts to categorise these in terms of what applications trigger which events, and how they are recorded in the queue.

Table still to be tested

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Unix Event'''
| '''Pre Condition''
| '''iNotify Events'''
| '''queue action'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| touch <file>
| File does not exist
| 
| 
| 
|-
| touch <file>
| File does exist
| 
| 
| 
|-
| cp <srcfile> <destfile>
| dest file does not exist
| 
| 
| 
|-
| cp <srcfile> <destfile>
| dest file does exist
| 
| 
| 
|-
| mv <srcfile> <destfile>
| dest file does not exist
| 
| 
| 
|-
| mv <srcfile> <destfile>
| dest file does exist
| 
| 
| 
|-
| rm <file>
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| ln <source> <target>
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Edit file (gedit, emacs, kate)
| file does not exist
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Edit file (gedit, emacs, kate)
| file does exist
| 
| 
| 
|}
