{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu ==

=== GNOME ===
Status= Working

TimeVault is natively a GNOME app and was built for Ubuntu, but it should work on an standards-compliant GNOME.

=== KDE ===
Status= Working (Using GNOME Libraries)

Native KDE Client: Exists on the design board (Look below)

From http://gentoo-wiki.com/TIP_D-BUS_Session_Bus_with_KDM:

<pre>
if test -z "$DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS" ; then
##### if not found, launch a new one
        eval `dbus-launch --sh-syntax --exit-with-session`
fi
</pre>

Note that if you have not installed GNOME, the following may affect you: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kde4libs/+bug/118919

Since dbus in KDELibs does not include dbus-launch, you need to install dbus-X11. It cannot be made a dependency for the .deb since the Ubuntu-Feisty installations don't have it in the repositories.

Nautilus integration is unavailable if you are using another file manager.

I am not aware of an extensions system for Konqueror, but Snapshot Browser could be made more friendly to being used as a browser of sorts.

-> What extensions are you looking for? Editing the RMB menu has always been possible with just a .desktop file, I dunno about changing the file properties menu though. 'extensions' for konqueror are for the webbrowser functionality, like in firefox.

==== KDE Port ====

Now that TimeVault is using a dbus interface with a server/frontend type interface, it might be interesting to create a kde/qt gui or even a kioslave to navigate TimeVault in KDE.

From https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~astromme/timevault/timevault-kde4
After working a little bit on HAL support in the timevault-external branch, I have a bunch of ideas.

First of all, I want to have a Qt4/KDE4 based version of TimeVault. I will try and keep the core as Desktop Environment independent as possible, but I would like a KDE4 gui as well.

Secondly, I want TimeVault to be integrated. This means Solid, Nepomuk, all of the fun frameworks =).

Some ideas:

* TimeVault should have a kio-slave for browsing snapshots.
* Maybe TimeVault should register with Strigi/Nepomuk so that other apps can be made aware of the snapshots
* Maybe TimeVault should handle contact backups/other configuration backups via Akonadi and KConfig rather than relying on files.
* TimeVault might be able to use Solid instead/in addition to HAL to check for media and to manage where backups are stored.
* More ideas?

=== XFCE4.0 ===

== ArchLinux ==

=== XFCE4.0 ===
Status= Problematic

Currently not working, there is a D-BUS problem, everything works minus the timevaultNotifier.py, which is important. Also, the timevault daemon wont start.

== Fedora 7 ==
Status -- In the works.

Packager -- Andrew Schott (andrew at harmonizedcomputing dot com)

== CentOS 5 ==
Status -- In the works.

Packager -- Andrew Schott (andrew at harmonizedcomputing dot com)

== Gentoo ==
Status -- Working with some tweaks

=== Depends: ===
* gksu
* gnome-python
* wxglade
* nautilus-open-terminal
* notify-python
* pygobject
* pango
* pysqlite
* python-mhash (not sure)
* pygtk
* sha1
* sudo

=== Installation ===

Simply unpack the .deb so that you have usr and etc folder.

Then cp -R etc/* /etc && cp -R usr/* /usr

=== Config sudo: ===

==== nano /etc/sudoers ====

Change:

Defaults env_reset to #Defaults env_reset

Add your user:

[user] ALL=(ALL) ALL

=== Config dbus: ===

This it not very clear, but when it'll not run try it:

==== nano /etc/dbus-1/system.conf ====

Replace deny with allow, looks at the end so:

  <policy context="default">
    <!-- Deny everything then punch holes -->
    <allow send_interface="*"/>
    <allow receive_interface="*"/>
    <allow own="*"/>
    <!-- But allow all users to connect -->
    <allow user="*"/>
    <!-- Allow anyone to talk to the message bus -->
    <!-- FIXME I think currently these allow rules are always implicit
         even if they aren't in here -->
    <allow send_destination="org.freedesktop.DBus"/>
    <allow receive_sender="org.freedesktop.DBus"/>
    <!-- valid replies are always allowed -->
    <allow send_requested_reply="true"/>
    <allow receive_requested_reply="true"/>
  </policy>

=== Fix init.d: ===

==== nano /etc/init.d/timevault ====

* Replace . /lib/lsb/init-functions with #. /lib/lsb/init-functions
* Replace log_begin_msg "Starting TimeVault..." with #log_begin_msg "Starting TimeVault..."
* Replace log_end_msg 0 with #log_end_msg 0
* Replace log_begin_msg "Stopping TimeVault..." with #log_begin_msg "Stopping TimeVault..."
* Replace log_end_msg 0 with #log_end_msg 0
* Delete || log_end_msg 1 on line 22 and 28

Contact: gwydion.dot [at] morrigan [dot] ch (email and jabber)
