{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Tim Gardner, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev|Ubuntu Core Development Team]]</nowiki> team membership, to reinstate upload rights for Ubuntu packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Tim Gardner
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~timg-tpi
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimGardner
|}

== Who I am ==

I'm a Kernel Developer with the Ubuntu Kernel Team. I started with Canonical the first time in Feb 2007 as a Kernel engineer. I was a kernel team technical lead for a number of years. Due to circumstances beyond my control I left Canonical April 2017. I returned in Feb 2021. My current role as kernel engineer is primarily focused on cloud customer support (AWS, Oracle, Azure).

== My Ubuntu story ==

As an independent software contractor I had encountered a number of projects having to do with Linux device driver development, primarily in the then nascent wireless 802.11 technologies. I thought it would be interesting to make a living working with open source full time. One of my first projects with Canonical was to kick start our device enablement program with Dell, a partner with whom we still have strong ties.

=== My involvement ===

I work on the Cloud Kernel Team for Ubuntu. I assist with the preparation, packaging, and testing of Ubuntu's cloud kernels.

I implement features requested by our cloud provider customers. Most recently I have developed Intel SGX support (see linux-base-sgx) for Azure kernels. I review mailing list patches and sometimes work on Launchpad bugs.

=== Sponsoring ===
This URL will generate a list of packages that I've sponsored as a core-dev prior to April 2017: https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Tim+Gardner&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=&sponsoree_search=name

This URL will generate a list of packages that I've prepared and have had sponsored: https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Tim+Gardner&sponsoree_search=name Note the packages that I've had sponsored since Feb 2021.

=== Upload Rights ===
I'm requesting reinstatement of CoreDev rights that I allowed to expire. I did not have access to Canonical email after April 2017 and did not receive notice of team expiration. My focus will be on kernel and kernel related packages, though I have engaged in +1 maintenance in the past as time allowed. I've prepared a number of packages in the last 6 months. I feel that my packaging skills are at least back to a level where I won't do something stupid and wreck the archive.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
----
