{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Tim Gardner, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Tim Gardner
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~timg-tpi
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimGardner
|}

== Who I am ==

I have been a kernel and device driver developer since 1984. I got involved with Linux in the early days by writing one of the first full MAC wireless drivers for the Spectrum 802.11b PCMCIA adapter. Soon afterwards I began working on PCI bus master drivers. In February 2007 I became a Canonical kernel team member. My first project was platform enablement for Dell. By January 2008 I was sufficiently skilled with kernel and ancillary Debian packaging that I was granted Core Dev rights. I left Canonical in April 2017, then returned February 2021. During that period I allowed my Core Dev status to expire for lack of access to my Canonical email. I am now focused on cloud kernel development and support, often working directly with our cloud partners. I currently have 9 kernel packages for which I am responsible for packaging and uploading.

=== Packages I have uploaded and have had sponsored ===

This URL will generate a list of packages that I've sponsored or uploaded as a core-dev prior to April 2017: https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Tim+Gardner&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=&sponsoree_search=name

This URL will generate a list of packages that I've prepared and have had sponsored: https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Tim+Gardner&sponsoree_search=name Note the packages that I've had sponsored since Feb 2021.

=== Upload Rights ===
I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader (smb) ===

==== General Feedback ====

For the past cycle the kernels prepared by Tim have been good to upload
without any change. Generally Tim knows the ways of Debian packaging and
that can in some cases be a bit of a burden because nowadays everything
is integrated into a number of processes and one can no longer shoehorn
things into just building. So with the advice of rather resorting to
discuss things which seem not straight forward than fixing them some
way, I think we should go ahead an add Tim to the kernel PPU list.

I am +1 for adding Tim to the kernel PPU list.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQIzBAEBCgAdFiEE2118yvOZTjOV2k0+6Gdd7svuzqMFAmGnRasACgkQ6Gdd7svu
zqMuOg/+JldANaKDaL80IMlkJKxPFVUgrirggSXDBkplPFu3U74k+SaOXLC3F6jk
7r6DjQE/dibt20nPXnrTlSDii/KN2Whvx1vxp9rnJJR7LfS3qheIgL7pCHrUCt9U
B2YFSedSGaULjLHxaalIL0wyQQQ5lFKoGSUOxi+FuEoYCnl+Bf4cdE7rqpCXMY7j
sXKZux069miWlAPqGhiHupqNnceRsbXP1NMsvb1HixurqYb9ozK+1LFkboti14gY
S+FNz2gGinUwYt/ZjaGZChuICscDhJXdrv9TU9c+JmKesRjWLG97gTNhMc+COXLu
Rpou9yNy4bWveyzE0+oHcDiJw+n7gnTUcQ3cNPGJJpYwDHrwyu6N8nMuaGvxOOPy
uJ2MeVquDwM9GsHj+E25XvKMHozWG0zNu9dbLYkzXKhs7pU010y+y+5JxwTsWkHl
hlUwS6C9A5w2Yi80x6wcs1W12Wl/GysuoHQuN4NVA+IVJ9TFv7WVJCQHWQCSwDE1
4Kd7KQ8OihDB1wZjeaRN01H4U+deRKYPz0v6rL4E1h3JY+wWRUd80BwWouI+Wd+5
Gox4rl6lSGJQPtedstKExgJqLxcCL8L0L+AMPFHz+lq+IVRyBExwsMXLK7GXlqiK
Anxt8AgUFbnirCjRTzXY7RapP/uqK5cS8/kHUb15yyuR5JX5Npk=
=RvHx
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

=== Kleber Souza (kleber-souza) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have reviewed and sponsored several kernel packages from Tim during the last months and I have found no issues with them recently. Tim already have several years of prior experience with the Kernel Team work and Debian packaging, I believe he has caught up with the most recent changes on tooling and procedures and is ready to upload kernels on his own.

I'm +1 for granting Tim per-package upload rights for kernels packages.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQEzBAEBCAAdFiEE8u2tbvu5Bl/TA9thRqrzNXDhFisFAmGnYwoACgkQRqrzNXDh
FiveSQf6A81AV4iD/y6kROMXda8SKuaLa1Sy6gbRFcG5DkQIljfjnY+1Fj8sV5s6
Ctzg/wXJX2yO+ttCy2CLJNkmeTU+g4f8tKfsMEFZ8WCdAMo7f5vZTuAmgAaHP8AL
0756AiGNJ7uHBf+t9dgVFF+KUHUaPTrKAU7bOm7SZZbVFX4VMad8RqNbzWpiV1eK
MbnJUswMBzhv6LSO9bm6hmqrsI0InO1aWu+h6/YAclM0BtBxOIY3iBSTqd1k9OJH
qy8oCSjDYPjXbKSngEpbP66a5VuBRRyzth9J3hX563wRVHsadU1GAo4FAslsG6VZ
disIz0baSb4wEfznMzfRxQ2VtM0nDw==
=KFRu
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Kelsey Skunberg (KelseyS) ===
==== General feedback ====

I have sponsored a large group of Tim's cranks. I confidently feel he is ready
to earn upload rights. Tim has demonstrated to have plenty of knowledge of our
SRU process and can accurately apply patches and crank kernels. He's shown to
be aware of many of the errors that can occur and knows how to properly fix
them. I'm sure Tim will remain cautious and double check work before uploading.
Strong +1.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=NNOL
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
