{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Tim Lunn, apply for ubuntu-desktop packageset.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Tim Lunn
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~darkxst
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimLunn
|}

There is a large amount of overlap between the ubuntu-desktop packageset and Ubuntu GNOME, it would help greatly if I had upload rights to these packages. I have worked closely with the desktop team over the years and many of these packages. It goes without saying that I would not upload anything major/transitions/breaking api etc without discussions with the desktop team.

== Who I am ==
I'm a long-time linux enthusiast and gnome-shell fan, that spends my free time, messing around with GNOME. I am the technical Lead for Ubuntu GNOME.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I have been using Ubuntu since way back to the Warty days (before that I used debian for years), for the most part I was content with gnome2, I just took whatever I was given and just existed as a 'user'. Then came gnome-shell, I was somewhat excited by this and saw great potential, however at the time it was really quite broken on Ubuntu. Ultimately this was my trigger to getting involved in GNOME and now Ubuntu.

At the time, I started out messing around with a few gnome-shell extensions, then writing extensions, which led to fixing upstream GNOME bugs. By the time Jeremy announced Ubuntu GNOME remix, I had quite a good understanding of the gnome-shell stack, and needless to say that came in very handy in getting the first Ubuntu GNOME Release together!

== My involvement ==
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Have been involved with the Ubunhttps://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/Alpha1/UbuntuGNOME?action=edit&editor=texttu GNOME project since the start.

For Ubuntu GNOME Remix 12.10 (Unoffical), I fixed quite a large number of blocker bugs during our very short dev cycle for this release.

During Saucy cycle I took over Technical Lead for Ubuntu GNOME.

Packaging on gnome3 PPA's. 

Have contributed alot of upstream bugfixes to GNOME. Many of these have been related to Ubuntu specific bugs. I have many upstream GNOME contacts which helps!

Ported gjs/gnome-shell to the Spidermonkey engine based of Firefox 17. Then spent a lot of time prodding mozilla people and patching their build system trying to get an official release. Then again for Spidermonkey 24 which has been released and is the default these days.

Written numerous patches to core GNOME components, most of the downstream patches are to satisfy the needs of ubuntu-desktop and unblock upload of these newer components.

GNOME Foundation Member

=== Areas of work ===
My main focus at this point is gnome-shell and the rest of the GNOME stack. I tend to work upstream wherever possible, since I really don't want to add to the often insane patch deltas on many of the GNOME packages. 

I am essentially the main maintainer for Core GNOME stack in Ubuntu, mainly gdm, gnome-desktop, gnome-settings-daemon, gnome-control-center, mutter and gnome-shell. However quite a number of these packages or there dependencies are owned by ubuntu-desktop.

=== Things I could do better ===

I probably need to forward more work onto Debian.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
The state of GNOME etc in Ubuntu has improved immensly since the start of Ubuntu GNOME. Our first LTS has proved to be rock solid and 15.04 has again improved on that. So now my main goal at the moment is trying to encourage more contributions to the Ubuntu GNOME project. I have been working with a number of new contributors, trying to get them up to speed on packaging etc. 

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
There are still some pain points caused by the overlap between Ubuntu and Ubuntu GNOME packagesets, although that has improved significantly in recent cycles, the main issue these days seem to be getting gtk updates through in a timely fashion.

At times I find the code quality of patches questionable, I think some patches slip through the cracks without a proper review, since some of the better packagers who are sponsoring things don't have much programming background.

More generally, I think more effort needs to go into supporting new contributors. Without direct contact with a sponsor it can takes weeks for patches to be reviewed etc. Early on I found this very disconcerting, although these days I just bug the relevant people. Although it does seem that the sponsorship queues have been kept more under control so far in the Trusty cycle.

----
== Testimonials ==
=== Comments ===
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

I have joined <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/amjjawad/UbuntuGNOME-Team | Ubuntu GNOME]]</nowiki> in July, 2013 and had the chance to know Tim. For 3 years now contributing to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/amjjawad/AreasOfInvolvement | Ubuntu Communities]]</nowiki>, I have never seen a better developer like Tim as of today. He has my full help and support (too bad and sad that I am not a developer) and definitely got my huge '''+1'''. He deserves the appreciation and I highly recommend him and support his application. <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>

Tim is a true natural leader, someone you can rely on for hard work. I have been using Ubuntu GNOME since its very first days and I am also a member of the Ubuntu GNOME Team; the day Tim became the head of the project, everything definitely changed for better. Tim is one of those men whom it is a pleasure to work with. His technical skills do not cease to impress me. <nowiki>[[aldomann]]</nowiki>

I recently joined the Ubuntu GNOME community after contributing to other Ubuntu family projects. I specifically did this because Tim, as the lead developer for Ubuntu GNOME, has worked hard to establish a community and atmosphere where all members of the contributing community, technical and non-technical alike, are welcomed, respected, and encouraged to learn and share. In short, Tim has set the Ubuntu GNOME community on a path towards healthy, positive and productive growth now and in the future. He has my respect as a community leader.
<nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~dbyentzen | dbyentzen]]</nowiki>

Since Tim recruited me to help with gnome packaging, i have learnt a lot from him about gnome. He is very dedicated to the project is a a huge part of it's current level of success. I support his application for MOTU wholeheartedly. <nowiki>[[Noskcaj]]</nowiki>
----
=== Endorsements ===
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Iain Lane (laney) ===
==== General feedback ====
I've worked with Tim quite a bit on desktop packages now. I think that he's improved his appreciation of the distro as a whole and now takes our needs into account. Would be happy for him to get ~ubuntu-desktop membership. It's often the case that Ubuntu GNOME's changes are entangled with the main Ubuntu desktop - please continue to discuss difficult issues with us but it'll be easier if you take ownership of problems and aren't afraid to touch Ubuntu's stuff (with testing of course).

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Have sponsored a few things, most recent example is the update to g-c-c/g-s-d 3.16 which required some backports to u-s-d. They can't quite be uploaded yet, but look good to me.

=== Robert Ancell ===
==== General feedback ====
Tim works across a large number of packages in the GNOME stack which overlaps with many of the core Ubuntu packages. He's not afraid to tackle some of the difficult issues where both stacks conflict and works effectively to improve the situation for both Ubuntu and Ubuntu GNOME. I have no doubt that him being able to work directly on these packages will help both teams.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've sponsored a number of packages for Tim, generally without any changes needed. We also discuss on IRC various packaging issues.

=== Sebastien Bacher ===
==== General feedback ====
Tim has been doing lot of good work on Ubuntu GNOME. He's active on IRC and work with upstream/Debian as needed. He also understands how Ubuntu is working and the impact of his work on other desktops.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've been reviewing/sponsoring GNOME updates for him over the cycles, his work is usually good quality.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Sometime work done in the GNOME ppa isn't submitted/discussed when done but postponed to later (or let to Ubuntu packagers to pick up) which can lead to duplication (other people re-do updates done already there) and confusing bug reports (that might not be specific to Tim though but to other GNOME3 team members)

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----

=== Previous Applications ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimLunn/PPUApplication|Ubuntu GNOME Packageset]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimLunn/DeveloperApplication|Contributing Developer]]</nowiki>

=== Previous Endorsements ===
(From Contributing Developer Application)

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
