{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===
** I have been using Linux for over 5 years, starting with RedHat 9.  For some reason I thought I'd give Kubuntu Gutsy a try, and liked it so much that I have stayed with Kubuntu ever since.
** Administrating and programming for Linux is one of my hobbies, but I am an electrical engineer by trade.
** I have quite a bit of experience integrating Linux into a Windows world, both on the application side (Wine) and on the domain/LDAP end (Samba).
** Convinced my workplace to use Kubuntu with KDE3.5 configured to act like Windows.  I have it installed on fifteen computers instead of Windows XP; so far they are very pleased with it.
** Open sourced my FPGA based machine vision system under the GPL (http://www.falconir.com)

=== Interests ===
** Machine Vision
** Alternative Energy
** Parallel computing / clustering
** Robotics and autonomous systems

=== Contact ===
** '''Email:''' kb9vqf@pearsoncomputing.net
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/kb9vqf|Launchpad page]]</nowiki>

== Kubuntu activity ==
=== Development ===
** Feature enhancement of KDE3.5.10 and many supporting applications
=== Packaging ===
** Unofficially patched and repackaged KDE3.5.10 for Intrepid, Jaunty, and Karmic (http://apt.pearsoncomputing.net)
=== Tutorials ===
** Wrote this tutorial: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SmartCardLUKSDiskEncryption

== Other open-source activity ==
=== Wine ===
** Maintainer of Visual Basic 6.0, 3ds max 7, and Autodesk Inventor 7
