{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

~-(adapted from <nowiki>[[TimoJyrinki-DeveloperApplication-PPU]]</nowiki>)-~

'''I, Timo Jyrinki, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Timo Jyrinki
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~timo-jyrinki
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimoJyrinki
|}

== Who I am ==

I'm a Finnish free software lover somewhere above 30 years of age. I'm a SUSE user since 1997 and Ubuntu user since Ubuntu 4.10 beta. I founded Ubuntu Finland in 2005, became Debian Developer in 2008 and I'm currently working as a contractor for Canonical. I also used to be active in Openmoko community, and I was the press representative for Finnish Wikipedia for 10 years. I'm also part of the FSFE's Finland branch.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I got involved because of the 'human' marketing when Ubuntu was released. I started with the interest in getting Finnish translations of Ubuntu into better shape. I've liked getting that part fixed ever since.

I like polishing packaging, and fixing any bug that seems technically minor but aesthetically major. I could probably do better by using social media more about the Ubuntu development.

=== My involvement ===

Packages in Debian: http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=timo@debian.org

Ubuntu sponsored packages from me: http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*Timo*Jyrinki*&sponsoree_search=name

I've PPU rights to Qt 5, and I've handled the <nowiki>[[http://losca.blogspot.fi/2014/03/qt-521-in-ubuntu.html|Qt 5.2.1]]</nowiki> and Qt 5.3.0 transitions so far with those.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I'm proud of many of my past work, but more recently I'm proud of the Unity stack SRU's, my contribution to the CI Train smoothness and the Qt 5 packaging contributed and done in co-operation with Debian.

=== Areas of work ===

Before the CI Train and daily release processes I used to work on Unity stack SRUs/packaging/testing together with Compiz/Indicators/Unity teams. At the end we had a very polished/trustworthy validation process, although naturally far from daily release effectiveness.

Then Qt 5 started to be the major area where I've worked with Debian's pkg-kde team and any team on Ubuntu side wanting something patched in a Qt module. In this cycle Kubuntu has joined the Qt 5 users. I've also been involved with the SDK team and their Qt usage and Qt Creator efforts. Those co-operations have went well, and I'm very happy how little delta there is between Debian and Ubuntu.

In addition to Qt, as part of the CI Train's landing team, I occasionally interact with all Canonical upstream teams when there's a problem in one of the landings, or if a regression or testability problem needs to be quickly addressed.

Becoming MOTU would help my work as part of the landing team by allowing me to approve and publish universe packages without needing a separate review from a core-dev (or another MOTU). It'd also help in patch piloting, which is currently quite hard for me - I can do reviews, but someone else would need to upload. I'd like to especially help some of the derivatives that do not have MOTUs of their own.

=== Things I could do better ===

I could do triple-checking more before pushing the button, and I've been improving on that. The main thing that has improved it has been various check lists I've around. Even though some things I can do in my dreams, there are so many little details in various aspects of eg. packaging that I've found it more trustworthy to have check lists in addition to intuition.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

Continue to keep Qt 5 in sync with Debian. Get phones on the market and make 16.04 LTS a great desktop experience.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Perceived performance in some cases. Unity8 should largely fix it, ie. the '60 fps everywhere' which is what I'd want. Unity7 is nice, functional and usable but is not perceivably as smooth everywhere as it could be.

--(Bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/oem-priority/+bug/967229|#967229]]</nowiki> hopefully gets fixed soon.)-- FIXED

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Timo has done fantastic work throughout the years. He's reliable, knows what he's working on and is always in touch with Upstream and Debian. He's absolutely fit for MOTU upload rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-touch-meta/1.004
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtbase-opensource-src/5.0.2+dfsg1-7ubuntu2
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator/2.8.1-0ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator-plugin-ubuntu/2.8.1-0ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libsdl1.2/1.2.15-8ubuntu2
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator/2.7.1-0ubuntu5
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator/2.7.1-0ubuntu7
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator-plugin-ubuntu/0.1-0ubuntu2
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator/2.7.1-0ubuntu8
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator/2.7.1-0ubuntu9
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator/2.7.1-0ubuntu10
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator-plugin-ubuntu/2.7.2-0ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtcreator-plugin-ubuntu/2.7.2-0ubuntu2

=== Łukasz Zemczak (sil2100) ===

I have been working with Timo on multiple projects throughout the years. His knowledge of Debian packaging is excellent, probably better than anyone else who's applying for MOTU upload rights. Besides working with me on the CI Train (and before that, in the daily-release) where he is doing preliminary packaging reviews before most landings, he also did (and is doing) and awesome work maintaining the Qt 5 packaging all the time. It's a hard task but Timo does the job well! I highly endorse his application and recommend Timo for MOTU.

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
