{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#dcc585; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Sis채llysluettelo'''<<BR>>
|}

I'm the team contact for <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fi.org/|Ubuntu Finland]]</nowiki>. Also leading the Ubuntu Finnish translators team (see <nowiki>[[FinnishTeam]]</nowiki> and https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-fi).

<nowiki>[[http://www.iki.fi/tjyrinki/|Personal homepage]]</nowiki>

IRC: Mirv @ Freenode, OFTC, IRCnet

Some stuff I'm involved with (mainly for the Ubuntu membership process):

=== Ubuntu / Debian ===

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~timo-jyrinki|Launchpad homepage]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~timo-jyrinki/+archive|PPA]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~timo-jyrinki/|bzr]]</nowiki>)

- Running <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fi.org/|Ubuntu Finland]]</nowiki> since '05, sysadmining on Canonical-provided servers both Ubuntu Finland and others on the same server, and finally helping in the final migration to the Canonical data center.

- Getting i18n better in Ubuntu: see <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/better-desktop-cd-language-support|spec]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2007-August/001533.html|post 1]]</nowiki> (Aug 07), <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2008-March/003634.html|post 2]]</nowiki> (Mar 08), <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-installer/2008-April/000180.html|post 3]]</nowiki> (Apr 08). Some of my recently sponsored i18n fixes benefiting all non-English users: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-April/010256.html|1]]</nowiki> (brasero), <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-April/010371.html|2]]</nowiki> (transmission), <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/hardy-changes/2008-April/010871.html|3]]</nowiki> (policykit-gnome). Also otherwise involved in fixing and/or reporting many i18n problems.

- Applying to be Debian Developer: https://nm.debian.org/nmstatus.php?email=timo.jyrinki%40iki.fi

- Going through <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~timo-jyrinki/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_contact=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_cve.used=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY|bug reports]]</nowiki> of various sorts

- Participated in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/sprints/uds-intrepid|UDS-Intrepid]]</nowiki> in Prague, pics <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.juliux.de/bilder/main.php?g2_view=core.ShowItem&g2_itemId=1691|1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.juliux.de/bilder/main.php?g2_view=core.ShowItem&g2_itemId=1694|2]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.juliux.de/bilder/main.php?g2_view=core.ShowItem&g2_itemId=1778|3]]</nowiki>

=== Other ===
- I've also some background in the Finnish Wikipedia - <nowiki>[[http://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/K채ytt채j채:TJ|TJ @ fi-wiki]]</nowiki>, having been an administrator there since 2003, and being a <nowiki>[[http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Press_room|media contact]]</nowiki> there. I'm also bureaucrat at the Finnish Wiktionary, Wikibooks and Wikiquote.

- Founded <nowiki>[[http://www.vapaasuomi.fi/|Vapaa Suomi]]</nowiki> (Libre Finland) - a site about free/libre software and content in Finland

- Localization in Finnish in general: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-fi|Ubuntu Finnish translators]]</nowiki> (founder), <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.fi/|GNOME Finnish translators]]</nowiki> (SVN commit rights to svn.gnome.org), <nowiki>[[http://developer.pidgin.im/l10n/fi.po|Pidgin]]</nowiki>, Freeciv, many others...

=== Cheers from others ===
(added 45 min before meeting)

Continuing to be related to the ubuntu membership, here I'd gather cheers from others if anyone is awake:

* Yay for Timo! Since I started as the moderator of the Finnish Loco team discussion forums, I got into a job interview to work for COSS. Timo has been a valuable contributor for the Finnish open '''solutions''' scene and especially for Ubuntu. --<nowiki>[[Myrtti]]</nowiki>
* A long time contributor for Ubuntu and FOSS in general! --<nowiki>[[TimoAaltonen]]</nowiki>
* ...

----
CategoryHomepage
