{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Tim Tierney ===
Hey there.  My name is Tim Tierney and welcome to my Wiki page.
=== Background ===
Living in Whitewater Wisconsin I graduated Whitewater High in 2007 and attended University Of Wisconsin Whitewater for one semester to take some General Education classes.  Being passionate about computer programming, I moved to Milwaukee Wisconsin to attend ITT Technical Institute.  In December 2009 I graduated with an Associat'es Degree of Applied Science (Software Application
Programming).  I then returned to ITT to pursue a Bachelor's in Software / System Engineering.  I graduated in December 2010. 

I am currently work a Wheels Now Inc. in Waukesha Wisconsin as a System Engineer writing software for a growing sales and manufacturing team.  I also engineer obsolete and hard to find steel wheels for customers.  I also am the lead developer of a new web site for Wheels Now.
=== Future Plans ===
My future plans include continuing accepting contracts for web development.
=== Contact Information ===
* Email:  timtierneyp1989@gmail.com
* IRC:  timtierney on irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-us-wi, #wilug
* Launchpad:  https://launchpad.net/~timtierney
* Ubuntu Forums:  http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1025567
* Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/timtierney1989
* DeviantArt Gallery:  http://timscreations.deviantart.com
* Linkedin:  http://www.linkedin.com/in/timtierney1989
=== Technical Skills ===
* Windows/Linux Operating System
* Microsoft .NET Framework v1.1, v2.0, v3.0, v3.5, v4.0
* Eclipse IDE
* Adobe Dreamweaver CS4
* Microsoft Expression 3
* Visual Basic .NET
* C++
* Java
* MySQL Server 5.1
* (X)HTML, CSS
* PHP
* Apache Web Server 2.2
* Apache Tomcat Server 6
* Microsoft Word 2000 Certified
* Microsoft PowerPoint 2000 Certified
=== Education ===
* ITT Technical Institute - Greenfield, WI
** Bachelor's of Applied Science, March 2010 - December 2011:  GPA 3.71
** Associate's of Applied Science, March 2008 - December 2009:  GPA 4.0
** High Honors:  March 2008 - December 2009
** NVTHS (National Vocational Technical Honor Society) Member
** Alpha Beta Kappa
* University Of Wisconsin Whitewater - Whitewater, WI
** General Education, September 2007 - December 2007:  GPA:  2.933
=== Professional Experience ===
==== Wheels Now Inc. ====
* Develop system designed to improve sales and manufacturing.
* Track manufacturing process
* Track parts inventory, work orders.
* Develop new web site.
==== Nicholas Kritter Mobile Art (m.nicholaskritter.com) ====
* Two month mobile web project.
* Written in (X)HTML 1.0 Strict
* PHP 4.3 server side scripting.
* Utilizing MySQL 4.1.
==== Nicholas Kritter Art (nicholaskritter.com) ====
* One month web design project.
* Written in (X)HTML 1.0 Strict.
* PHP 4.3 server side scripting.
* Utilizing MySQL 4.1.
* Utilizing Zazzle Store web site builder.
==== Smart Real Estate Investing (smart-realestateinvesting.com) ====
* One month web design project.
* Working in a team of developers.
* Contact page written in PHP 5.
* Zen Cart installation and modifications.
==== Business Instant Messenger (Cassems) ====
* Six month business programming simulation project for ITT Technical Institute.
* Working in a team of developers
* 3 Month Project Planning
** Planning software project in simulated business environment.
** Implementing designers using various CASE models.
** Simulated project presentation.
* 3 Month Project Coding and Testing
** User database using MySQL 5.1
** Server side program in Sun Java 1.5 for managing users and distributing incoming/outgoing messages.
** Client side swing application using Eclipse IDE and Sun Java 1.5 framework.
==== FeralCTO (http://www.feralcto.com) ====
* Responsible for planning and developing different components of an automatic news gathering web site.
* Working in a team of developers.
* Database development using MySQL 5.1
* Web development using Adobe Dreamweaver CS4.
* Planning and coding JavaBeans using Eclipse IDE
=== Current Memberships ===
* Microsoft Connect (https://connect.microsoft.com/)
* Ubuntu Wisconsin LoCo Team Member (https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-wisconsin)
* Launchpad Beta Testers (https://edge.launchpad.net/~launchpad-beta-testers)
=== Laptop ===
* Lenovo ThinkPad W700 (2757-CTO)
* Microsoft Windows Vista Ultimate x64
* Ubuntu 10.10 x64
* Intel Core 2 Duo T9400 2.53 GHz
* 17" WXGA+ LCD Display
* Nvidia Quadro FX2700 512 MB
* 4 GB DDR3 2 DIMM
* Touchpad + UltraNav + Fingerprint Reader
* Non-Raid 320 GB 5400 RPM
* Intel Turbo Memory Hard Drive Cache 2 GB
* Express Card Reader
* 9 Cell Li-Ion Battery
