{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
----
'''NAME:''' Tim Webster<<BR>>
'''LOCATION:''' Grove City, Pennsylvania USA<<BR>>
'''AGE:''' 25 and Counting :) <<BR>>
=== My Computer ===
----
'''CPU:'''533 Mhz AMD K6-2 <<BR>>
'''MEMORY:'''384 MB PC 133 RAM <<BR>>
'''VIDEO:'''32 MB Nvidia GForce2 MX 200 <<BR>>
'''OS:''' DualBoot WinXP/Ubuntu(Soon to be Xubuntu) <<BR>>
=== My Linux Experiance ===
----
As you can tell, my computer is pretty old. I have always had one version of Windows on my computer at all times. I started with Win98 and then upgraded to WinXP when it came out. I have two seperate HD's one with my Win and one with Linux. When my WinXP system crashes I can access the files on that HD from Linux and burn Backups if needed. If I had high speed internet(not available in the country) I would go full Linux, but I have a WinModem(PCTEL-has a Linux driver that I have got to work) and my ISP Netzero has a version of there software made for Linspire(based on Debian) but it is buggy and uses Java which I have had troubles with on Linux. Maybe some day I can take the leap. <<BR>>

I start with Red Hat Linux in 1999. Then I switched to Mandrake(now Madriva) Linux. After that I found Debian which lead me to Ubuntu and now I am downloading Xubuntu. <<BR>>

I would like to help with the development and testing of (X)Ubuntu. I have been following the mailing lists and will start hanging out on the IRC. As my experiance grows I hope to fill this page with all that I learn.
