{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Welcome to my personal Ubuntu wiki page. I am C & PHP programmer from Finland. I have used Ubuntu from 6.06 or something like that, so few years. 

Well i started using computers when i was 5. I had Commondore, Desktop PC and Toshiba laptop. The Toshiba laptop i still have, but it's hard drive is broken and cant find anymore one for it. The Desktop PC i broke by turning one little red button behind the computer. Well after that it was the first time i dismantled a computer. I found that i burned the fuse on the power. Well i went to my neighbor and a asked from him that does he have one. Well he gave me one and i got the PC fixed. After few years of using DOS and playing DOS games on the PC i installed Linux to it. And got dial up to my laptop. Well after that i got into interwebs and started looking at pieces of software and started learning how to program. Went trough many different languages, w/o learning much at all. Games were more fun. 

I went to Information Technology career school and before i finished it i left to the Finnish army. When i got out of the army i turned 20 and month after finished my school. 

Now i'm just wandering around and sleeping on this damn sofa at my moms place, waiting to get into University. Oh yeah my name is Toni Korpela

== Contributes to ubuntu ==
* None as of yet.
