{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== TmysterTMC ==

This is a first for me on a Wiki. So I am gonna wing it for now.

I am a Debian Fan, Soccer Coach, Dad, Husband, and a Computer Technician.

I work regularly in a NT shop with a few Linux projects in the making.

My house is entirely networked using Linux (Libranet) with an IPcop firewall handling content filtering and proxying for the youngsters in the house.

I hope to move over to UbuntuLinux. My next project is to create a system that will let my son edit and create movies. I plan to use UbuntuLinux, Kino and ADS Pyro A/V Link connection. I hope to have this finished by the end of December. If all goes well. I hope to create a Howto for others to do. I expect the ability to move VHS tapes to a DVD format also. This maybe useful for others hopefully.

From ToddCosta Mon Nov 29 04:03:20 +0000 2004
From: Todd Costa
Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2004 04:03:20 +0000
Subject: What this does...
Message-ID: <20041129040320+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Now to see what this subject and comments box does within this space. I will guess this will allow comments to this page only. And the New parent will add a new page or sub category.

From ToddCosta Mon Nov 29 04:05:43 +0000 2004
From: Todd Costa
Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2004 04:05:43 +0000
Subject: And it does do that...
Message-ID: <20041129040543+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Hmmm...Now I see what this does and I was correct. But the date/time is off based on were I am at.

From ToddCosta Sat Dec 4 05:05:05 +0000 2004
From: Todd Costa
Date: Sat, 04 Dec 2004 05:05:05 +0000
Subject: Laptop Convert from Libranet
Message-ID: <20041204050505+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Compaq Armada E500, Pentium III 1 Ghz, 128Mb Mem, 20Gb HD, 1024x768, ATI Rage Mobility P/M AGP 2x, ESS ES1978 Maestro 2E, Intel Ethernet Pro 100, Linksys PCMCIA WPC11, Kodak EasyShare CX7330, HandSpring Visor.

All are working well with this distrobution. No trouble or extra settings required to use this distro.

From ToddCosta Wed Dec 15 01:52:26 +0000 2004
From: Todd Costa
Date: Wed, 15 Dec 2004 01:52:26 +0000
Subject: Desktop Convert from Libranet
Message-ID: <20041215015226+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

White-box, Pentium II, 350 Mhz, 512Mb, 80Gb HD, ATI Rage 3D IIC AGP 2x 1024x768, Creative ViBRA16X - CT4170, RealTek RTL8139, Plexter DVDR PX-712A, Adaptec AFW-4300C Firewire PCI card
----
CategoryHomepage
