{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== Introduction =====

Proposal: The Tennessee Team to be established in order to advocate and educate Linux users for the entire state of Tennessee about Ubuntu Linux and the Ubuntu "way." We will focus on all derivatives of Ubuntu, including Edubuntu.

===== TODOs =====
* Once officially recognized, create a domain and webpage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoHosting.  We will try to get tn.ubuntu-us.org. 
* Create a web forum. http://www.ubuntu.com/community/forums

===== Goals =====
* Create one main place where users will be able to gather and share information about the distribution;
* Initiate monthly face to face meetings at a pre-determined facility where users will be able to better interact and receive more support;
* Plan some type of organized activity where we could perform InstallFests and such;
* Advocate, advocate, and advocate!  =)
* Create a place for Educators to come together and discuss how Ubuntu can positively impact their schools.

===== Join us today =====

Here's how:  

* Read and understand what Ubuntu Linux is all about: http://www.ubuntulinux.org
* Register yourself at http://www.launchpad.net
* Sign the Code of Conduct as soon as possible
* Join us at https://launchpad.net/people/tennessee.team
* Sign up on the mailing list we are looking for a more long-term solution.
* Sign up on the Launch pad homepage: https://launchpad.net/people/tennessee.team
