{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I, Thomas Bechtold, apply for upload rights for livecd-rootfs.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Thomas Bechtold
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~toabctl
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/toabctl
|-
| '''IRC'''
| toabctl
|}

I am applying because:

* I want to share more responsibility for developing and maintaining livecd-rootfs.
* I'd like to reduce delays in getting my work and the CPC team work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I'm a software developer working for Canonical on the development and delivery of the <nowiki>[[https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu cloud images]]</nowiki> for the different clouds and OCI/Docker images. I've been a <nowiki>[[https://nm.debian.org/person/toabctl/|Debian Developer]]</nowiki> until 2019, a GNOME developer (maintainer of d-feet) and a OpenStack core reviewer (Manila Shared Filesystem Service) until 2019.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I became a regular user of Ubuntu on the desktop with the first 04.10 (Warty Warthog) release. On my private server(s), I'm running Ubuntu since 2010.
I started to contribute to Ubuntu (see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/toabctl| the Contributions section]]</nowiki>) in 2009.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* Fixing livecd-rootfs magic-proxy (see <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/livecd-rootfs/commit/?id=3559153c7d91dfb25e6aaf1d18152e945411d503|commit 1]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~toabctl/livecd-rootfs/+git/livecd-rootfs-1/+merge/410585|commit 2]]</nowiki>) to be able to use the repo-stamp feature for building images
* Moving the OCI/docker rootfs tarball modifications into livecd-rootfs (see <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/livecd-rootfs/commit/?id=ac4a95b9314cf1f8ce01f42016c271c0a6078372|commit 1]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/livecd-rootfs/commit/?id=a81972a58b004897bf3e5c14ff371bc2f6b5e4b8|commit 2]]</nowiki>). I also created (outside of livecd-rootfs) the whole Jenkins pipeline to use that new livecd-rootfs project for building the official base OCI/docker tarballs.
* <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/livecd-rootfs/commit/?id=1a7e9ca8c9c7db434e02efad38ca270eca779339|Bump UEFI disk image size for armhf to 3.5 GB]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/livecd-rootfs/commit/?id=14a628e3c815bc8d0e1e93d71bb3b005ccc9ed12|Disable APT periodic update for OCI/docker images (LP: #1810451)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/livecd-rootfs/log/?qt=author&q=thomas.bechtold%40canonical.com|All livecd-rootfs commits]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Thomas+Bechtold&sponsoree_search=name|Sponsored work]]</nowiki> (does not include any livecd-rootfs sponsorship)

=== Areas of work ===
I work with the FoundationsTeam and ServerTeam to provide a consistent Ubuntu server experience across cloud platforms.

The CPC team (which I'm part of) relies heavily on livecd-rootfs. Its used every day to build a lot of different images (Base & Minimal for all the major public cloud platforms, buildd images for Launchpad builders, OCI/Docker tarballs for Ubuntu OCI/Docker images, ...). Being so critical to my work I want to be able to perform uploads to respect the time of other developers and make my workflow (and the CPC team workflow) faster.  Having PPU rights for livecd-rootfs would help myself and my team get changes into livecd-rootfs but I do not want it to separate us from foundations.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

* Work on the distro more broadly & find time for that

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Documentation. There are multiple places (wiki, discourse) and a lot of content is outdated.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

=== Phil Roche <philroche> ===
==== General feedback ====
I have worked with toabctl on the Canonical public cloud team now for a number of years and we have worked together on debugging many image build issues involving livecd-rootfs and live-build.

toabctl is incredibly diligent and thoughtful about changes being made to such a code base.

toabctl is an excellent reviewer of merge proposals.

I have zero concerns over toabctl being granted upload rights and commit rights to livecd-rootfs.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:philroche]]</nowiki> 
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
