{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

I'm the AMD64 czar working on fixing bugs specific to the AMD64 platform.  I am employed by Canonical Limited to work on improving Ubuntu.

The easiest way to get hold of me is usually IRC where I go by the nick Mithrandir, but jabber (tfheen@jabber.org) or email (tfheen@ubuntu.com) also works.

In the spirit of package maintainenance in Ubuntu, I don't "own" any packages, but I do certainly care more for some than for others.  Most of the ones I care about are the same as in Debian, such as pyblosxom, mailman, sash and mozilla-thunderbird.

One of the things I try to get into Ubuntu is proper multiarch support, which will enable us to get rid of the evil hacks that openoffice.org-amd64 and ia32-libs* are.

TollefFogHeenActivity

==== Queue ====

FullSearch(TollefFogHeenQueue -title:TollefFogHeenActivity -title:TollefFogHeen)

==== Approved specs ====

FullSearch(regex:TollefFogHeen(Lead|Second) ApprovedSpecification -SpecAssignments)

==== Edited specs ====

FullSearch(regex:TollefFogHeen(Lead|Second) regex:EditedSpec(ification)? -SpecAssignments )

==== Draft specs ====

FullSearch(regex:TollefFogHeen(Lead|Second) regex:DraftSpec(ification)? -title:SpecProcess -SpecAssignments)

==== BrainDumps ====

FullSearch(regex:TollefFogHeen(Lead|Second) BrainDump -title:SpecProcess -SpecAssignments)

==== Orphans ====
FullSearch(regex:TollefFogHeen(Lead|Second) -regex:(Approved|Edited|Draft)Spec(ification)? -BrainDump -title:SpecProcess  -SpecAssignments)

----

Email: MailTo(tfheen@canonical.com)
----
CategoryHomepage
