{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Thomas Swartz
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| https://launchpad.net/~tom-swartz07
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
|-
| '''OpenPGP key:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x6814B13D5606830B43F764F922CDF40EDCD9F6D8&op=index|OpenPGP Link]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About me ===
Currently, Im a student in Pennsylvania, USA. 

I began using Ubuntu in 2007 and it has been my only OS since.

I do some minor programming for personal needs and convenience, but I am beginning to become more interested in large-team development. Everything I know about programming and computers is self-taught. 

=== Contributions to Ubuntu ===
* Ubuntu Forum Community:
I am very involved in the Ubuntu Help Forums, where I assist other users with various 'general-help' problems, ranging from GRUB issues to data recovery, and everywhere in between. Since "Officially" joining the Forums in May 2009, I have over 1,000 posts with a very high ratio of posts to threads solved. 

* Launchpad Translations
I have volunteered my ability to speak French to several applications that I regularly use including, but not limited to, Docky, Getting Things Gnome!, and Ubuntu Tweak. I hope to become more involved in more projects in the near future.

* Launchpad Teams
I have started a small Launchpad team for Ubuntu users in the University of Scranton community. It is still in its infant stages, but I have high hopes for this community in the future. <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~uofs|University of Scranton Members]]</nowiki>

=== Noteworthy Posts on Ubuntu Forums ===
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8741617#post8741617|Desktop Customization How-To]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1453223|Typical thread helping a user]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1458944|Advice about docks and panels]]</nowiki>

=== Plans for the future ===

* I am currently studying Physics, and I hope to enter the field of Quantum Computing. I am very interested in the Sciences, as well as computing technology. It's my dream that one day, the first fully functional quantum computer runs Ubuntu as it's OS. 

=== Testimonials ===
* Having worked together with Tom in many threads, a friendly rivalry has emerged between us that I can say has been beneficial for the OP of those threads. Tom has a calm and simple yet thorough way of explaining things that I feel should be used as a model for the Community as a whole. In situations where most of us would be pounding our heads on our keyboards, he has shown an astonishing level of patience and perseverance.
I salute Tom for his efforts in this Community and wish there were more like him. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=537200|WarFaceGod]]</nowiki>

=== External links ===
* http://www.twitter.com/mcswartzalot
* https://launchpad.net/~tom-swartz07

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryHomepage
