{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== TomasNilsson ==

=== Tomas Nilsson ===

I started with Linux in 1998. The choise at that time was Redhat. 
I wanted to run some sort of UNIX at home. My work related OS was Solaris, but that was
not suitable to run at home.
Later on a switched to Mandrake and continued to use it until late 2004, when I found Ubuntu.

I use Ubuntu on all of my 3 machines at home and on my IBM Thinkpad T41 at work. Some of my 
collegues have also started to use Ubuntu as their Desktop OS.

I try to be active in the Ubuntu Forums; share my knowledge and get more knowledge about Ubuntu specific
things.

At work I mostly do sys admin on Solaris, but also some AIX, NetApp, HP-UX and Linux (Redhat).
At home I use Ubuntu for me and my fanmily, surfing, reading e-mail with Evoulution, watching movies,
gaming, trying to learn some artwork with gimp and inkscape, banking and economy.

=== Ubuntu Breezy testing ===

I have just started to test Breezy on my old P3 700 MHz desktop (with a Abit BE6-II motherboard).
I upgraded my machine my replacing hoary with breezy in the sources.list. There where some issues with
my Swedish keyboard, but that was resolved my browsing through the ubuntuforums.

=== Ubuntu Dapper Drake testing ===

I am testing Dapper Drake on my very old IBM Thinkpad 600X. So for so good, it is just working!! :-)
Dapper Drake is quite fast on such old hardware. I am suprised.

I have tried the following netowrk cards:

 1. D-Link DFE-690TXD
 2. Canyon CN-WF513 802.11b/g CardBus (I used ordinary WEP encryption)

Both cards works out of the box!

=== Contact information ===

 I. '''Name:''' Tomas Nilsson
 I. '''Nationallity:''' Swedish
 I. '''Location:''' Stockholm, Sweden
 I. '''E-mail:''' Tomas dot Nilssson *rm this* gmail dot com
 I. '''Ubuntu Forums:''' tnilsson
=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.se/|Ubuntu Sweden]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryLaptop
