{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

/* 
original version of this document is a tomboy note on nooks The wiki can be imported just by pasting this text in the notereturn to tomboy2web
* /

The idea is pretty easy.  If we want to view our tomboy notes remotely, we can use a webserver to do this.  The goal is to visualize a complete notebook through html.  Since tomboy saves its notes in xml format, we should be able to convert this notes to decent html.
== Converting xml to html ==
There is already a default tomboy to html possibility so we can reuse the xsl.  The xml used by tomboy can be found on [http://git.gnome.org/browse/tomboy/plain/Tomboy/Addins/ExportToHtml.xsl].  This xsl has been imported to the project and has a little modification to prevent the !ToLower warningTo render the xml you need php5-xsl.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install php5-xsl
</pre>

== Security ==
A default webserver and default tomboy installation does not allow you to read the tomboy notes as the default www-user.  We need a secure way around this stuff.  You can do this by using mod-suphp
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-suphp
</pre>
After installing, you need to disable php5.  It is probably not needed if you use a specific virtual host for this and only enable mod-suphp for that specific host.
<pre>
a2dismod php5
</pre>
For some reason docroot didn't worked like it should work so I disabled docroot test in [/etc/suphp/suphp.conf]
<pre>
check_vhost_docroot=false
</pre>
Because of previous configurations I had to correct a few lines in [/etc/suphp/suphp.conf].  You probable don't have to do enable this.
<pre>
allow_directory_group_writeable=trueallow_directory_others_writeable=true
</pre>
== Notebook ==
How do we check which notebook?  We need to find something like
<pre>
<note>
 <tags>
  <tag>system:notebook:web</tag>
 </tags>
</note>
</pre>
where ''web'' is the name of the notebook we're searching.
It could probably be done by xpath but currently we are using getElementsByTagName to find the tags.  
== Misc ==
* We are also ignoring the templates to.

----
CategoryDocumentation
