{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


/* 
original version of this document is a tomboy note on nooks The wiki can be imported using copy-as-moinmoinwiki page: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/tomboy2web]
* /

== Introduction ==
The aim of <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/tomboy2web|tomboy2web]]</nowiki> is to convert your local tomboy notes to a web visualisation running on your computer.  This way your webpages are easy editable by putting all needed pages in one notebook.
== Research ==
All research concerning this project has been moved to <nowiki>[[tomboy2web-research]]</nowiki>.  It describes the process in how to get to the current result.  This is only useful for developers.
== Installation ==
You can get the latest version (currently v0.1) from [[http://launchpad.net/tomboy2web|the] launchpad page].  Untar the tar file and put the transform.php in your favorite webdirectory.  You need to create a config.php and you need at least php5-xsl and libapache2-mod-suphp installed.  After installing suphp you probably will have to disable php.  On debian-based systems this can be done by running a2dismod php5.
== Configuration ==
All configurations has to be in config.php and must declare this parameters:
* $directory: location of the tomboy notes, usually something like [/home/user/.local/share/tomboy/]
* $note: the start note.  Currently you have to search your notes to find a usable version.  This must be something like  "ed15a2da-313b-4eb7-a9f4-6a01eccf3661.note".
* $notebook: notebook to show.  Set to nothing if you don't want a specific notebook.
After configuring you should be able to view your notes by browsing to transform.php

----
CategoryDocumentation
