{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== TomVeens ==

TomVeens is in real Tom Veens

Homepage: http://www.tomveens.nl (The blog is in Dutch but the newer ones in English!)

Me at Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/people/tomveens

irc freenode nick: tomveens

irc freenode channels: #traverso

mail: tomveens(at)gmail(dot)com

=== Ubuntu relation: ===

I am an ubuntu fan/user. My first use of ubuntu was the breezy distro.
To make things clear I have to tell you that the only way I know some computer things from simple to complex things is because I live with people that are good with computers. My talent is not in computers, but you can always ask me a question about it. Maybe I know the answer. But talented into it is another area I can assure you is not my strongest field.

=== My passion: ===

Ask me!

=== Projects: ===

* Seeking for a way in contributing in the ubuntu community.

* Experimenting with new brainspins.

=== Some Interests: ===

* Education

* Politics

* Ways of living

* Creative Productions

=== Skills: ===

* Acting

* Thinking

* Video

This description is absolute inaccurate so the best way to want something from me is just to ask me!
I like the feeling of interaction.
