{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''Note''' - this is a work in progress -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:awe]]</nowiki> 

'''I, Tony Espy, apply for [ universe-contributor | MOTU ] rights.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Tony Espy
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~awe
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/TonyEspy
|}

== Who I am ==
I work for Canonical as part of the OEM Services Engineering team.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started working with Ubuntu in the Summer of 2007, working on an Ubuntu Mobile OEM project.  I worked on networking / Wi-Fi driver issues, as well as power management and audio services.

I've spent the last 9 months as technical lead of a large OEM netbook project based on 8.04.  I've dealt with everything from ALSA kernel patches / userspace configuration, puzzling S3/S4 bugs, to the woes of a hybrid restricted Wi-Fi driver.

I think with regards to what I can do better, my answer is participate more in the community.  I've been given the chance to do so ny Canonical for the next release cycle, so here I am.

=== My involvement ===

* I've attended attended the last five Ubuntu Developer Summits ( 8.04 - 10.04 ).
* Worked full-time as a member of the Desktop team for the Karmic cycle.
* I attended the Karmic Platform Sprint, Aug 3-7, 2009.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* My name can be found all over the netbook-lpia branches of ubuntu-hardy.git and ubuntu-hardy-lum.git.  Almost all of the commits in these tree were merged by the kernel team from the OEM git trees, which are in the process of being deprecated.
* While working on Moblin v1, I wrote a blueprint for <nowiki>[[MobileAndEmbedded-NetworkingMobile | Networking Improvements]]</nowiki>.  Some of ideas in this blueprint have been incorporated upstream in Network Manager.
* I co-authored the Karmic <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam-Specs-Karmic-NetworkUIKarmic |Desktop Networking UI Blueprint]]</nowiki> and am currently working on a 6-month stint as part of the desktop team working on Network Manager for Karmic.
* I've done a few universe merge/syncs for Karmic, but have mostly focused on Network Manager packages.  I've worked closely with asac to roll out packages to the Network Manager and Modem Manager PPAs, as well as uploading new versions of network-manager, -applet, modemmanager, and the associated VPN packages.
* Filed Main Inclusion Reports for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/modemmanager/+bug/410259|modemmanager]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/obexd/+bug/410364|obexd]]</nowiki> for Karmic.
* Here's my current list of <nowiki>[[TonyEspy-Uploads|uploads]]</nowiki> for Karmic as well as link to my official <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~awe/+related-software|Related Software]]</nowiki> page on Launchpad.
* A current member of the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bugcontrol|Ubuntu Bug Control]]</nowiki>, mostly help with triaging Network and Modem Manager bugs.
* Working with the Kernel and Desktop teams to make audio better in Lucid. I'm working on a blueprint, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-audio-stabelization|Audio Stabilization]]</nowiki> for Lucid, and will lead a session to discuss at UDS Lucid.

=== Areas of work ===
I've enjoyed working with the kernel team, and continue to do so as part of the OEM team.  I came up with our original scheme of maintaining OEM-specific git trees ( hosted on kernel.ubuntu.com ), and also have worked with kernel team recently to transition OEMs back to kernels maintained by the kernel team.
  
My background is networking, Wi-Fi in particular.  I've spent a lot of time investigating NetworkManager bugs, and thinking about areas of improvement.  This is one area I plan on focusing on during the Karmic cycle.

''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
