{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Romain Beauxis, apply for upload rights for the packages I maintain in Debian, in particular Liquidsoap'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Romain Beauxis
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~toots
|-
| '''Debian Developer's Page'''
| http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=toots@rastageeks.org
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Toots/PerPackageApplication
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a Debian Developer since 2005. I am actively maintaining several packages and 
a member of the upstream developement team of Liquidsoap.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I like Ubuntu. I do not use it myself but I have installed it for friends and familly and they are astisfied by it.

== Why I am applying ? ==

I regularly check for the bugs filled against Ubuntu against my package. I would like to be able to 
directly contribute to Ubuntu by fixing them.

This request is particularly intended for Liquidsoap, which could have a different packaging 
in Ubuntu, in particular by building against the liblame.

I am also involved with the OCaml packaging. These packages need more love in Ubuntu, 
so I would also be interested into contributing in this area.

For these reasons, I would like to have the upload rights on the package I maintain in Debian.
Those package are already present in Ubuntu so it would only make things easier :-)

I have read the differences in philosophy and organization between Ubuntu and Debian, 
in particular the fact that packages are team-maintained. I have no problem with that and 
most of my packages in Debian are already team-maintained !

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
