{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== László Torma (toros) ===

==== contact ====
* email: toros at ubuntu dot hu
* personal website: http://toros.hu
* IRC: toros at freenode (#ubuntu-hu)
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~tormalaszlo]]</nowiki>

==== activites ====
* Hungarian Ubuntu LoCo activist
* FSF.hu (Free Software Foundation Hungary) activist: http://www.fsf.hu/index.php/User:Toros
* Ubuntu.hu editor
** news: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu|ubuntu.hu]]</nowiki>
** articles: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu|ubuntu.hu]]</nowiki>
** documentation: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/sugo]]</nowiki>
** user support: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/user/29/track]]</nowiki>
* Cordinator of the Hungarian Ubuntu Community Documentation team: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-hu-doc]]</nowiki>
* author of the first Hungarian Ubuntu book: Az Ubuntu Világa (The World of Ubuntu) - freely avaible in PDF format: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008apr/az-ubuntu-vilaga]]</nowiki>
** You can read one of the chapters translated into English here: http://ubuntu.hu/worldoflinux/part5en
* Editor of Mogorva Mormota - an independent blog about Ubuntu, GNU/Linux and Free Software: <nowiki>[[http://mogorvamormota.hu|mogorvamormota.hu]]</nowiki>
* Organiser of the Feisty, Gutsy, Hardy, Intrepid and Jaunty Release Parties (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008apr/hardy-release-party-fenykepek|photos]]</nowiki>)
* Organiser of the Ubuntu Academy 9.04 on 2009.04.25 and 26. – an event for new Ubuntu activists: How to write documentation, working on the localisation, reporting bugs. More info (in Hungarian): <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/node/9520|Ubuntu Akadémia]]</nowiki>
* Co-organiser of the Free Software Evenings (2007-2008) - a meeting for open source enthusiasts in Budapest every second month. More info (in Hungarian): <nowiki>[[http://estek.szabadszoftver.org/]]</nowiki>
* Writing and sending out press releases: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/press]]</nowiki>
* Presenting at the Lucid Release Party at Budapest about Ubuntu 10.04 LTS:  <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/mogorvamormota/sets/72157623837399835/|Flickr]]</nowiki> - 2010.04.29
* Presenting at the InfoSavaria conference about the Ubuntu Community:  <nowiki>[[http://infoera.hu/index.php?menu=61|Conference Site]]</nowiki> - 2010.04.23
* Presenting at the Free Software Conference in Budapest about New Technologies in Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://konf.fsf.hu/]]</nowiki> - 2009.10.31
* Presenting at the Software Freedom Day in Szeged about New Technologies in Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://szszk.sed.hu/]]</nowiki> - 2009.10.02
* Presenting at the Ubuntu Academy 9.09 - 2009.09.12
* Presenting about the Ubuntu community at the Hungarian Linux Club - 2008.05.29
* Presenting Ubuntu on local TV (<nowiki>[[http://fixtv.hu]]</nowiki>, Linuxportál live show): Feisty Fawn - 2007.04.25
* Propagating Ubuntu on a local rock festival (Hegyalja Fesztivál), 2007 and 2008: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/blog/toros/hegyalja-fesztival-beszamolo]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/cikk/hegyalja-fesztival]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://hegyaljafesztival.hu/]]</nowiki>)
* Giving interview about Ubuntu and the Hungarian Ubuntu LoCo for the Hungarian Computerworld: <nowiki>[[http://computerworld.hu/operacios-rendszerek-harmadik-alternativa.html|Computerworld Hungary]]</nowiki>
* Freely downloadable presentations for students: <nowiki>[[http://toros.hu/ubuntu.html]]</nowiki>

==== about me ====
I am a Hungarian Ubuntu LoCo activist. I was born in 1982. I live in Budapest, and I work as a copywriter for an advertising agency.  I am an open source enthusiast, and Ubuntu user. As you can see, I am an active Ubuntu advocate: I write all kind of stuff including news, articles, documentation, press releases, etc. I am also active in organising release parties and other kind of Ubuntu (and open source) related events. I spend a high percentage (some say, too high) of my free time on Ubuntu and the LoCo - and I enjoy it very much...

==== testimonials ====

Jani Monoses (janimo): I have interacted with László via email on a couple of occasions and he has always been prompt and helpful. His involvement in the Hungarian LoCo team and promotion is impressive.

Gabor Kelemen: I'm cooperating with him almost every day and his involvement in the loco team is essential. I'd attribute the popularity of ubuntu.hu mainly to his articles and tutorials. Our positive public image is mainly the result of his communication/community handling skills.
