{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <border="0" tablewidth="100%"> Email:
| <)>
|}

=== Work ===
* Working for <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com|Canonical]]</nowiki> Corporate Services
** Premium Service Engineer for Canonical customers
** <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Training|Ubuntu Training]]</nowiki>
** Supporting Ubuntu
** Bug triaging and fixing
** Multimedia on Ubuntu
* Old Homepage at <nowiki>[[http://wiki.arch.ethz.ch/twiki/bin/view/Main/TorstenSpindler|Chair for Computer Aided Architectural Design]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://www.ethz.ch/|ETH Zurich]]</nowiki>
** Integration of video streaming and building automation services (smart home)
** Image database prototype and web based browsers
** Consulting on software projects
** Infrastructure
* Organizer of <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtag.org/|LinuxTag]]</nowiki>
** Program Chair from 1998 to 2003
** Program Committee Member
** Founding member LinuxTag e.V.
* Former co-owner of stern-sten, consulting and training; imagis
* Contracted as instructor for IBM GLS Switzerland, Red Hat, Sendmail, HP
* Supervised projects on software packaging, build environment
* Custom software development
* System Administration since 1993 (IBM AIX, HP-UX, Linux)

=== Testimonials for Ubuntu membership ===
* MarcDeslauriers: The bugs Torsten files are always well done and detailed, and I have successfully sponsored a virtinst debdiff from him. I believe Torsten has the knowledge and experience necessary to be a Ubuntu member.
* Torsten has done some great work contributing to Ubuntu cloud, his work to UEC presistency was great. He's always active on #ubuntu-cloud answering questions and helping. He also presented a session on Ubuntu Cloud Days (AhmedKamal)
* TeTeT is very active on the cloud arena, and shows the persistence/patience/respect that are key to winning over people on UEC and Ubuntu. I am glad for the work he is doing and believe he will do great as an Ubuntu member (<nowiki>[[Hggdh]]</nowiki>)
* I've worked with Torsten primarily when he is working as a "power user" of Ubuntu.  By that, I mean that in his role educating about Ubuntu, he is interested in ubuntu being polished and working well for real world users.  As a result, he files bugs and contacts the developers to help that happen.  It was his idea to pursue "UEC Persistency", which brings back 2 major features to 10.04 LTS.
* Torsten has done a great job in the Ubuntu world for several years now. I was impressed by his diligence more than one time. Whenever he asked technical questions, he had done his research before and his answer always was "Ok thanks, and I fixed the documentation."

=== Recent Talks and Publications ===
* UEC persistency, UbuntuCloudDays
* The Ubuntu Home, LinuxConf Europe, Speaker
* Ubuntu IT Infrastructure Management, Ubuntu Live, Speaker
* Supporting Ubuntu, LinuxTag, Speaker
* Ubuntu Love Day, LinuxTag, Panel Chair
* <nowiki>[[http://iospress.metapress.com/app/home/contribution.asp?referrer=parent&backto=issue,5,6;journal,1,44;linkingpublicationresults,1:103167,1|Privacy in Video Surveilled Areas]]</nowiki>, Privacy Security and Trust 2006, Best Paper Award, Lead Author
* Enhancing Privacy in Video Surveilled Rooms, UKUUG Linux Summer Conference 2006, Lead Author
* Video - Wiedergabe, Bearbeitung und Streaming unter Linux, Open Source Press 2005, Editor
* Videobearbeitung mit MLT, LinuxTag 2005, Author
* Serious Fun. Pervasive Game Design as a CAAD Teaching and Research Method, eCAADe 2005, Co Author
 
=== Education ===
* Currently applying for PhD at ETH Zurich on 'Privacy in Video Surveilled Spaces' 
* Master level in Computer Science and Economics, received from <nowiki>[[http://www.uni-kl.de|University of Kaiserslautern]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Certified Professional
* LPI Level 1 Certified
* Red Hat Certified Examiner and Engineer

=== Hobby ===
* Biking
* Gaming
* Flight Sims

----
CategoryHomepage
