{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablebgcolor="#F1F1ED" tablewidth="40%" tablestyle="float:right;font-size:0.9em;margin:0 0 1em 1em;"style="padding:0.25em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Ubuntu Touch OTA-9.1 Update ==

Hotfix intermediate OTA update including only important bugfixes that we decided would be great to fix, without having to wait for the next big update.

=== Image numbers ===

As each channel and device has separate versioning, the following list shows the respective image numbers corresponding to the released update:

* BQ Aquaris E4.5 : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris.en - '''krillin''': '''#30'''
* BQ Aquaris E5 : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris.en - '''vegetahd''': '''#10'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris.en - '''generic''': ''not yet released''
* Nexus 4 : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris.en - '''mako''': '''#28'''
* Meizu MX4 : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu.en - '''arale''': '''#10'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu.en - '''generic''': ''not yet released''
* Meizu MX4 : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu.zh - '''arale''': '''#6'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu.zh - '''generic''': ''not yet released''
* Nexus 4 : ubuntu-touch/stable/ubuntu - '''mako''': '''#28'''
* Nexus 7 : ubuntu-touch/stable/ubuntu - '''flo''': '''#6'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/ubuntu - '''generic''': ''not yet released''

On a device, this "image number" is shown as the "OS build number" in '''System Settings''' > '''About this phone''' > '''OS'''.

=== Overview of changes ===

This list is only a highlight of the few changes available in this update. Please check the detailed changes for all the changes included in this OTA.

==== Bugfixes ====

As we know, each release includes a huge number of bugs - some for previous issues and some for new regressions introduced in-between. To see the overall list of what issues got fixed, please check the detailed changes below. The interesting ones are as follows:

* Fix for the crash rendering the phone not usable while a call comes in
* Security fix for the Unity8 greeter
* Security fixes for oxide - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-2877-1
* Security fix for the glibc vulnerability - http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-2900-1
* Multiple minor mir bugfixes

=== Detailed changes ===

* Milestone bug list: https://launchpad.net/canonical-devices-system-image/+milestone/9.1

=== Known issues ===

The following is a list of issues that are notable enough for explicit mention in the release notes.

* Slightly more sensitive proximity sensor
