{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Retrieving data for APN DB ==

To reliably add a new operator to the APN database we need to know some data to unequivocally identify the 
operator. To retrieve that data, connect your Ubuntu phone to your computer and do

<pre>
adb shell
sudo su
stop ofono
find /var/lib/ofono -name gprs | xargs rm
</pre>

'''WARNING''': the last step will remove your APN settings, and reset cellular data slot preference and data roaming configuration to the defaults. So you will have to restore manually your settings '''after you reboot'''.

Then, insert your operator's SIM in case it is not there yet, and reboot. Wait approximately 10 seconds after you see Unity's welcome screen, and do from a terminal:

<pre>
adb shell grep Provisioning /var/log/syslog
</pre>

You should get something like

<pre>
Xxx XX XX:XX:XX ubuntu-phablet ofonod[XXXX]: Excluding Provisioning Plugin
Xxx XX XX:XX:XX ubuntu-phablet ofonod[XXXX]: Provisioning for MCC XXX, MNC XX, SPN 'xxxxxxx', IMSI 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx', GID1 'xxxx'
Xxx XX XX:XX:XX ubuntu-phablet ofonod[XXXX]: Provisioning failed
</pre>

After doing this, please create a bug in

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/android

and include the lines you obtained from the "grep" command plus the data you had to enter in the APN editor: APN, name, password, and MMS fields.

Do not forget to remove the IMSI number (IMSI 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx') from the log. The rest of the data is not subscriber specific and can be safely made public.
