{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Calendar ===

* the green background may prevent readability of different calendars (work, personal...). I suggest a more neutral (light gray)
* the alternate colors in the timeline view are also very disturbing. Maybe draw lines between hours, between days ? 
* in "Day" view, when switching day, we are scrolled back to start of day. Horizontal scroll (day change) should not reset vertical scroll.
* in "Day" view, a double-tap should create an event, with the start time of event based on where the tap was made (ie if user double tap above "2PM" then the event should be created between 2PM and 3PM

* editing an event : the end time should always be checked and computed to be after start time
* editing an event : maybe separate day and time fields
* editing an event : the dialog widget to change time is not usable on desktop ; maybe reuse the new alarm widget for Clock ? (https://plus.google.com/101489925843882654647/posts/KKRX9pQCinE)
* editing an event : OSK may be above fields ('location' & 'guest') : the page should scroll automatically

=== Clock ===

=== Music ===

* when starting the app, there is a message "please import and restart" : it is very disturbing for users : no information how to import music. And the app should not need a restart to discover new files.

* from "Music" page (in start screen), when you click an album, the browser opens (first surprise : why not the Music app ?), then the browser shows errors ("browser not supported, want to try anyway ?"). If you're lucky, the website has an html5 version that looks ok. Most users will stop at first error message.

=== AddressBook ===

* add a "letter scroll" that allows user to scroll easily to first contact of current letter.
This is a huge help when you have big list of contacts. The list of letters should only contains used first letters of contacts, not the complete alphabet. 
(an example with full alphabet : http://stackoverflow.com/questions/10926357/how-to-create-a-list-like-iphone-contact-list-in-android)
 
