{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Adding your target to the lunch command ====
To add a new target to build to the lunch command you must inside your device directory add a file named vendorsetup.sh

For example if your manufacturer is lge and your device codename is d802 your vendorsetup file will be located  here 'device/lge/d802/vendorsetup.sh' Replace the vendor and codename to what your device uses.

inside this file you must have the following line.

<pre>
add_lunch_combo aosp_d802-userdebug
</pre>

After that you must run again  '. build/envsetup.sh' to update the lunch command.

Now you must have a makefile inside 'device/lge/d802/aosp_d802.mk'

This makefile can be copied from 'device/lge/hammerhead/aosp_hammerhead.mk' 
And updated to reflect your device codename.
additionally this makefile points to the d802.mk file found on the cyanogenmod repos.

If your device requires the dtbTool (now called dtbToolCM) you must modify your build/core/main.mk to include the dtbTool path in it's including path and rename your dtbTool packgage name to dtbToolCM.

You must update it so instead of calling full_hammerhead.mk it calls d802.mk which is the equivalent makefile.

Additionally you must copy the AndroidProducts.mk from the hammerhead device folder to your device folder.
