{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu Touch Bugs ==

We expect a large amount of feedback and will do our best to go through it!

Warning /!\ Please DO NOT file bugs at the "ubuntu-touch-preview" project. This project is no longer monitored, bugs should be filed in the individual affected packages.

Include the steps to reproduce, an automated testcase (if possible) and the frequency of the bug.

Generally, please try to do your best to make sure you put enough information so we can track the hardware and build, for example give "mako #120" in the subject to indicate you're using a Nexus 4 and image #120. You can find out what image you're running in System Settings -> About.

However, if you have bugs which concern the image tools (ubuntu-device-flash), bug tracking is open and bugs are welcome; go to https://bugs.launchpad.net/phablet-tools/+filebug to open a new bug.

If you want to help out with reporting or triaging bugs, that's great. '''Ask on IRC or the mailing list if you're unsure.''' We've got to work all together on this to make Ubuntu for Phones & Tablets truly rock!

=== What package should I file against? ===
==== File Bugs on Device ====

'''Note''': This method only works for packages which are installed as traditional 'deb' packages. Applications installed via click packages cannot have bugs filed in this manner. See below for manually filing bug links.

To file a bug directly on the device use the "ubuntu-bug" program, specifying the package which you'd like to report against. e.g.

<pre>
    adb shell 
    ubuntu-bug unity8
</pre>

The above is the '''preferred''' method for filing bugs directly on the device. If for some reason you are unable to run ubuntu-bug on the phone, you can manually file a bug using the links below. You can also find existing bugs via the links.

Check out '''<nowiki>[[Touch-Components|our components overview]]</nowiki>''' to familiarise yourself with all the projects which make up Ubuntu Touch.

=== Filing the Bug ===
To file a bug, it's easiest to connect your device to a pc.

Connect your device to the pc via a usb cable. Next, shell into the device by typing '''phablet-shell'''. If you need to, install the '''phablet-tools''' package so this command is availible to you.
<pre>
$ phablet-shell 
</pre>

Check for the existence of a crash file in /var/crashes. If the crash file matches the date and time of the issue you experience, you can use the <nowiki>[[#Filing_with_a_crash_file_in_.2BAC8-var.2BAC8-crash|crash file to file the bug]]</nowiki> as it contains information useful to a developer. If there is no crash file, continue to file the bug using <nowiki>[[#Using_ubuntu-bug|ubuntu-bug]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
$ ls -al /var/crash
</pre>

==== Using ubuntu-bug ====
Since there is no crash file, you need to determine the package that is misbehaving. You will need the package name of the package in order to file.  ''<nowiki>[[#What_package_should_I_file_against.3F|Unsure of which package?]]</nowiki>''

While still shelled into the device, run the ubuntu-bug command, specifying the package name as the argument. 

<pre>
$ ubuntu-bug PACKAGE_NAME
</pre>

Now, continue <nowiki>[[#Filing_the_bug_via_launchpad|filing the bug via launchpad]]</nowiki>.

==== Filing with a crash file in /var/crash ====

If the bug is a crash and there is a crash file in /var/crash, you can report it with apport.

From a shell on the device, run the follow apport command:

<pre>
  $ apport-cli /var/crash/name_of_crash_file.crash
</pre>

Apport will read the crash file and process it. Follow the instructions as prompted. When you are asked, "What would you like to do?", enter 's' to send the report.

Now, continue <nowiki>[[#Filing_the_bug_via_launchpad|filing the bug via launchpad]]</nowiki>.

==== Finishing the bug report ====
Apport will upload the report, and display a URL, looking similar to this

<pre>
* ** To continue, you must visit the following URL:

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart-app-launch/+filebug/<UUID>
</pre>

If prompted, you may safely enter 'c' to cancel launching a browser on the device.

Instead, copy and paste the link from the terminal into a browser window on your pc for easier report entry. The browser will launch and display a ready to file bug report. Finish filling in the description of the issue. When filing, make sure you include the steps needed for others to reproduce the issue, and what the result was versus what you expected the result to be. If you are reporting a crash, mention what you were doing on the device when the crash occurred. This is important to ensure the bug is able to be reproduced, and ultimately fixed.

That's it, thanks for helping make ubuntu better!

== Triaging ==
Once bugs have been filed they need to be confirmed, and ideally, have a defined scenario for recreating in order for developers to fix them. To help with triaging, simply read a bug report from the list below and try it on the latest build for your device. If you can recreate it, mark the bug status as ''confirmed''.

=== Tags ===
Tags are used to keep handy lists of the work being done. It lets us see the status of bugs and testcase automation.

==== What does each tag mean? ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Tag
| Description
|-
| touch-needs-autopilot
| Used to tag bugs that are candidates for automation to prevent recurrence once fixed
|-
| qa-touch-automated
| Used to tag bugs that are being automated with autopilot
|}
