{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 14.04 Bacon Dogfood ==

Hello! This is Jono and this is where I am tracking the current issues I am having with our core apps in the build-up to 14.04. I am running these apps on the Desktop, Phone, and Tablet. These issues are only things that relate to the apps delivering a core base-level of functionality.

I am logging these issues here and I am asking AlanPope to ensure these are tracked as bugs.

You can <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.tag=bacon-dogfood|see the list of tracked bugs and their statuses here >]]</nowiki>

== Calendar ==

I am testing this on the 14.04 desktop using Google Calendar as the backend (used via Evolution and an Online Account).

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-calendar-app/+bugs?field.tag=bacon-dogfood|List of Calendar dogfooding bugs]]</nowiki>

=== General ===

* --(Doesn't start as a desktop sized window (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297463|Bug #1297463]]</nowiki>) )--
* Title bar doesn't say "Calendar" and says "qmlscene:calendar" (<nowiki>[[Bug:1289695|Bug #1289695]]</nowiki>)
* No convergent UI. I ideally want to see a layout more similar to Google Calendar

=== Composing ===

* Composing events doesn't save them to my Google Calendar (<nowiki>[[Bug:1300217|Bug #1300217]]</nowiki>)
* Compose view: I can't select the date of my event. Date should display the new Date component (<nowiki>[[Bug:1298236|Bug #1298236]]</nowiki>)
* Start/End infer you can select the date and time, but you can only select the time (<nowiki>[[Bug:1298236|Bug #1298236]]</nowiki>, same as above)
* Time selection should be in 15min increments; I don't want to select the exact minute (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297725|Bug #1297725]]</nowiki>)
* The 'This happens' box doesn't allow me to select increments (e.g. Weekly, and select every 2 weeks) (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297739|Bug #1297739]]</nowiki>).

=== Calendar View ===

* --(Timezones don't work (not surw how it works right now, it doesn't even map to UTC) (<nowiki>[[Bug:1267814|Bug #1267814]]</nowiki>) )--
* --( Weekly view shows boxes for events but doesn't say the event name (Day view displays event name fine). (<nowiki>[[Bug:1294672|Bug #1294672]]</nowiki>) )--
* I would rather see the all day events just listed (as opposed to, for example, '2 All day events') (<nowiki>[[Bug:1298239|Bug #1298239]]</nowiki>).
* Some events don't display on my calendar (difficult to tell why) (<nowiki>[[Bug:1300213|Bug #1300213]]</nowiki>)
* All day events appear on the calendar at 5pm (Pacific time) as opposed to displayed in the full day event area.

=== Event View ===

* UI looks a little basic and unstructured.
* --( Embedded Google map doesn't show a map (and not sure how this would show textual definition of a location (e.g. 'Meeting Room A' anyway)) (<nowiki>[[Bug:1280612|Bug #1280612]]</nowiki>) )--
* For Google Calendar events with a hangout link, no link is displayed in the event view. (<nowiki>[[Bug:1300210| Bug #1300210]]</nowiki>)

== Music ==

Testing on phone and Desktop. Desktop has a huge music collection (90+ GB), phone less so).

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/music-app/+bugs?field.tag=bacon-dogfood|List of Music dogfooding bugs]]</nowiki>

=== General ===

* --(If there are no recently played albums, hide that view (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297169|Bug #1297169]]</nowiki>).)--
* If there are more than 5 genres it would be better to just display them as a smaller list so I don't keep scrolling  (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297175|Bug #1297175]]</nowiki>).
* Artists view on desktop wastes a lot of space (would be better to have multiple columns)  (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297177|Bug #1297177]]</nowiki>).
* The Songs view is not interesting to me (too many songs). Maybe show the most played songs?  (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297189|Bug #1297189]]</nowiki>)
* Playlists view should have a button to create a list as opposed to just being blank  (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297179|Bug #1297179]]</nowiki>).
* Long load time when starting the app as it loads the music.
* Search should return a collection of results (matching artists, matching albums, and matching songs). Tapping an artist would then show their albums, tapping an album shows the list of tracks, and tapping a song plays the song. (<nowiki>[[Bug:1301893|Bug #1301893]]</nowiki>)

=== Playback ===

* UI hangs when song goes from one song to another (I start the app, press play and when I skip a track the UI doesn't show the current song and the header is blank) (<nowiki>[[Bug:1300166|Bug #1300166]]</nowiki>).
* --(When I load the app I want to press play and start playing random songs without having to select music first (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297166|Bug #1297166]]</nowiki>). )--
* --(When I select an album from the Albums view I want a 'Play Album' button that adds the full album to my play queue (<nowiki>[[Bug:1297160|Bug #1297160]]</nowiki>). )--
* When playing an album shuffle and repeat are enabled. They should both be disabled so the album plays from start to finish and stops playing when all tracks are complete.

== Weather ==

* --(When running on desktop, weather data cannot be loaded. (<nowiki>[[Bug:1296610|Bug #1296610]]</nowiki>) )--
