{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Overview ==

This page describes the WiFi Display feature of Ubuntu Touch.

=== Supported Devices ===

* Meizu MX Pro 5 Ubuntu Edition (since OTA 11)
* BQ M10 Tablet Ubuntu Edition (since OTA 12)

=== Known working Sink devices ===

* Microsoft Wireless Display Dongle (v1)
* Microsoft Wireless Display Dongle (v2)
* Mii Box

=== Connect with a remote display ===

First of all you need a Miracast / WiFi display capable sink device. Most modern Smart TVs support this or you can buy a dongle from Amazon like the Microsoft Wireless Display one.

The first step to discover available display is through the settings application.

1. Open settings application
2. Navigate to the new WiFi Displays page which sits under the Brightness / Displays page
3. Wait for your display device being discovered
4. Once you have one you want to connect to press the connect button
5. The display will be now connected and you should see the Unity8 desktop

If you want to disconnect from the external display just pull down from the top of the display on the phone display. This will give you a disconnect button.

You can control the user interface either by the virtual touchpad the phone display shows once an external display is connected or by connected a bluetooth mouse and keyboard.

On the other side we have a small utility called ''aethercastctl'' which helps you to deal with the service.

You can scan for available devices

<pre>
aethercastctl> scan
aethercastctl> 
[CHG] Manager Scanning changed: true
Device 4e:74:03:64:86:9e 'Aquaris_E4.5' added
Device 4e:0b:be:f9:78:75 'MicrosoftDisplayAdapter_75' added
</pre>

After the search is done you can connect to one of the found devices.

To list all available devices you can use the ''devices'' command.

<pre>
aethercastctl> devices
Device 4e:0b:be:f9:78:75 'MicrosoftDisplayAdapter_75'
Device 4e:74:03:64:86:9e 'Aquaris_E4.5'
</pre>

Once you know which device you want to connect to you can simply issue the ''connect'' command and wait for the device to get connected.

<pre>
aethercastctl> connect 4e:74:03:64:86:9e
aethercastctl> 
[CHG] Manager Scanning changed: false
[CHG] Manager State changed: connected
</pre>

Once the device is connected you should see the Ubuntu UI on the remote display device. If you run into any issues, logging details are at: /var/log/upstart/aethercast.log

=== Troubleshooting ===

* If connections fails make sure you connected an Android device first to the Microsoft WiFi Display Dongle
* If connections fails power cycle WiFi or reboot the device

=== Bugs ===

If you found a bug please file it on https://bugs.launchpad.net/aethercast but please check first if the bug doesn't already exist.
