{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Twitter ==

This web page is where we are coordinating the work to build a '''Twitter''' application for the Ubuntu Phone that could also extend to other form factors too with the responsive design features built into the <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/get-started/gomobile/|Ubuntu SDK]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''The Details'''
|-
| Launchpad Project
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-twitter-app|ubuntu-twitter-app]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad Team
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-twitter-dev|ubuntu-twitter-dev]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC Channel
| <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23ubuntu-touch|#ubuntu-touch]]</nowiki> on Freenode
|-
| Blueprint
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-twitter-app/+spec/initial-twitter-development|initial-twitter-development]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Meetings ===

Meetings are held in the #ubuntu-touch channel on Freenode IRC.

* Next Meeting:
** TDB
* Previous Meetings:
** <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-Twitter-Meetings#A2013-02-20|2013-02-20]]</nowiki>

=== User Stories ===

'''Note''': please don't add user stories here. We are defining these as a limited set to keep the scope more limited to get out a first version.

* Must Have: I want to view all tweets of those I am following
* Must Have: I want to view my tweets
* Must Have: I want to create a new tweet or delete an existing one
* Must Have: I want to see who is following me
* Must Have: I want to see who I am following
* Must Have: I want to view/modify my profile
* Must Have: I want to discover new people to follow
* Must Have: I want to view someone else’s individual profile and tweets
* Must Have: I want to retweet something

=== Functional Requirements ===

'''Note''': likewise, please don't add functional requirements here. We are defining these as a limited set to keep the scope more limited to get out a first version.

* Account management
* Login
* View my tweets in a list
* View all tweets in a list (of those I am following) or only my own
* View someone else’s profile and tweets
* Retweet something from someone else
* Search (people etc.)

=== Design ===

==== How To Add Your Design ====

==== Home Feed View ====

* Needed

==== Lists view ====

* Needed

==== List Feed view ====

* Needed

==== Profile view ====

* Needed

==== Follow user ====

* Needed

==== Profile Feed view ====

* Needed

==== Followers list ====

* Needed

==== Following List ====

* Needed

==== New Tweet ====

* Needed

==== Retweet ====

* Needed

==== Reply ====

* Needed

==== Search Tweets ====

* Needed

==== Search People ====

* Needed

=== Proposed Mockup ===

* Proposed mockup from <nowiki>[[http://www.saruneko.org/|Saruneko]]</nowiki> showing the different sections of the UI and the suggested transitions between each section: <nowiki>[[http://youtu.be/u_Gdazf44B8|Video]]</nowiki>

=== Implementation ===

This is where the spec will be.
