{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Qt 5.9 ====

Qt 5.9 is planned for Ubuntu 17.10, now as a community effort.

==== Qt 5.7 ====

Qt 5.7.1 is in Ubuntu 17.04.

All Qt 5.7 specific bugs: https://is.gd/5J8Ka6

Qt 5.7 landing <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/a/canonical.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AjuCdq68GSyVdFI4QzNQdWpfME5aMEV2VXo0cUpOMkE|todo]]</nowiki>.

==== Qt 5.6 ====

Qt 5.6.1 is in Ubuntu 16.10

Qt 5.6.2 bugfix release is in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ci-train-ppa-service/+archive/ubuntu/stable-phone-overlay/|stable overlay PPA]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.

All Qt 5.6 specific bugs: http://is.gd/w1RuL2 - open ones http://is.gd/newZlE

==== Qt 5.5.1 ====

Qt 5.5.1 is in Ubuntu 16.04 LTS (xenial).

Ubuntu 15.10 - for users interested in newer Qt: https://launchpad.net/~canonical-qt5-edgers/+archive/ubuntu/backup-qt551. <<BR>>
Ubuntu 15.04 + vivid-overlay - requires pinning to function on phone: https://launchpad.net/~canonical-qt5-edgers/+archive/ubuntu/ubuntu1504-qt551.

All Qt 5.5 specific bugs: http://is.gd/F7pHps - open ones http://is.gd/ZthQwz

==== Qt 5.4.x ====

Qt 5.4.2 is in Ubuntu 15.10. Qt 5.4.1 is in Ubuntu 15.04 and the 'vivid-overlay' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ci-train-ppa-service/+archive/ubuntu/stable-phone-overlay/+packages|silo]]</nowiki>.

All Qt 5.4/5.4.1 specific bugs: http://is.gd/jAUhah (tag qt5.4) - open ones https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.tag=qt5.4

=== Updating mobile device ===

Please use the ubuntu-touch/devel-proposed/ubuntu image channel (not stable or rc one). Enable Developer Mode in settings -> About this phone. QML cache clearing is mandatory (similar to what would happen on image upgrades automatically), otherwise you may run into problems.

If you are using phablet-tools-citrain package, you could use the citrain tool, but '''it's not recommended''' because of various <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/phablet-tools/+bug/1378245/comments/8|problems]]</nowiki> with citrain tool so you'll want to more conventionally use the '''now recommended''' manual method:

<pre>
adb shell
sudo mount -o remount,rw /
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ci-train-ppa-service/1985
sudo apt update
cat << EOF | sudo tee /etc/apt/preferences.d/silo1985.pref
Package: *
Pin: release o=LP-PPA-ci-train-ppa-service-1985
Pin-Priority: 1002
EOF
sudo apt dist-upgrade # Check the dist-upgrade output before approving it - nothing should get uninstalled
sudo apt-get clean # might be useful on 8GB devices if / full..
rm -rf ~/.cache/QML/Apps/
exit
adb reboot
</pre>

=== Updating desktop ===

You may additionally want the pinning above to have a successful upgrade even if not all of the PPA is 100% up-to-date with new archive versions.

''Note'': you may want to update inside virtual machine or LXC container, if you don't want to risk your system Qt. ppa-purge will handle downgrading back to archive versions though. If you use Unity 7 for example, you're quite safe, but LXQt, Unity 8 and Plasma use the system Qt for the whole desktop so there are more risks involved.

'''Using the xenial silo on desktop does not require using the overlay PPA, if you don't need Unity 8 session itself. If you need Unity 8 session functionality, add also ppa:ci-train-ppa-service/stable-phone-overlay'''.

<pre>
apt-add-repository ppa:ci-train-ppa-service/1985
sudo apt update
sudo apt dist-upgrade
</pre>

=== Downgrading on either desktop or mobile device ===

<pre>
sudo apt install ppa-purge
sudo ppa-purge ppa:ci-train-ppa-service/1985
</pre>

=== PPA brokenness/maintenance ===

<pre>
Update: using the pinning instructions above, this section mostly does not apply - the PPA 
usually continues to work but might have older component versions if not updated
</pre>

The PPA might not always be in a functional state, because it needs constant maintenance when the components included get updated in the distribution.

If you see a either greyed out packages (newer version in archives), or a build failure for an important architecture, using the PPA might not work at that moment. Most of the time it will be fixed by a new build soon. You can also ask any landing team member on #ubuntu-ci-eng to force rebuild the affected component by highlighting ''trainguards''.

'''When you do dist-upgrade, check the output! If anything would be removed, either the PPA or your system configuration is not correct at the moment. In this case, do not proceed but ask for instructions.'''

Note! Grey qt*-opensource-src modules are usually harmless, they just means there's a newer synced module from Debian in -proposed.
