{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

/!\ The YouTube app is no longer classed as a "core app" but development is welcome to continue. This page is left here so the information on it is not lost.

== YouTube ==

This web page is where we are coordinating the work to build a '''!YouTube''' application for the Ubuntu Phone that could also extend to other form factors too with the responsive design features built into the <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/get-started/gomobile/|Ubuntu SDK]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;" colspan="2">'''The Details'''
|-
| Launchpad Project
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-youtube-app|ubuntu-youtube-app]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad Team
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-youtube-dev|ubuntu-youtube-dev]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC Channel
| <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23ubuntu-touch|#ubuntu-touch]]</nowiki> on Freenode
|-
| Blueprint
| <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-phone-commons/+spec/initial-youtube-development|initial-youtube-development]]</nowiki>
|-
| Burndown Chart
| <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/coreapps-13.10/ubuntu-youtube-dev.html|coreapps-13.10]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Release Schedule ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Date'''
| '''Milestone'''
| '''Release'''
|-
| 2013-04-15
| <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/coreapps-13.10/ubuntu-youtube-dev-coreapps-13.10-month-0.html|coreapps-13.10-month-0]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 2013-05-15
| <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/coreapps-13.10/ubuntu-youtube-dev-coreapps-13.10-month-1.html|coreapps-13.10-month-1]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 2013-06-15
| <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/coreapps-13.10/ubuntu-youtube-dev-coreapps-13.10-month-2.html|coreapps-13.10-month-2]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 2013-07-15
| <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/coreapps-13.10/ubuntu-youtube-dev-coreapps-13.10-month-3.html|coreapps-13.10-month-3]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 2013-08-15
| <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/coreapps-13.10/ubuntu-youtube-dev-coreapps-13.10-month-4.html|coreapps-13.10-month-4]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 2013-09-15
| <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/coreapps-13.10/ubuntu-youtube-dev-coreapps-13.10-month-5.html|coreapps-13.10-month-5]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| 2013-10-15
| <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/coreapps-13.10/ubuntu-youtube-dev-coreapps-13.10-month-6.html|coreapps-13.10-month-6]]</nowiki>
| 
|}

=== Meetings ===

Meetings are held in the #ubuntu-touch channel on Freenode IRC.

* Next Meeting:
** TDB
* Previous Meetings:
** <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-YouTube-Meetings#A2013-02-20|2013-02-20]]</nowiki>

=== User Stories ===

'''Note''': please don't add user stories here. We are defining these as a limited set to keep the scope more limited to get out a first version.

* Must Have: I want to search videos on !YouTube
* Must Have: I want to play a  video on !YouTube (selected from search list etc.)
* Should Have: I want to see comments about the currently selected video
* Should Have: I would like to see related videos
* Should/Could Have: I want to sign into my existing !YouTube account
* Could Have: I want to upload a video from my device to !YouTube

=== Functional Requirements ===

'''Note''': likewise, please don't add functional requirements here. We are defining these as a limited set to keep the scope more limited to get out a first version.

* Embed video into client app
* Flash support
* HTML5 support?
* Video playback, including pause etc.
* List comments, related videos (click to play new video)
* Account login (not a priority)
* Upload video (not a priority)

=== Design ===

==== How To Add Your Design ====

==== Search view ====

* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.mybalsamiq.com/projects/ubuntuphonecoreapps/YouTube_Search_view|Alex Dubenko]]</nowiki> - simple search view with autohiding search bar

==== Video play view ====

* Needed

==== Comments view ====

* Needed

==== Video meta-data view ====

* Needed

==== Related videos view ====

* Needed

==== Upload video ====

* Needed

=== Implementation ===

This is where the spec will be.
