{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== 2013-02-20 ==

Meeting started by mhall119 at 18:37:38 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-phone/2013/ubuntu-phone.2013-02-20-18.37.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* progress review
 ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Touch/CoreApps/Twitter   (mhall119, 18:38:32)
 
 ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-twitter-app/+spec/initial-twitter-development   (mhall119, 18:38:41)

* Work Items
 ''ACTION:'' jaakko_kui to self-assign work items  (mhall119, 18:48:24)

 ''ACTION:'' fmunozs to self-assign work items  (mhall119, 18:48:31)

 ''ACTION:'' KevinWright Email the ubuntu-twitter-dev team, ask each member to assign themselves to 2 work items  (mhall119, 18:49:30)

* Testing
 ''ACTION:'' KevinWright send email to ubuntu-twitter-dev providing information on testing  (mhall119, 18:51:43)

* other Q&A

Meeting ended at 18:55:07 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* jaakko_kui to self-assign work items
* fmunozs to self-assign work items
* KevinWright Email the ubuntu-twitter-dev team, ask each member to assign themselves to 2 work items
* KevinWright send email to ubuntu-twitter-dev providing information on testing

=== Action items, by person ===

* fmunozs
** fmunozs to self-assign work items
* jaakko_kui
** jaakko_kui to self-assign work items
* KevinWright
** KevinWright Email the ubuntu-twitter-dev team, ask each member to assign themselves to 2 work items
** KevinWright send email to ubuntu-twitter-dev providing information on testing

=== People present (lines said) ===

* KevinWright (42)
* mhall119 (34)
* jaakko_kui (16)
* fmunozs (8)
* meetingology (7)

=== Full Log ===

 18:37:38 <mhall119> #startmeeting Twitter app

 18:37:38 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Feb 20 18:37:38 2013 UTC.  The chair is mhall119. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 18:37:38 <meetingology> 

 18:37:38 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:37:54 <jaakko_kui> I have read them once

 18:37:58 <mhall119> #topic progress review

 18:38:00 <KevinWright> mhall119: thanks

 18:38:32 <mhall119> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Touch/CoreApps/Twitter

 18:38:40 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: If there are any questions about any of the info please don't hesitate to ask myself or mhall119

 18:38:41 <mhall119> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-twitter-app/+spec/initial-twitter-development

 18:38:56 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: mhall119 is pasting some of the links now

 18:39:03 <fmunozs> thanks

 18:39:07 <jaakko_kui> ok

 18:39:11 <mhall119> those are links wo the wiki spec page and the blueprint

 18:39:21 <mhall119> the work items for the initial development are listed at the bottom of the Blueprint

 18:39:29 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Are there any questions you had on your mind we can help answer?

 18:39:52 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: We can discuss the project specifics in a moment

 18:40:29 <mhall119> has everybody been able to install the SDK and grab a copy of the app's branch?

 18:40:37 <mhall119> and get that running

 18:40:54 <fmunozs> yes, Qt5 and SDK running on Ubuntu 12.10

 18:41:14 <jaakko_kui> i have sdk, but not apps branch yet

 18:41:16 <mhall119> and did you bzr branch lp:ubuntu-twitter-app?

 18:41:24 <mhall119> jaakko_kui: ^^ do that

 18:41:29 <jaakko_kui> ok

 18:41:35 <KevinWright> mhall119: Maybe you can answer a question for me actually

 18:41:46 <mhall119> then you can either run it from QtCreator, or just run "qmlscene twitter.qml" from inside the directory

 18:42:42 <jaakko_kui> ok

 18:42:44 <mhall119> KevinWright: sure?

 18:42:59 <KevinWright> mhall119: Did someone already do some work towards a Twitter client?

 18:43:16 <KevinWright> mhall119: I thought someone mentioned it to me before.

 18:43:30 <mhall119> there was a twitter app written in Qt4, gatox and mandel wrote it before the SDK was released

 18:43:44 <mhall119> I think they're on the team for this version too

 18:43:59 <KevinWright> mhall119: OK so it may or may not be useful for us here

 18:44:06 <mhall119> I'm sure some of it will be useful

 18:44:12 <KevinWright> mhall119: OK cool

 18:44:13 <mhall119> how much, I can't say

 18:44:24 <KevinWright> mhall119: OK, we can check on it later

 18:44:31 <KevinWright> mhall119: Thanks

 18:44:32 <mhall119> any other progress updates?

 18:44:55 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Did you have a chance to look at the work items that were proposed?

 18:45:06 <mhall119> #topic Work Items

 18:45:20 <KevinWright> mhall119: thanks again

 18:45:23 <mhall119> :)

 18:45:24 <jaakko_kui> yes

 18:45:45 <mhall119> there are 13 work items currently on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-twitter-app/+spec/initial-twitter-development

 18:45:49 <KevinWright> fmunozs: Did you have a chance to see them?

 18:45:59 <fmunozs> KevinWright, you mean the functional requirements?

 18:46:04 <mhall119> we need to get those assigned to members of the team

 18:46:25 <fmunozs> I see them now

 18:46:34 <KevinWright> fmunozs:  mhall119 pasted a link to the work items, but they are from the functional requirements

 18:46:52 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Take a look and volunteer yourself for something that sounds interesting to you

 18:47:06 <jaakko_kui> I can do test related tasks

 18:47:18 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: at the start of the line in the blueprint put your Launchpad ID in [] brackets

 18:47:38 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui: Cool. Testing is very important

 18:48:02 <KevinWright> So the format will be [you-lp-id] This is a work item: TODO

 18:48:08 <jaakko_kui> ok

 18:48:22 <fmunozs> yea, just noticed pretty much the same, I don't see anything about sharing stuff from other applications, I saw in the tablet announcement there will be a sharing framework, right? somebody else will take care of that?

 18:48:23 <KevinWright> fmunozs: Anything there look interesting?

 18:48:24 <mhall119> #action jaakko_kui to self-assign work items

 18:48:24 * meetingology jaakko_kui to self-assign work items

 18:48:31 <mhall119> #action fmunozs to self-assign work items

 18:48:31 * meetingology fmunozs to self-assign work items

 18:48:43 <mhall119> who can email the rest of the team and ask them to each take 2 work items?

 18:49:06 <KevinWright> mhall119: I can do that. I already sent one or two about this topic.

 18:49:30 <mhall119> #action KevinWright Email the ubuntu-twitter-dev team, ask each member to assign themselves to 2 work items

 18:49:30 * meetingology KevinWright Email the ubuntu-twitter-dev team, ask each member to assign themselves to 2 work items

 18:49:33 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Also don't be shy about suggesting new work items

 18:49:44 <jaakko_kui> ok

 18:49:51 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Or modifying the wording, expanding details etc.

 18:49:52 <mhall119> yeah, these aren't set in stone, we can add/remove and reassign as needed

 18:50:00 <mhall119> they are just there to keep things on track

 18:50:19 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Some of what I put in there was done quite quickly and might not read like a proper work item

 18:50:25 <fmunozs> ok I will see the items and select one today

 18:50:39 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: I'll fix them up, but we need some additional detail in many cases

 18:50:48 <jaakko_kui> any guide etc for the test documents ?

 18:50:49 <KevinWright> fmunozs: great!

 18:51:06 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui: Let me send an email about testing

 18:51:12 <mhall119> # Testing

 18:51:16 <jaakko_kui> great

 18:51:17 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Testing is an important topic that everyone should know about

 18:51:17 <mhall119> #topic Testing

 18:51:43 <mhall119> #action KevinWright send email to ubuntu-twitter-dev providing information on testing

 18:51:43 * meetingology KevinWright send email to ubuntu-twitter-dev providing information on testing

 18:51:45 <KevinWright> One more time for the meeting bot :) Testing is an important topic that everyone should know about

 18:52:10 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: I would like to send something to all the app devs on all teams about this

 18:52:23 <jaakko_kui> ok

 18:52:28 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: OK we have just a few minutes left

 18:52:44 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Any final questions for today?

 18:53:07 <jaakko_kui> nope :)

 18:53:10 <mhall119> #topic other Q&A

 18:53:10 <fmunozs> no, I'm ok

 18:53:15 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: I'm available any time by email of course, or IRC (this week I am not on very often, but next week back on a regular schedule)

 18:53:20 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Alright great!

 18:53:27 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Thanks for joining today

 18:53:34 <jaakko_kui> ok bye!

 18:53:37 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: I'm looking forward to working with you both!

 18:53:40 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Cheers!

 18:53:41 <mhall119> I'm also available if you guys have any questions about using bzr or Launchpad

 18:53:54 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Yes mhall119 is also there for you

 18:54:01 <jaakko_kui> good!

 18:54:17 <fmunozs> Thanks

 18:54:24 <KevinWright> (sorry mhall119, forgot to add that in!)

 18:54:37 <KevinWright> jaakko_kui, fmunozs: Bye all!

 18:54:48 <jaakko_kui> bye

 18:54:52 <KevinWright> Thanks mhall119 for the meeting help

 18:54:59 <mhall119> alright, thanks everyone

 18:55:07 <mhall119> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
