{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

This page tries to list and explain all available Ubuntu Touch channels that have been currently set-up. Please remember that this information can get quickly out-of-date. All the refactored channels follow the schema specified in <nowiki>[[Touch-ChannelSchemaSpec]]</nowiki> - please read this document to understand the rationale for the following setup.

=== Current Channel List ===

For a more clear "Recommended Channel" for all devices (currently Nexus 4, Nexus 7, Nexus 10, Bq Aquaris E4.5, Meizu MX4) see https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/start/ubuntu-for-devices/image-channels/

==== ubuntu-touch/stable/* ====

Manually promoted images from ubuntu-touch/rc/* that reach end-user devices. These channels should be used for everyday-use phones. They usually get updated every six weeks. Those updates are the official OTA (over the air) releases.

** '''ubuntu-touch/stable/ubuntu''' - channel with the community custom tarball
** '''ubuntu-touch/stable/ubuntu-developer''' - channel with a developer-oriented custom tarball, including extra payload useful for app-developers
** '''ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris.en''' - channel used by all commercial BQ devices, contains the BQ custom tarball
** '''ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu.en'''

==== ubuntu-touch/rc/* ====

Manually promoted images from ubuntu-touch/rc-proposed/*. These channels usually get updated twice a month.

** '''ubuntu-touch/rc/ubuntu'''
** '''ubuntu-touch/rc/ubuntu-developer'''
** '''ubuntu-touch/rc/bq-aquaris.en'''
** '''ubuntu-touch/rc/meizu.en'''

==== ubuntu-touch/rc-proposed/* ====

Automatically built images that are candidates for the rc and later the stable channels; these are currently built from '''''ubuntu/vivid + stable-phone-overlay PPA'''''.

** '''ubuntu-touch/rc-proposed/ubuntu'''
** '''ubuntu-touch/rc-proposed/ubuntu-developer'''
** '''ubuntu-touch/rc-proposed/bq-aquaris.en'''
** '''ubuntu-touch/rc-proposed/bq-aquaris.en-proposed''' - channel for testing of new custom tarballs before upload
** '''ubuntu-touch/rc-proposed/meizu.en'''
** '''ubuntu-touch/rc-proposed/meizu.en-proposed'''

==== ubuntu-touch/devel/* ====

Manually promoted images from ubuntu-touch/devel-proposed/*. Promotions do not follow any specific schedules.

** '''ubuntu-touch/devel/ubuntu'''
** '''ubuntu-touch/devel/krillin.en''' - (will be renamed to bq-aquaris.en)
** '''ubuntu-touch/devel/meizu.en'''

==== ubuntu-touch/devel-proposed/* ====

Automatically built images from the latest devel series. This is the channel that has the latest bleeding-edge development, absolutely no guarantee of stability.

** '''ubuntu-touch/devel-proposed/ubuntu''' - devel channel with the community custom tarball
** '''ubuntu-touch/devel-proposed/ubuntu-developer''' - devel channel with a developer-oriented custom tarball, including extra payload useful for app-developers
** '''ubuntu-touch/devel-proposed/krillin.en''' - devel channel with the BQ custom tarball (will be renamed to bq-aquaris.en)
** '''ubuntu-touch/devel-proposed/krillin.en-proposed''' - devel channel for testing of new custom tarballs before upload (will be renamed to bq-aquaris.en-proposed)
** '''ubuntu-touch/devel-proposed/meizu.en'''
