{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Account Manager ==

This web page is where we are coordinating the work to build a '''Account Manager''' application for the Ubuntu Phone that could also extend to other form factors too with the responsive design features built into the <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/get-started/gomobile/|Ubuntu SDK]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''The Details'''
|-
| IRC Channel
| <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23ubuntu-phone|#ubuntu-phone]]</nowiki> on Freenode
|}

=== User Stories ===

'''Note''': please don't add user stories here. We are defining these as a limited set to keep the scope more limited to get out a first version.

* Must Have: I want to add account easily
* Must Have: I want to edit details
* Must Have: I want to have multiple accounts of the same service
* Must Have: I want to manage accounts easily
* Must Have: I want to add/modify email settings for a POP3/IMAP account

=== Functional Requirements ===

'''Note''': likewise, please don't add functional requirements here. We are defining these as a limited set to keep the scope more limited to get out a first version.

* Edit Account details
* Sync with server
* Managing account preferences
* Having multiple accounts of the same service

=== Design ===

==== How To Add Your Design ====

==== Account Manager Main Screen ====
'''Note''': The first image:
* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.mybalsamiq.com/projects/ubuntuphonecoreapps/Account+Manager+Alternative|Samarth Karia]]</nowiki> - Account manager 

==== Manage individual Accounts ====
'''Note''': The second image:
* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.mybalsamiq.com/projects/ubuntuphonecoreapps/Account+Manager+Alternative|Samarth Karia]]</nowiki> - Account manager 

==== Add a new Account ====
'''Note''': The third image:
* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.mybalsamiq.com/projects/ubuntuphonecoreapps/Account+Manager+Alternative|Samarth Karia]]</nowiki> - Account manager 

==== Multiple accounts on a single service (list view) ====
Glance at all the connected accounts to that single service

* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.mybalsamiq.com/projects/ubuntuphonecoreapps/AccountManager-MultipleAccounts|Jason Hihn]]</nowiki> - Account manager to rule them all. 3 Screens: Main, Add and a sample details screen

==== Account preferences ====

* Needed

==== Notification settings ====

* Needed

==== Sync settings ====

* Needed

=== Implementation ===

This is where the spec will be.
