{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablebgcolor="#F1F1ED" tablewidth="40%" tablestyle="float:right;font-size:0.9em;margin:0 0 1em 1em;"style="padding:0.25em;"><<BR>>
|}

== General ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Device name
| Galaxy Nexus
|-
| Code name
| toroplus
|-
| Image maintainer(s)
| LaunchpadHome:kdb424
|-
| Testers
| link to your Launchpad profile please
|-
| Update interval / last update
| (is the image built automatically, how often? if not automatic, when did you last update it?)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Unlocking instructions
| ...
|-
| Install instructions
| ...
|-
| Code/Image
| http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?s=9f408e4c5c971f364f36365686826689&t=2159832
|}

== State of things ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-2> '''Legend'''
|-
| '''State'''
| '''Explanation'''
|-
| <bgcolor="#00FF99"> Perfect
| Everything works, all patches included in Ubuntu proper
|-
| <bgcolor="#FFFFCC"> Working
| Works, minor issues only, some patches pending
|-
| <bgcolor="#FF9999"> W-I-P
| Work in progress
|-
| <bgcolor="#CC3300"> Blocked/Broken
| Severely broken, unusable or progress is blocked
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8"> Unknown
| Unknown
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''What'''
| '''Status/Comments'''
|-
| <bgcolor="#FFFFCC"> Graphics
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8"> Boot process
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8"> Rotation
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#CC3300"> Cellular Radio
| CDMA Radio Currently does not work
|-
| <bgcolor="#CC3300"> Wireless network
| Simple Wifi Only Networking
|-
| <bgcolor="#FFFFCC"> Sound
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#FFFFCC"> Touch
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#FFFFCC"> Camera
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8"> Video Decode
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8"> Suspend/Resume
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8"> Other
| 
|}

== Installation ==
Using your own custom recovery (CWM or TWRP):<<BR>>
   1: Make a nandroid backup<<BR>>
   2: Do a factory reset (Wipe Data/Cache, some have not had luck after wiping system)<<BR>>
   3: Install toroplus_ubuntu.zip from forum post.<<BR>>
   4: Install quantal-preinstalled-phablet-armhf.zip from forum post or Ubuntu mirror (link below).<<BR>>
      -This step will take a long time, don't worry unless you see errors.<<BR>>
   5: Reboot system.<<BR>>
   
=== Unlocking instructions ===
NOTE: This will delete all data on the phone (most of the time, you may luck out, but don't count on it). This includes your "SDCard" space (or, more properly, your /data/media/ space). As such, you should make proper backups. <<BR>>
<<BR>>
NOTE: This may void your warranty. You will see a more specific warning as you unlock, but you are choosing to do this on your own, and you are responsible for any damage done to your device as a result.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
REQUIREMENTS:
   1: Android SDK (Can be found here, along with installation instructions: http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html )
Reboot phone into bootloader mode:<<BR>>
   1: Turn off phone.<<BR>>
   2: Hold down both volume buttons and press the power button until the phone vibrates.<<BR>>
   3: You will see an Android, and a large box with an arrow pointing to the right (towards your power button) which says START. You are now in bootloader mode. If you use the volume up/down buttons, you can choose to boot into recovery, among other options. For now, you will stay in bootloader mode.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Unlock using Fastboot (included in the Android SDK tools)<<BR>>
   4: With the phone in bootloader mode, plug phone into computer using a microUSB cable.<<BR>>
   5: In a terminal or command prompt on the computer, navigate to the directory which you stored the Android SDK, and into the platform-tools directory (If you have the SDK binaries in your path, you don't need to worry about this). <<BR>>
   6: For Linux & Mac: <<BR>>
      <code>./fastboot oem unlock</code> <<BR>>
      or, if the Tools are in your path,<<BR>> 
      <code>fastboot oem unlock</code><<BR>>
      For Windows: <<BR>>
      <code>fastboot.exe oem unlock</code><<BR>><<BR>>
   7: At this point, your phone will show a dialog, asking you to confirm that you want to unlock the device, it will show a warning. Make your own decision.<<BR>>
   8: If you decide to proceed, you can use the volume buttons to highlight "yes" and then press the power button to select it.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Your device is unlocked. If you download a .img of ClockworkMod Recovery or TeamWin Recovery Project, you can flash it with fastboot:<code>fastboot flash recovery <recovery.img></code>

=== link to images ===

== Known issues ==

== The image ==
=== How to build it ===
Please give some instructions on how you build the image.

=== Redistributability ===
Are all parts of the image freely redistributable?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-2> '''Legend'''
|-
| '''State'''
| '''Explanation'''
|-
| <bgcolor="#00FF99"> Perfect
| Redistributable, we're all happy
|-
| <bgcolor="#FFFFCC"> Maybe problematic
| Might be redistributable, some open questions (comment)
|-
| <bgcolor="#CC3300"> Problematic
| Not redistributable at all
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8"> Unknown
| Unknown
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Component name'''
| '''Link to it'''
| '''License''' (link or name)
| '''Status / Comment''''
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8">
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8">
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8">
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <bgcolor="#C8C8C8">
| 
| 
| 
|}
