{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Ubuntu Touch Core App Year End Hack Days! ===

==== Hack Day ====

Wikipedia says a <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hackathon|Hack Day]]</nowiki> is:- 

"''an event in which computer programmers and others involved in software development, including graphic designers, interface designers and project managers, collaborate intensively on software projects''"

We're running final batch of Hack Days for the Ubuntu Touch Core Apps in 2014. As the launches of Ubuntu phones are tantalising close, we are tightly focused in polishing the functionality across all core apps ready for them to be of production-quality on phones, tablets and desktops by release. 

We are at a critical point of the release, where everything is almost there, with final features landing in the platform. Starting from scratch, and driven by the community, the core apps work has been stunning so far, and we want to make sure they get the exposure they deserve and users can benefit from them by driving them to completion. With everyone's help we can make it!

As such, we've chosen the theme for these Hack Days to be '''Ready for RTM'''.

More specifically we want to focus on:-

* Fix “bytesize” bugs
* Polishing the final UX
* Finding & fixing critical bugs in core apps and their dependencies
* Identify and record gaps in functionality - and assign people to fix them
* Get new developers involved in Core Apps and Ubuntu development in general
* Have fun! 

The Hack Days are run by MichaelHall (mhall119), DavidPlanella (dpm) and AlanPope (popey). 

==== Goals ====

We will be targeting bugs to the "week 50" milestone for each app to drive them to completion.

==== Schedule ====

We focus on multiple Core Apps per day over the period 8th December - 12th December 2014, but if you want to work on Core Apps at any other time we won't mind! :) 

As with the previous Hack Days, we're batching Core Apps together each day. This allows us to cover all of the apps through the week, and gives people a choice each day for which app to work on. This is especially useful where we have paired an app which is mostly complete with one where there are gaps, or paired two apps which use similar technologies. Have no fear, there will be no days with nothing to do! :D

We're going to run the days from 09:00 UTC to 21:00 UTC.

Here's the schedule:-

==== Core Apps ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20141208T0900 |8th December]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-Calculator|Calculator]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-Clock|Clock]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-Terminal|Terminal]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20141209T0900 |9th December]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-Calendar|Calendar ]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-FileManager|FileManager]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20141210T0900 |10th December]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-Music|Music]]</nowiki>  &  <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-DocViewer|DocViewer]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20141211T0900 |11th December]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-RSSReader|Shorts]]</nowiki> &  <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-Reminders|Reminders]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20141212T0900 |12th December]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-Weather|Weather]]</nowiki> &  <nowiki>[[Touch-CoreApps-EmailClient|Dekko]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Co-ordination ===

We co-ordinate the work in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-app-devel|#ubuntu-app-devel]]</nowiki> on freenode IRC.

=== Getting Involved ===

Participating in the Hack Days is extremely easy: you just need a working Internet connection and access to IRC. We simply recommend some preparation beforehand:

* <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/2013/07/join-the-ubuntu-touch-core-apps-development-team/|Learn how to get started developing core apps]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-app-devel|Join the #ubuntu-app-devel IRC channel on Freenode]]</nowiki>
