{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

To contribute design, first ensure you have picked an app and then read the <nowiki>[[http://design.ubuntu.com/apps|App Design Guides]]</nowiki>.

Next, send an email to ''David Planella'' (david.planella AT canonical DOT com) and ''Michael Hall'' (michael.hall AT canonical DOT com) to ask to be added to !MyBalsamiq (this is the system we use for creating mock-ups.

Now look at each of the screens listed in the project in the ''Design'' section and view any existing designs. 

If a design matches how you think it should look but with a few changes, please don't create a new design but instead leave comments on the design itself.

If there is either no design or you would like to propose a new design, simply create the design in !MyBalsamiq on https://ubuntu.mybalsamiq.com/projects/ubuntuphonecoreapps/grid. Please be sure to use the Phone container and add your design inside it.

Now link your design under the right screen heading below and using the following format:

<pre>
* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.mybalsamiq.com/projects/ubuntuphonecoreapps/YOURDESIGN|Your Name]]</nowiki> - summary of your design
</pre>

As an example:

* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.mybalsamiq.com/projects/ubuntuphonecoreapps/Sample+App|Jono Bacon]]</nowiki> - a simple example of a sample app.
