{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Full Team Meetings ==

All meetings are held in '''<nowiki>[[ http:--webchat.freenode.net-?channels=ubuntu-meeting |#ubuntu-meeting]]</nowiki>''' on '''irc.freenode.net'''

Meetings are posted on the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|Fridge]]</nowiki>. '''Click <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/render?cid=j5q85mmi6ujvjtii5s1n3li5io%40group.calendar.google.com|here]]</nowiki> to subscribe.'''
* Google calendar will convert the time for you automatically if you subscribe, but the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar |Fridge]]</nowiki> website will always show events in GMT.

==== Absences ====

If you know that you will definitely be unable to attend the next meeting, please put your name and reason in the table below:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background:#592441; color:#F1F1DD">Who
| Reason
|}

=== Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# We can discuss in the next meeting.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background:#592441; color:#F1F1DD"-3>Agenda Items
|-
| Who
| What
| Reason
|}

==== Post-Meeting Tasks ====
* '''Update Next meeting time on the wiki'''
* '''Send meeting minutes to '''
* '''Clear the meeting agenda and topics in this page to use the page for the next meeting''' 

==== Steps to Schedule Next Meeting ====
These steps are to be performed after each meeting to ensure that all locations that mention the date of the next meeting are up-to-date

# Determine a date and time for the next meeting. Be sure to check the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Fridge]]</nowiki> and verify that there isn't a meeting already scheduled for that time. If there is, the meeting might need to be held in #ubuntu-phone instead of #ubuntu-meeting.
# Update the /topic in #ubuntu-phone to reflect the date/time of the next meeting
# Verify that the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar |Fridge]]</nowiki> has the correct information for the upcoming meeting. If it does not have the correct information, remove the incorrect event, and <nowiki>[[Fridge-Calendar|add]]</nowiki> a new event with the correct information.
# Announce the new meeting on the 
=== Logs of previous meetings ===

==== 2011 ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Link
|}

