{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background: #ECA918; color: #000; margin: 2em 1em;" style="padding: 0.5em 1em;">'''''! This is an in progress draft proposal'''''
|}

=== What ===

This proposal aims to create a team which will encourage collaboration and help develop a sense of community that spans across the Core Apps project. The team will be able to review merge proposals and triage bugs in all of the Core Apps.

=== Why ===

During the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appdev-1311-coreapps-saucy-review | the Core Apps process review at vUDS-1311]]</nowiki> a number of issues were raised highlighting the need for a team that has the ability to work across the entire set of Core Apps. They included:

* Especially on teams with a small number of developers, there needs to be a way to find people to review a merge request when the other developers aren't available. Merge requests sometimes sit for a few days or more without review.

* Core App developers are not able to help triage bugs (e.g. set bug importance) in apps that are not their main focus. 

* There was a general sense that encouraging Core App developers to help out on more than just their project would be beneficial.

* It was noticed that there are components that do the same thing in multiple apps that are implemented differently (e.g. location picker). More cross app collaboration will lead to more consistent design and code sharing. 

=== How ===

A `~ubuntu-touch-coreapps-devs` team will be created on Launchpad. It will then be added to each Core App team.

==== Team Definition ====

This section aims to define the proposed team and set expectation for membership. It is highly influenced by the requirements and expectation of <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers]]</nowiki> on the platform/distro side of the project.

'''Ubuntu Core Apps Developers''':

* are members of the ~ubuntu-touch-coreapps-devs Launchpad team '''(Not yet created, name subject to change)'''

* are collectively responsible for the maintenance and development of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Touch/CoreApps|Ubuntu Touch Core Apps]]</nowiki> by being able to commit to branches and triage bugs

* have a strong working knowledge of app development for the Ubuntu Touch platform

* have a strong working knowledge of Ubuntu Core Apps project procedures

* understand and practice collaborative development in bzr branches

* have a history of substantial direct contributions to the Ubuntu Core Apps project ''(generally for at least one complete development cycle or six months, may be relaxed as we bootstrap the team)''

* exercise great care in their work, with the understanding that their efforts have a direct impact on others, including Ubuntu users and developers working on other aspects of the project

* feel a sense of personal responsibility for the quality of Ubuntu Core Apps and for the satisfaction of Ubuntu users

* have signed the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>

==== Applying for membership ====

Contributors who fulfill the criteria above, can either be invited by an existing member or ask to become one. '''(Where does this happen? The core apps mailing list?)'''

At least three existing members have to confirm that they have worked enough with you to judge your skills and that you meet the criteria above. This is the same application procedure used by the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Developers|Ubuntu Desktop Developers]]</nowiki> team in order to grant both upload rights to the ubuntu-desktop package set and Ubuntu membership.

=== Open Questions ===

==== Ubuntu Membership ====

This proposal was crafted to be similar to the requirements for becoming an <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers]]</nowiki>. It aims to be like other bodies that have been delegated the ability to grant Ubuntu membership by the <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil]]</nowiki>. It is hoped that this team will eventually become a membership granting body itself, but that will require action by the CC.

==== Initial membership ====

How do we initially seed the team? I can think of a number of developers that fit the team as conceptualized. I'm reluctant to name individual developers since I'm sure I will miss some that are both qualified and interested in joining. The application procedure was designed to be extremely lightweight. So presumably if we just name a handful of initial members, they can immediately add new members.

==== Relationship with ~ubuntu-touch-coreapps-drivers team ====

There is already a team that has the ability to review merges and triage bugs across the Core Apps project, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-touch-coreapps-drivers| the Ubuntu Core Apps Drivers team]]</nowiki>. Currently this team is made up exclusively of Canonical employees.

Could we just take over the ~ubuntu-touch-coreapps-drivers for our purposes? If so, what happens to the current members? If not, what is the relationship between these teams? We don't want to create an artificial Canonical/Community divide.

While Canonical employees should be encouraged to join the new team, they should not be automatically able to do so based on their employer (similar to the <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers]]</nowiki> team on the distro side). Again the application procedure was designed to be extremely lightweight, and presumably a number of Canonical employees will be in the initial membership.

The membership criteria for ~ubuntu-touch-coreapps-drivers was "people who needed to be there to do the work that needed to be done", it was never automatically open to any Canonical employees.  If ~ubuntu-touch-coreapps-dev is to be some kind of status team (which is how it sounds, given the requirements for sustained contribution and 3 +1's from existing members), I would rather keep ~ubuntu-touch-coreapps-drivers as a separate team where we can add people based on the need to get work done and their willingness to do it.
