{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Testing a ubuntu touch application ==
----
'''Wondering how to run tests on a phone? <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Touch/Testing/Autopilot/TestRunners|See this page]]</nowiki>.'''

=== For everyone ===
==== OTA Testing ====
Help test OTA releases! Here's the information to get you started using <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/PhoneTesting|checkbox]]</nowiki>.

==== Community Exploratory testing ====
Interested in helping prevent regressions and ensure new features land bugfree everyday? <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/TouchTesting|Join us in doing manual exploratory testing]]</nowiki> of each new stable image.

==== Translations Testing ====
Help make ubuntu readable in all languages! <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/Phone#Testing_translations|Join us!]]</nowiki>

=== For developers ===
==== Unit Testing ====
Unit testing is a requirement for proper test-driven development. To learn how to utilize the tools Qt and the SDK make available for this, see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Touch/Testing/QML|this page]]</nowiki>.

==== Functional testing ====
For functional testing you can utilize the autopilot tool. Originally developed for the testing unity, autopilot has become a useful tool for functionally testing many different types of applications; including QML! <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Touch/Testing/Autopilot|See this page]]</nowiki> for more information on how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Touch/Testing/Autopilot|get started using autopilot]]</nowiki>.
