{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Here are my notes as I find things relevant to using this touch screen:
<pre>
$ lsusb
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 04e7:0020 Elo TouchSystems Touchscreen Interface (2700)
</pre>

Installed Jaunty Feb 18 09 - out of the box I get X's display, and the mouse 1/2 works: touch center of screen, mouse cursor jumps to center.  drag finger up, mouse follows (good.)  drag finger to the left, mouse goes to the right.  that's a problem.  

----

Manufacture has linux support:  Version 3.1 April 14, 2008 
http://www.elotouch.com/files/install/elo_linux_serial_driver_v3.1_installation_instructions.txt
http://www.elotouch.com/Support/TechnicalSupport/Drivers/Linux/
(have not tired it yet, hoping to only use ubuntu packages.)

http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/i386/xserver-xorg-input-evtouch/filelist
<pre>
/usr/bin/calibrate_touchscreen
/usr/bin/ev_calibrate
/usr/lib/xf86-input-evtouch/calibrate.sh
/usr/lib/xf86-input-evtouch/ev_calibrate
</pre>

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EloTouchScreen  "Note: Version 1.1.0-3 has a bug that is triggered when axis minimum and maximum values are inverted. Until the package is updated a patched version (1.1.0-3ubuntu1) is available from my PPA. "

For the types EloTouch and MicroTouch exists a rudimentary calibration tool http://touchcal.sourceforge.net

http://tldp.org/HOWTO/html_single/XFree86-Touch-Screen-HOWTO/

Metrolink Metro-X Enhanced Server - This X server supports touchscreen from the following manufacturers ... EloGraphic   http://tuxmobil.org/touch_laptops.html#ToC10

http://www.embedded.com/story/OEG20020529S0046  "Steps in the calibration process" - looks like a description of how to write a calibration program.
