{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablebgcolor="#F1F1ED" tablewidth="40%" tablestyle="float:right;font-size:0.9em;margin:0 0 1em 1em;"style="padding:0.25em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Ubuntu Touch OTA-14 Update ==

=== Image numbers ===

As each channel and device has separate versioning, the following list shows the respective image numbers corresponding to the released update:

* BQ Aquaris E4.5 : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris.en - '''krillin''': '''#36'''
* BQ Aquaris E5 : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris.en - '''vegetahd''': '''#16'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris.en - '''generic''': '''#19'''
* BQ Aquaris M10 : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris-pd.en - '''frieza''': '''#7'''
* BQ Aquaris M10 HD : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris-pd.en - '''cooler''': '''#7'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris-pd.en - '''generic''': '''#3'''
* Nexus 4 : ubuntu-touch/stable/bq-aquaris.en - '''mako''': '''#34'''
* Meizu MX4 : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu.en - '''arale''': '''#16'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu.en - '''generic''': '''#5'''
* Meizu PRO 5: ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu-pd.en - '''turbo''': '''#6'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu-pd.en - '''generic''': '''#3'''
* Meizu MX4 : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu.zh - '''arale''': '''#12'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu.zh - '''generic''': '''#5'''
* Meizu PRO 5: ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu-pd.zh - '''turbo''': '''#6'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/meizu-pd.zh - '''generic''': '''#3'''
* Nexus 4 : ubuntu-touch/stable/ubuntu - '''mako''': '''#34'''
* Nexus 7 : ubuntu-touch/stable/ubuntu - '''flo''': '''#12'''
* Emulator : ubuntu-touch/stable/ubuntu - '''generic''': '''#22'''
* Emulator (x86) : ubuntu-touch/stable/ubuntu - '''generic_x86''': '''#22'''

On a device, this "image number" is shown as the "OS build number" in '''System Settings''' > '''About this phone''' > '''OS'''.

=== Overview of changes ===

This list is only a highlight of the few changes available in this update. Please check the detailed changes for all the changes included in this OTA.
OTA-14 generally consists only of selected most important changes, in contrast to the usual rc-proposed based releases so far.

==== Framework versions ====

No change in framework versions.

==== Important features ====

* New Unity8 spread design
* Oxide 1.17
* Opus audio codec support in qtmultimedia

==== Bugfixes ====

* Fixes for SMS notifications not arriving then phone is locked
* Device appearing off during image update
* Fix vibrations when other vibrations are enabled
* Fixes for alarm issues
* ...and more!

=== Detailed changes ===

* Commitlog: http://people.canonical.com/~lzemczak/landing-team/ota/ota-14.commitlog
* Milestone: https://launchpad.net/canonical-devices-system-image/+milestone/14

=== Known issues ===

The following is a list of issues that notable enough for explicit mention in the release notes.

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/phablet-tools/+bug/1625182|LP: #1625182]]</nowiki>: Emulator images not working on yakkety (16.10) hosts
* In OTA-13, in a certain edge case after downloading the update and waiting too long on the update screen before pressing the update button, the button might not work. As a workaround please go to About, tap "Check for updates" and re-try updating once again.
