{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Overview ==

This page describes how we're maintaining our libhybris packaging and the related compatibility layer.

Libhybris is now maintained in a <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~libhybris-maintainers/libhybris/+git/libhybris|central repository]]</nowiki> which is the source for both the debian package and the Android compatibility layer implementation. Every change should be submitted as merge proposal so that it can get reviewed by all involved people to spot problems across different device layers early.

In the central instance of the Android compatiblity layer we're going to abstract device specifics but will avoid changing or breaking the API we're using through libhybris from the Ubuntu side at all cost.

=== Android device tree ===

In your Android device tree you should directly reference the ''stable'' branch of the central repository at ''ubuntu/libhybris''. You can add something like this to your manifest:

<pre>
<remote  name="launchpad" fetch="https://git.launchpad.net/"/>
<project path="ubuntu/libhybris" name="~libhybris-maintainers/libhybris/+git/libhybris" revision="refs/heads/stable" remote="launchpad"/>
</pre>

All device trees are required to use this approach and '''should not''' maintain a fork of libhybris.

=== Device bringup ===

As long a device is actively developed and you have to do fast changes in libhybris to the Android compatibly layer you can reference a private fork. However as soon as your device is available to others and available to the public all changes for libhybris and the Android compatibly layer needs to be synced back to the central repository.

This will fetch the right things whenever you run ''repo sync''.
