{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Desktop Course: Table of Contents ==

'''Thank you hugely''' to over 60 of you who provided detailed and structured feedback. As a result, much of the content has been moved around, rehashed, condensed and expanded in some areas. If you want to continue your involvement, the next meeting will take place on '''Thursday 23rd August (UTC +1) @ #ubuntu-training,''' and subsequently every two weeks at the same time and place. An agenda for the meeting will be issued early on that week. See you soon :)

=== 2 days, +/- 900 mins (7.5 hours / day) ===

=== Day 1: 450 mins ===

'''Day 1: Morning – 210 mins (3.5 hours)'''

'''1. Getting Started –  (30 mins)'''
* Welcome and Introduction to the Lecturer / Facilitator
* Explain Occupational Health and Safety / Personal Facilities of the location we are using
* Explain Disability Assistance Options 
* Explain delivery style and model (e.g. Modular / Lecture / Hands on / Formative and Summative)
* Open Source – a very brief picture
* About Ubuntu 
* About the Ubuntu community (incl. how this course was developed)
* Course objectives (What the student will achieve / outcomes / additional activities / follow up)

'''2. Key differences between using Ubuntu and Microsoft Windows – (~30 mins)'''

'''3. Super quick tour of GNOME desktop (incl. Add / remove function & wobbly windows & desktop search tools &  Choosing a language) (~30 mins)'''

'''4. Internet – (120 mins)'''
* Connecting to the Internet – wireless / cable / dial up
* Web browsing 
* Email 
* Junk filtering - enabling & using the junk button in Thunderbird and Evolution.
* Instant Messaging 
* Softphones – ekiga, wengophone
* News Readers 

'''Day 1: afternoon'''

'''5. Office – (210 mins.)'''
* OpenOffice.org  - incl. opening / closing MS Windows docs in OpenOffice 
* Printing
* GnuCash Accounting Application –  brief overview  
* Scribus Desktop Publishing Application - mention only
* --(xpdf)-- evince - mention only

'''6. Games – (30 mins)'''
* Frozen-Bubble 
* PlanetPenguin Racer 
* Scorched3D 
* Windows Games 
* freeciv

=== Day 2: 450 mins ===

'''Day 2: Morning'''

'''Recap on day 1 (10 mins)'''
 
'''7. Adding, Removing and Updating Applications – (140 mins)'''
* Desktop, preferences and navigating the Filesystem – incl. nautilus / konqueror & where to find what and how to install diff desktop themes
* What is a package manager  
* Add/Remove Applications 
* Synaptic Package Manager 
* Installing a Single Package File 
* Software Repositories 
* Updates 

'''8. Graphics & Photos – (60 mins)'''
* Digital Cameras 
* Scanning
* 3D Graphic Cards 
* gThumb Image Viewer 
* The GIMP (Gnu Image Manipulation Program) 
* Inkscape Vector Graphics Editor 
* f-spot

'''Day 2: Afternoon'''

'''9. Music and Video – (120 mins) (incl. laws / legislation warnings; free vs non-free format information)'''
* Playing and Organising Music Files 
* Playing and Extracting Audio CDs 
* Burning CDs 
* Video Playback 
* Multimedia Codecs 
* Using an iPod 
* Editing Audio Files 
* DVD Playback 
* Backing Up DVDs 
* RealPlayer 
* Video Editing 

'''10. Where to go from here – (120 mins)'''
* Optional hour – (choose something from the optional material to teach or use time to elaborate on other stuff)
* More help – community resources, loco teams, support structure – free and paid
* Course wrap up
* Print certificate of completion (elearning only)

'''11.  Partitions and Booting  (optional – recommended but  not compulsory part of course)'''
* Graphical Partition Editor 
* Make Windows partitions available from Ubuntu 
* Make Windows partitions automatically available 
* Run a system command automatically at startup 
* Change default operating system at boot 
* Configure start-up services 
* Other Tips
----
CategoryEducation
