{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Warning: this project appears to have died, and the information in this page is abandoned/obsolete ==

 
'''Ubuntu Desktop Course 8.04 LTS''' is now available as PDFs in several languages, instructor and student versions.

Many thanks to community members who worked hard writing, reviewing, editing, proofreading and translating!

'''Note''': You can generate localized docbook and HTML from project source.

=== Overview ===

* The course is modular, taking 2 days if all lessons are covered. Topics and lessons can be selected as required.
* There are 10 lessons. The last, ''Partitioning and Booting'', is optional. 
* There are two versions of the course:
** Instructor: has instructor notes and answers to exercise questions.
** Student: excludes instructor notes and answers to exercise questions.
* The course content is released under Creative Commons: BY-NC-SA. For more information on this, please refer to: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/

=== Download PDFs ===

<nowiki>[[ Training-PDFs | Here ]]</nowiki> are the currently available PDFs of guide. Student and instructor versions, in various languages.  The files are large (around 60MB).

=== Project Source and Development ===

* Community participation in development and translation is greatly appreciated.
* Activities are discussed on this email list: ubuntu-training-community@lists.ubuntu.com
* Discussions are occurring to decide whether to develop a new version for the Lucid LTS release, so stay tuned. 
* The source format is a docbook book, translated through po files in Launchpad Translations (https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu-desktop-course), with a build structure based on http://launchpad.net/doctemplate.

==== Download Source and Build PDFs ====
# Install bzr as follows: <code>sudo apt-get install bzr</code>
# Obtain the source in a new directory as follows: <code>bzr branch lp:ubuntu-desktop-course</code>
# See the README file for instructions on building localized HTML, PDF and docbook and on localization (including images). 

==== Note on Translations ====

There may be translations that were originally done directly in language-specific docbook xml files and that have not been ported to po files (the new translation approach). This conversion is required to produced localized versions, and it needs to be done by native language speakers. If PDFs for your desired language are not available, please email the list: ubuntu-training-community@lists.ubuntu.com.

=== Latest News ===
* Next meeting for Ubuntu Training Team: TBD, #ubuntu-training
