{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; background-color: #f1f1ed; "> <nowiki>[[ast|asturianu]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ca|català]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[cs|Čeština]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[da|Dansk]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[de|Deutsch]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[el|ελληνικά]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[.-|English (US)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[en_GB|English (UK)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[es|español]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[fr|Français]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[gl|galego]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[gu|ગુજરાતી]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[he|עברית]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[hu|Magyar]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[hr|Croatian]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[id|Bahasa Indonesia]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[it|italiano]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[nb|Norsk bokmål]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[nl|Nederlands]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[nso|Sepedi]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[pt_BR|Português do Brasil]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[sl|Slovenščina]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[sk|Slovenčina]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[fi|Suomi]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[sv|Svenska]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[zh_TW|Chinese(Taiwan)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[zh_CN|Chinese(Simplified) ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[pt_PT|Português (Portugal)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ru|Русский]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ug|Uyghur]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[bg|Bulgarian]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ja|Japanese]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[cy|Cymraeg (Welsh)]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[af|Afrikaans]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/Wanted/UbuntuOneEmail?action=edit|Add your language here]]</nowiki>
|}

* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-translators/2010-August/003860.html|Instructions]]</nowiki> for the translation of this page
* Notes:
** Do not add your translation here. Create a subpage with your translation.
** Use the same formatting as the message below, i.e. do not forget to enclose the translation in triple brackets: `{{{}}}`
** Do not translate the words `From:`, `To:` and `Subject:`. They are e-mail headers
** Keep the lines at most 72 characters long.

<pre>
From: The Ubuntu One Team <ubuntuone-support@canonical.com>
To: ubuntuone-support@canonical.com
Subject: Bring your digital life together with Ubuntu One!

Evolution is better with Ubuntu One - the personal cloud that brings
your digital life together.

Ubuntu One does more than sync your files - whether you need to access
your contacts, notes or bookmarks from any computer or the web, enjoy
your favorite music from a cloud integrated store or stream your entire
collection to iPhone and Android mobile phones - we’ve raised the bar on
personal clouds. Learn more at http://one.ubuntu.com/.
        
Already have an Ubuntu One account? 
Add your computer to your account by launching the Ubuntu One Control
Panel. 
        
        All contacts in the “Ubuntu One” address book are automatically
synced with your personal cloud. Conveniently view and modify contact
information in Evolution or the Ubuntu One website. Ubuntu One will even
keep your Evolution contacts in sync with your mobile phone.
        
        For information about copying or moving your contacts into the
Ubuntu One address book, review our online tutorials and FAQs.
        https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOne/Tutorials/
        https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOne/FAQ/
        
Need help or found a bug? Review the Ubuntu One support options.
https://one.ubuntu.com/support/
        
Thank you.

The Ubuntu One Team
http://one.ubuntu.com/ 

</pre>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Subpages'''
|}

----
CategoryTranslations
