{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


~-<nowiki>[[Translations]]</nowiki> > <nowiki>[[Translations-KnowledgeBase|Knowledge Base]]</nowiki> > Installer -~

== Ubuntu Installer ==

The translations for the Ubuntu installer come from two different sources:

=== Debian Installer ===

See this link for now:

* <nowiki>[[Translations-Upstream-Debian-DebianInstaller]]</nowiki>

=== Ubiquity ===

Ubiquity is the graphical installer for Ubuntu.

It consists of two templates:

* `ubiquity-debconf` - It contains the bulk of translations for the installer
* `ubiquity-desktop` - It contains the itle and description of the "Install" desktop icon displayed on the desktop CD.

Here is an example on what it looks like: <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/ubiquity|Ubiquity translations in Ubuntu Maverick]]</nowiki>

Unlike other packages in Ubuntu, Ubiquity translations need to be manually exported from Launchpad and integrated into the package before users can see them. Translations are exported from time to time during the development cycle.

To be sure when they are exported, you can check on the change log of the particular release (search for the keyword 'translations'), or on the source code. Examples:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/ubiquity/+changelog|Ubiquity changelog in Ubuntu Maverick]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Eubuntu-branches/ubuntu/maverick/ubiquity/maverick/files/head%3A/po/|Translation files in the Ubiquity source code]]</nowiki>

For more information, you can ask on IRC at the `#ubuntu-installer` or `#ubuntu-translators` channels on Freenode.

----
CategoryTranslations
