{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Session Notes ==

<pre>
== Informational session on plans for OO.o in Lucid ==

* Planning to have 3.2.1
* 3.2 to be frozen in December, released in January (expected, might need a feature freeze exception for 3.2.1)
* Package 3.2.0 and git snapshots leading to 3.2.1: more "incremental" testing, easier to get SRU/feature freeze exception for a smaller set of changes
* It's possible to get 3.2.1 through -updates post Lucid release if 3.2.0-gitXXX was included in final
* If potential trademark policy is introduced in 3.2 release, but doesn't come with 3.2.1 release (this is a worst case scenario), that means a greater change

=== Worst case ===

Several options:
* Change to the upstream build system, lose support for many things
* Stay with oobuild, rename packages; get 'conflict', 'replaces' right for ~120 packages
* Or, just go on with 3.1, but that's hard to maintain for an LTS
* Is it possible to cherrypick useful changes between 3.2.0 and 3.2.1; if we can use oobuild with such source packages, it may work.

=== Safe option ===

* Stay on 3.1.*
* Ask for testing 3.2.* through PPA

== Translations ==

OpenOffice is currently open for translations in Launchpad, but those don't go anywhere.

Import and export from Launchpad work, we need to look into GSI generation again.

If we can't build OpenOffice.org translations from Launchpad and distribute it to users before Lucid is open for translations (eg. Alpha-2 timeframe), we should hide them in Launchpad (and export tarballs for already done translations).

ACTION: Danilo to disable all pre-Lucid OpenOffice.org translation templates (Karmic, Jaunty,...) because they are not used.
ACTION: Communicate this to translators (David)
ACTION: ccheney and danilo to make sure we can build OOo translations by alpha-2.

It's possible to build/integrate language-only packages (openoffice-l10n contains all languages, it would have to be rebuilt), it just needs to be done.  As soon as integrating translations from Launchpad works, Just Do It.

Look into licensing issues with translations, and into policies about integrating with upstream translation teams.
</pre>

----
CategoryTranslations
