{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Introduction ===

This page is aimed at planning the monthly Ubuntu Translators meetings on #ubuntu-meeting on Freenode.

=== Next Meeting ===
* '''Location:''' <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting|#ubuntu-meeting]]</nowiki> on IRC (Freenode)
* '''Date, Time and Agenda:''' 

=== How to join a meeting ===

Meetings take place monthly on IRC in the #ubuntu-meeting channel on Freenode (see above).

You should always feel welcome to join us and to suggest new items for the agenda if you'd like to. In order to join:

Use your IRC client (such as xchat, xchat-gnome, irssi, mIRC, quassel, empathy, etc.) to connect to the Freenode IRC network at '''irc.freenode.net'''. You can do this manually by typing:

 <code>/server irc.freenode.net</code>

Then join #ubuntu-meeting for the time and date of the meeting you want to attend. You can manually join the channel by typing:

 <code>/join #ubuntu-meeting</code>

Alternatively, you can use an '''IRC web client''' to join the meeting directly from your browser, by clicking <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting|on this link]]</nowiki> on the date and the time of the meeting.

=== Agenda and summaries ===

You can see the summaries and full logs of previous meetings and add items to the agenda of future meetings in the calendar below.

* '''View summary''': to view the summary of a previous meeting, click on the date you are interested in (red dates mean that a meeting took place)
* '''Add new agenda item''': to add an item to the agenda of a future meeting:
** If there is already a page for the meeting (date marked in red), simply click on the date in the calendar and add your agenda item in the page
** If there still isn't a page for the meeting, you can create one by clicking on the corresponding date on the calendar. Make sure to choose https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/MeetingTemplate from the list of templates on the left when creating the new page.
** {i} Also remember to <nowiki>[[Translations-Header-Meetings|update the translations wiki header|&action=edit]]</nowiki> with the date and URL of the meeting's agenda

----
CategoryTranslations
