{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Purpose ==

The following text goes on the labels onto the envelopes which we send the free shipit CD's in. They are for the attention of customs and we'd like to ask the Translations community to help us translating them.

== Original text ==

<pre>
To whom it may concern,

Canonical Ltd. is committed to the development, distribution and 
promotion of open source software products. In order to promote our 
software we send CDs, completely free of charge, through the mail to 
users who request them. For shipping purposes, we declare a 0.13 EUR 
value for each CD. However, *these CDs are free promotional materials 
and are not imported goods to be sold, and are not for commercial use 
or for resale. There should be no import duty charged.* If you have 
any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me personally.
</pre>

== Translations ==

=== Spanish ===

<pre>
A quien pueda interesar,

Canonical Ltd. está comprometida con el desarrollo, distribución y 
promoción de productos de software de código abierto. Con el fin de
promocionar nuestro software enviamos CD, totalmente gratuitos, a
través de correo a los usuarios que lo soliciten. Para los gastos de
envío, declaramos un valor de 0,13 EUR por cada CD. Sin embargo,
* estos CD son material promocional gratuito y no son bienes de
importación para su venta ni para uso comercial o reventa. No debe
haber ningún cargo por derecho de importación.* Si tiene cualquier
pregunta, por favor no dude en ponerse en contacto conmigo personalmente.
</pre>
=== Brazilian Portuguese ===
<pre>
A quem interessar possa,

A Canonical Ltda. é comprometida com o desenvolvimento, distribuição e 
promoção de produtos de software de código aberto. A fim de promover nosso
software, enviamos CDs, totalmente gratuitos, através do correio para 
usuários que os solicitem. Para fins de transporte, nós declaramos EUR 0,13 
por cada CD. Contudo, esses CDs são materiais promocionais gratuitos e não são 
bens importados para serem vendidos, para uso comercial ou revenda. Sobre eles não
deverão incidir taxas de importação.* Se você tem alguma dúvida, por favor,
não hesite em contatar-me pessoalmente.
</pre>

=== Simplified Chinese ===
<pre>
敬启者：
　　Canonical Ltd. 致力于开放源代码的自由软件的开发、分发与推广。为了推
广这些软件，我们以邮寄方式向申请者免费寄送光盘。虽然因为邮寄的原因我们为将每
张光盘设置了 0.13 欧元的定价，但是 *这些光盘是免费发放的推广材料，不是用于
销售的进口商品，我们不从中获得经济利益，所以理应免税。* 若您有任何疑问，欢
迎与我们联系。
</pre>

=== Traditional Chinese ===
<pre>
敬啟者：
　　Canonical Ltd. 致力於開放原始碼軟體的開發、散布與推廣；為了推廣軟
體，我們以郵寄的方式向申請者免費寄送光碟片。雖然，因為郵寄因素，我們定
義每片光碟具有 0.13 歐元的價值，但是 *這些光碟片乃免費推廣用物資，並不
是用於販售的舶來品，也並非用於商業利用及轉售，相關單位無需對此收取關
稅。* 若您有任何疑問，歡迎私下與我聯絡。
</pre>

=== Russian ===

<pre>
Для всех заинтересованных лиц.

Canonical Ltd. занимается разработкой, распространением и продвижением программных продуктов с открытым исходным кодом. Для рекламы нашего программного обеспечения мы полностью бесплатно рассылаем по почте компакт-диски заказавшим их пользователям. Для целей доставки мы заявляем ценность каждого компакт-диска в 0,13 евро. Тем не менее, *эти диски являются бесплатными рекламными материалами, не являются импортируемыми товарами для продажи и не предназначены для коммерческого использования и перепродажи. Они не должны облагаться импортной пошлиной.* Если у вас возникли какие-либо вопросы, не стесняйтесь задать их мне лично. 
</pre>

=== Korean ===

<pre>
관계자 여러분께:

Canonical Ltd.는 오픈소스 소프트웨어 제품의 개발 및 배포, 홍보 등을 수행하는 회사입니다.
저희는 제품의 홍보 차원으로, 원하는 사용자들에게 무료로 CD를 우편으로 배송하고 있습니다.
배송을 위해 세관에 각 CD 당 0.13 EUR로 신고합니다.
하지만 이 CD들은 *홍보를 위한 것으로, 판매할 물건이 아니며 상업적인 목적으로 사용되거나 재판매되지 않습니다.
이것은 수입 관세를 부과할 물건이 아닙니다.*
만약 의문 사항이 있다면 언제든 개인적으로 연락주시기 바랍니다.
</pre>
