{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Session Notes ==

<pre>
* Issues with the import queue - couldn't delegate translations before, but now about 5 people can do that, so that has helped.

* Launchpad . . . subscribing to bugs for translations is hard in that you can get too many reports that aren't related to translations.

* In terms of meetings... they were previously 2x per month, but 1x per month would be fine.  Additional meetings could be held on an ad-hoc basis.

* Jim mentions that it would be useful to post the meeting minutes from the translation meetings to the docs team mailing list

* Post the meeting minutes to the Fridge or planet

* Need to raise awareness of the team and the services that translators can provide.

* Would like to document the things that the Ubuntu translators and the Ubuntu Translation Coordinators team do . . . their areas of focus and the services they provide.  Some of the U.T.C. responsibilities ... what do the U.T.C's do?  Better explain how they sit between the Launchpad dev team and the translators & what that special role entails.

* * How are the language packs generated?  Have a general idea, but need to document the technical aspects of it
* * How to do manual imports of translations of language packs and translations
* * Look at the launchpad translator tools package
* * What can be done by U.T.C.'s and what can only be done by Canonical employees/server admin-types?

Having the U.T.C team has really helped things.  It has made handling translations (import queue) quite a bit better.  But the team needs more people.  More U.T.C.'s.

* We'd like to reach out to more members - Arne won't be able to help much on this cycle
 
* How can we get more members? Especially Arabic, CJK languages, etc.
** Shall we have a list of contacts

* There is an existing CJK testers we can ask for help on IM, fonts and technical issues

   
* How will the group accept new members?  Will they be appointed?  Will they need to ask, or will the group just accept them?  This process should be documented.
** Users should be knowledgable about Rosetta
** How much should "karma" come into play?
   
=== Actions ===

* (Adi) Make a list of languages on the UTC wiki page with contact persons knowledgeable on the language, script, fonts.
* (David) Announce this, this should be useful in assessing which languages can be supported from the community
* (Adi) Document manual upload of templates (lp-translator-tools)

* (David) List of actions and processes to document
** (Adi) Manual upload of translation templates
** (David/Arne) Language pack generation
** (David) Actions during nonlanguagepackdeadline and languagepackdeadline
** Coordination with the release team on when translations are exported
** Addition of new team member

</pre>

----
CategoryTranslations
