{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''THE CONTENT ON THIS PAGE IS BEING MIGRATED TO THE <nowiki>[[Translations-KnowledgeBase|Ubuntu Translations Knowledge Base]]</nowiki>'''

We try to create here an exhaustive list of resources available to persons involved in Ubuntu Translation

== General ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-langpack/+archive || Language Pack PPA ]]</nowiki> - updated weekly. Lates language pack export.

== Helping tools ==

* <nowiki>[[Translations-TemplatesPriority | Templates priority and lists of Ubuntu specific packages ]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://l10n.ubuntu.tla.ro/ubuntu-translators-review/ | List of translations from non-Ubuntu projects ]]</nowiki> waiting to be approved by Ubuntu translators. Updated daily.

* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translator-tools | Ubuntu Translators Tools ]]</nowiki> - Launchpad project

== Informational ==

* <nowiki>[[https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+imports | Ubuntu global translations import queue]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://l10n.ubuntu.tla.ro/jaunty-l10n-status/lang.html | Enhanced view of the Ubuntu Translation templates ]]</nowiki> - searching a package by name or upstream team, sorting across all packages . Updated daily.

* <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-docs-links.txt | Ubuntu Docs PO archives]]</nowiki>. Updated weekly.

----
CategoryTranslations
