{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

This page documents a standard process for assessing new contributors to moderated translation teams. It is intended to be used as a guideline and adapted to each team's workflow.

== Assessing new members ==

* The new member should be subscribed to the team's mailing list
* The new member must have done a sustained contribution in translation:
** He/she is familiar with the team's translation guidelines and has provided translation suggestions up to the standards.
** He/she is familiar with the team's workflow, including
*** Assignment of translations
*** Review process
* The translations must be done according to the standard defined for the language (i.e. the "neutral" variant should be used instead of dialects).
* Membership is given for a limited period of time (1 year is recommended), after which the members can renew their membership

== Other suggestions ==

* New team members might be asked to sign the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.
* Sustained contribution can be assessed either by:
** A given minimum of translations Karma (e.g. 500)
** A given minimum period of activity (e.g. 1 month)
* In bigger teams, the new member's application might be subject to vote

----
CategoryTranslations
