{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Session Notes ==

<pre>
== Best practices and policies in translations ==

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/KnowledgeBase/#Guidelines

* Problem is well known and historical: Ubuntu translation project has no structure or clear rules
* Previous cycle was about introducing more transparency and introducing everybody to the process of translation in Ubuntu
* Asked about how teams communicate between themselves (IRC channels, mailing lists,...), good response

Main goal is to get more structure, put up well defined guidelines.

Is this about rules or guidelines: we want both, document best practices and policies for running teams.

=== Guidelines/best practice ===

* Introduce 'best practice' for communicating inside a team (see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/KnowledgeBase/TeamCommunication)
* 'Best practice' for communication with upstreams and other software users
* Good start is at https://help.launchpad.net/Translations/Guide#Running%20a%20localization%20team
* Define a procedure for accepting new team members
* Have guidelines that describe how translation is done, see https://help.launchpad.net/Translations/Guide#Running%20a%20localization%20team
* Link to guidelines from Launchpad
* Keep the team running nicely (provide an example to make it easily understandable what it involves)
* See if someone else is working on the same translation at the same time

=== Rules/policies ===

* Accepting new reviewers to teams as a policy (Danilo)
   Example policy: they have done at least some reasonable amount of translations (either upstream or in LP) before becoming a reviewer
   Do not try to enforce the policy (it's hard), but if we get pointed at them (eg. someone makes bad translations), we can act on it with authority
* If team owner is unresponsive, unassign the language team (Adi)
* Enforce documentation link on home page of each translation team (Timo)
* No 'Open' teams (all should be at least 'Moderated')
* Have at least one contact from each team on ubuntu-translators@ list (or any other list)
* Regular reassessment of translation team contacts, especially for supported languages
* Must have guidelines to be a supported language

=== From theory to practice ===

- We agree on separating the description of the policies from the implementation of them (i.e. how they are enforced or checked).
- Policies should be short
- Best practices is going to be much longer, and we invite everyone to improve it; incorporate feedback from different teams; add examples of what teams are doing
ACTION: David to coordinate this! Woohoo.
</pre>

----
CategoryTranslations
