{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===

The purpose of this page is to define a basic step by step process by which the regular language pack updates for stable releases can be tested before they are released.

Test the packages for your language following the instructions below, and update the following table to get your language pack released after testing.

For the language pack updates marked as "Full" please also <nowiki>[[#Extra_tests_for_full_updates|take the extra steps described in the appropriate section below.]]</nowiki>

=== Test results Ubuntu 20.04 "Focal Fossa" ===

* '''First coordinated update cycle (for the 20.04.2 point release)'''
* '''Signoff deadline''': 27th of January 2020 1400 UTC
* '''Language pack version''': 1:20.04+20210121

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Passed tests?'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| <Your team>
| <yes/no/not tested>
| <Add any notes and references to bug numbers here>
|-
| French
| yes
| -
|-
| Finnish
| yes
| -
|}

=== Test results Ubuntu 18.04 "Bionic Beaver" ===

* '''Fourth coordinated update cycle (for the 18.04.5 point release)'''
* '''Signoff deadline''': 29th of July 2020 1400 UTC
* '''Language pack version''': 1:18.04+20200702

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Passed tests?'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| <Your team>
| <yes/no/not tested>
| <Add any notes and references to bug numbers here>
|-
| Swedish
| yes
| -
|-
| Finnish
| yes
| -
|-
| French
| yes
| -
|-
| Spanish
| yes
| -
|-
| German
| yes
| -
|}

=== Test results Ubuntu 16.04 "Xenial Xerus" ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="color: #FF0000;">~+ {i} '''__Testing closed__''' {i} +~
|}

* '''Fourth <nowiki>[[Translations-XenialXerus-ReleaseSchedule|scheduled update cycle]]</nowiki>'''
* '''Signoff deadline''': 25th of July 2018 1400 UTC
* '''Language pack version''': 1:16.04+20180711

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Passed tests?'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| <Your team>
| <yes/no/not tested>
| <Add any notes and references to bug numbers here>
|-
| Swedish
| yes
| -
|-
| French
| yes
| -
|-
| Polish
| yes
| Not tested by a member of ubuntu-pl-l10n - but a native speaker
|}

=== Test results Ubuntu 14.04 "Trusty Tahr" ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="color: #FF0000;">~+ {i} '''__Testing closed__''' {i} +~
|}

* '''Fourth <nowiki>[[Translations-TrustyTahr-ReleaseSchedule|scheduled update cycle]]</nowiki>''' - FULL UPDATE
* '''Signoff deadline''': 25th of February 2015 1400 UTC
* '''Language pack version''': 1:14.04+20150219

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Passed tests?'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| <Your team>
| <yes/no/not tested>
| <Add any notes and references to bug numbers here>
|-
| Simplified Chinese
| yes
| -
|-
| German
| yes
| -
|-
| Swedish
| yes
| -
|-
| Hungarian
| yes
| -
|-
| Italian
| yes
| -
|-
| Norwegian bokmål
| yes
| -
|-
| Dutch
| yes
| -
|-
| Ukrainian
| yes
| -
|}

=== Workflow ===

# '''Language Pack Creation''' - Language packs for stable releases are built and uploaded to the `$RELEASE-proposed` repository (e.g. `lucid-proposed` for Ubuntu Lucid Lynx (10.04)).
# '''Call For Testing''' - An announcement is made on the ubuntu-translators mailing list. A one week period is given to testers to provide feedback for their language's language pack.
# '''Community Testing''' - Testers follow the step-by-step tests for each application to check that the language packs do not contain errors or regressions.
# '''Feedback and Sign-Off''' - After the testing has been done, testers provide feedback by filling in an entry to the applicable test results table above.
# '''Language Pack Release''' - After the given period, the language packs having been tested and signed off (i.e. those on the list) are uploaded to -updates, where they will be made available to all users.
# '''Release Announcement''' - An announcement of the upload is made in the ubuntu-translators list.

=== Requirements for testers ===

* Testers should have the '''-proposed''' repository enabled from the '''Ubuntu Software > Software &amp; Updates -> Developer Options''' tab for the language pack of the particular release being tested. See <nowiki>[[Testing-EnableProposed]]</nowiki> for the details.

=== Tests ===

We have currently no automated way of testing translations, neither to provide an exhaustive translation test coverage.

For this reason, the following simple test cases focus on making sure that you can still boot into a normal desktop and can upgrade to newer packages, so regressions in translations are not as fatal as completely ruining your system or precluding you from filing a bug or contacting someone for help.

# Start the application and make sure it starts up normally.
# Examine the main menus
## Are there regressions in the translations?
## Are the latest translations from Launchpad visible?
## Do you see unreadable characters?

=== Packages to test ===

==== Ubuntu Desktop ====

* Open the Activities overview, enter some search terms(for example home, netw, update). Check the menu on the top right of the screen.
 
* Start the file browser (Files>Home Folder). Check your home folder location, the menu items and the side bar.

* Start the Mail client (Thunderbird): check out it starts, runs, its menus and help
 
* Start the Web browser (Firefox): check out it starts, runs, its menus and help

* Start Update Manager: check out it runs and has sensible UI

=== Extra tests for full updates ===

* To check translations of the ubuntu-docs package, start the application <code>yelp</code> using your language and browse the pages which appear.
## Are the latest translations from Launchpad visible?
## Do you see unreadable characters?

----
CategoryTranslations
