{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This table below summarizes all the means of communication available for the Ubuntu translations community, and who is responsible for the administration and maintenance of them. A # next to a name means that this person is ready for someone else to take over the task, so these (and the ones without names) are open.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| '''Owner/Administration'''
| '''Maintenance'''
|-
| <-3 bgcolor="blue">
|-
| ubuntu-translators mailing list
| David Planella
| Anyone subscribed
|-
| ubuntu-translations-coordinators mailing list
| David Planella
| Anyone subscribed
|-
| ubuntu-translators IRC channel
| zyga, David?
| Anyone in channel
|-
| ubuntul10n Twitter account
| David Planella
| Help Wanted!
|-
| ubuntul10n Identi.ca account
| David Planella
| Help Wanted!
|-
| Ubuntu Translations portal
| David Planella
| Help Wanted!
|-
| Ubuntu Translators Facebook page
| Jono Bacon and David Planella
| ?
|-
| Ubuntu Translators Google+ page
| Kenneth Nielsen*
| Kenneth Nielsen*
|}

* Only due to current implementation that only allows one owner. If that gets changed more people should be added.

== Mailing lists ==

* Administration: moderate posts, discard spam, etc.
* Maintenance: basically, keeping communications flowing, posting announcements, participating in discussions, etc. Anyone subscribed can do it.

=== Wanted ===
Not much help needed, maybe extra mailing list owners.

== IRC ==

* Administration: Tasks? David
* Maintenance: Keeping communications flowing, change the channel's topic, etc. Anyone in the channel can do it.

No extra help needed.

== Microblogging (twitter/identi.ca) ==
* https://twitter.com/ubuntul10n
* Administration: set up the picture and the group description. Done!
* Maintenance: keep tweets/dents flowing! 

=== Wanted ===
People to provide tweets/dents are wanted. People on UTC-list can contact David Planella for account details.

== Ubuntu Translations portal ==

* Administration: Deal with Canonical IS to install plugins/updates and theme updates, set up plugins, set up internal Drupal settings, etc.
* Maintenance: once set up, keep blog post flowing. In the future, expand the site with more resources and make it translatable (it is already, but need to come up with a plan to integrate it with Launchpad).

=== Wanted ===

David would like to work on this this cycle, and needs help with it. Anyone with Drupal or web skills (sysadmin, html, php, css, etc), feel free to chip in!

The same for anyone wanting to help with content rather than the technical side (e.g. porting documentation from the wiki, writing articles/blog posts, etc.).

== Facebook ==

* https://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.translators
* Administration: Set up the picture and the group description. Done!
* Maintenance: Keep posts flowing!  Upload pictures and videos

=== Wanted ===

Help from people that want to post from the account, anyone on UTC list can become admin. Contact David for details.

=== Google+ ===

* https://plus.google.com/b/110711675389358977853/102330453873285638035/posts
* Administration: set up the picture and the group description. Done
* Maintenance: keep posts flowing!  Upload pictures and videos

In the current implementation a "page" can be owned by only one person. When that changes, help with content will be wanted.
