{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Language Pack Update Request ===

Translations for supported Ubuntu releases are updated periodically through language pack packages. The updates are scheduled in a calendar and are released only after <nowiki>[[Translations-LanguagePackUpdatesQA|previous testing]]</nowiki>.

The schedules for the currently supported releases are the following:

* <nowiki>[[Translations-TrustyTahr-ReleaseSchedule|Trusty language pack update schedule]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Translations-PrecisePangolin-ReleaseSchedule|Precise language pack update schedule]]</nowiki>

This page documents a procedure for the Ubuntu translation community to request individual language pack updates for a particular language outside of this schedule. 

==== Why ====

The reasons for this need might be diverse:

* A critical bug has been discovered in a translation
* A translation team missed the deadline to test translations for a language pack update
* Translations have been completed for a key application
* ...

Note: this is a procedure to provide more flexibility in updating translations. Use it when necessary, but please do not abuse it.

==== How ====

The following steps document the procedure to request a language pack update

# '''Notify translation team ''' - Make sure your translation team is aware of the language pack update request
# '''Check latest language pack''' - Install the language pack from the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-langpack/+archive/ppa|language packs PPA]]</nowiki> that contains your translation updates.
# '''File request''' - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+filebug|File a bug]]</nowiki> requesting the language pack update. You can use the template below.
# '''Test language pack''' - After the new language pack has been uploaded to `$RELEASE-proposed`, test it following the <nowiki>[[Translations-LanguagePackUpdatesQA|usual procedure]]</nowiki> and report the feedback in the bug.
# '''Close the request''' - After the language pack has been uploaded to `$RELEASE-updates` please mark the bug as Fix Released.

==== Template ====

You can use this message as a template for the text to include in the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+filebug|bug to fill]]</nowiki> for the request. Change the $TEXT parts according to the information according to your request.

<pre>
Description: Please update $LANGUAGE translations in $UBUNTU_RELEASE
</pre>

<pre>

I'd like to request a language pack update for $LANGUAGE in $UBUNTU_RELEASE.

The reason for this request is the following:

(brief explanation of why you are requesting the update)

Thank you.

</pre>

----
CategoryTranslations
